
    
      -  In this research study we are looking for the highest dose of Lexiscan that can be given
           safely to patients with SCD. There are 4 stages to this study. Each stage will look for
           the highest dose that can be given safely in the following situations: Stage 1: Lexiscan
           will be given through a 12 hours infusion to adults with SCD who are not having a pain
           crisis. Stage 2: Lexiscan will be given through a 24 hour infusion to adults with SCD
           who are not having a pain crisis. Stage 2b: Lexiscan will be given through a 48 hour
           infusion to adults with SCD who are not having a pain crisis. Stage 3: Lexiscan will be
           given through a 24 hour infusion to adults with SCD who are having a pain crisis. Stage
           4: Lexiscan will be given through a 24 hour infusion to children with SCD who are having
           a pain crisis. Stages 1-3 are now complete and closed to accrual. The study is now open
           to children ages 10-17 with SCD pain crisis (stage 4) only.

        -  When participants sign the consent form, they will be told what stage they will join.

        -  Participants in Stages 1, 2, and 2b will be given an infusion of the study drug at the
           time when they do not have a pain crisis. The infusion for Stage 1 participants will be
           12 hours long, followed by a 6-hour observation period. The infusion for Stage 2 will be
           24 hours long, followed by a 6-hour observation period. The infusion for Stage 2b will
           be 48 hours long, followed by a 6-hour observation period.

        -  Participants in Stages 3 and 4 will be given one infusion of the study drug when they
           are admitted to the hospital for a pain crisis. The infusion will be 24 hours long,
           followed by a 6-hour observation period. During the infusion, they will receive standard
           treatment for their pain crisis.

        -  Before the infusion the following procedures will be performed: Pulmonary function test
           (optional, Stage 1 only), blood test and vital signs.

        -  During the infusion the following procedures will be performed: heart rate and amount of
           oxygen in the blood will be monitored continuously, blood tests and blood pressure.

        -  During the observation period immediately following the infusion the following
           procedures will be performed: heart rate and amount of oxygen in the blood will be
           monitored continuously, blood tests, blood pressure and Pulmonary Function test
           (optional, Stage 1 only).
    
  