
    
      All participants will be asked to come to Healthy Eating and Activity Lab (HEAL) for 1,
      60-minute screening session and 4, 30-minute meal sessions, with no more than two meal
      sessions occurring per week between the hours of 11:00am and 7:00pm. For each participant,
      each meal session will need to occur within the same two-hr time frame (i.e., all meal
      sessions occurring between 11am and 1pm). During the first session interested participants
      will sign the consent form. After signing the consent form, eligibility will be confirmed by
      taking height and weight measures and confirming liking of foods, using a 100mm visual
      analogue scale (VAS). Participants will also be given questionnaires related to demographics.
      Prior to attending their meal session, participants will be asked to not change their typical
      eating pattern in the day prior to their session (including eating before 10 am), but to not
      eat within 3 hours of their session, and to not engage in physical activity for 24 hours
      prior to the session.

      For the remaining four sessions, at the start of the session the participant will be asked to
      recall all foods and beverages consumed 24 hours prior to the scheduled appointment. During
      this recall if a participant reports consuming any foods or beverages besides water within 3
      hours of the appointment, the appointment will be rescheduled. Participants will also be
      asked if they have participated in any physical activity 24 hours prior to their scheduled
      appointment. If the participant answers "yes," then the appointment will be rescheduled.

      After completing hunger, fullness, and liking of foods questionnaires, participants will be
      presented with one of the four variations of meals. Each meal consists of a total of
      1,500kcals of five of the following items: chicken noodle soup (Low-ED), sugar-free chocolate
      pudding (Low-ED), red seedless grapes (Low-ED), macaroni and cheese (Medium-ED), strawberry
      yogurt (Medium-ED), vanilla ice cream (Medium-ED), pretzels (High-ED), or graham crackers
      (High-ED). Following the presentation of the meal, participants will be instructed to taste
      each foods and that they will have 25 minutes to eat as much or as little as they would like
      of the meal provided. At the completion of 25 minutes, the lunch will be removed and the
      participant will be asked to complete a scale for evaluating levels of hunger, fullness, and
      liking of the foods. The participant will also be scheduled for a subsequent session the
      following week at a similar time. Upon completing all 5 sessions, participants will receive a
      $25 gift card.
    
  