
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose of temsirolimus,
      carboplatin, and paclitaxel in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the frequency and severity of toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      II. Document any evidence of objective antitumor activity of this regimen in patients with
      measurable disease.

      III. Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of carboplatin and paclitaxel alone, temsirolimus
      alone, and carboplatin, paclitaxel, and temsirolimus in combination in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation study. Patients receive treatment
      in either part A or part B.

      PART A: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by carboplatin IV over 30-60
      minutes on day 1 and temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 8 and 15. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      PART B: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in part A. They also receive
      temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients in parts A and B receive escalating doses of temsirolimus,
      carboplatin, and paclitaxel until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is
      defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity. The recommended phase II dose (RPTD) is the dose that is one dose
      level below the MTD. Once the RPTD is determined in part A, patients are enrolled in part B.
      An expanded cohort of up to 10 patients with endometrial or ovarian cancer are treated at the
      RPTD determined in part B (final RPTD).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months
      thereafter.
    
  