
    
      Overview: Before the atypicals were introduced, some of the older antipsychotics were
      available in oral (pill or capsule) and long-acting (depot) versions. Despite the potential
      advantages of the depot versions, in those days clinicians in the United States have
      historically limited the use of long-acting, "depot" antipsychotics to their most
      treatment-resistant, chronic, patients. Therefore, most clinicians did not routinely consider
      starting a long-acting antipsychotic early in the course of treatment, such as after the
      first-episode of schizophrenia.

      This whole issue was less relevant after the atypical medications came out, because they were
      only available in oral versions for long-term treatment. Now that one of the atypical
      medications (risperidone) is available for use in the United States, the issue of appropriate
      use of oral vs. long-acting atypical is now very relevant to clinical practice.

      For first episode patients, there are been two issues that suggest that the route of
      medication delivery is an important area to study. First is that almost all first-episode
      patients will stop their medication too soon. Second, a there now is atypical antipsychotic
      available in a long-acting preparation (long-acting risperidone, but this option is not often
      used right away after a first episode, so there is little guidance for clinicians about the
      effectiveness of long-acting antipsychotics used right away after a first-episode.

      Methods: This study compares the effectiveness of the long-acting route of medication to
      improve adherence and reduce relapse among patients who have been recently diagnosed with
      schizophrenia or a related psychotic disorder. After patients are stabilized with an atypical
      antipsychotic and have received patient and family psychoeducation, consenting patients will
      be randomized to a prospective, random-assignment open-label study comparing any available
      first-line oral atypical antipsychotic to long-acting risperidone for the maintenance
      treatment of patients recovering from acute treatment of first-episode schizophrenia.

      This study is divided into three study phases. Study Phase I is the acute phase, where
      consenting patients would be given an acute open-label trial of an oral antipsychotic.
      Patients who respond within a maximum of 12 weeks to acute therapy will then be invited to
      participate in Phase II of the study. Patients agreeing to Phase II will then be randomized
      into staying on their oral antipsychotic medication vs. switching to a long-acting atypical
      antipsychotic (long-acting risperidone). Patients would be followed for 12 weeks to determine
      whether or not they accept a recommendation of long-acting antipsychotic or continued oral
      antipsychotic. Then patients enter into Study Phase III, where they are followed for at the
      remainder of the year. We want to learn how often patients will accept their doctor's
      recommendation of a long-acting injection, whether persons taking their antipsychotic
      medication in long-acting form do better in terms of willingness to stay on their medication,
      or have better symptom control or fewer side effects, than persons where the doctor
      recommends the medication in oral (pill) form.

      Summary: Patients recently diagnosed as suffering from schizophrenia, e.g. the
      "first-episode" patient might benefit from an atypical antipsychotic given in a long-acting
      route of drug- delivery. However, long-acting antipsychotic therapy is not routinely
      considered in first-episode patients. Studying the acceptance and ultimate effectiveness of a
      long-acting atypical antipsychotic would be very helpful in understanding how to help
      patients stay stable and ultimately prevent a revolving door pattern that, if it continues,
      can be devastating to the recovery process.
    
  