
    
      Together with the Transplant Committee of the Belgian Hematological Society (BHS), we will
      perform a multicenter randomized open-label phase II clinical study in 130 patients with
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Adult patients (> 18 years) with AML who have entered
      morphological CR or CRi after (1) intensive chemotherapy (i.e (i) at least one cycle of
      induction and one cycle of consolidation chemotherapy or (ii) one to two cycles of CPX-351
      induction treatment and up to two cycles of CPX-351 consolidation treatment) or (2)
      low-intensity chemotherapy (i.e (iii) at least two cycles to maximum six cycles of
      hypomethylating agents whether or not combined with venetoclax or (iv) at least two cycles to
      maximum six cycles of low-dose cytarabine combined with venetoclax); and fulfilling all other
      eligibility criteria will be randomized to be vaccinated with dendritic cells or to receive
      regular follow-up care. After randomization, patients receiving low-intensity chemotherapy
      are allowed to continue this treatment in combination with DC vaccination or the follow-up
      care. The primary aim of this innovative immunotherapeutic study is to determine whether the
      antileukemic effects seen in our previous phase I/II study can be confirmed in a large cohort
      of patients and whether dendritic cell vaccination can significantly prevent relapse and
      increase survival of AML patients by eradicating minimal residual disease. Patients will be
      recruited at 8 different centers in Belgium. Recruitment will start in the second half of
      2013 and will last for 10 years or until 130 efficacy-evaluable AML patients are included. In
      the interventional group, 65 patients will be treated during two years with autologous
      dendritic cells loaded by messenger RNA electroporation with the Wilms' tumor antigen (WT1).
      The dendritic cell therapy product will be generated and generally administered in the
      coordinating center, which is the Antwerp University Hospital, more specifically the Center
      for Cell Therapy and Regenerative Medicine (CCRG) and the Division of Hematology, both headed
      by Prof. Zwi Berneman. After inclusion of 130 efficacy-evaluable patients, relapse rate,
      relapse-free survival and overall survival analysis will be performed. Tumor marker levels
      and immune activation will also be monitored to compare the 2 groups at a molecular and
      immunological level. General and disease-specific quality of life will be evaluated using
      quality of life questionnaires at regular time points.
    
  