
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of stringent complete response (CR) (sCR) after 8 cycles of CRd (4
      cycles of induction + autologous stem cell transplant [ASCT] + 4 cycles of carfilzomib,
      lenalidomide, and low dose dexamethasone [CRd] consolidation).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Overall response rate defined as partial response or better (>= partial response [PR])
      including the rate of very good partial response (VGPR) or better (>= VGPR) and near complete
      response or better (sCR/CR/nCR) across entire treatment in high risk and low risk patients.

      II. Duration of response (DOR), progression free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP),
      and overall survival (OS).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determination of the rate of minimal residual disease in patients who achieved CR.

      II. Prospective evaluation of candidate markers of response to CRd established in the
      completed CRd trial.

      III. Evaluation of markers of response and duration of response to treatment strategy using
      CRd with or without transplant.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive dexamethasone intravenously (IV) or orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) on days 1, 8, 15 and 22; carfilzomib IV over 10-30 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15,
      and 16; and lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity..

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo autologous stem cell transplant.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive dexamethasone, carfilzomib, and lenalidomide as in
      induction. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive dexamethasone and lenalidomide as in induction therapy
      and carfilzomib IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, 15, and 16. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for 10 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  