
    
      Overview: Cognitively normal older adults with and without subjective cognitive decline (SCD)
      (n = 20; SCD = 10, Non-SCD = 10) will complete two study visits that will be double blinded
      and randomized for anticholinergic challenge (mecamylamine or placebo). Drug challenge visits
      will include cognitive testing and an electroencephalography (EEG) session.

      Aim 1: Feasibility of EEG during mecamylamine challenge

      The primary outcome measures for Aim 1 will be the rate of completion of study visits with
      drug challenge and of completion of EEG tasks during the study visits with drug challenge.

      Attention Network Test: The attention network test (ANT) is designed to test selective
      attention , and combines attentional cues with a flanker task. Behavioral measures of the ANT
      will be 1) Alerting: reaction time (RT) non-cue trials - cue trials; 2) Orienting: RT neutral
      cue trials - spatial cue trials; 3) Executive: RT incongruent trials - congruent trials.

      EEG, Task-related Event Related Potentials: Each participant will complete the ANT during EEG
      with primary event relation potential (ERP) measures: 1) Alerting: early sensory ERP (P1)
      amplitude; 2) Orienting: early sensory ERP (P1) amplitude; 3) Executive: target and conflict
      evaluation ERP (P3) amplitude. Other ERP signals related to attention and sensory processing
      will be examined in exploratory analyses.

      Incidental Memory: Incidental Memory Task during EEG, a passive visual memory paradigm that
      will allow an exploratory examination of the relationship between SCD and brain activity for
      memory recognition.

      Psychomotor Speed: The Choice Reaction Time task will be used as a test of psychomotor speed.
      This task decomposes overall reaction time into recognition and motor components, allowing
      for the assessment of response and motor time that cannot be attained during the ANT.

      Episodic Memory: The Selective Reminding Task (SRT) is a multi-trial verbal list-learning
      task that offers measures of storage into and retrieval from both short term and long term
      memory and intrusion errors. Outcome measures will be total recall (8 trials), total recall
      failures (8 trials), and delayed recall (20 minutes).

      Study Drug Administration: During challenge drug study visits, participants will receive
      double-blinded administration of either 20 mg mecamylamine or placebo. Mecamylamine is a
      centrally and peripherally active non-competitive antagonist of acetylcholine at C6
      (ganglionic) type nicotinic receptors that has been used to test cholinergic function and
      cognitive performance. We have previously achieved cognitive effect without significant
      adverse effect using the dose proposed for this study. Randomization and dispensing will be
      managed by Vanderbilt Investigational Drug Services. Peak cognitive and physiologic effects
      occur by 2-3 hours and dissipate by 4-6 hours after oral administration. Dr. Paul Newhouse
      will serve as the physician of record for the mecamylamine challenge procedures; nursing
      staff at the Vanderbilt Clinical Research Center will administer the study drug and monitor
      participants.

      Statistical Analysis Plan:This project is a pilot study to determine the feasibility and
      participant tolerability for conducting EEG during the mecamylamine challenge. The proposed
      sample size (n =20) is designed to provide sufficient experience with the protocol to
      determine our ability to complete this protocol in a larger study and determine completion
      rates for the two participant groups (SCD and Non-SCD) as preliminary data for an NIH K01
      application resubmission for Dr. Albert. Dr. Hakmook Kang is the biostatistics consultant for
      this project.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to identify the rate of completion of study visits with
      drug challenge (proportion of participants that complete both study days), and of completion
      of EEG tasks (proportion of participants who complete both tasks on each study visits with
      drug challenge). These measures will be calculated for all participants (n = 20), and for
      participant groups separately (SCD, n = 10; Non-SCD, n = 10).

      The investigators have hypothesized that > 80 % of participants will complete both study
      visits with drug challenge based on their experience using mecamylamine with 88% of
      participants completing 2 study visits including mecamylamine or placebo administration. The
      investigators have hypothesized that > 70 % of participants will complete both EEG tasks (ANT
      and incidental memory) during study visits with drug challenge, based on previous completion
      rates of 72% for non-EEG tasks during study visits including mecamylamine or placebo
      administration, and 100% for EEG tasks with no drug challenge.
    
  