
    
      Immediate implant placement with Nanobone will offers great advantages for patients with
      unrestorable tooth as regards decrease surgical time, Post-Operative pain and marginal bone
      loss, increase implant stability compared to immediate implant with autogenous bone
      graft.Study is to be conducted in the oral medicine and periodontology department - Cairo
      University, Egypt. Post graduate clinic 1st floor old section. Unit Sirona2with LED light.
      Digital radiographic imaging will be carried out in the Oral Radiology Department, Faculty of
      Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University using digital intra-oral x-ray machine as well as
      CBCT imaging. Using CBCT determine the size and length of fixture will be used. After a
      traumatic extraction, using drills to prepare the socket for the implant. Standard drilling
      procedures are performed according to the manufacturer's instructions implant direct. The
      axis of the implant must correspond to the incisal edges of the adjacent teeth or be slightly
      palatal to this landmark. Place the exact size determined previously by CBCT. In the esthetic
      zone, the implant head should be a minimum of 3 mm apical to an imaginary line connecting the
      cemento-enamel junctions of the adjacent teeth and apical to the interproximal and crestal
      bone.The gap between the facial aspect of the implant and the buccal wall was filled with
      NanoBone.The flap will be scored and sutured in place without tension. While in the control
      group, Harvesting of the autogenous bone graft will be done. This group will be subjected to
      the same implant placement protocol as the study group. Postoperative care include; A
      dressing will be applied to the extraoral wound for 24 hours postoperatively in the control
      group, Patients will maintain on oral antibiotics (Amoxicillin/Clavulanic acid 1gm q12h) and
      analgesics (cataflam 50 mg q8h) for 5 more days. Chlorohexidine mouth wash will be prescribed
      for 2 more weeks.
    
  