
    
      Pain control is a major challenge for physicians, who must ensure appropriate and effective
      pain control for their patients, while remaining mindful of the many negative effects of
      opioid dependence and addiction. Nowhere is there a more pressing need than in children and
      young adults, who are at high risk for drug abuse, and in post-operative care, since
      post-operative opioid use can be a starting point for long-term pain issues. Postoperative
      pain control in the Nuss procedure, minimally invasive repair of the congenital chest wall
      deformity known as pectus excavatum, remains a significant problem for the 3000 patients who
      undergo this procedure each year, mostly adolescents and young adults. Many multimodal
      analgesic regimens have been tried, but optimal treatment remains unknown.

      This study will test a novel and promising strategy of using intra-operative cryoanalgesia
      during the Nuss procedure. Cryoanalgesia is the localized, temporary freezing of peripheral
      nerves, which is performed at the time of the Nuss procedure. The study is a 20-subject
      prospective, randomized pilot trial comparing cryoanalgesia to thoracic epidural analgesia
      for post-operative pain control in patients undergoing the Nuss procedure. Subjects will be
      recruited from patients already scheduled for a Nuss procedure at our institution, and will
      undergo 1:1 randomization to either cryoanalgesia or thoracic epidural analgesia for
      perioperative pain control. During their hospitalization, patients' opiate usage will be
      prospectively recorded, and pain will be assessed twice per day. Upon discharge, patients
      will maintain a log of their opiate use, and will return to clinic at 2 weeks, 1 month, 3
      months, and 1 year after Nuss procedure for post-operative assessment. Primary outcome is
      length of perioperative hospitalization, an objective measure that synthesizes many different
      aspects of a procedure and its subsequent post-operative course, including pain control.
      Secondary outcomes are post-operative narcotic usage and direct cost of perioperative
      hospitalization. Side effects of both interventions will also be assessed.

      This will be the first systematic investigation of cryoanalgesia for local nerve block in a
      thoracoscopic procedure, and the first study involving its use in adolescents and young
      adults. The results will have direct application for those undergoing the Nuss procedure to
      repair pectus excavatum. Investigators will also delineate a reproducible protocol for
      delivering cryoanalgesia thoracoscopically, to ensure others can safely and effectively use
      this method if it proves beneficial. Although the focus is on the small subset of patients
      who undergo the Nuss procedure, if a standardized approach to cryoanalgesia delivery in a
      thoracoscopic procedure has a positive effect on patient outcomes and cost of
      hospitalization, the technique could be applied to a variety of surgical procedures, as well
      as for other neuropathic pain.
    
  