
    
      Sunitinib malate is designed to block pathways that control important events such as the
      growth of blood vessels that are essential for the growth of cancer.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this
      study. You will have standard scans to check the status of your disease, including computed
      tomography (CT) scans of the chest and abdomen (stomach area) and/or a magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) scan of the spine, if you have lesions in these areas. You will have an
      electrocardiogram (ECG -- a test that measures the electrical activity of the heart) and an
      echocardiogram or MUGA scan (echocardiogram/MUGA scan - a test to determine how well your
      heart is functioning by measuring its ability to pump blood). If the doctors know or suspect
      that VHL is affecting your eyes you will have an eye exam performed.

      Your complete medical history will be recorded and you will have a physical exam, including
      measurement of your vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing
      rate), height, and weight. You will be asked about any medications or treatments you are
      currently taking. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You will also be
      asked about your ability to perform daily activities. Women who are able to have children
      must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      You will be asked to complete 2 questionnaires that ask about your quality of life and your
      level of fatigue. It will take about 20 minutes to complete both questionnaires. The same
      questionnaires will then be completed 4-6 weeks later, and again at the end of treatment.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take sunitinib malate
      once a day, either with or without food. You will take the drug for 4 weeks in a row followed
      by 2 weeks of rest with no study drug. These 6 weeks are called a study "cycle".

      Before beginning each new cycle, you will have a physical exam and your complete medical
      history will be recorded. Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests. You will
      be asked about any drugs you have taken and any side effects you may have experienced. You
      will also be asked about your ability to perform daily activities.

      At the end of Cycles 2 and 4, you will have CT or MRI scans to evaluate the status of your
      disease and eye exams may be repeated for those with known lesions on their eye(s).

      You may receive treatment on this study for 24 weeks. However if you are showing benefit from
      the study drug, you may continue on study for an additional 24 weeks. (maximum total of 48
      weeks) You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or if intolerable side effects
      occur.

      Once you stop treatment, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit, you will have a
      physical exam and blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests. You will be asked
      about any medications you have taken and any side effects you may have experienced. You will
      have CT or MRI scans to evaluate the status of your disease, as well as an eye exam if your
      eyes are affected by your disease. If you have completed at least 1 cycle of treatment on
      this study, and have had imaging scans in the past 28 days, you will skip the end of study
      evaluation and return for the 48 week follow-up visit.

      You will have a follow-up visit about 48 weeks after your date of enrollment on this study.
      At this visit, you will have a physical exam and blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for
      routine tests. You will be asked about any medications you have taken and any side effects
      you may have experienced. You will have CT or MRI scans to evaluate the status of your
      disease. If your eyes are being affected by the disease, you will have a follow-up eye exam.

      Once you complete the 48 week follow-up visit, you are considered off-study.

      This is an investigational study. Sunitinib malate has been authorized by the FDA for
      research purposes only. About 28 patients will take part in this clinical research study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  