
    
      The study will enroll adults (age at least 18 years) in the EDs of MGH or BWH. Patients will
      be classified, depending upon their clinical presentation, into the SE group or the non-SE
      group. The total enrollment projected for non-SE patients is 150; the total enrollment
      projected for SE patients is 200. It is expected that at least 3 years may be required to
      enroll the requisite number of patients.

      Patients are eligible for study enrollment if they have had a seizure, and if they do not
      have known pregnancy or renal failure, and if they are not known to be breastfeeding.
      Hypotension is the only other exclusion criteria for the study. There are no other
      contraindications to study enrollment.

      Patients evaluated at the MGH/BWH EDs for seizures may arrive by private vehicle or
      ambulance. A "STILL" pager will be activated by ED physicians upon notification of impending
      ambulance arrival with a suspected seizure patient (SE or non-SE); the pager can also be
      activated after patient arrival at the ED by ambulance or private vehicle.

      Upon patient arrival to the ED, standard stabilization will be provided. If the patient is
      determined to have had a seizure, or if the patient is currently seizing, an IV will be
      placed (if not already present) in line with standard ED care. For the patient to be eligible
      for STILL, the seizure must have occurred within an hour of ED arrival.

      Care providers will make a determination as to whether patients are eligible, using a
      checklist readily available in the ED. For patients who are determined to be eligible, the
      care providers will indicate whether patients are in the "SE" or "non-SE" arm - the study
      groups are hereafter denoted SE and non-SE.

      STILL medications will be stored in the ED with other medications, so that they are readily
      available to care providers. The STILL medications will be in a separate section of the
      automated drug dispenser units in the ED. STILL medications will be subdivided as to whether
      patients are in the SE or non-SE arms. In each of the two subsections (SE and non-SE) of the
      EDs' automated drug dispensers will be one box of study medications. Thus, the ED will always
      have on hand, sufficient study medications to enroll one patient in either the SE or non-SE
      arm. The randomization procedures to determine the contents of the study medication boxes
      will be done in the Research Pharmacy, so no randomization needs to occur prior to treatment
      in the ED. The study boxes will have unique identifier numbers, which will then be reported
      back to the Research Pharmacy after the study medications have been administered; the
      Research Pharmacy thus will have track of which study patients received which study boxes
      (and which medication regimens). This approach to patient allocation and drug dispensing and
      tracking is consistent with current mechanisms for enrolling patients in Partners
      IRB-approved studies in the MGH/BWH EDs.

      Inside the SE partition in the ED box will be a syringe containing lorazepam (concentration:
      2 mg/mL) in either a 2 mg or 3 mg dose; an extra volume of inactive diluent will be added to
      the 2 mg dose so that the volume (1.5 mL) is that same in each syringe. In a manner
      consistent with previous/ongoing Partners IRB-approved studies in the ED, the syringe will be
      labeled "lorazepam - 2mg or 3mg." Also in the SE compartment of the drug dispenser will be an
      infusion set labeled "levetiracetam 1.5g or placebo." Thus, for SE patients, care providers
      will administer two agents from the medication dispenser; patients will receive either
      [lorazepam 2mg + levetiracetam 1.5 g] or [lorazepam 3mg + placebo]. Care providers will be
      instructed (by information included with the study drugs) to administer the lorazepam over
      1.5-2 minutes (this is in line with standard recommendations that lorazepam be administered
      at a rate not to exceed 2 mg/min).28, 38 The infusion (i.e. levetiracetam or placebo) will be
      administered over 5 minutes.

      Inside the non-SE partition in the ED box will be an infusion set labeled "levetiracetam 1.5g
      or placebo." Thus, for non-SE patients, care providers will administer one agent from the
      medication dispenser; patients will receive either levetiracetam 1.5 g or placebo. Care
      providers will be instructed (by information included with the study drugs) to administer the
      infusion over 5 minutes.

      The contents of the partitions in the ED drug dispenser will be determined in advance, by a
      randomization scheme that prevents the need for care providers to make a phone call or
      otherwise spend time (which they do not have) randomizing patients. When the EDs use study
      drug from either arm of STILL, they will contact the Research Pharmacy which will replace the
      used materials and note the patient's medical record number along with the true identity of
      the study agent(s) administered.

      Any adjunctive medication may be administered at the discretion of the treating physicians.

      Study endpoints for SE and non-SE patients are outlined in the Detailed Protocol. Briefly, SE
      analysis will focus on whether seizure recurrence is reduced, and whether respiratory
      depression and other post-medication vital signs changes occur less frequently in patients
      receiving LEV and the smaller dose of lorazepam, as compared to those receiving the
      higher-dose lorazepam alone. For non-SE patients, endpoints will include seizure recurrence
      as well as quality of the examination and occurrence of side effects.
    
  