
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease presents a significant burden on Emergency Departments
      and acute medical services, accounting for approximately 90,000 hospital admissions a year,
      with an average stay lasting 11 days. COPD accounts for 10% of acute hospital admissions,
      therefore any method of improving health outcomes and reducing the burden on acute services
      will benefit patients twofold.

      Severity of acute COPD is based on clinical indicators such as patient perceived
      breathlessness, arterial blood gas analysis and respiratory rate. Although breathlessness is
      a subjective marker, multiple scoring systems have been devised in an attempt to standardise
      this in order to see an objective improvement in the patient. One of the most commonly used
      and repeatedly validated scoring systems is the BORG score, which has been shown to
      effectively demonstrate improvement in breathlessness in the emergency setting .

      Nebulised bronchodilator therapy is the mainstay of treatment, as described in the National
      Institute of Clinical Excellence guidelines. Delivery of bronchodilators (salbutamol and
      ipratropium) is through a standard facemask - in this Trust it is a Phillips Respironic©
      mask. Drugs delivery is variable through a nebuliser mask and it is difficult to measure
      exactly how much of the drug is being delivered to the more distal bronchial tree.
      Furthermore, this can be highly variable between patients depending on how well the mask fits
      and patient tolerance, amongst other factors.

      Various attempts have been made to improve drug delivery in acute setting such as a spacer
      and a hood (within paediatric asthmatic patients) , . However, they have all showed that the
      clinical outcomes are the same regardless of the method of delivery.

      Clinical assessment is based on a combination of objective and subjective parameters. Within
      the Emergency Department, these include both patient and clinician perception of improvement
      in symptoms (primarily shortness of breath). Assessment also includes more objective
      measurements such as oxygen saturation, arterial blood gas measurements and end tidal CO2
      measurements when available.

      There are many challenges that we face specifically within the Emergency Department with
      patients with COPD. As we are seeing patients as soon as they enter the hospital, initial
      therapy may have already been administered by the ambulance service so any assessment will be
      slightly biased and the patient may initially appear better than they actually are.
      Furthermore, there are often burdens on Emergency Departments during busy periods during the
      winter, meaning it is not always possible to give patients instant treatment or to be seen
      immediately by a doctor, particularly if there are more unwell patients based on the triage
      system.

      In addition, some of the more objective measures used in previous trials such as bedside
      spirometry are not practical in the Emergency Department for several reasons. Firstly, when a
      patient is acutely short of breath they will not be able to perform spirometry properly.
      Secondly, as this is not something done routinely in the Emergency Department, both doctors
      and nurses may not be properly trained to carry this out and we may obtain falsely high or
      low results.

      The Aerogen Aeroneb Solo© is a new nebuliser which is hypothesised to increase drug delivery
      to peripheral bronchi. Previous studies have showed that it delivers up to 4 times more drug
      than jet nebulisers and up to 3 times as much as metered dose inhalers. However, this will be
      its first study with the adapter in human subjects and its first study specifically for COPD.
    
  