
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxicity and potential efficacy of high dose chemotherapy (HDC)
      comprised of etoposide, topotecan, and carboplatin (ETC) followed by autologous stem cell
      transplantation in patients with ovarian epithelial cancer. II. Determine the maximum
      tolerated dose of topotecan when combined with etoposide and carboplatin in these patients.
      III. Determine the disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients treated
      with this regimen. IV. Measure the amount and subcellular location of DNA topoisomerase I and
      II- alpha in ovarian cancer biopsies before HDC and at relapse to determine the role of
      alterations of topoisomerases in the drug resistance of ovarian cancer. V. Correlate the
      amount and location of both enzymes before HDC with clinical outcome (DFS and OS) and plasma
      concentrations of topotecan and carboplatin in these patients. VI. Correlate the levels of
      signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) and expression of bcl-2 family
      proteins with response to chemotherapy and clinical outcome (DFS and OS) in these patients.
      VII. Measure the levels of STAT and determine the expression of bcl-2 family proteins in
      tumor biopsies before HDC and at relapse to determine the role of these cellular pathways in
      drug response. VIII. Determine the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationship of high
      dose topotecan combined with carboplatin in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of topotecan. Mobilization: After completion of
      salvage chemotherapy and within 6 weeks of second look laparotomy, patients receive
      cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours and paclitaxel IV over 2 hours for 2 days. Patients then
      receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily beginning 24 hours after completion of
      chemotherapy and continuing until autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested
      and selected for CD34+ cells. High dose chemotherapy: After priming chemotherapy and within 6
      weeks of second look laparotomy, patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days -8 to
      -6; topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -5 (beginning 12 hours after completion of
      carboplatin infusion); and etoposide IV over 4 hours on days -5 to -3 (beginning 12 hours
      after completion of the last topotecan infusion). Cohorts of 4-12 patients receive escalating
      doses of topotecan until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined
      as the dose preceding that at which 6 or more of 12 patients experience dose limiting
      toxicity. Transplantation: PBSC are reinfused on day 0. Patients are followed at 3 and 6
      months, then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 4-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 3-4
      years.
    
  