
    
      Study Design Placebo controlled double blind randomized, multi center clinical trial.

      Study Population and Number of Subjects Total of 108 patients undergoing myeloablative
      allogeneic or autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and receiving high-dose
      chemotherapy as conditioning regimen at AIIMS (departments of Medical Oncology and
      Hematology) will be enrolled for the study and will be equally divided in two groups (drug
      and placebo).

      Study Center The study will be carried at Departments of Medical Oncology and Hematology of
      All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.

      More centers are likely to be added.

      Study Objectives To test whether the probiotic Lactobacillus CD2 (drug) lozenges can reduce
      the incidence and severity of conditioning therapy induced oral mucositis in patients
      undergoing haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      Investigational Product Drug: The trial medication is in the form of lozenge, which is
      supposed to be dissolved by itself in mouth.

      It contains not less than 2x109 (2 billion) viable cells of Lactobacillus CD2 as active
      ingredient.

      Placebo: The placebo is a mix of sugars and salts used as excipients in the active
      formulation.

      Note: Placebo and drug lozenges will be similar in physical appearance and color.

      Dose of Study drug The daily dose of trial medications will be 4-6 lozenges per day, one
      lozenge to be taken every 2-3 hours preferably not before the meal. The lozenge should be
      kept in mouth for it to dissolve by itself. A hot beverage (e.g. tea, coffee, milk etc.)
      should not be taken for at least half an hour before and after the medication since elevated
      temperature can inactivate the bacteria.

      Duration of treatment The treatment will start 4-7 days before starting chemotherapy for
      conditioning regime of HSCT and will continue till resolution of mucositis or Day+24 post
      stem cell infusion which-ever is earlier.

      Efficacy Assessments

      Clinical activity will be defined as reduction in the incidence and severity of chemotherapy
      induced mucositis in HSCT patients. Most recent version of CTCAE; clinical score of CTC V4.03
      ( as also outlined in CTCAE version 3.0) will be used for mucositis assessment. Also,WHO and
      Oral Mucositis assessment score will be recorded. The study will have the following primary
      and secondary endpoints:

      Primary endpoint

      1. Determine the incidence of grade III and IV mucositis in patients undergoing allogeneic or
      autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation in two groups.

      Secondary endpoint

        1. Determine the incidence of all Grade of mucositis in patients undergoing allogenic or
           autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation in two groups.

        2. Duration of and time period for healing of chemotherapy induced oral mucositis.

        3. Determine incidence and severity of dysphagia and requirement of IV antibiotics in two
           groups

      Safety Assessments

        1. Medical History

        2. Physical Examination

        3. Vital Signs (blood pressure, pulse rate and respiratory rate)

        4. Laboratory Examinations

        5. Adverse Events
    
  