
    
      Clinical Phase II trial to determine if Mepitel Film® is a viable prophylactic option for
      high-risk women undergoing radiotherapy for breast cancer to reduce side effects of radiation
      on the skin.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of use of Mepitel Film® in the
      prevention of grade II or higher radiation epidermitis in high-risk patients undergoing
      radiotherapy for breast cancer.

      Test Article(s) Mepitel Film ®

      The proposed study is a cohort trial of women with breast cancer who are at a high risk of
      having pain, swelling, inflammation with skin tenderness, skin ulceration, pruritis, and
      scarring during radiation treatment.

      Each subject's participation will last approximately eight weeks. The entire study is
      expected to last up to 24 months.

      The primary analysis will be based classification of radiation dermatitis from treated and
      untreated skin at each visit. Secondary endpoints will review quality of life responses
      compared to dermatitis.

      Statistical analysis will be completed by Highmark Health Data Science R&D. The principal
      investigator will share any updates, AEs and safety concerns to the Data Safety Monitoring
      Board (DSMB), a group of scientists, physicians, statisticians, and others that collect and
      analyze data during the course of a research study to monitor for adverse events and other
      trends that would warrant modification or termination of the trial or notification of
      subjects about new information that might affect their willingness to continue in the trial.
      The Highmark Health Data Science Research and Development department are the statisticians
      for this study and will participate on the DSMB.

      General Schema of Study Design Women who meet inclusion/exclusion for the trial and are
      consent to participate in the trial are enrolled in the study. Prior to standard of care
      radiation treatments, women will have the area of the breast divided into two, approximately
      equal parts; medial and lateral. The in-field ipsilateral axilla will be included with the
      lateral breast segment to the extent necessary for coverage of the breast or chest wall only.
      The infra-mammary crease will be part of both the medial and lateral breast segments.
      Axillary irradiation is allowed and the nodal areas irradiated should be considered as part
      of the evaluable field and covered with the Film as required by division of the breast as
      above. The aspect of the breast covered by the Mepitel Film® will alternate with consecutive
      patients and the axilla will be separately evaluated for acute reaction. Each woman will act
      as her own control. The breast will be photographed (digital images). At each treatment, the
      breast will be evaluated for signs of infection, erythema, induration, dry or wet
      desquamation or frank skin breakdown. A Quality-Of-Life (QOL) Instrument will be completed by
      the patient.

      All radiotherapy visits are standard of care for participants. The Mepitel Film® has been
      purchased for this study by the AGH Auxiliary and each box of Film received will be then
      labeled for investigational use only.

      Study Duration, Enrollment and Number of Sites Length of time on study is dependent upon the
      radiotherapy regimen (25 fractions or 28 fractions) and any AE probably or definitely related
      to study participation. The expected length of time on study is 6 - 7 weeks: 25 to 28
      business days (Monday-Friday) for the radiotherapy plus the one week post treatment follow up
      visit. Visits related to an adverse event (AE) will continue until the AE is resolved, which
      may extend participation time.

      The study will be conducted at approximately 5 investigative sites in the Allegheny Health
      Network and the accrual goal is 40 women.
    
  