
    
      Cognitive impairment is observed in more than 30% of the patients from 3 to 6 months after an
      acute coronary syndrome. Executive functions are mainly impaired. Cognition tends to
      progressively deteriorate during the following years, therefore increasing the risk of
      vascular dementia. Increased age and low educational level are the main risks factors whereas
      the risk is not modified by the strategy used to obtain a coronary revascularization. Brain
      imaging studies have demonstrated a vascular leukoencephalopathy in 50% of the patients with
      a previous history of ischaemic heart disease. However the link between brain
      anatomo-functional changes and occurrence of cognitive dysfunction remains largely unknown.

      50 patients will be included in this study.

      Cognition will be evaluated using a standard neuropsychological assessment (investigating
      executive function, memory, attention, language and visuo-constructive abilities) and a 7
      days experience sampling method which evaluates cognition in daily life. Brain
      anatomo-functional study will include a brain MRI and two Tc-99m-HMPAO SPECT performed
      respectively with and without intravenous injection of acetazolamide in order to measure
      cerebral blood-flow and cerebrovascular reserve capacity.

      Prospective exploratory study performed in a cohort of patients admitted for evaluation of
      their cardio-vascular risk factor 4 ±1 months after an acute coronary syndrome.

      Patients will be included 4 ± 1 months after a first episode of acute coronary syndrome. A
      standard neuropsychological assessment will be performed by a neuropsychologist at inclusion
      and 6 months later. The daily life experience study will be performed during a period of 7
      consecutive days following the inclusion. Questions will be asked to the patients 5 times a
      day by a pocket computer (Palm). MRI will be performed on a 3 Tesla research MRI. Two
      Tc-99m-HMPAO SPECT studies will be performed, the first one at inclusion and the second one
      more than 2 days and less than 15 days after the first. The second SPECT study will be
      performed after intravenous injection of acetazolamide.

      Relationship between cognitive impairment and brain anatomo-functional abnormalities will be
      investigated using a linear regression model.
    
  