
    
      Serum, plasma, and fresh urine samples as well as whole blood (buffy coat for DNA extraction
      and genotyping) are stored at -80°C in a local biobank according to the latest guidelines of
      the Académie Suisse des Sciences Médicales (ASSM).

      The vascular phenotype includes:

        -  24h ABPM with the examination of diurnal variations of blood pressure, pulse pressure
           and heart rate. Central pulse pressure is also calculated based on the pulse wave
           analysis providing information on stroke volume, central BP, aortic stiffness and
           arterial wave reflection. It increases with age and could expose glomerular capillaries
           to damage. It has been independently related to proteinuria.

        -  Arterial stiffness is assessed non-invasively with the commercially available Sphygmocor
           system (Version 8.0, At Cor Medical, Sydney, Australia) using applanation tonometry to
           measure carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) and carotid and radial augmentation
           indexes. Pulse wave velocity is a strong surrogate for carotid-femoral arterial
           stiffness. Generally around 3-4m/s in the young population it increases with age. A high
           PWV brings to a greater transmission of pulsating pressure to the renal microcirculation
           and is associated with accelerated eGFR decline. Recently, a study has described its
           independent relationship with cardio-vascular mortality in CKD stage 2-4. Patients with
           a PWV at least at 10m/s had a HR for mortality of 5. Carotid and radial augmentation
           indexes measure the difference between the second and first systolic peak of the aortic
           wave and is expressed as a percentage of pulse pressure. They increase with age and have
           been correlated with eGFR and albuminuria.

        -  Carotid ultrasound is performed to assess carotid intima-media thickness. Carotid-intima
           media thickness is a direct measurement of atherosclerosis and can help stratify
           patients at CV risk. It has been associated with eGFR decline.

        -  Participants undergo a renal ultrasound including renal resistance index measurements as
           marker of intrarenal vascular disease according to a pre-specified protocol used
           previously in other local cohorts by the same experienced operator (PD Dr Menno Pruijm).
           The assessment of the intrarenal vessels is made by duplex Doppler sonography on 3
           segmental arteries (superior, middle, and inferior) in each kidney. The values are then
           averaged to obtain the mean value for each participant. Renal resistive index (RRI) is
           calculated as [(peak-systolic velocity - end-diastolic velocity)/peak-systolic
           velocity]. The Service of nephrology has performed an important study providing
           reference values in a population with normal renal ultrasounds. Renal resistive index
           has been associated with eGFR decline. Besides, all participants are screened for
           underlying renal artery stenosis based on well established intrarenal Doppler criteria.
           The presence of other renal structural abnormalities (renal cysts, tumors,
           calcifications and/or hydronephrosis) is also assessed. Finally, the bladder area is
           systematically visualized, as well as the prostatic gland in men.

        -  Subjects undergo ocular examination, including best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), slit
           lamp biomicroscopic exam, measurement of intraocular pressure with a non-contact
           tonometer and fundus examination. Choroidal thickness is measured by the EDI-OCT
           technique. The subfoveal choroidal thickness is measured at macular fovea from the outer
           portion of the hyperreflective line corresponding to the RPE to the hyporeflective line
           or margin corresponding to the sclerochoroidal interface. Central macular retinal
           thickness is determined automatically in all eyes. There are emerging data regarding the
           relationship of choroidal circulation and various systemic and ocular diseases. The
           choroid is highly vascularized tissue that supplies blood to the outer retina, including
           the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells and photoreceptors, especially in the foveal
           region where there is no retinal vasculature. The choroid plays a crucial part in the
           physiopathology of many retinal diseases. Details of the choroidal circulation remained
           largely unknown due to poor resolution and reproducibility of previous choroidal imaging
           techniques. Imaging of the choroid was dramatically improved with the development of
           spectral domain optical coherence tomography and was further augmented with the advent
           of enhanced depth imaging. The relation between renal dysfunction and impaired ocular
           microcirculation remains unclear, especially in early-stage diabetes. It's been reported
           that the blood flow in the retinal arterioles is decreased in patients with type 2
           diabetes with chronic kidney disease. Though, data on the relationship between choroidal
           thickness and diabetic nephropathy are sparse. As far as we are aware today, there is
           only one study that evaluated choroidal thickness alterations in diabetic nephropathy
           patients with early or no diabetic retinopathy. More precisely the subfoveal, temporal
           and nasal choroidal thickness was noted to be thinner in patients with diabetic
           nephropathy patients compared with non- diabetic nephropathy patients and normal
           subjects.

      Quality of life questionnaires: A number of studies have shown that as kidney function
      decreases, disease burden increases, with lower health-related quality of life (HRQoL) for
      patients with late stages of chronic kidney disease. However, few studies have looked into
      HRQoL and its determinants in the specific population of diabetic patients with kidney
      disease. Assessing HRQoL and its determinants is important in chronic care as studies have
      shown that patients with higher HRQoL function better within the healthcare system and
      perform more health-promoting activities. HRQoL is assessed at baseline in patients enrolled
      in the cohort. The impact of baseline HRQoL on renal function decline will be analysed.
    
  