
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the safety and the toxicities of BAY 43-9006 (sorafenib) administered
      continuously twice daily by oral route in combination with CCI-779 (temsirolimus)
      administered intravenously once weekly in advanced solid malignancies.

      II. To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended dose for the phase II study
      (RD) of this regimen.

      III. To describe the pharmacokinetic behavior of BAY 43-9006 (sorafenib) and CCI-779
      (temsirolimus) when combined.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the relationship between pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of exposure and drug
      effect on biological surrogates of proliferation, cell survival, differentiation and
      angiogenesis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and tumor tissue where the tumor
      is accessible for biopsy.

      II. To analyze the biologic effects of BAY 43-9006 and CCI-779 on downstream targets of the
      P13K/Akt/mTOR and Raf signaling pathways.

      III. To evaluate preliminary antitumor activity of the combination.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of temsirolimus.

      Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. They also receive
      oral sorafenib* twice daily starting on day 8 of course 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *On the days of the temsirolimus infusion, temsirolimus should be taken concurrently
      with the morning dose of sorafenib.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of temsirolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Up to 12 patients are treated at the MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.
    
  