
    
      Neonatal hypoglycemia understood as a reduction in plasma glucose can result in long-term
      neurological damage. Hypoglycemia is one of the most frequent metabolic alterations of the
      newborn. About 30% of all newborns are at risk of hypoglycemia. The neonatal population at
      risk is mainly children of diabetic mothers, born prematurely, late preterm (34-36,6 weeks of
      gestational age), born at term (37-42 weeks of gestational age) with low body weight for
      gestational age ( SGA, <10o percentile) or with high body weight for gestational age (LGA,
      >90o percentile). The 50% of these infants have hypoglycemia in the first 48 years. It is
      still controversial today to assign the threshold value below which it is possible to define
      a condition of neonatal hypoglycemia. In 2011, the American Academy of Pediatrics provided
      practical guidance for screening and subsequent management of neonatal hypoglycemia in
      infants at risk. The chosen threshold was 45 mg/dl but they also stated that few studies have
      shown that the asymptomatic hypoglycaemia condition protracted for a few hours is associated
      with long-term neurological damage. Studies showing the correlation between plasma blood
      sugar concentration and long-term neurological adverse events were also influenced by the
      variable definition of hypoglycemia, the duration of hypoglycemia, the lack of studies
      case-control and sample size. The other chosen threshold to diagnose hypoglycemia was 47
      mg/dl, however without rigorous scientific evidence. Subsequently in 2015 and 2017, two
      scientific evidence showed that maintaining blood sugar values above 47 mg/dl in the first 48
      hours of life in infants at risk of hypoglycemia and in follow-up, did not associate with an
      increase in incidence of neurosensory type of alteration, at the age of 2 and 4.5 years of
      life respectively. Furthermore, these papers established the conditions of severe
      hypoglycemia for plasma glucose values <36 mg/dl and of recurrent hypoglycemia if at least
      three hypoglycemia episodes were recorded (<47 mg/dl). The pathophysiological mechanisms
      underlying neonatal hypoglycemia were: the reduced glycogen storage in the liver of the
      preterm newborn, the reduced availability of amino acids for gluconeogenesis and the
      inadequate lipid storage as a source of fatty acids that are more evident in preterm.
      Regarding the causes of persistent hypoglycemia, specified as a hypoglycemia that persists
      more than 48 hours of life, we must consider: the inappropriate insulin secretion,
      hypopituitarism, cortisol deficiency, growth hormone deficiency, congenital errors of glucose
      metabolism, glycogen and fatty acids. Neonatal hypoglycemia can be completely asymptomatic or
      can manifest with neurogenic/adrenergic signs and symptoms characterized by: sweating,
      pallor, cyanosis, temperature instability, irritability, starvation, tremors, tachycardia,
      emesis and neuroglycopenic signs and symptoms characterized by: apnea, hypotonia, hypovalid
      suction, seizures, up to the come and the exitus.

      Serious monitoring of neonatal blood glucose is indicated in patients at risk of
      hypoglycemia. Glycemic monitoring in the newborn at risk should be started not before of the
      two hours of life, in fact it is seen that at birth the neonatal blood glucose values are
      very low because they are conditioned by the metabolic activity of the fetus in the
      intrauterine phase, while later these values rise again until arrive at similar values to the
      adult within 48-72 hours. Monitoring is performed by glucometer, capillary EGA or blood
      sampling performed in patients at risk of painful stress. In recent years, various research
      groups have been evaluating the possibility of arriving at non-pharmacological prophylaxis of
      hypoglycemia. In particular, the Hegarty group has set up a protocol that uses dextrose gel
      at 40% in the risk categories that could reduce the number of hypoglycemia cases and
      consequently of painful procedures. Body temperature and the state of metabolic and/or
      respiratory acidosis are among the main factors that influence blood sugar levels in the
      first 48 hours of life. There are currently no strategies to prevent hypoglycemia. The
      treatment, in cases of asymptomatic hypoglycemia, is an early administration of milk in
      formula while in cases of symptomatic hypoglycemia infusion of 10% intravenous glucose is
      foreseen or early feeding by treatment with breast milk or in formula. However, the
      administration of milk formulated in the first hours of life causes a reduction in
      breastfeeding. In severe cases with glycaemia <36 mg/dl, it is practiced intravenous infusion
      of 10% glucose or dextrose. The 40% dextrose in gel administered orally can be a valid
      preventive measure in all newborns at risk of hypoglycemia, sons of a diabetic mother, SGA
      and LGA and improve the probability of successful breast attachment. Dextrose 40% in gel is
      administered by massaging it into the buccal mucosa to have an optimal effect.

      In 2013 Harris et al. conducted a study to evaluate the failure rate in the treatment of
      hypoglycaemia in a sample of 242 newborns assigned in the 1:1 ratio to case or control group.
      The cases were treated with 40% dextrose in gel with a concentration of 200 mg/kg while the
      controls with a placebo solution. Newborns of both groups were encouraged to feed but if the
      feeding was insufficient it was administered breast milk or formula milk through a syringe.
      Blood glucose was detected 30 minutes after gel administration but if hypoglycaemia was
      persistent, it was administered up to 6 doses of gel during the 48 hours of life. Treated
      group showed a failure rate in reversion of lower hypoglycaemia compared to controls (14% vs
      24%, RR = 0.57 (0.33-0.98), p = 0.04). In 2016 Weston et al. reviewed the scientific
      literature with the aim of evaluating the efficacy of 40% dextrose in gel in preventing
      hypoglycaemia and in reducing the long-term damage associated with neurodevelopment. Two
      trials including 312 infants were included. It was found that the administration of the gel
      reduced the mother-child separation (RR = 0.54, 95% CI = 0.31-0.93) and the probability of
      exclusive breastfeeding after discharge was increased (RR 1.10, 95% CI from 1.01 to 1.18).

      No side effects related to gel administration were detected by investigators, and the group
      of gel-treated infants showed an increase in blood glucose of 7.2 mg/dl compared to the
      placebo group. Hegarty et al conducted a clinical trial in which 416 newborns were randomized
      and assigned to one of 4 types of treatment: dextrose 40% in gel in a single-dose (200 mg/kg)
      or double-dose (400 mg/kg ) 1 hour after birth or followed by 3 additional doses of dextrose
      (200 mg/kg) in the first 12 hours. Blood glucose was measured at 2 hours from birth then
      every 2-4 hours for the first 12 hours of life. The incidence of hypoglycemia was lower in
      the treated than in the control group treated with a placebo solution (41% vs 52%, RR = 0.79
      (0.64-0.98), p = 0.03). The group of newborns treated with a single administration of gel at
      a concentration of 200 mg/kg showed a greater reduction in the incidence of hypoglycemia
      compared to the other types of treatment (38% vs 56%, RR = 0.66 (0.47-0.99), p=0.04).
      Treatment with 40% dextrose in gel also led to a reduction in admissions to NICU due to
      hypoglycemia compared to the control group (2% vs 13%, RR = 0.12 (0.02-0.90), p = 0.04) and
      to the number of newborns treated with milk in formula (Mean Difference = -6.00
      (-11.58-0.41), p=0.036). Scientific Safety Evidence: No side effects related to the use of
      40% dextrose in gel were recorded in all the studies performed. In 2015, the guidelines
      published by the University of Auckland, New Zealand, stated that the use of dextrose in gel
      does not change the incidence of neurosensitive disability at 2 years of correct age,
      moreover, events like crisis convulsive or dead have not been described after the
      administration of this gel. Moreover, from the analysis of the literature by various
      scientific search engines including Pubmed, Scholar and others, using as keywords: newborn,
      hypoglycemia and dextrose gel, until the moment of writing this synopsis, no work has been
      detected as far as regards the side effects in the use of dextrose gel.
    
  