
    
      Recent gene expression profiling of breast cancer has identified specific subtypes with
      clinical, biologic, and therapeutic implications. The basal-like group of tumors is
      associated with aggressive behavior and poor prognosis, and typically do not express hormone
      receptors or HER-2 ("triple-negative" phenotype). Therefore, patients with basal-like cancers
      do not benefit from currently available targeted systemic therapy.

      There is a lot of evidence about a link between basal-like breast cancer and BRCA1
      deficiency. Many clinical characteristics and molecular features are shared by basal-like
      breast cancers and tumors that arise in carriers of BRCA1 germline mutations.

      Some studies have indicated that BRCA1 mRNA expression was lower in basal-like sporadic
      cancers than in controls matched for age and grade. BRCA1 is rarely mutated in sporadic
      breast cancers and, therefore, it is believed that this may be a result of epigenetic
      mechanisms such as acquired methylation of the BRCA1 gene promoter or a dysfunction in the
      pathways that regulate BRCA1 expression, such as overexpression of ID4. The profound
      similarities between hereditary BRCA1-related breast tumors and basal-like tumors strongly
      implicate a fundamental defect in the BRCA1 or associated DNA-repair pathways (p53, PTEN) in
      sporadic basal-like tumors.

      There is increasing evidence that the BRCA1-related DNA-repair defects, especially defective
      homologous recombination, determines sensitivity to certain agents, such as platinum
      salts-based chemotherapy. The complexity in downregulation of BRCA1 expression suggests that
      these approaches may only be effective in the treatment of a subset of sporadic basal-like
      cancers. Identification of specific markers for these cancers will be essential to translate
      an understanding of defective DNA repair into targeted treatments for this poor prognosis
      subtype.
    
  