
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if adding nivolumab to platinum-gemcitabine as first-line treatment improves
      overall survival (OS) for patients with recurrent and/or metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma
      (NPC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patterns of failure (local-regional relapse and distant metastasis) between
      treatment arms.

      II. To determine if adding nivolumab to platinum-gemcitabine as first-line treatment improves
      the objective tumor response based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)
      1.1.

      III. To determine if adding nivolumab to platinum-gemcitabine as first-line treatment
      improves progression free survival (PFS) for patients with recurrent and/or metastatic NPC.

      IV. To evaluate the toxicity based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) version (v)5.0.

      V. To characterize patient-reported symptomatic toxicities measured by Patient-Reported
      Outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE.

      VI. To assess the quality of life (QOL), as measured by the European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-Core (C)30,
      between the two arms (primary PRO).

      VII. To assess fatigue, as measured by Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20), between
      the two arms (secondary PRO).

      VIII. To determine if a subset of patients based on an optimal cutoff point of PD-L1 Combined
      Positive Score (CPS)/Tumor Proportion Score (TPS) is more likely to benefit in terms of PFS
      from adding nivolumab to platinum-gemcitabine as first-line treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if a subset of patients based on an optimal cutoff point of PD-L1 CPS/TPS is
      more likely to benefit in terms of overall survival (OS) from adding nivolumab to
      platinum-gemcitabine as first-line treatment.

      II. To determine changes in QOL as measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 and in fatigue as measured by
      MFI-20, between and within arms over time (exploratory PRO).

      III. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future translational research.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, gemcitabine IV
      over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, and cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes or carboplatin IV over
      30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 4 weeks, patients then receive nivolumab
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive gemcitabine and cisplatin or carboplatin as in Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually.
    
  