
    
      Most subcapital femoral neck fractures occur in the elderly population and are the result of
      low-energy trauma. Return of the patient to prefracture level of function usually can best be
      accomplished with surgery. Nonsurgical management has resulted in an excessive rate of
      medical morbidity and mortality. The overall 1-year mortality rate after hip fracture in the
      elderly ranges from 14% to 36%.

      Prosthetic replacement has been favored for the treatment of displaced femoral neck fractures
      in the frail, elderly population with multiple medical comorbidities because of the
      challenges of achieving stable proximal fragment fixation in osteopenic bone, and the need
      for early, full weight-bearing mobilization. Failure rates of 30% to 40% have been
      consistently reported over multiple series over the past few decades in elderly patients with
      displaced femoral neck fractures treated with internal fixation.

      Once prosthetic arthroplasty has been chosen, further controversy surrounds the type of
      fixation, cemented or cementless. Good to excellent results can be expected with either
      cemented or cementless newer generation arthroplasties. Risks of cementless arthroplasty
      include femoral fracture, prosthesis subsidence, and anterior thigh pain. Cementation of the
      prosthesis places the patient at risk for intraoperative death or embolization of marrow
      content during cementation.

      The aim of the study is to assess the clinical relevance of a collared uncemented stem
      compared with use of cemented stem in elderly population with displaced femoral neck
      fracture.

      A randomised trial will include 150 patients with an acute displaced femoral neck fracture in
      an elderly population. All patient will give informed consent, and the research protocol is
      approved by the regional ethics committee. The inclusion criteria are an age of at least 70
      years old, a displaced femoral neck fracture (Garden stage III or IV), an ASA grade< 4,
      ambulatory and non cognive impairment patients. Clinical and radiographic examinations will
      be perform at perioperative period, at 3 and 12 month after surgery. The main outcome
      measures will be functional score, pain, mobility, complications, reoperations, activity of
      daily living, quality of life, strenght, and radiolographic subsidence.

      The primary hypothesis of this study is that use of a collared uncemented stem would not
      provide an improvement in functional outcome compared with use of cemented stem in elderly
      population with displaced femoral neck fracture.
    
  