
    
      For the entire duration of the study, patients will remain under the care of the Early
      Palliative Care and Simultaneous Care Outpatient team of the Istituto Nazionale Tumori,
      Fondazione Pascale, at home. Pain and other symptoms will be managed according to the good
      clinical practice and patients will receive assistance in agreement to the routine medical
      care.

      The following devices will be used:

        1. Software

        2. Instrumentation

        3. Clinical Assessment Tools: European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer
           Quality-of-life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), Daily Pain Diary, 0-10 numeric
           rating scale (NRS).

      The project will be divided into three main Work Packages (WPs), dedicated respectively to
      the creation of the IT infrastructure to support acquisitions (WP1), the patient data
      collection campaign (WP2), and the development of machine learning algorithms for automatic
      pain recognition (WP3). The application of the devices and verification of correct
      functioning will be carried out at the patient's home by the IT staff involved in the study.

      WP1 - The system consists of three main components: the server, with the attached database,
      the application for mobile devices, also responsible for managing data acquisition from
      physiological signal acquisition devices, and the desktop application, used by the clinical
      staff to monitor the progress of data collection.

      The mobile application will have the role of interfacing directly with the patient and
      acquiring biometric data from wearable devices. Specifically, the following signals will be
      acquired: heart rate, body temperature, non-invasive blood pressure, and galvanic skin
      response (GSR). The heart rate will be obtained through a wearable device (Garmin Vivosmart
      4) while the body temperature, the non-invasive blood pressure, and the GSR will be acquired
      by an external device (a BITalino platform).To further validate the accuracy of the algorithm
      that will deal with pain detection, patients will also be given a QoL questionnaire (EORTC
      QLQ-C30).

      In order to acquire the ground truth of the data, the patient will be asked to provide
      feedback on the level of pain, both at certain intervals of time during the day, and in case
      of acute pain episodes. This feedback can be based on NRS and multimedia strategies (e.g.,
      videos). Patients will fill out a daily pain diary.

      WP2 - The campaign will include a preliminary acquisition phase aimed at testing the IT
      infrastructure. For obtaining an adequate inter-subject and intra-subject variability, it
      will be necessary to enroll at least 40 patients, acquiring data for 10-14 days. Thus, the
      data collection campaign will be conducted for about 6 months. Each subject will use the
      mobile application and sensors for 2 weeks. Data will be acquired using simultaneously data
      collection bundles (application, sensors, and any mobile device). Upon enrolment and at the
      end, EORTC QLQ-C30 will be administered.

      WP3 - The objective is the development of algorithms able to predict the level of pain
      perceived by the patient. Having a considerable amount of labelled data available, the system
      will learn from the examples.
    
  