
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose/recommended phase II dose (MTD/RP2D) of total
      marrow and lymphoid irradiation (TMLI) with fixed doses of fludarabine and melphalan (FM100)
      as a preparative regimen in patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (alloHCT) and who are not eligible for standard myeloablative regimens, with
      either a matched donor (Arm A) or a haploidentical donor (Arm B).

      II. To describe toxicities attributable to TMLI by dose level in patients treated under this
      regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of the regimen, at each dose level, by assessing the following:
      type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration of adverse events, including
      acute/chronic graft versus host disease (GVHD), infection and delayed engraftment.

      II. To investigate the temporal effect of bone marrow residual damage in alloHCT patients
      after TMLI/FM100.

      III. To estimate overall survival (OS), event-free survival (EFS), cumulative incidence (CI)
      of relapse/progression, and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100 days, 1 year and 2 years.

      IV. Assess minimal residual disease (MRD) from bone marrow aspirates on days 30, 100, and 180
      post-transplant and describe its relation to TMLI dose level and patient disease status.

      V. To evaluate effect of TMLI/FM100 conditioning on immune reconstitution after alloHCT in
      patients receiving stem cells from matched or haploidentical donors.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of TMLI.

      Participants undergo TMLI twice daily (BID) on days -8 to -5, and receive fludarabine
      intravenously (IV) on days -4 to -2 and melphalan on day -2. Participants then undergo
      alloHCT on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up twice weekly for 100 days,
      twice monthly for 6 months, and then monthly or yearly for up to 2 years.
    
  