
    
      Setting: A multi-center study including the following teaching hospitals:

      National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei E-Da
      Hospital, Kaohsiung Buddhist Tzu-Chi General Hospital, Taipei En Chu Kong Hospital, Taipei
      Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, Taipei

      Study design: RCT, single blinded

      Study subjects:

      Inclusion criteria: Subjects who receives colonoscopy for screening or for clinical purpose
      Exclusion criteria: Subjects with polyposis, ileus, active GI bleeding, IBD, severe
      constipation, renal insufficiency, obesity with BMI≥30

      Grouping: subjects will be randomized to the following groups:

        1. Group A: 2000 ml PEG-ELS

        2. Group B: 1500ml PEG-ELS with CLRD Randomization process: Random block sheet

      Measurements:

        1. Subjects who obey protocol or violate/withdraw protocol will be all recorded.

        2. Parameters concerning patient compliance

        3. Number of detected adenoma and their topographical distribution

        4. Time required for A. Cecal intubation B. Overall procedure time

        5. Colon cleansing effect evaluation

      The degree of cleansing will be recorded individually for each bowel segment (rectum, sigmoid
      colon, descending colon, transverse colon, and ascending colon). Each segment will be rated
      using a 5-point scale: 4, very good-colon empty and clean; 3, good-presence of clear liquid
      in the gut; 2, moderate-presence of brown liquid or small amounts of semisolid residual
      stool, fully removable by suction or displaceable, thus allowing a complete visualization of
      the underlying mucosa; 1, bad-presence of semisolid stool, only partially removable with a
      risk of incomplete underlying mucosal visualization; and 0, very bad-presence of semisolid or
      solid stool, colonoscopy incomplete or has to be stopped. The overall quality of colonic
      cleansing will be based on the assessment of the individual segments using a scale of A, all
      segments clean (i.e., scores of 3 or 4 in all segments); B, residual brown liquid or
      suctionable semisolid stool (i.e., a score of 2) in at least one segment; C, partially
      removable stool preventing complete visualization of mucosa (i.e., a score of 1) in at least
      one segment; or D, at least one segment can not be examined due to the presence of solid
      stool (i.e., a score of 0). A grade of either A or B was defined, a priori, as successful
      colon cleansing.

      Sample size estimation:

      Assuming 80% power and significance level at 0.05, totally at least 112 cases will be
      required for each group (assuming 90% cases in 2000 ml achieving good or excellent
      preparation and 76% of 1500mL plus low-residue diet achieving the same cleansing effect).
    
  