
    
      PSC is, by definition, a metastatic stage of malignancy. Ovarian cancer, and clinically
      identical entities (fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancer) are most commonly found to
      spread as a PSC. These diseases seldom spread outside of the peritoneal cavity even after
      multiple recurrences. Therefore, clinical experience with IPHC is nearly all from ovarian
      (and related) cancers.

      Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death from a gynecologic malignancy in the United
      States. There are approximately 26,000 new cases and 14,500 deaths annually. Primary
      peritoneal and fallopian tube carcinomas are significantly less frequent than ovarian cancer,
      but outcomes and treatments are identical. The recommended initial treatment for these
      diseases is to perform a staging operation with aggressive debulking of tumor. These patients
      then receive intravenous, or intraperitoneal, taxane and platinum-based chemotherapy to treat
      the residual disease. This treatment yields overall median survivals of approximately 37
      months in patients that were suboptimally debulked (residual tumor, >1.0 cm in diameter) and
      49 months in those with optimally debulked disease (residual tumor, 1.0 cm in diameter).
      Overall, approximately 75% of those with Stage II-IV ovarian cancer will respond to their
      initial adjuvant chemotherapy and 50% are clinically without evidence of disease at the
      completion of their adjuvant chemotherapy cycles. However, 50% of these patients would have
      persistent disease identified at the time of a second look laparotomy. Of those with a
      negative second look laparotomy, 50% will experience a recurrence of their disease. Second
      Look Laparotomy is a controversial choice for patients who have no evidence of disease by
      non-invasive means after their primary treatment. It appears that some patients may benefit
      in Progression Free Survival (PFS) when complete cytoreduction of residual disease is
      possible, but no randomized trial exists to prove 5 year survival benefit. Patients that
      recur after their initial adjuvant chemotherapy will generally die from their disease, as
      salvage therapy has not been very effective. At the present time, the initial adjuvant
      regimen consists of a platinum and paclitaxel-based regimen as the standard therapy for these
      patients. Cisplatin was originally used for the intravenous regimens and continues to be used
      for intraperitoneal (IP) therapy. In fact, the GOG has now made IP cisplatin a part of the
      standard adjuvant regimen for optimally debulked ovarian cancer patients. This shift was
      based on the analysis of three randomized trials that support the IP cisplatin route.
      Patients in this Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) trial underwent optimal cytoreductive
      surgery and were randomly assigned to a control group receiving intravenous paclitaxel and
      intravenous cisplatin or to an experimental group receiving intravenous paclitaxel on day 1,
      intraperitoneal cisplatin on day 2, and intraperitoneal paclitaxel on day 8. At a median
      follow-up of 50 months, there was a statistically significant prolongation of median
      progression-free survival and overall survival in the intraperitoneal treatment group (a
      benefit of 5.5 and 15.9 months, respectively). This represented a 25 percent reduction in the
      risk of death. This 15.9-month improvement in median overall survival is one of the longest
      survival benefits ever observed for a new therapy in gynecologic oncology.

      Uterine disease may be divided into cancer of the cervix, and cancer of the corpus, which
      behave quite differently, even when compared by similar histology subtype.

      Corpus epithelial cancer is a common Gynecologic malignancy, with 41,200 projected 2006 cases
      resulting in an estimated 3,750 deaths. This is by far more prevalent than ovarian-related
      cancers, and usually quite curable at early stage. Approximately 10-15% of cases, however,
      are found outside of the uterus (Stage III or IV) at presentation. These cases have a poor
      outcome, with only 30% of Stage III patients (disease spread to regional lymph nodes,
      peritioneal fluid, or pelvis) and less than 5% of Stage IV (spread to abdominal cavity)
      surviving 5 years. Recurrent disease occurs in approximately 29% of Stage I patients Patients
      with recurrence ultimately die of disease, and often are treated medically with a survival of
      13-15 months. However, recent retrospective studies have shown that patients with recurrent
      disease can reasonably be offered surgery, with better outcomes from complete cytoreduction.
      Median survival times are range from 35 to 43.0 months, for those with small or no residual
      tumor, compared to 10-13.5 months for those patients with gross residual disease. Sarcomas of
      the uterus are rare, representing only 2-5% of all corpus cancers. These are staged and
      treated much like high-grade epithelial cancer, but these patients have poorer survivals when
      compared to similar stage for common histologic subtypes. Early stage patients survive to
      five years less than 50% of the time. Those with more advanced disease has a 0-20% five-year
      survival (median survival 4-26 months). Studies on these diseases have been subjected to low
      numbers, due to the rarity of disease, and few conclusions can be drawn. However, surgical
      debulking is thought to be probably beneficial.

      Cervical cancers are expected to account for 9,710 cases with 3,700 deaths in 2006. The
      disease is often discovered at early stage, confined to the cervix (Stage I) and is often
      curable. Cure rates in these patients are directly related to cervical disease volume, with
      survivals ranging from 71-90%. However, between 14.4-25.6% of patients with early disease
      will recur after initial radiation or surgical therapy, within 3 years. Recurrent disease is
      usually in the pelvis, and treatable fairly successfully with surgical exenteration.
      Extrapelvic spread of disease is only confined to the peritoneal cavity in 8% of cases, but
      treatment of these patients is currently considered futile.

      OBJECTIVES

      To determine Overall Survival for surgical debulking and intra-operative Intraperitoneal
      Hyperthermic Chemotherapy (IPHC) in patients with the following malignancies:

      Gynecologic cancers (ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube, and uterine/cervical
      cancers). Mesotheliomas. GI cancers (Gallbladder, liver, small intestine, pancreas, stomach,
      colon, appendix).

      To determine the number of Grade III and Grade IV CTCAE v4.03 toxicities and complications of
      this treatment regimen.

      To measure treatment related QOL changes after IPHC.
    
  