
    
      The overall Specific Aim of this proposal is to determine the effect of opioid taper on pain
      sensitivity in patients with chronic pain. Specifically, in a well-characterized sample of
      men and women with chronic neuropathic pain and receiving high-dose opioid therapy (>100mg
      morphine equivalents/day [MED]), experimental pain responses will be serially described over
      the course of an individualized opioid taper to a safer dose of 90mg MED for up to 12 months.
      Changes will be inspected within-subject over time, and pain perception will be measured with
      two valid and reliable experimental pain induction techniques commonly used to measure OIH
      (cold-pressor, quantitative sensory testing); in addition, related functional improvements
      and subject-level predictors of response will be described.

      Hypothesis 1. Subjects undergoing opioid taper will have improved pain responses over time
      compared to within-subject baseline as measured by cold-pressor and quantitative sensory pain
      testing.

      Hypothesis 2. Improvements in experimental pain responses will be positively related to
      improved functional outcomes compared to within-subject baseline as measured by the PROMIS
      physical, mental and social health measures.

      Hypothesis 3. Degree of improvement in experimental pain responses related to opioid taper
      will be predicted by demographic, pain, and opioid use history characteristics of the
      subject.

      Data showing that pain perception improves as opioids are withdrawn would provide an
      evidence-based, mechanistic rationale for opioid taper in patients with chronic pain and have
      the potential to support a sea-change in opioid prescription practices. In that ongoing
      opioid therapy brings with it significant health risks for the patient and the community, it
      is critical that empirical evidence of its efficacy be demonstrated to balance the benefits
      with the risks of adverse events, potential misuse and abuse, and patient safety.
    
  