
    
      Title: Effects of e-cigarettes (ECIGs) on pulmonary inflammation and behavior in HIV infected
      smokers

      Purpose of the Study: Even though smoking is the leading cause of preventable disease and
      deaths in the U.S., millions of Americans continue to smoke cigarettes, including 16% of
      persons in the general population and 40-70% of all HIV-infected patients. In contrast to the
      relatively known adverse effects of combustible cigarettes, the rapid emergence of
      e-cigarettes have raised numerous questions regarding their health effects which may be
      amplified in vulnerable populations and those already immunocompromised such as HIV-infected
      patients. The goal of the proposed research is to gain an understanding of the cellular and
      inflammatory mechanisms that occur in the lung of HIV-infected smokers who transition from
      conventional tobacco cigarettes to e-cigarettes and to characterize their behavioral and
      neurocognitive effects. These efforts will provide first in kind data on the effects of ECIGs
      in this study population and provide valuable data to develop needed regulatory policies.

      Background & Significance: While rates of cigarette smoking are gradually decreasing in the
      US, the burden of tobacco abuse among people living with HIV remains undisputedly high with
      prevalence estimates two to three times higher than the general population (42.4% vs. 16%).
      Although ECIGs likely contain significantly fewer numbers of toxicants compared to
      combustible cigarettes, it is not yet clear whether ECIG are less harmful than their
      traditional tobacco counterparts and what, if any, effects they have on behavior and
      neurocognitive functioning. The biological effects of ECIG on lung health have not yet been
      sufficiently characterized due the relatively nascent nature of the field. While combustible
      tobacco use induces oxidant stress in the airways of healthy smokers, little work to date has
      established the effect of ECIG use on oxidant stress in human airways. Transitioning the
      smoker from combustible tobacco to ECIG may decrease lung oxidative stress, improve lung
      function and decrease withdrawal symptoms and deficits in neurocognition commonly seen with
      tobacco withdrawal.

      Design & Procedures: 15 HIV-infected adults will be recruited from the Duke Infectious
      Diseases Clinic. In addition, 5 HIV-negative adults will be recruited from the community
      through flyers. For this pilot study, 15 willing subjects will receive ECIGs and 5 control
      subjects will continue to smoke their chosen usual brand of combustible cigarettes (UB). Each
      group will receive either ECIG or UB for a total of 4 weeks and undergo pulmonary and
      behavioral assessments during this period. In order to examine pulmonary and behavioral
      effects of ECIG in the absence of combustible cigarette use, a mobile contingency management
      (mCM) procedure will be used to provide monetary reinforcement for biochemically verified
      discontinuation of the use of combustible cigarettes. Participants in the UB group will also
      undergo mCM procedures, but contingencies will differ. After 4 weeks, the ECIG group will be
      allowed to transition back to their chosen combustible cigarette product for an additional 2
      weeks with additional pulmonary and behavioral assessments. All subjects will undergo three
      respiratory assessments in the Duke Clinical Research Unit (DCRU). The first respiratory
      assessment will occur at study arm assignment (V1) to establish baseline measures of lung
      function, oxidative stress, and systemic inflammation. Pulmonary assessments will be repeated
      again 4 weeks after transition to ECIG or continued UB use (V4). A final respiratory
      assessment (V5) will occur 2 weeks after stopping ECIG or after 6 weeks of continued UB use
      to measure changes relative to baseline lung function, oxidative stress, and inflammation.
      Neuro-cognitive and behavioral visits will take place in Duke South or at the Center for
      Addiction Science and Technology (CfAST) and occur at Visit 2 (mCM transition), and
      respiratory visits (V4 & V5) as well as 2 weeks after ECIG transition/ continued UB use (V3)
    
  