
    
      Design:

      The project will be conducted as an observational prospective cohort study. Patients
      hospitalized in the period from the 15th September 2016 to the 1th September 2017 which meet
      the criteria are included

      Inclusion Criteria:

      Patients 75 Years and older admitted to Geriatric ward at Aarhus University Hospital.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Patients who upon admission are dying assessed by a specialist in geriatrics, Patients with
      stroke where aphasia is present, Patients with severe dementia without language, Patients who
      are inability to understand or speak Danish.

      Data collection:

      All patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be examined for state of delirium by using
      the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM).

      The primary outcome is delirium, diagnosed with positive CAM, which is measured morning and
      evening every day of the week. Duration of delirium is defined by 1 or more consecutive
      positive CAM scores, and ends if there have been three consecutive negative CAM scores.
      During hospitalization, it is registered if the patient is staying in a single or a multi-bed
      room.

      Additionally, it is registered, if the old patient has infections, anemia, hypo-natremia,
      constipation and urinary retention. In the event of delirium, the consumption of psychiatric
      drugs and changes in drug administration, need for fixed guard and fall episodes are
      recorded. In the event of delirium, the consumption of psychiatric drugs and changes in drug
      administration, need for fixed guard and fall episodes are recorded. Length of hospital stay
      is calculated and it is recorded if the patients are discharge for home, nursing homes or
      sheltered housing facilities. Follow-up is 30 days after discharge. Traumatic fall is
      registered in Emergency Department, housing change, re-hospitalization and death is recorded.

      Primary outcome is collected prospectively and secondary outcome is collected retrospectively
      from the electronic patient journal.

      Settings: The daily assessment of delirium is part of the regular procedure in the Geriatric
      Department.

      Halfway through the data collection period, The department of Geriatric moves from old
      hospital buildings to newly built hospital. At the old hospital there are 2.5% single rooms
      and at the new 100% single rooms.

      Patients are included using civil registration number. They may be hospitalized once at both
      at the old and the new, but they can not be included twice in the same type of hospital.

      Sample size: The power calculation is based on an observation study by Caruso et al.
      Incidence of delirium in single and multi-beds rooms in intensive patients (mean age 59
      years) is compared. The incidence of delirium in single-bed rooms is 6.8% versus 15.1% in
      multi-bed rooms. With a power of 90% and a significance level of 5%, we need 320 patients in
      each group (N = 640).

      Time frame: On average there are admitted 75 older patients pr. months. We expect that 10%
      are re-hospitalized. When calculating vacation and re-hospitalization, the data collection
      period is expected to last 12 months.
    
  