
    
      The primary objective of this randomized-withdrawal (randomized means study medication
      assigned to patients by chance and withdrawal means to stop using), multicenter, double-blind
      (neither patient nor investigator knows the study medication), placebo-controlled, Phase 3
      study is to determine the effectiveness and safety of orally administrated Tapentadol
      (CG5503) extended release (ER) (base) at doses of 100-250 mg twice daily in patients with
      moderate to severe pain from diabetic peripheral neuropathy. The study is being conducted for
      registration and approval of CG5503 in the US and outside US. The trial will consist of two
      phases: Phase I is open-label and Phase 2 is double- blind. In the Open-Label Phase 1 there
      will be four periods: screening (to assess eligibility), washout (dependent on the pain
      medication the patient was previously taking), pain intensity perctoris evaluation (over a 3
      day period), and open-label titration (study drug will be titrated to an optimal dose
      starting with 50 mg twice a day and adjusted to an optimal dose for a period of 3 weeks).
      Patients with at least a 1-point reduction in the average pain intensity score at the end of
      the open-label titration period, as compared with pre-titration will be eligible for
      randomization in the double-blind phase. In the double-blind Phase 2, there will be two
      periods: double-blind maintenance period (take drug for 12 weeks), and follow-up (a visit
      within 4 days of the intake of the last dose of study drug and a follow-up call approximately
      10-14 days after the intake of the last dose of the study drug). The patient will maintain
      the dose level achieved at the end of the Phase 1 during the double-blind treatment phase.
      The study hypothesis is that the study drug will be different from placebo in the change in
      pain intensity. Titrate Tapentadol (CG5503) extended release (ER) 50 mg to patient's optimal
      dose ranging between 100mg and 250mg twice a day; Placebo (no active ingredients). All doses
      of trial treatment will be taken orally with or without food, for a maximum timeframe of 15
      weeks.
    
  