
    
      As more HIV-infected adolescents are identified and linked into care, the dyad of medication
      and medication adherence continues to be an issue for both the provider and the patients.
      Thus, developing a strategy to assess adherence and barriers to adherence in this population
      is integral so that interventions can be targeted towards adolescents' specific needs. Our
      operating premise is that the issue of drug adherence is multi-factorial and that
      interventions that combine a variety of modalities may be preferred. However, before such
      interventions can be developed, we must first develop a tool that can be used to assess
      medication adherence and to identify barriers to medication adherence in this population.

      This is a cross-sectional survey designed to assess the most prevalent combination of
      barriers to HIV medication adherence in adolescents. Specific barriers focused on in this
      study include mental health disorders, substance abuse, and cognitive-behavioral and
      structural barriers. In this Phase II study, the Adherence Staging Algorithm and the
      Participant Assessment Tool, pilot tested and modified based on findings from Phase I of the
      study, will be used to determine the prevalence of the specific barriers to adherence among
      HIV-infected youth requiring antiretroviral medication and the most common clusters of
      specific barriers. A cognitive-behavioral barriers schema for classifying HIV medication
      adherence in adolescents will be developed and validated.

      The study consists of a one-time visit with a face-to-face interview to complete two
      questionnaires: the Adherence Staging Algorithm to classify the subject's adherence to
      his/her prescribed medications, and the Participant Assessment Tool to assess the prevalence
      of barriers to adherence that the subjects may have experienced. The interview takes no more
      than 30 minutes. In addition, the patient's medical record will be reviewed for HIV-related
      clinical data such as viral load, CD4, history of medications prescribed, and barriers the
      patient may have experienced such as mental health or substance abuse problems.
    
  