
    
      Smoking in pregnancy is expensive; in the UK in 2010 the annual smoking-attributable maternal
      and infant health care costs were estimated at up to £87.5 million. In high income countries
      13% to 25% of pregnant women smoke and rates are increasing in developing ones. In the UK in
      2010 26% of pregnant women smoked with highest rates seen amongst younger, socially
      disadvantaged women.

      However, pregnancy is the life event which most motivates smoking cessation attempts and 50+%
      of pregnant smokers try stopping, hence smoking cessation support offered in pregnancy is
      likely to be especially beneficial. Regrettably, in pregnancy, there is only strong efficacy
      evidence for using either face-to-face or 'self-help' stop smoking support. Although nicotine
      replacement therapy (NRT) is widely-used by UK pregnant smokers this has at best, borderline
      efficacy.

      Self-help support (SHS) almost doubles the likelihood of smoking cessation in late pregnancy.
      However SHS programmes which help pregnant smokers to quit were all developed before
      easily-accessible technologies became widely available.

      Text message SHS smoking cessation programmes are highly-acceptable; those trialled with
      non-pregnant smokers in the US and UK have demonstrated efficacy. Unfortunately, neither
      programme is appropriate in pregnancy as they make no mention of pregnancy which for most
      pregnant smokers is the very reason they try quitting; consequently many pregnant smokers
      would likely find these programmes' advice irrelevant and ignore it.

      Funded by CRUK to remedy the lack of acceptable self-help cessation support for pregnant
      smokers, we developed MiQuit, a text-message, smoking cessation SHS programme for pregnant
      smokers. MiQuit advice is relevant to pregnancy as it is highly-tailored to gestation. We
      evaluated MiQuit in two RCTs. The first CRUK-funded trial (n=207) demonstrated acceptability.
      Subsequently, with NIHR funding we refined MiQuit and tested this in a second RCT which
      demonstrated the feasibility of recruiting from UK National Health Service (NHS) settings to
      a multi-centre RCT. Again estimated efficacy was encouraging; in MiQuit and control groups,
      prolonged abstinence from smoking, validated in late pregnancy was 5.4% and 2.0%
      respectively.

      To efficiently determine whether or not MiQuit works for smoking cessation, we are conducting
      a third RCT with an almost identical design. The efficacy of the MiQuit system will be
      assessed by combining the findings, using Trial Sequential Analysis methods, from this trial
      with the findings from the previous two MiQuit trials. Without requiring an expensive, large
      RCT this study will tell whether or not MiQuit is efficacious for smoking cessation in
      pregnancy.
    
  