
    
      Background: VA has demonstrated national leadership by implementing electronic clinical
      reminders and establishing performance measures for both screening and brief intervention for
      unhealthy alcohol use. Nationally, about 93% of Veterans are screened annually. However, the
      percentage of brief interventions delivered when needed, and the quality and effectiveness of
      those interventions, are uncertain. A patient centered computer-based intervention can help
      to close the performance gap by delivering a tailored intervention with excellent quality and
      fidelity. Relational Agents are on-screen characters that speak to the patient and establish
      a "relationship" with them.

      They have been used to improve several health behaviors including diet and exercise, and can
      overcome communication barriers related to low levels of computer literacy. The Relational
      Agent can be placed on a desktop or tablet computer with a touch screen, on which patients
      indicate their responses. Using Motivational Interviewing and behavior change principles, the
      Relational Agent guides patients to consider change. Use of such an "eHealth" tool offloads a
      time-intensive task from the clinician while providing the patient, who may have limited
      computer skills, a non-threatening vehicle for "discussing" a stigmatized topic such as risky
      alcohol use. Relational Agents have proven more effective than web-based interventions in
      promoting health-related behavior changes in some studies. Pilot studies at VA Boston
      demonstrate that Veterans will engage with Relational Agents and view them favorably. To
      date, there have been no VA trials of Relational Agents.

      Aims:

        -  1) Tailor the Relational Agent Intervention to the Veteran population

        -  2) Conduct a randomized controlled trial of Treatment as Usual plus the Relational Agent
           versus Treatment as Usual for unhealthy alcohol use

        -  3) Examine in-depth Veterans' experience with the Relational Agent Intervention.

      Methods: To achieve Aim 1, the investigators will use standard software development
      techniques, including cognitive interviewing and usability testing, to tailor the Relational
      Agent Intervention to the Veteran population. Once the Relational Agent is refined, the
      investigators will conduct a two-arm RCT (Aim 2) in the VA Boston Healthcare System. The
      investigators will randomize Veterans in primary care to Treatment as Usual plus the
      Relational Agent versus Treatment as Usual, using a stratified randomization scheme to ensure
      equal numbers of Veterans with unhealthy alcohol use (risky and hazardous drinking) and
      Veterans with alcohol use disorders (a more severe classification) in each group. Working
      closely with primary care staff, who routinely screen Veterans for risky alcohol use, the
      investigators will identify Veterans who screen positive and ask them to participate in the
      study. The investigators will recruit 180 Veterans over 15 months, with a goal of completing
      the study with 126 to 144 participants. Veterans allocated to the Relational Agent
      Intervention arm will interact with the Relational Agent at the time of the primary care
      visit and will be scheduled for a one-month follow-up visit for a second interaction with the
      Relational Agent.

      The Relational Agent will provide personal feedback for the Veteran and the clinician, and
      will flag Veterans who meet criteria for referral to treatment. Alcohol use and related
      behaviors will be assessed by in-person survey at baseline and by telephone survey at a
      3-month follow-up. Primary outcome measures will be quantity and frequency of alcohol use at
      the 3-month follow-up, with rates of brief intervention, referral to treatment, and
      satisfaction as secondary outcomes. Subgroup analyses will allow for examining separately the
      effects of the Relational Agent on unhealthy alcohol use and on Veterans with alcohol abuse
      or dependence.

      Following the RCT, the investigators will conduct a formative evaluation (Aim 3), with
      in-depth interviews, to characterize the elements of the Intervention that emerge as most
      effective and those that seem extraneous or even counter-productive.
    
  