
    
      Osteoporosis and osteoarthritis (OA) both are very common in elderly population,it is
      particular important for China with a huge aging population in the coming years.Bone mineral
      density measured by quantitative computed tomography (QCT) or dual energy X-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA) is the surrogate for bone health status and diagnosis of osteoporosis
      and OA. In this study we utilize the large-scale population based epidemiology study (PURE)
      population,spine and hip QCT and/or DXA will be obtained for the subject to investigate the
      prevalence of osteoporosis and osteoarthritis in elderly Chinese population. We also study
      the relation between bone mineral density with osteoporotic fracture and OA More than 3000
      subjects selected from the PURE study participants in Beijing and other centers in China will
      be recruited to this study. More precisely, the subjects are consisted of the females over 55
      years and males over 60 years old, along with the 20% randomly selected PURE participants for
      blood sampling.

      Beijing ji shui tan hospital will be the coordinate center for the whole study, Beijing shi
      jing shan hospital, Beijing shun yi traditional medicine hospital and Taiyuan central
      hospital of shanxi will participate, other centers may be added late.

      Bone mineral density of spine and hip will be measured with QCT and/or DXA. Quantitative
      computed tomography QCT pro (Mindways software, inc. USA) will be used for all QCT
      measurement, the CT scanner will be the clinical CT scanner of the local participated center.

      Quality control and monitoring will be conducted by Beijing ji shui tan hospital, as well as
      the centralised image interpretation.

      Therefore, this study is designed to provide the current and reliable prevalence of
      osteoporotic fracture, osteoporosis, OA in elderly Chinese population using QCT and/or DXA.
      The performance of QCT and DXA in the diagnosis of osteoporosis , as well as the association
      of body composition with osteoporosis will be assessed.
    
  