
    
      This study will lay the necessary groundwork for future comprehensive research to examine the
      utility of the neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) as a potential new medication for the treatment of
      Alcohol use disorder (AUD). OT modulates a number of key systems involved in addiction
      processes, including dopamine (DA) mesolimbic reward circuitry, and
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) stress
      systems, and has low abuse liability. Our overarching hypothesis is that OT will attenuate
      several measures thought to drive compulsive alcohol drinking and relapse. Specifically,
      investigators will examine whether OT decreases acute stress responses, alleviates alcohol
      withdrawal symptoms, reduces craving and motivation to drink, and decreases alcohol
      self-administration. Since interactions with alcohol are an important focus of our study,
      investigators will enroll non-treatment seeking heavy drinkers with AUD in a double blind,
      placebo controlled inpatient protocol. Subjects will be randomized to receive intranasal OT
      (40 IU/dose) or placebo 3 times daily. Participants will complete alcohol detoxification;
      investigators will measure alcohol withdrawal symptoms, craving, and 24-hr urinary free CORT.
      Participants will then complete 3 laboratory procedures in fixed order. The Trier Social
      Stress Test (TSST) which includes public speaking and performance of mental arithmetic will
      be used to examine subjective and physiological stress responses. An alcohol motivated
      responding (AMR) procedure will be used to examine subjects' responding to earn either drinks
      or money. A cumulative alcohol-dosing (CAD) procedure will be used to examine physiological
      and subjective responses across several blood alcohol levels. cortisol (CORT) levels will
      also be assessed. This study will provide new information on OT efficacy across a range of
      different measures predictive of alcohol use and misuse, and, if OT shows efficacy, help
      clarify the mechanism of OT action.
    
  