
    
      Alternative therapies and herbal remedies are increasingly recognized as having therapeutic
      value, and as many as 42% adults use some form of complementary and alternative medicine
      (CAM). The prevalence of CAM use among adolescents is not known. Questions remain about the
      safety and efficacy of some CAM therapies, and how to best facilitate communication about
      alternative medicine between patients and clinicians. Research with adults shows that most do
      not reveal their use of alternative therapies to their providers. Adolescence is a time of
      experimentation and the beginning of a shift from depending upon parents to taking
      responsibility for one's own care. Thus, the health practices begun in adolescence have an
      impact into adulthood. However, none of the current guidelines for the provision of care to
      adolescents advise asking about complementary or alternative medicine use. Finally,
      adolescents are exposed to increasing coverage of CAM in the media, and on the internet. The
      specific aims of this study are to: 1) determine the prevalence of complementary and
      alternative medicine use among a representative sample of adolescents, 2) describe the range
      of therapies adolescents use, and where they are procured, 3) describe adolescent and
      clinician factors that are associated with communication between adolescents and their
      providers about complementary and alternative medicine, and 4) describe adolescents' exposure
      to information about CAM from sources such as parents, providers, and the media, and how this
      impacts CAM use. We propose a cross sectional random digit dial telephone survey of 1200
      adolescents in Monroe County, NY. Our findings will allow us to understand how adolescents
      use alternative medicine. Additionally, since alternative therapies can have potentially
      serious side-effects or drug interactions, insight into how and when alternative medicine use
      is disclosed may help clinicians provide better care to adolescents.
    
  