
    
      Purpose:TAP is the application of local anesthetic agents to block the anterior neck of the
      thoracic intercostal (T7-T12) and first lumbar (L1) nerves in the anatomic neurofascial gap
      between the internal oblique and transversus abdominis muscle located in the anterolateral
      region of the abdomen. It was first described by Rafi in 2001. Then in 2007 Hebbart et al.
      described that using USG, TAP block could be implemented more effectively and safely. With QL
      block, a local anesthetic agent is applied to the posterior layer of the thoracolumbar fascia
      and similar nerve blockage is achieved. The technique was first described by Blanco in 2007.
      TAP block and QL block may be a good method for postoperative pain control. We aimed to
      compare the efficacy of TAP block and QL block to analgesic consumption after varicocelectomy
      operations, analgesic side effects and analgesia quality and to compare these two block
      efficacy.

      Material & Method:75 patients in the ASA I-II risk group, aged 18-45 years, who will undergo
      elective varicocelectomy surgery, will be randomized using the cohort procedure. The patient
      will be informed about the study and will be included in the study after the patient is
      approved with the approval form. The three groups will be divided into TAP Group (Group T) n
      = 25, QL Group (Group Q) n = 25, Control Group (Group K) n = 25. A total of 75 patients were
      planned to receive α = 0,05 at the β: 0.20 level and 0.80 at the power level and n = 25 for
      each group. Reference work including VAS scores and I-TAP method was taken into consideration
      when the sample size of the study was determined. The normal distribution of data in the
      statistical evaluation of the study will be examined by the Shapiro-Wilk test. One-way ANOVA
      will be performed for comparison of groups (if the data are normally distributed). Multiple
      comparisons Tukey test, Dunnett test Tamhane T2 test will be applied. (Kruskal-Wallis H test
      will be applied in cases where it does not normally disperse.) Multiple comparison will be
      performed with the Dunn-Sidak test. Statistical significance is accepted as p <0.05, data
      will be examined in the IBMSPSS program. All three patients will be operated on with spinal
      anesthesia. Patients with coagulopathy who are contraindicated for spinal anesthesia, known
      allergies to the drugs to be used, infected and non-voluntary patients to be excluded from
      the study. At the end of the disease operation in Group T, after the necessary antiseptic
      conditions are established in the supine position, the USG probe midpoint (within the petit
      triangle). After the abdominal muscle layers are seen, the facial muscle sensation is taken
      when the needle-like muscular layers and facial muscles pass, and the needle is controlled
      with USG. After receiving the second click feeling (passage of the internalocutaneous
      fascia), the needle-like localization will be determined by applying a test dose of 0.5-1 ml.
      After localization is confirmed, frequent aspiration and local anesthetic agent will be given
      to the neurophysiologic plan and TAP block will be applied. To apply the lateral QL block to
      the patient in Group Q, a low frequency convex probe is inserted into the patient while the
      patient is in the supine position. Quadratus lumborum block 1 is injected with 20 mL of local
      anesthetic on the lateral side of the QL muscle in the area where the transversus abdominis
      muscle contacts the transversal fascia at the level that enters the aponeurope. Local
      analgesics will not be administered with Group III disease needle. When the patient is
      removed to the postoperative care unit, an iv patient-controlled analgesia device will be
      applied. Patients in all three groups will be assessed with a resting and cough VAS (visual
      analog scale) at postoperative 2,4,6,12,18 and 24 hours (pain intensity: 0 no pain and 10:
      the most severe pain I have ever heard) and values will be recorded. When the patient has a
      pain, an analgesic agent will be given according to the patient-controlled analgesia
      protocol. The amount of analgesic agent consumed by the patients when the first analgesic
      agent is needed and 24 hours will be recorded. Post-operative QUIPS: Quality Improvement in
      Postoperative Pain Management questionnaire will be applied, side effects such as
      nausea-vomiting, drowsiness will be noted. In addition, patient satisfaction will be assessed
      with these methods as bad, medium, good, and very good.
    
  