
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether chronic GM-CSF administration during and after cytotoxic chemotherapy
      with paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation can induce a longer remission
      than experienced in the most recent platinum-containing regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the extent to which chronic GM-CSF administration can increase the number of
      activated monocytes in patients with advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer.

      II. To determine the extent to which chronic GM-CSF administration can increase the number
      and activation state of peripheral circulating antigen presenting cells, such as dendritic
      cells and activated monocytes, in patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer.

      III. To determine the extent to which chronic GM-CSF administration can increase the number
      and functional status of T cells that recognize tumor specific antigens in patients with
      advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer.

      IV. To determine the extent to which chronic GM-CSF administration can increase the number
      and functional status of antigen specific T cells that recognize foreign pathogens in
      patients with advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive GM-CSF subcutaneously (SC) once daily on days 16-26.
      Patients also receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4-6 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Beginning 14 days after last GM-CSF injection, patients receive GM-CSF
      SC once daily on days 1-15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 6 months and then
      every 3 months thereafter.
    
  