
    
      BACKGROUND

      Since 2000, resuscitation guidelines remain uniform across all cardiac arrest patients,
      focusing on the delivery of chest compressions to a standardized rate and depth and
      algorithmic vasopressor dosing. Although the concept of goal-directed hemodynamic
      optimization as a treatment strategy to improve clinical outcome in critically ill patients
      has been tested since the 1980s, no human study has established that prospectively targeting
      hemodynamics during CPR improves outcomes until now. Nevertheless, individualizing
      resuscitation to the appropriate hemodynamic and ventilatory goals rather than a standard
      Bone-size-fits-all treatment seems a promising new therapeutic strategy that can be applied
      during resuscitation attempts in highly monitored patients.

      The PERSEUS protocol is a new approach to the resuscitation of highly monitored patients with
      cardiac arrest. It has been developed based on our experience and the observation that the
      most important determinant of survival is the optimization of all the available physiological
      parameters and the full exploitation of both the "cardiac pump" and "thoracic pump'.

      Physiological and pathophysiological aspects of cardiac arrest Cardiac arrest interval
      Immediately after the abrupt loss of effective blood flow, the hypotension-induced baroreflex
      withdrawal with the net increase in the vascular resistance maintains an impaired antegrade
      and pulmonary blood flow. The systemic and pulmonary blood flow continue for at least 30-60
      s, until the pressure gradient between the aorta and the right side of the heart, as well as
      between the pulmonary artery and the left atrium, has been completely dissipated, resulting
      in a rapid increase in the volume of the right ventricle and the extrapericardial component
      of the pulmonary veins. When arterial and systemic venous pressures reach equilibrium, the
      mean systemic filling pressure (Pmsf) is approximately 6-12 mmHg. The coronary blood flow
      declines to zero, but CPP remains positive because of the retrograde coronary flow. However,
      this diminishes the removal of norepinephrine from the interstitial spaces, which together
      with the formation of cardiac edema prolongs vasoconstriction and enhances myocardial
      hypoperfusion and hypoxia.

      At the same time, cerebral perfusion decreases while the damage of fatty acids of the
      neuronal cell membrane by reactive oxygen species leads to a progressive increase in membrane
      permeability and severe derangements of intracellular electrolytes, resulting in cell
      swelling and brain edema formation. This, together with venous congestion, increases
      intracranial pressure (ICP) and damages the neuropil and synaptic structures and/or contacts.

      The PERSEUS personalized physiology-guided resuscitation protocol Recognizing cardiac arrest
      in highly monitored areas can be more difficult than in other hospital areas, such as the
      ward. Considering that the vast majority of alarms from sensors are false alarms, cardiac
      arrest should be recognized and confirmed by the combined assessment of the rhythm, the
      arterial blood pressure and waveform, the abrupt decrease of ETCO2, and the loss of carotid
      pulse. Once cardiac arrest is confirmed, CPR should be initiated without delay with
      high-quality chest compressions according to the recent resuscitation guidelines. However,
      the effectiveness of chest compressions is depending on the venous return, which is
      proportional to the pressure gradient between Pmsf and CVP, and particular attention is
      needed by the rescuers to determine Pmsf within the first 5-7.5 s of cardiac arrest and prior
      to the onset of chest compressions. The Pmsf is a quantitative measurement of the patient's
      volume status and represents the tone of venous reservoir, indicating the pre-arrest
      "vasoreactivity" status of the patients. Therefore, optimizing Pmsf during CPR is paramount
      for increasing survival rates.

      During the first cycle of CPR, the resuscitation efforts must maintain a relaxation DAP of ≥
      40 mmHg (calculated at the time of full chest decompression). In patients with a lower DAP,
      administration of epinephrine or vasopressin should be based on the pre-arrest value of Pmsf
      and/or systemic vascular resistance (SVR) and is anticipated to be beneficial in those with
      Pmsf < 6 mmHg and/or SVR < 800 dynes·sec·cm-5, enhancing volume recruitment from the
      unstressed compartment and increasing the stressed volume. In all other patients, the
      vasoreactivity will be maintained for some time provided that intravascular volume and chest
      compressions are sufficient. Therefore, circulatory volume should be increased in patients
      with a pre-arrest CVP < 2 mmHg using a fluid bolus and/or the passive leg-raising maneuver.
      However, it should be noted that rapid and liberal fluid administration during CPR may lead
      to an excessive increase in RAP, aggravating venous return and CPP, especially when
      administered via a jugular or subclavian central venous catheter. At the onset of cardiac
      arrest, ventilatory parameters should be changed to tidal volume 6 ml/kg, respiratory rate 10
      min-1, I:E 1:2, PEEP 0 cm H20, and FiO2 100%. During this cycle, all other treatment efforts
      must follow current recommendations for standard CPR.

      After the onset of the second cycle of CPR, the resuscitation efforts should be continued as
      above while assessing ETCO2. As stated previously, ventilation during CPR by using currently
      recommended chest compression rates may take place entirely below functional residual
      capacity and may not provide adequate blood oxygenation due to small airway closure,
      increasing pulmonary vascular resistance and impairing gas exchange. Therefore, mean airway
      pressure should be maintained 40-45 cmH2O in patients with DAP ≥ 40 mmHg and ETCO2 < 10 mmHg
      to facilitate gas exchange. On the contrary, all patients with DAP > 40 mmHg and ETCO2 > 15
      mmHg should be assessed for hypercapnia, and if present, they should be treated by increasing
      the ventilatory rate by up to 50% (or less if necessary to maintain DAP ≥ 40 mmHg). Also,
      severe acidosis should be treated immediately because it causes vasodilatation which may
      decrease venous return and CPP.

      During the third cycle of CPR, the resuscitation efforts should be continued as above while
      assessing ScvO2, which should be maintained 65-80%. In patients with ScvO2 < 65%, transfusion
      of red blood cells should be initiated when Hb is ≤8 g/dl to improve oxygen delivery. In
      patients with Hb > 8 g/dl, a fluid bolus should be given to improve circulatory flow provided
      that DAP is maintained ≥ 40 mmHg. In patients with DAP ≥ 40 mmHg and a ScvO2 value of > 80%,
      hypothermia should be excluded and treated aggressively if present, the FiO2 should be
      decreased in case of hyperoxemia (PaO2 > 200 mmHg), and a low-dose vasodilator may be
      considered when microcirculatory shunting and loss of hemodynamic coherence between macro-
      and microcirculation can be directly assessed or possible (e.g., DAP ≥ 40 mmHg, Hb > 8 g/dl,
      PaO2 > 200 mmHg, ScvO2 > 80%, and mixed venous oxygen tension ≤ 26 mmHg (if available), with
      or without hyperlactatemia). In patients with normal ScvO2, trend cerebral oxygenation
      monitoring (near-infrared spectroscopy - NIRS) should be used because it focuses more on the
      amount of change from the pre-arrest baseline cerebral oxygenation value. Decreasing FiO2
      until PaO2 is 200 mmHg can be considered when NIRS is > 50% of the prearrest value, while
      HUP-CPR (30°) should be considered in patients with NIRS ≤ 30% of the pre-arrest value and
      signs or known increased intracranial pressure. The resuscitation efforts may be considered
      as adequate in patients who have reached the pre-defined targets and have a NIRS of 30-50% of
      the pre-arrest value, and should be continued by repeating the approach from the beginning.

      AIM

      The PERSEUS resuscitation protocol is a new approach to the resuscitation of highly monitored
      patients with cardiac arrest and may help to titrate chest compressions, ventilation, and
      vasopressor dosing to physiological parameters. The aim of this double-center study is to
      investigate if resuscitation with the PERSEUS protocol can increase survival after cardiac
      arrest with favorable neurological outcome.

      METHODS

      Design This is a prospective observational study designed in accordance with the declaration
      of Helsinki. The study will be register at Clinical Trials.gov and has been approved by the
      Institutional Review Board of the University Hospital of Larisa, under the reference number
      2670/3-2-2020.

      Patient eligibility All intubated and mechanically ventilated adult patients (≥ 18 years of
      age) with a CPR event requiring chest compressions in a highly monitored area [Operating
      Room, Intensive Care Unit (ICU), or Emergency Department] will be eligible for inclusion.
      Each patient will be allocated into two groups; patients in group A will be resuscitated with
      the PERSEUS protocol, while patients in group B will receive standard CPR according to the
      latest European Resuscitation Council guidelines on resuscitation. Random allocation will be
      carried out by a researcher who will not be involved in data collection using the sealed
      envelope technique.

      Data Collection and Monitoring Data analysis will be based on predefined data points on a
      prospective data collection form. The staff will be blinded to measurements until the end of
      the study and all data are analyzed. Clinical monitoring throughout the study will be
      performed to maximize protocol adherence, while an independent Data and Safety Monitoring
      research staff will monitor safety, ethical, and scientific aspects of the study.

      We will use the Utstein-style templates for in-hospital cardiac arrest data. Return of
      spontaneous circulation will be defined for all rhythms as the restoration of a spontaneous
      perfusing rhythm for more than 20 minutes. Survival with a favorable neurological outcome
      will be defined as a cerebral performance category (CPC) score of 1, 2 or no change from
      baseline. The CPC scoring system assesses functional outcomes among survivors of cardiac
      arrest and has been extensively validated and shown to reliably predict functional
      neurological disability.

      Data management The goal of the clinical data management plan is to provide high-quality data
      by adopting standardized procedures to minimize the number of errors and missing data, and
      consequently, to generate an accurate database for analysis. Remote monitoring is performed
      to signal early aberrant patterns, issues with consistency, credibility and other anomalies.
      Any missing and outlier data values will individually revised and completed or corrected
      whenever possible.

      Ethics and dissemination The study will be performed according to national and international
      guidelines. The present research investigation was reviewed by the IRB at the Larisa
      University Hospital and determined to be IRB exempt.

      Competing interests None declared.
    
  