
    
      Opioid use disorder (OUD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among Veterans and a
      high-priority target for quality improvement in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).
      Effective medications for OUD (MOUD) are available but uptake of them has been highly
      variable across VHA. Additionally, VHA has been at the forefront in the U.S. in promoting
      alternative therapies for pain, but these are not consistently available to Veterans in great
      need of them: those with chronic pain and harmful opioid use. VHA, through its Office of
      Mental Health and Suicide Prevention, has made access to MOUD for all Veterans who need it a
      system-wide priority. However, successful implementation of complex care processes that face
      myriad barriers requires intentional, structured, evidence-based implementation efforts
      carried out by expert teams in close partnership with local leadership.

      As such, the overarching goal of this project - the Consortium to Disseminate and Understand
      Implementation of Opioid Use Disorder Treatment (CONDUIT) -- is to unite five inter-related
      VISN/QUERI pilot Partnered Implementation Initiative projects in a concerted effort to
      improve access to MOUD among Veterans with OUD and access to alternative therapies for pain
      in 57 VHA sites spanning six VISNs. CONDUIT will span four critical care settings in the OUD
      continuum of care: Primary Care; Specialty Care; Acute Care (inpatient and Emergency
      Department); and Telehealth. These efforts will be connected by Veteran Engagement,
      Implementation, and Quantitative/Economic Cores that will help CONDUIT teams harmonize on
      metrics, processes and outcomes. There will also be a Strategic Advisory Group composed of
      Operations leaders and Veterans that will help CONDUIT remain maximally aligned with VHA and
      Veteran priorities. CONDUIT will also offer sites the opportunity to implement new
      evidence-based practices (i.e. ones that were not part of initial launch) in the latter half
      of the project period.

      The methods deployed by each of the CONDUIT teams will be similar: expert "external
      facilitation" teams will lead partnered "internal facilitation" teams at local sites in a
      process called "Implementation Facilitation (IF)" - a multi-component suite of tools aimed to
      help the sites effectively adopt evidence-based practices. The five projects piloted and
      systematically modified IF strategies in Phase 1 and now propose to disseminate those
      sharpened strategies on a national scale over the next three years, including two new VISNs
      and dozens of additional sites. In terms of evaluation, CONDUIT will use well-established
      formative evaluation methods to assess the effectiveness of and to drive refinements to the
      IF strategies. Additionally, CONDUIT will use cutting edge quantitative methods to assess the
      impact the work on important clinical targets and to assess the value of the work in terms of
      costs vs. benefits. Throughout the project period, teams will develop and refine products
      such as patient and provider educational materials, prescribing and communication guides, and
      clinic operations manuals. These evaluation and product development efforts will prime
      successful scale-up and dissemination efforts throughout VHA.
    
  