
    
      As important and beneficial as breastfeeding is to infants and mothers, physicians often feel
      lack resources to support breast milk production. Reduced breast milk production (called
      hypogalactia) is the most frequent cause of breastfeeding failure, but no evidenced-based
      standard care in conventional medicine is established to help mothers face the challenge. The
      most frequently used natural galactogogues products including galega and silymarin are not
      FDA approved. Lactation education on general breastfeeding and lactation management may help
      mothers who are experiencing reduced milk supply. Complementary and alternative medicine
      (CAM) including acupuncture has been used to address hypogalactia. However, there remains an
      overall lack of evidence regarding the effectiveness, safety, and acceptability of many CAM
      therapies including acupuncture for hypogalactia. Although several clinical observational
      studies showed that acupuncture was related to the increased prolactin level and mother's
      breast milk production, there are several gaps in those studies. First, most studies were
      done in China and are mainly observational, hence are subject to various biases and do not
      establish a causal relationship. Secondly, most of the studies only reported success rates
      without reporting changes of milk volume or biomarkers. To truly assess the effect of
      acupuncture on breast milk production and relevant hormone changes, a randomized clinical
      trial (RCT) with better measurements is warranted.

      The feasibility of an acupuncture protocol for hypogalactia is supported by the acupuncture
      practice in the Family medicine clinic. The goal of this study is to establish the
      feasibility of a RCT to compare the difference of breast milk production between acupuncture
      and power pumping, a popular lactation practice recommended to mothers who experience
      hypogalactia, using established measurement of breast milk production. Both acupuncture and
      power pumping stimulate the breasts which may lead to the increased secretion of prolactin
      hence increase milk production. Previous study findings and investigators' clinical
      experiences indicate that a short period of acupuncture treatment may increase milk
      production for several weeks. It is hypothesized that acupuncture will have equal or a
      greater impact on milk production and last longer than power pumping. The study special aims
      are:

        1. To assess the feasibility of a RCT studying acupuncture's impact on breast milk
           production. A two-arm RCT will be conducted at one site. Recruitment, enrollment,
           intervention and compliance, safety and adverse events will be documented and evaluated
           to assess this trial design is appropriate for further testing. Study feasibility is
           defined as the successful recruitment and retention of study participants, adherence to
           the intervention, identification of barriers to the intervention, and the rigorous
           collection of outcome data.

        2. To compare the effect difference of breast milk production between acupuncture and power
           pumping. The primary outcome the changes of breast milk production will be measured by
           weighing the grams/volume of milk expressed with an electric breast pump. The secondary
           outcome the changes of plasma prolactin will be measured by immunoassay. Data will be
           collected at baseline, right after interventions and two week after interventions.

      Based on investigators' search in PubMed to present, no RCT studies have been done in the
      U.S. assessing acupuncture and hypogalactia. This study may be the first to provide insights
      on the feasibility. Moreover, based on investigators's clinical observations and reports from
      studies done in China, this study to yield positive findings to help establish evidence of
      acupuncture use for hypogalactia. The preliminary data may also help us apply for grants from
      the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH) or NIH Office of
      Research on Women's Health. More importantly, the evidence will help clinician and mothers
      make informed decisions in terms of choosing the right approach to increase breast milk
      production.
    
  