
    
      A keloid is an unsightly non-malignant tumor comprised of an abnormal proliferation of scar
      tissue that forms at the site of cutaneous injury (e.g. skin trauma such as cuts, abrasions
      and puncture wounds, burns or surgical incisions). It appears as a raised scar and does not
      regress and grows beyond the original margins of the scar. Keloids most commonly develop on
      the earlobes, neck, shoulders, chest, back, upper arms and cheeks. Keloids tends to grow
      slowly and continue to spread for weeks, months or even years. As a keloid grows, it may
      cause significant itching, pain, and tenderness upon touch, reduced mobility and emotional
      distress.

      About 18 million people worldwide are genetically prone to form keloids in response to skin
      trauma, with equal gender distribution and greater susceptibility for darker-skinned
      individuals and those aged 10 to 30 years.

      The greatest obstacle in treating keloids with many available surgical and non-surgical
      methods is that new keloids typically recur at the site of excision due to the treatment
      itself. For example, the recurrence rate using surgical excision alone is 45 to 100 percent.

      Surgical excision followed by radiotherapy is a helpful treatment option for large and more
      difficult-to-treat keloids that cannot otherwise be treated by, or have failed, more
      conservative measures. It is thought that because keloid fibroblasts are sensitive to x-ray
      irradiation, it may prevent the recurrence of keloids by controlling fibroblast
      proliferation, arresting the cell cycle, and inducing premature cellular senescence. When
      surgical keloid excision is followed by Radiation Therapy, recurrence drops dramatically to
      10% or below.

      The SRT-100™ is a United States Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) approved device for
      delivering a precise, calibrated dose of Superficial Radiation Therapy (SRT) to treat keloids
      caused by surgery or injury. This prospective study has been designed to focus on recurrence
      rates and associated treatment variables of the SRT-100™ for the treatment of recurrent
      keloid scars.
    
  