
    
      Methodology Ethical Clearance:The study will be registered at the clinical trials registry of
      the United States National Institutes of Health (NIH), following which ethical approval will
      be obtained from the institutional review board of the Riyadh Colleges of Dentistry and
      Pharmacy Patient Recruitment The sample will comprise of 60 children reporting to the clinics
      of the Riyadh Colleges of Dentistry and Pharmacy determine to have treatment that involve the
      use of local anesthesia.

      Sample Power Calculation Sample power calculation was done using the G Power sample size
      calculator (Universtat Kiel, Kiel, Germany) . Given the split mouth study design proposed a
      high effect size of 0.8 was assumed. The minimum number of individuals for an alpha of 0.05
      and a power of 0,95 was 19 subjects per group. Given the risk of attrition of subjects in the
      study, the total sample size recruited will be 30 per group (n=60)

      The Inclusion Criteria Children in their seventh year of life (age range of 6 to 7 years)
      will be included in the study. All children included in the study would have to classified
      according to the Wright behavior classification as potentially co-operative and rated as per
      the Frankl behavior rating scale as positive (++) Group A and negative (-) Group B . All
      children included must have had no prior experience of dental anesthesia and must have at
      least one tooth requiring restorative procedure on either side of the maxillary arch. The
      classification of each patient will be done separately by two experienced pediatric dentists
      (NG and SCP) and consensus on the classification will be obtained before including the
      patient in the study. Informed consent will be obtained from the parent of all patients who
      agree to participate in the study.

      Exclusion Criteria Patients with a history of hospitalization or surgery, those with chronic
      illness will be excluded from the study. The study will also exclude patients diagnosed with
      neurobehavioral disorders such as autism, ADHD or learning disability. Patients with
      congenital syndromes or intellectual disability will also be excluded from the study.

      Intervention Description

        1. Regular Anesthesia All the subjects received local anesthesia injection in maxillary
           arch as is commonly practiced in dental clinics. Information obtained before assignment
           of intervention or standard care included age, gender, type of injection given alongside
           the vibration device will be recorded beforehand. During the delivery of anesthesia for
           all the groups, anticipated and actual pain will be recorded to show the impact of
           anxiety on the experience of participants. During the entire process, all participants
           will use standard needles with confirmed specification to control for any potential
           confounders

        2. Buzzy® The use of the external cold and a vibrating Device will follow the
           manufacturer's recommendations to ensure that normal clinical scenario is created.
    
  