
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause of disability around the world; it is the most
      common chronic condition in primary care in the UK. By 2030 it is predicted to be the
      greatest cause of disability in the general population. An effective end-stage treatment for
      knee OA is knee-replacement surgery.

      In England and Wales, the number of knee-replacement procedures recorded by the National
      Joint Registry in 2013 was 91,703, which represents an increase of 0.9 % over 2012. The data
      analysis by the National Joint Registry and the Office of National Statistics suggests that,
      by 2030, primary TKAs will increase by 117% from the 2012 level. Subsequently, TKA revision
      surgeries are expected to increase incrementally by 332%.

      Post-TKA, 75-85% of patients report satisfaction with surgery outcomes, while the remaining
      15-25% are dissatisfied. Total knee arthroplasty's success has traditionally been evaluated
      from the surgeon's perspective, e.g. the presence of surgical complications or implant
      survival. This is gradually changing to involve the patient in measuring health outcomes and
      decision-making processes. Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) have evolved to explore
      patient perspectives by monitoring the quality of care in health organizations and conducting
      clinical trial outcomes. National Health Service used PROMs to measures health gain in
      patients undergoing hip replacement, knee replacement, varicose vein and groin hernia surgery
      in England, based on responses to questionnaires before and after surgery.

      This retrospective cohort study will investigate outcomes 1 and 3 years post-TKA, and factors
      that may predict good/poor progression based on previously gathered data, which may minimize
      the effect of prospective data collection bias. The study will explore accurate prediction
      factors of post-TKA satisfaction at Stockport NHS Foundation Trust operates at Stepping Hill
      Hospital which is a busy District General Hospital, with a large orthopaedic department.
      Outcome following knee replacement surgery is closely monitored and matches the best
      performing units in the UK. Potentially, reliable outcome prediction could, however, improve
      patient selection for surgery, as appropriate timing for surgery depends on patient symptoms
      and efficient patient preparation for surgery if it is to be cost-effective. Accurate
      preoperative prediction is crucial to minimize the potential for unrealistic expectations
      which may improve their satisfaction.
    
  