
    
      Type 2 diabetes is one of the most common disorders in general population. The overall
      prevalence of type 2 diabetes among people older than 40 years old in Taiwan is about 10 %.
      Various complications are associated with diabetes and these complications have become an
      important issue in daily clinical practice.

      Neuropathy is one of the most frequent symptomatic complications of diabetes and is
      potentially devastating. Small-fiber neuropathy is a major component of diabetic neuropathies
      and usually causes disabling symptoms like pain and burning. It typically begins at the
      distal limbs and progresses to the proximal part with time. Recent studies have indicated
      that skin innervation is reduced in neurologically symptomatic type 2 diabetic patients and
      the reduction is correlated with the duration of diabetes1. It is not clear whether similar
      changes occur in neurologically asymptomatic type 2 diabetes. Neurovascular disturbance (i.e.
      decreased skin blood flow) was noted in early and clinically silent diabetic patients and it
      might represent the functional and organic abnormalities in small unmyelinated C fibers.
      Along the same line it is reasonable to speculate that there might be changes in the skin
      innervation in the preclinical phase of diabetic neuropathic patients. No previous studies
      have investigated the course of the changes in skin innervation from early or asymptomatic
      stage to symptomatic stage in diabetic patients.

      The relationship of diabetes and the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy had been studied by
      the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Research Group and the Kumamoto study in type 1
      or 2 diabetes respectively. The results showed that intensive control of hyperglycemia could
      prevent or delay the development of diabetic neuropathy. However the neuropathies in the
      studies were assessed by nerve conduction studies. These examinations are insensitive to the
      small fiber degeneration and it is not clear whether small fibers changes during intensive
      diabetic control. There is also lack of direct pathogenic evidence regarding the effects of
      diabetic control on the development of small fiber degeneration.

      Neurotrophins are a gene family of structurally related proteins that is released by target
      tissues of responsive peripheral nerves, binds to specific receptors, and regulates gene
      expression through the actions of second-messenger systems. Each member of the family has its
      selectively tropical effects on peripheral nerves and plays a role in promoting neurite
      outgrowth, inducing morphological differentiation, stimulating expression and release of
      neurotransmitters and promoting nerve regeneration. It is hypothesized that abnormal
      availability of neurotrophins is involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy. Studies
      have showed reduced seral level of neurotrophins in diabetic patients but it is not clear
      whether the impact of this finding on the diabetic neuropathy. There have no studies
      demonstrating if nay correlation between abnormal neurotrophins expression and the
      pathogenesis of small fiber neuropathy in diabetic patients.

      Skin biopsy with quantification of intraepidermal nerve fibers (IENF) is a new pathological
      approach to study small fiber sensory neuropathy. By applying this technique with enzyme
      linked immunosorbent assay, we will clarify the following issues:

        1. Changes in skin innervation of neurologically asymptomatic type 2 diabetic patient.

        2. The influence of diabetic control on the development of small fiber neuropathy.

        3. The effect of neurotrophins on the pathogenesis of small fiber neuropathy.
    
  