
    
      Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with research oversight entities,
      recruitment has been placed on temporary admin hold as of 3/17/2020

      Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are prescribed to approximately 60% of
      Veterans with PTSD treated within the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). However, many
      patients are not responsive to SSRIs. Currently, there is no way to determine whether a
      particular patient will benefit from an SSRI; treatment is primarily accomplished through
      'trial and error' over several weeks or months. The overarching goal of this study is to
      investigate the pre-treatment usefulness of a simple electrophysiological test for predicting
      the likelihood of a favorable response to an SSRI. This study will investigate whether a
      brief pre-treatment auditory event-related potentials procedure [referred to going forward as
      "Loudness Dependence of Auditory Evoked Potentials" (LDAEP)] offers a means for predicting
      treatment response to an SSRI for men and women diagnosed with PTSD.

      This study has four aims: 1) To determine the strength of the relationship between LDAEP and
      clinical response to SSRI treatment. 2) To determine LDAEP cut-off values that would enable
      clinicians to make individualized SSRI treatment recommendations. 3) To assess the
      reliability of LDAEP and the usefulness of change in LDAEP as an objective measure of SSRI
      response. 4) Exploratory: To determine whether the relationship between LDAEP and clinical
      response to sertraline differs between men and women.

      Means to Protect Subjects' Identities:

      To ensure confidentiality, questionnaire and interview data will be stored in locked filing
      cabinets within locked offices. Each participant will have his or her own participant number
      and these numbers will be the only means by which participant information can be identified.
      Electronic data will be stored on a secure private, password-protected drive that can only be
      accessed by members of the study team and labeled only with the participant number. One list
      of names and participant numbers will be kept on a private, password-protected computer
      account on a separate drive from the de-identified data and accessible only to the study
      team.

      ADMINISTRATION OF DRUGS IN RESEARCH NOT FUNDED BY NIH Description Of Identification Of Drug:
      SERTRALINE. Because the goal of this study is to identify pre-treatment predictors of SSRI
      response that ultimately could be used in routine clinical care, the investigators designed
      the study with ecological validity in mind. Specifically, the investigators chose sertraline
      as the study medication because it is: a) the most commonly prescribed SSRI in the US, b) one
      of only two FDA-approved drugs for treating PTSD, and c) one of the two most effective SSRIs
      for major depression, a common comorbidity with PTSD. Dosing will follow clinical practice
      guidelines, i.e., doses will be chosen based on clinical response and tolerability.

      Description Of Administration Of Drug: The investigators are using an approach , which
      represents enhanced clinical care in that participants discuss medication levels, side
      effects, and symptoms with a psychiatrist every two weeks. Study medication and placebo will
      be stored and distributed by VA Boston Pharmacy service.
    
  