
    
      The investigators aim to improve the mental health, family functioning, and well-being of
      Veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through developing and evaluating a
      trauma-focused, couple therapy for PTSD. The investigators will use strategies from
      Integrative Behavioral Couple Therapy (ICBT) to help intimate partners support Veterans
      during exposure therapy for PTSD (Prolonged Exposure; PE). The investigators anticipate this
      approach will increase Veterans' engagement in PE, but also improve relationship functioning,
      family functioning, and social functioning. Family involvement has been highlighted as a
      fertile avenue for improving the outcomes for patients with PTSD, yet families are
      infrequently integrated into evidence-based psychotherapies (EBPs). The investigators' goals
      are highly consistent with RR&D's mission to promote research that leverages family support
      as a pathway to reintegration and optimizes meaningful recovery and functioning.

      Objectives. The investigators will complete stages 1A and 1B of the Stage Model of Treatment
      Development. Specifically, the investigators will: (1) Expand the treatment outline using
      content experts and feedback from key stakeholders (Veterans, intimate partners, providers,
      and VA mental health leadership). (2) Conduct a pilot open trial to assess (a) the
      acceptability of treatment components, structure, and materials, (b) the feasibility of the
      intervention (retention and intervention fidelity), and (c) the study approach (screening,
      recruitment, and assessment process). (3) Explore the preliminary effects of the intervention
      on select outcomes including overall functioning, mental health functioning, social
      functioning, family functioning, and potential mechanisms (social control, subjective norms,
      and the degree to which Veterans rely on their partners for support).

      Methods: To accomplish Aim 1, the investigators will expand the outline for the intervention
      into an initial treatment manual through meetings with content experts and stakeholder
      feedback. Next, the investigators will develop fidelity checklists and revise the treatment
      manual through conducting the intervention with 2-3 couples. To accomplish Aims 2 and 3, the
      investigators will evaluate the intervention in a non-randomized, open trial with 10 Veterans
      diagnosed with PTSD and their intimate partners. Veterans will complete baseline and
      posttreatment structured diagnostic interviews. Both members of the couple will complete
      baseline surveys, posttreatment surveys, and posttreatment qualitative exit interviews. Using
      data obtained from the open trial, the investigators will assess the intervention's
      acceptability, feasibility, mechanisms, and outcomes. Upon completion of this proposal, the
      investigators will be well positioned to apply for Merit funding for a randomized clinical
      trial (Stage 2 of the Stage Model of Treatment Development) of this innovative, exposure
      based, couple therapy.
    
  