
    
      There is evidence that the magnitude of the placebo effect produced by a device is greater
      than that produced by a pill. If this is the case, it has significant ramifications for all
      trials involving devices and for our understanding of the role of the placebo effect in
      randomized controlled trials (RCT). This two phase study 1)investigates the role of the
      placebo effect in RCT's and 2)conducts two trials of treatments for persistent upper
      extremity pain secondary to repetitive strain injury (RSI), including carpel tunnel syndrome.
      In Phase I. 240 patients with RSI are randomly assigned to receive a placebo device (a
      recently validated sham acupuncture device) or a placebo pill (dummy amitriptyline). Our
      primary hypothesis is that patients will respond better to the sham device than the placebo
      pill. A finding that sham acupuncture produces a greater placebo response than a placebo pill
      has important implications for the interpretation of results in trials that compare devices
      to sham devices, devices to pills, and medical management to surgery. Phase II randomly
      assigns patients from the sham acupuncture arm of Phase I to receive either TCA or continue
      to receive the sham version. Patients in the placebo pill arm of Phase I will be randomly
      assigned to receive either AMI or continue receiving the placebo pill. From the
      patients'perspective, the shift in treatment assignment from Phase I to II should not be
      noticeable. Phase II will allow us to test whether the active treatments outperform their
      respective placebos. Both of these treatments have shown promise in small studies, but
      neither has been prospectively studied in a large trial with appropriate controls. Because
      Phase I also functions as a run-in period for Phase II, analysis combining both phases will
      allow us to examine whether a run-in has methodological advantages in a device trial.
      Moreover, combined analyses permit testing whether patients level of response to placebo in
      Phase I affects their response to active treatment Phase II. A positive finding here would
      contribute importantly to our understanding of the role of the placebo in RCTs.
    
  