
    
      Persons with chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) have markedly reduced bone mass and the loss of
      skeletal architectural integrity, which predisposes them to low-impact fractures. Currently,
      there is no practical treatment to reverse the severe bone loss in persons with chronic SCI.
      In the proposed study, a dual pharmacological intervention will be tested to improve bone
      health. Restoration of bone mass below the level of injury would be expected to reduce the
      morbidity associated with fractures and permit safer participation in upright activities.
      Quality of life would be substantially improved because of the ability to engage more
      securely in activities of daily living and to integrate into the community. Despite the
      depressed skeletal activity below the level of lesion in persons with chronic SCI, net bone
      loss occurs because resorption exceeds formation, with a difference between these rates in
      those with SCI being greater than that observed in the able-bodied population. Thus, it would
      be anticipated to be of value in persons with chronic SCI to increase bone turnover with the
      objective to increase bone formation over that of bone resorption. In a preclinical study
      that administered an anti-sclerostin antibody to rats 12 weeks after complete spinal cord
      transection bone, mineral density (BMD) was almost fully restored at the distal femoral
      metaphysis, with improved bone structure, and mechanical strength; in contrast,
      vehicle-treated animals after complete spinal transection had a marked reduction in distal
      femoral metaphysis BMD and a deterioration in bone structure and mechanical strength. When
      used to treat postmenopausal osteoporosis, romosozumab, a human monoclonal anti-sclerostin
      antibody, was more effective to increase bone mineral density (BMD) and to reduce fracture
      than any other anti-resorptive or bone-anabolic agent, and this effect was also evident for
      the appendicular skeleton, which is the site in individuals with chronic SCI of greatest bone
      loss and most frequent fracture. Because of the absence of clinical options available for the
      treatment of osteoporosis in individuals with chronic paralysis, the investigators have
      proposed to test an antagonist of sclerostin, which is a potent bone anabolic agent with
      proven efficacy in treating women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, to improve bone mass and
      reduce fragility fractures.

      Thirty-nine male and female subjects with chronic, motor-complete SCI (>3 post injury,
      American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale A & B) between the ages of 18 and 50
      years old who have aBMD at the distal femur at the distal femur 0.7 g/cm2 but 1.0 g/cm2 will
      be recruited for participation in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel
      group clinical trial. The outcome measures of the proposed study are bone mineral density
      (BMD) by peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) and dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA), and biochemical markers of bone resorption and formation. This
      prospective, randomized, placebo controlled clinical trial will take place at the James J.
      Peters VA Medical Center (JJPVAMC) and Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation (KIR) (each
      facility will perform patient enrollment and study procedures).
    
  