
    
      Subjects with clubfoot will be assessed at the initial visit by Dr. Alvarez. During this
      visit, the first part of treatment, which is manipulation and casting of the clubfoot will be
      started. Following this visit, there will be weekly visits for continued manipulation and
      casting until no further correction of the clubfoot is seen. At this point, (usually after
      four weeks of casting or when the subject is 6-8 weeks of age), Botox® will be injected into
      the calf muscles of the affected foot or feet. Before the injection, the patch of skin
      overlying the intended site(s) of injection will be covered with a local anaesthetic cream
      (EMLA). This will be applied 30 minutes prior to the injection. This helps numb the skin
      where the injection will take place. A dose of 10 IU/kg Botox® will be used.

      Following the Botox injection another cast will be applied. This will be followed by at least
      3 more weekly cast changes to maintain the correction. After the casting and once the child's
      foot (feet) are big enough and have achieved a minimum of 15 degrees of ankle dorsiflexion
      with the knee in flexion, the bracing period will begin. This involves use of boots and bars
      which are worn fulltime until the child begins to weight-bear (usually occurs between 4 to 6
      months of age). Until the child reaches skeletal maturity, there will always be a tendency
      for the foot to return to its clubbed position. Therefore, continued vigilance is part of the
      care for clubfoot. The following is the appointment schedule, assuming that there are no
      recurrences:

        -  Weekly appointments for 3 - 5 weeks for initial manipulation and casting

        -  Botox® injection

        -  Weekly appointments for 3 - 4 weeks for casting post Botox® injection or until the foot
           is big enough to fit in the brace

        -  Weekly appointments for 10 weeks (brace wear at this point)

        -  Monthly appointments for 9 months (brace wear at this point)

        -  Appointments every 6 months until your child reaches 8 years of age

        -  Yearly appointments thereafter until your child reaches 14 years or skeletal maturity

      If there is a recurrence of clubfoot malposition, manipulation and casting will be reinstated
      and a possible repeat of injection of Botox® will be administered.
    
  