
    
      Measurement of the anaesthetic gases such as isoflurane and sevoflurane allow anaesthetists
      to gauge their blood levels and in turn their brain levels and so help assess how deep the
      patient is under anaesthesia. These measurements, made as the patient breathes out, are known
      as end-tidal concentrations of anesthetic gases and are routinely made with gas monitors.
      Measurement of blood levels of anaesthetic gases is possible but infrequently done as it is
      time-consuming, expensive, and requires a scientist in a laboratory with specialized
      equipment. Depth of anaesthesia is assessed using clinical signs along with end-tidal
      concentrations though more recently it can be assessed by monitoring the brain's electrical
      waves. This technique remains controversial.

      Mechanically supporting the patient's breathing using only one of the two lungs, known as
      one-lung ventilation, is used in lung surgery to allow the surgeon to gain access to one side
      of the chest whilst the anaesthetist supports the lung on the other side. One-lung
      ventilation markedly alters the exchange of gases in the lungs, including anaesthetic gases.
      Because of this derangement, it is not known if the end-tidal concentrations are related to
      blood levels of anaesthetic gases during this type of mechanical ventilation. The aims of the
      study is to determine if end-tidal concentrations of anaesthetics as measured by a standard
      gas monitor are related to the blood levels of the gases isoflurane and sevoflurane during
      one-lung ventilation.

      Patients over 18 years old undergoing planned lung surgery with one-lung ventilation and
      anaesthesia with isoflurane or sevoflurane, and who have a routine tube inserted into an
      artery in their wrist to monitor blood pressure will be recruited for the study. During the
      study, two blood samples the size of two teaspoons each will be taken from the tube in the
      artery and two end-tidal concentration recordings.
    
  