
    
      The study was designed as an experimental, 2-arm, cross-over clinical trial, involving
      patients admitted to ICU of a university oncology hospital between September 2018 and July
      2019.

      This study was conducted at one medical intensive care unit of an oncology hospital, which is
      one of the four hospitals of a state university located at the capital city of Turkey. The
      University is the first public institution in Turkey accredited by the Joint Commission
      International (JCI) for its quality of health care services. The ICU of the oncology hospital
      provides care for patients with a variety of medical conditions, but particularly specialized
      for critical patients with oncological and haematological diseases. The ICU includes eight
      beds and two isolation rooms each of which has one patient bed, and the average daily
      admission of patients to ICU was 7.

      Using the NCSS-PASS 2007 statistical package program (Blackwelder, 1998), the minimum sample
      size with 80.0% power and type 1 error of 5.0% was calculated as 58 patients for an inclusion
      period of 1 year; however 61 patients who met the inclusion criteria composed the study
      sample.

      All patients admitted to the ICU were assessed for eligibility and included to the study
      sample if they aged over 18 years, diagnosed with a hematologic-oncologic disease and
      admitted within the first 24 hours to the ICU. Exclusion criteria for participation were; age
      < 18 years, burns to >20% of the total skin surface, pregnancy, previous MRSA and/or VRE
      infection history or antibiotic use for these infections, receiving radiation therapy,
      admitted before 24 hours to ICU, re-admission to ICU, diagnosed with severe septic shock,
      massive pulmonary thromboembolism, massive haemoptysis, and status epilepticus etc., general
      condition disorder.

      A total of 139 patients with a hematologic-oncologic disease were assessed for eligibility of
      whom 61 excluded due to discharge (n=11) or death (n=6) before 24 hours of hospitalization,
      admission to ICU before the eligibility assessment of researcher (n=8), repeated admission to
      ICU (n=6), severely impaired medical condition (n=6), age under 18 years (n=2), massive
      pulmonary thromboembolism (n=2), previous MRSA infection (n=2), and severe septic shock
      (n=1). Seventeen patients did not provide consent for participation and their relatives were
      not available. After eligibility assessment, 78 patients were randomised into two arms
      according to the order of admission to the ICU. Arm 1 (39 patients) included first the
      control period, followed by one-day wash-out, and then the intervention period. Arm 2 (39
      patients) included first the intervention period, followed by one-day wash-out, and then the
      control period. The first patient was assigned to the second arm after the draw, and the
      patients continued to take the first arm and second arm respectively. Each period lasted
      three consecutive days with a total of 7 days for each patient. During the period of the
      study, 8 patients from Arm1 and 9 patients from Arm 2 could not complete the study due to
      several reasons. Thus, the final sample consisted of 31 patients in Arm 1 and 30 patients in
      Arm 2.

      Following the ethical approval of the study protocol, official permissions, and informed
      consents, the researcher started to work at the ICU every day from 8.00 am to 8.00 pm to
      collect data and perform the procedures. A patient information and evaluation form was used
      to collect data on patients' demographic and clinical characteristics, including the Glasgow
      coma scale, medications ordered for each patient, patient risk factors, skin reactions, and
      bathing protocols. This form was filled out every morning for each patient except the
      demographic characteristics. The MRSA and/or VRE colonization results of swab samples taken
      before and after the bathing procedures were also recorded in this form. Medical conditions
      and the APACHE II scores of patients were evaluated and recorded to patient electronic files.

      Procedures for control period included providing daily bed bathing with soap and water over
      three consecutive days, while intervention period included daily bed bathing with 2% CHG
      solution over three consecutive days. Patients were bathed from the neck down, avoiding
      contact with face, mucous membranes and wounds by wiping with soap or CHG for each period.
      The patient's skin bathed in the order of clean area to dirty area. Additionally, if patients
      in both arms became soiled after the daily baths, contaminated body areas were wiped using
      water and disposable washcloths. Patients were assessed daily for localised or body-wide skin
      reactions. During control period, patients were washed with soap and then rinsed with water,
      and dried with disposable towels. During intervention period, 4% CHG solution was diluted
      with water. In order to dilute the 4% CHG solution, 120 ml (~4 ounce) of 4% CHG solution was
      added to 120 ml (~4 ounce) of water in a disposable box each time (to a final concentration
      of 2%) (Swan et al., 2016) and this solution was applied to the patient body directly. The
      lowest concentration of the extract inhibited growth of bacteria was selected as minimum
      inhibitory concentration (MIC) (Knapp, 2014; Vali, Dashti, El-Shazly, & Jadaon, 2015) and
      diluting CHG to a concentration as low as 0.4% does not affect CHG antiseptic efficacy
      (Bajaj, Loh, & Borgstrom, 2014).

      The swab samples were collected from nares, groins, and perirectal area of each patient
      within 24 hours of admission to the ICU and on days 3, 5, and 7; immediately before and 4-6
      hours after the bathing by the researcher. Totally, 24 swab samples (3 area x 2 times x 4
      days) were taken from each patient at the end of the periods. In order to obtain the sample,
      a sterile cotton swab was moistened with sterile buffered transport medium and each swap
      specimen was placed in a vial containing transport media and transported to the clinical
      microbiology laboratory of the study institution by the researcher (first author).

      The swab samples were cultured on 5% sheep blood agar and incubated for 16-18 hours at 37⁰C.
      Typical colonies were examined by Gram staining, catalase and plasma coagulase tests and were
      identified as S. aureus .In order to determine the resistance to methicillin, disc diffusion
      test was performed by using cefoxitin (30 μg, Oxoid, UK) disc on Mueller-Hinton agar (Oxoid,
      UK) in accordance with EUCAST recommendations (Matuschek, Brown, & Kahlmeter, 2014).
      Resistance was confirmed after the determination of mecA gene by a commercially-available
      polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay; (BD MaxTM MRSA XT, Canada) (Baby et al., 2017).

      In order to detect VRE colonization, chromID® VRE (bioMerieux, France) selective media was
      used and typical colonies formed after 24 hours of incubation at 37⁰Cwere identified as
      Enterococcus faecium by API-ID Strep (bioMerieux, France). Vancomycin resistance was
      determined by vancomycin E-test (Oxoid, UK) and vanA and vanB, genes were examined by by PCR
      method (BD GeneOhmTM, Ireland (He et al., 2019).

      For detection of both bacteria, non-growth media were re-evaluated after incubating for
      another 48 hours under the same conditions. The ICU physicians in the study unit were
      informed for MRSA and/or VRE-positive patients by the researcher. and all identified MRSA and
      / or VRE colonized patients were placed on contact precautions.
    
  