
    
      Ataxia Telangiectasia (A-T) is a rare, genetic, progressive, life-limiting,
      neuro-degenerative condition affecting a variety of body systems resulting in ataxia, immune
      deficiency, respiratory complications and a predisposition to cancer. Currently there is no
      cure for A-T. Over the years, a number of small clinical trials using steroids, antioxidants
      and anti-inflammatory agents have had little success. The disease natural history is
      relentless leading to early death. A-T generates a significant disease burden for the
      individuals, their extended families and on health care resources. With palliative care being
      the only current option for families, a treatment trial for A-T meets an unmet need. The
      investigators preliminary data provide compelling evidence of reversible mitochondrial
      dysfunction and preventable cell death in A-T patient cells and the beneficial effects of
      heptanoate (C7), the primary metabolite of triheptanoin. C7 corrects a defect in endoplasmic
      reticulum (ER)-mitochondrial signalling in A-T cells and has great potential for application
      in treating participants. C7 has been utilised with efficacy and safety over the last 15
      years for inborn errors of metabolism (IEM) such as long chain fatty acid defects (LC-FAOD).

      A-T is due to a genetic defect that results in a defective serine/threonine protein kinase,
      known as ATM. Normally, ATM, plays a central role in protecting the genome against damage. It
      is increasingly evident that ATM protects cells against oxidative stress. This protein is
      also present outside the nucleus, where it is activated by oxidative stress through a
      separate mechanism from DNA damage, providing an explanation why anti-oxidants have a
      protective role in A-T cells in culture and in animal models. From these and other studies,
      it is evident that mitochondrial abnormalities characterise ATM and it has been suggested
      that A-T should be considered, at least in part, as a mitochondrial disease. The
      Investigators have added substance to that claim by showing that ATM-deficient (B3) cells are
      exquisitely sensitive to inhibition of glycolysis by glucose deprivation, compared to
      controls (HBEC). The investigators have also shown this increased sensitivity to nutrient
      deprivation for primary epithelial cells from patients and in immortalised patient cells.
      Together these data point to a reduced capacity of A-T mitochondria to support energy
      metabolism and provide additional evidence for a mitochondrial defect in A-T cells. The
      investigators have recently demonstrated that this hypersensitivity to glucose deprivation
      can be explained by a novel mechanism involving defective signalling between the ER and the
      mitochondrion. The investigators demonstrated that this was caused by defective assembly of
      the VDAC1-GRP75-IP3R1 calcium channel and less ER-mitochondria contact points as determined
      by transmission electron microscopy. This in turn resulted in reduced calcium release from
      the ER and less transfer to mitochondria providing further evidence for mitochondrial
      dysfunction in A-T cells.

      The investigators selected triheptanoin, a highly purified, synthetic medium odd-chain
      triglyceride that is catabolized to heptanoate and can traverse the mitochondrial membrane
      without the carnitine carrier. Free heptanoate is then metabolized by the medium chain fatty
      acid oxidation enzymes to yield both acetyl CoA and propionyl CoA that act as anaplerotics to
      replenish the TCA cycle and enhance energy metabolism by providing NADPH and generating ATP.
      The investigators demonstrated that heptanoate partially corrects the extreme sensitivity to
      glycolysis inhibition in both the ATM-deficient cell line as well as in primary epithelial
      cells from a patient with A-T. Excitingly, heptanoate also corrected all of the defects in
      ER-mitochondrial signalling including calcium uptake into mitochondria. Based on the
      importance of mitochondrial dysfunction in the A-T phenotype and our results revealing
      correction of mitochondrial function by heptanoate, the investigators consider that
      triheptanoin has excellent potential in correcting many aspects of the A-T phenotype
      including the progressive neurodegenerative phenotype.

      Triheptanoin has been used for over 15 years to treat LC-FAOD, with demonstrated improvements
      in cardiac function and reductions in rhabdomyolysis episodes. Triheptanoin and heptanoate
      are known to protect against cell death in experimental conditions largely characterised by
      oxidative stress, such as stroke and motor neurone disease, adult polyglucosan body disease,
      alternating hemiplegia of childhood, Glucose-1 transporter deficiency, and mouse models and
      humans with epilepsy. Heptanoate protects cultured neurons against H2O2-induced cell death.
      Collectively these studies demonstrate that triheptanoin is well tolerated and is effective
      in treating a range of neurological conditions associated with neuronal energy deficiency.
    
  