
    
      The study design is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multiple ascending-dose
      study of pomaglumetad in 24 non-treatment seeking participants with methamphetamine use
      disorder. Three cohorts of 8 participants each (total N = 24) will be enrolled and within
      each cohort participants will be randomly assigned in a 6:2 ratio to undergo methamphetamine
      infusions and assessments during treatment with pomaglumetad (N = 6 per cohort) or placebo (N
      = 2 per cohort). Participants in cohort 1 will receive pomaglumetad 40 mg orally twice daily
      (BID) or placebo, cohort 2 will receive pomaglumetad 80 mg BID or placebo, and cohort 3 will
      receive pomaglumetad 160 mg BID or placebo.

      After completing outpatient baseline and screening/eligibility assessments, eligible
      participants will be admitted to the UCLA Hospital and will remain hospitalized during all
      experimental procedures (approximately 11 days and 10 nights).

      A urine drug toxicology screen free of illicit substances (with the exception of THC) is
      required for admission. Upon admission, participants will receive a sample/test infusion of
      MA 30 mg IV. Participants tolerating the test infusion (no serious adverse advents and not
      exceeding stopping criteria below) will be randomized to receive POMA (40 mg BID in cohort 1,
      80 mg BID in cohort 2, and 160 mg BID in cohort 3) or placebo.

      Following three days of MA abstinence and POMA/placebo dosing to achieve study medication
      steady-state, participants will complete a MA self-administration session.

      After two days for MA washout, participants will then have serial plasma samples collected
      over 12 hours to assess PK for POMA. The next day, participants will receive a 30 mg MA
      infusion followed by serial plasma sample collection over the following 48 hours for MA PK
      analysis.

      Measures of cardiovascular response, subjective effects, and adverse events will be assessed
      following all MA infusions during self-administration and PK sessions.

      Upon completion of the PK sample collection, participants will be discharged and a 14-day
      post-discharge (± 7 days) follow-up outpatient visit will be completed for safety purposes.
    
  