
    
      -  Prospective, placebo controlled randomized and double-blind study.

        -  Treatment Method:

      Radial extracorporeal shockwaves will be applied using the Swiss Dolorclast (EMS Electro
      Medical Systems, Switzerland), generated by pneumatic waves.

      Intervention:

        -  Group 1 - Intervention group Patients will receive 2,000 impulses of radial shockwave
           per week, with pressure of 2.5bar to 4.0bar, at the frequency of 8Hz. The impulses will
           be applied at the most painful site of the knee joint interface on manual palpation, for
           three consecutive weeks.

        -  Group 2 - Control Group:

      Patients will receive 2,000 impulses of placebo radial shockwave per week, without any energy
      flow intensity. Frequency of 8Hz will appear in the screen. The impulses will be applied at
      the most painful site of the knee joint interface on manual palpation, for three consecutive
      weeks.

      Post application program for both groups: Three consecutive days of:

        1. Hot packs (superficial heat) applied on the application site for 20 minutes;

        2. Simple analgesics, when needed (Acetaminophen 500mg every 6 hours, or analogue in case
           of allergy).

      Outcome Evaluation:

      The evaluation of pain intensity will be done according to the VAS (Visual Analog Scale) The
      influence of pain on the functional capacity of patients will be measured with WOMAC (Western
      Ontario and McMaster Osteoarthritis Index) for knee evaluation.

      Another evaluation criteria will be the level of tolerance of pressure on several muscles and
      other parts as the pes anserinus and patellar tendon, the knee joint interface, and the
      supraspinal of L1 to S1 also on the dermatomal from T12 to S2. These measures will be done by
      the Fisher algometry.

      The evaluations will be carried out before the treatment, immediately after the treatment and
      3 months after the end of the treatment.

      Analgesia drut will be prescribed, if patients feel pain during the days after the
      application.
    
  