
    
      The overall goal is to exploit motor learning principles in a novel way to enhance dysphagia
      rehabilitation in patients with dysphagia due to stroke. Dysphagia is swallowing impairment
      that can lead to serious illness or death due to ingested material entering the trachea
      (aspiration). Specifically, this study will determine whether lasting behavioral
      modifications after swallowing training occur with motor learning principles versus standard
      care. Motor learning principles emphasize continual kinematic assessment through biofeedback
      during training. However, continual kinematic assessment is rare in standard dysphagia care
      because swallowing kinematics require instrumentation such as videofluoroscopy (VF) to be
      seen. Since VF involves radiation exposure and higher costs, submental electromyography
      (sEMG) is widely used as biofeedback, although it does not image swallowing kinematics or
      confirm that a therapeutic movement is being trained. This research study will compare three
      forms of biofeedback on training swallowing maneuvers or compensatory techniques (referred to
      as targeted dysphagia training throughout this document) that might reduce their swallowing
      pathophysiology. VF biofeedback training will provide kinematic information about targeted
      dysphagia training performance, incorporating motor learning principles. sEMG biofeedback
      training will provide non-kinematic information about targeted dysphagia training performance
      and, thus, does not incorporate motor learning principles. A mixed biofeedback training,
      which involves VF biofeedback early on to establish the target kinematics of the targeted
      dysphagia training maneuver, then reinforces what was learned with sEMG. Mixed biofeedback
      training is being examined because it is more clinically feasible than VF biofeedback
      training, while still incorporating motor learning principles during part of the targeted
      dysphagia training.

      The investigators hypothesize that VF training will reduce swallowing impairment more than
      mixed training, but mixed training will reduce swallowing impairment more than sEMG training.
      Additionally, this study will investigate whether adjuvant techniques known to augment motor
      training (non-invasive neural stimulation and explicit reward tested independently), will
      augment outcomes of each of the proposed training's. This innovative experimental design is
      significant because it investigates motor learning principles within an ideal training (VF
      biofeedback) as well as within a clinically feasible option (mixed biofeedback) to
      differentiate them from standard dysphagia training (sEMG), which has reported little to no
      improvements after intense motor training.
    
  