
    
      1. Background

           1.1. Problem of surgical site infection after sternotomy Sternal osteomyelitis and
           poststernotomy mediastinitis is a severe and life-treating complication after the
           cardiac surgery. The incidence of sternal osteomyelitis ranges from 1% to 3% (1, 2) with
           a high mortality rate from 19% to 29% (1, 3).

           The most devastating complication of the open sternum is the laceration of the right
           ventricle which has a very high mortality. Additionally destabilizations of the thoracic
           cage, prolonged immobilization, or substantial surgical trauma are further complications
           of the conventional strategy (4). In addition, postoperative infections after sternotomy
           are associated with prolonged hospital stay, increased healthcare costs and impaired
           quality of patient life, representing an economic and social burden. The emergence of
           increasing antimicrobial resistant bacteria augments the importance of postsurgical
           infections since the antimicrobial choices are becoming limited. Furthermore, the
           incidence of infection is an indicator for the quality of patient care in the
           international benchmark studies.

           Although several therapy strategies are nowadays there is a lack of evidence based
           surgical consensus for treatment of this surgical complication. In most case the
           poststernotomy mediastinitis is involving surgical revision with debridement, open
           dressing, vacuum assisted therapy or closed irrigation. After the granulation tissue on
           open chest wound was achieved secondary closure and/or reconstruction with vascularized
           soft tissue flaps such as omentum or pectoral muscle is performed. Both open therapy and
           the flap implantations may be used as a single-line therapy or as a combination of
           procedures.

           1.2. Etiology of poststernotomy infections Many mechanisms have been proposed to explain
           the development of sternal wound infection. These theories include inadequate sternal
           fixation leading to instability and dehiscence of the overlying skin incision and
           inadequate surgical drainage. Further theories suggest a localized ischemic
           osteomyelitis. This theory suggests that sternal wires become loose, leading to sternal
           instability, which ultimately leads to skin dehiscence and osteomyelitic infection. The
           most commonly cultured organism is Staphylococcus Aureus.

           Several retrospective and prospective studies have identified factors relating to
           increasing risk of sternal dehiscence. Patient risk factors include obesity, diabetes
           mellitus, chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD), chronic cough from tobacco abuse,
           steroid therapy, hypertension, immunosuppression, and advanced age. Operative risk
           factors include single or bilateral internal mammary artery (IMA) harvesting
           (significantly decreases blood supply to ipsilateral hemithorax), prolonged operation,
           excessive hemorrhage, reoperation, break in sterile technique, and the use of an
           intra-aortic balloon pump.

        2. Objectives

      2.1. Study hypothesis The optimal treatment of sternum osteomyelitis has not yet been
      defined. The aim of this randomized study is to compare the treatment outcome of the delayed
      primary closure with short-term VAC-therapy (48-72 h) with the late secondary closure with
      long-term VAC therapy (>14 days).

      We hypothesize that the delayed primary closure will have a better outcome than late
      secondary closure regarding parameters:

        -  Cure rate (>80% versus <60%)

        -  Length of hospitalization (≤6 weeks versus >6 weeks)

        -  Number of surgical interventions (≤4 versus >5)

        -  In-hospital mortality (5 versus 15%) This combined surgical and active approach has an
           economic advantage compared to the conventional therapy.

      2.2. Aims Primary

        1. To compare the treatment outcome (hospital stay, morbidity, mortality and surgical
           stress load) of the delayed primary closure approach with the late secondary closure
           Secondary

        2. To evaluate side effects of both treatment approaches, and treatment expenses.

        3. Study population

           3.1. Ethical aspects The permission from the local Ethical Committee will be obtained
           before beginning the study. This study will be also registered with
           www.ClinicalTrials.gov. Patients will be enrolled before randomization 1:1 into each
           study arm; in each group we will randomly include 40 patients. The randomization is not
           blind and will be performed by one of the principal investigators. In absence of the
           principal investigators this may be performed by co-investigators. Surgical procedures
           in both arms should be standardized. In this way is essential that all the interventions
           will be performed by main investigator and the co-investigator.

           Arm A) In this group the patients will be treated with the standard surgical treatment.
           In details the procedure is described under 4.4.

           Arm B) I s the group the patients are treated according to the new concept of the
           delayed primary sternal closure. The procedure id described under 4.5.

        4. Procedures and methods 4.1. Definition of the sternal infection Median sternotomy wound
           complications vary from sterile wound dehiscence to suppurative mediastinitis. Sternal
           bone infection, mediastinitis, wound complication, and wound infection have been used
           synonymously to denote deep sternal wound infection. For the sake of consistency in
           comparing data from various reports, definitions of sternal wound complications are as
           follows (8,9,10).

      Ad 1) Mediastinal dehiscence: median sternotomy wound breakdown in the absence of clinical or
      microbiologic evidence of infection.

      Ad 2) Mediastinal wound infection: clinical or microbiologic evidence of infected presternal
      tissue and sternal osteomyelitis, with or without mediastinal sepsis and with or without
      unstable sternum. Subtypes include:

      A) superficial wound infection: wound infection confined to the subcutaneous tissue B) deep
      wound infection (mediastinitis): wound infection associated with sternal osteomyelitis with
      or without infected retrosternal space. Deep sternal wound infections, or mediastinitis, is
      classified into four subtypes based on the time of first presentation, the presence or
      absence of risk factors, and whether previous attempts at treating the condition have failed
      (Table 1).

      Sternal wound infection will be considered:

      The definition of mediastinitis has been established by the Center for Disease Control and
      Prevention in the USA (11). According to these guidelines, diagnosis of mediastinitis
      requires at least one of the following:

      Ad 1) an organism isolated from culture of mediastinal tissue or fluid; Ad 2) evidence of
      mediastinitis seen during operation; Ad 3) one of the following conditions: chest pain,
      sternal instability, or fever (>38 8C), in combination with either purulent discharge from
      the mediastinum or an organism isolated from blood culture or culture of mediastinal
      drainage.

      4.2. Outline of the surgical procedures Patients with suspected sternal osteomyelitis will be
      hospitalized and the following diagnostic procedures will be performed: laboratory blood
      tests (leukocytes, CRP, creatinin, AST, ALT, CK), computed tomography (CT) of the sternum,
      wound swab.

      After the diagnosis is secured the patients will receive an information consent form of the
      study. Subsequently they will be randomly included in one of the surgical arms.

      4.3. Current treatment strategy of poststernotomy infections During the past years,
      vacuum-assisted closure (VAC) wound therapy has emerged as a treatment for open septic
      wounds. It is a non-invasive system that helps promote wound healing by delivering negative
      pressure the application of this subatmospheric form of treatment has, several advantageous
      as compared to the conventional treatment. VAC therapy allows open drainage that continuously
      absorbs exudate with simultaneous stabilization of the chest and isolation of the wound. This
      therapy induces the building of the granulation tissue which in majority is a result of the
      reduced oedema and increased blood flow in the adjacent tissue. Furthermore, VAC therapy
      approximates the wound edges and provides a mass filling effect with a low degree of surgical
      trauma, without establishing a new wound (e.g., abdominal wound in omental flaps) (5,6). In
      the recent literature the mean hospitalization of the patients being treated with the VAC
      therapy was 25 ± 20 days with overall mortality of 15%.

      4.4. Arm A) Secondary closure with the vacuum-assisted system (VAC) Nowadays after the
      diagnosis of the poststernotomy wound infection is established the clinical procedure is
      obtained as follows: firstly the empiric antibiotic therapy with vancomycin is induced. The
      lab samples including bacteriology test are obtained. The initial surgical revision is done
      within 24 hours. Intraoperatively from the surgical field again tissue samples are sent for
      bacteriology investigation to determine the antibiotic pattern resistance. All sternal wires
      are removed. Surgical debridement is made until occurrence of tissue bleeding. Careful and
      extensive cleaning of the wound is performed using saline solution at 37°C degrees Celsius
      and the solution of 50% betadine and saline solution (1:1 Betadine:H20). Finally VAC sponge
      is implanted with negative suction pressure of 75 mmHg. Postoperatively chest X-ray is
      obtained, in the first 24 hours the lab samples with CRP and whit blood cell count is
      performed. The first revision with second look and debridement is usually made in 48 hours.
      Subsequently in the following days the wound is stepwise revised during VAC changes (every
      48/72 hours) a sharp spoon and necrotic bone is removed when necessary, but extensive
      sternectomy is avoided. At each revision tissue samples are obtained for microbiological
      investigations.

      According to the patients general situation they are extubated immediately after VAC therapy
      initiation and are staying on the intensive care unit for about 24 hours. The patients are
      obtained 5 to 7 times to the surgical procedures in time intervals of 48/72 hours.
      Subsequently when the last three bacteriology samples are negative a delayed primary closure
      by usage of Kryptonite biocompatible adhesive glue (Doctors Research Group Inc, Southbury,
      CT)- if needed for sternal stabilization- or rectus abdominal muscle flap may be done. As far
      the antibiogram is known, the specific antibiotic therapy is induced.

      4.5. Arm B) Surgical procedure by delayed primary closure As compared to the previous therapy
      modalities mentioned under 2.2 and 1.3 the new method has an advantage of the surgical wound
      healing by delayed primary intention.

      In the first step, after the diagnosis of the infection was done, and the empiric antibiotic
      therapy is induced with vancomycin in the first surgical intervention the sternal wires will
      be removed, the mediastinum is explored and extensive surgical debridement is performed until
      occurrence of tissue bleeding. Careful and extensive cleaning of the wound was performed
      using saline solution at 37°C degrees Celsius and the solution of 50% betadine and saline
      solution (1:1 Betadine:H20), at least 3 samples (tissue biopsies) are taken for microbiology.
      The patients will receive treatment delivered through the VAC system in the first 48 hours
      following the first surgical intervention. Subsequently the wound is closed.

      We begin with dissection and elevation of the pectoralis major muscle and corresponding
      subcutaneous flap through diathermy. Dissection is performed from the median line along the
      costal grid, up to two thirds of the anterior chest wall, preserving the humeral insertion,
      thoracoacromial vascular bundle and pectoralis minor muscle. Note at this area are very
      important vascular connections areas between the internal thoracic artery, acromial artery
      and the lateral thoracic artery which should be preserved. At inferior plane, the pectoralis
      major muscle will be raised - including the anterior rectus fascia - and down up to the
      xiphoid process. The upper segment of the anterior rectum will be raised with the pectoralis
      major muscle. The intercostal perforating arterial branches will be preserved also. A silicon
      drain tube is placed in the retrosternal space if this is possible. In patients with fracture
      or asymmetry of the sternum incision, osteosynthesis is performed using the "Robiscek"
      technique. Then two suction drains were placed below the muscular plane upon the costal grid
      for drainage of the large area of detachment of the musculoaponeurotic layer The suture of
      the pectoral fascia should be tension free, continuous suture with resorbable material
      (Vicryl 3-0). The subcutaneous tissue is closed over the drainage, with separate subcutaneous
      suture. The skin is closed with non-resorbable suture analog to the "Allgöver" suture. These
      sutures are removed between the 12 and 14 postoperative days.

      Thus the results of the bacteriology are known in most cases after the first 48 hours the
      specific antibiotic therapy, according to the results of the bacteriology results may be
      introduced.

      4.6 General considerations

      Contraindication for closure of the chest:

      Wounds with active purulence require extensive debridement prior to flap coverage and/or
      rigid fixation. Additional contraindications for sternal reconstruction are found in patients
      who are unstable for surgery, including those with poor pulmonary function, poor cardiac
      reserve, or terminal illness. Hemodynamic stability is required for surgical intervention in
      patients with sternal dehiscence.

      4.7. Early perioperative management in the 48 hours

      Transfer to the ICU:

      After each definitive sternal closure the patients will be transferred to the ICU for the
      hemodynamical observation in the first 24 hours. Beside the followings are considered as
      indications to transfer on ICU.:

      Preoperative sepsis, intraoperative hemodynamical instability or/and need for catecholamines,
      intraoperative need for massive transfusion, rupture of the ventricular cavities (left or
      right), need for emergency cardiopulmonary bypass.

      Transfer to the intermediate car Hemodynamical and pulmonary stable patients will be
      extubated in the operating room, and will be transferred to the intermediate care unit of the
      department of cardiovascular surgery.

      General considerations Independently in both investigation groups Arm A) and Arm B)
      postoperatively X-ray of the thorax will be obtained after the transfer. In the first 24
      hours, the lab samples will be obtained (CRP, anticoagulation, white blood cell cont,
      hemoglobin, hematocrit, ASAT, ALAT, yGT, Creatinine, Urea, and anticoagulation tests PTT,
      TP). Respiratory physiotherapy will be obtained 24 hours after the surgical revision.

      Open chest patients should not be mobilized out of the bed, however the chest elevation and
      mobilization of 45 to 90° is aloud.

      After definitive closure of the chest the patient may be fully mobilized after the first 48
      hours, or after the transfer to the ward.
    
  