
    
      This study will be coordinated by Dr Hector Chinoy, Dr Robert G Cooper (Salford Royal NHS
      Foundation Trust / The University of Manchester) and Dr Ian N Bruce (Central Manchester
      University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust/ The University of Manchester). An initial pilot
      study will be completed, to establish proof of concept of the study and to examine whether
      trends may be observed of differences between cases and controls.

      Thirty UK Caucasian adult IIM cases, confimed by internationally accepted criteria, will be
      recruited via the Adult Onset Myositis clinic, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust. Age,
      gender and racematched controls will be recruited on a 'best friend' system. STUDY METHODS:In
      order to establish whether CHD risk is increased in patients with myositis, we would like to
      perform a pilot study, comparing the cardiovascular risk factors of 30 patient's from Salford
      Royal's adult myositis clinic, with a group of 30 healthy controls. Participant would be
      invited along to the Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility (WTCRF), where all the
      necessary tests would be performed at a 'one off' study visit. Participants would be asked to
      bring along a friend of the same gender and roughly the same age, who would then comprise the
      'healthy control' comparison group.

      The study would involve a consultant clinician completing a 'heart disease questionnaire' for
      each of the participants.

      A single blood sample would be taken to check their blood sugar levels and cholesterol, and
      if they had myositis, disease activity would also be assessed. The non invasive diagnostic
      testing would include an ultrasound of the blood vessels of the neck, checking for narrowing
      of the arteries, and a special blood pressure test, looking for the early signs of
      atherosclerosis (build up of fat in the blood vessels). An electrocardiogram (ECG) would be
      performed, and if they have myositis, an ultrasound test of their heart (echocardiogram),
      would also be performed. A gadoliniumenhanced magnetic resonance scan (GdDTPAMRI) of the
      heart will be performed to examine for inflammation of the heart tissue (pericardium and
      myocardium). The echo and MR will only be performed in patients, and not controls.

      If the study demonstrated that patients with myositis had more chance of developing CHD, than
      those in the control group, this would have implications for their future clinical care,
      requiring close monitoring of patients for the early signs of CHD, and the appropriate
      intervention when necessary. This study will be funded by the WTCRF Small Grants Award
      Scheme.MORE DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF STUDY METHODS:Cases and controls will have the following
      recorded for assessment of cardiovascular risk factors: i) Standardised questionnaire to
      ascertain basic details, e.g. age, ethnicity, medical and family history, drug use and
      smoking. ii) Height and weight measurement. iii) Blood tests, including fasting blood sugar,
      lipid profile & Creactive protein. iv) Lean body mass measurement using a body composition
      analyser. v) Electrocardiogram. v) Subclinical atherosclerosis measurement using Bmode
      ultrasound CIMT. vi) Endothelial dysfunction measurement using EndoPAT.

      Cases will additionally have the following to assess disease status:

      i) Clinical assessment of myositis disease activity (MITAX/MYOACT) and disease damage (MDI,
      MYODAM). ii) Assessment of muscle strength using manual muscle testing. iii) Further bloods
      including serum creatine kinase, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, serology including
      antiphospholipid status. iv) Assessment of left ventricular/septal dysfunction, and
      pericardial abnormalities using contrast echocardiography. vi) Assessment of the diagnostic
      utility of GdDTPAMRI to assess myocardial disease activity in the presence of cardiovascular
      disease. All procedures will be conducted by a technician or nurse employed within the WTCRF.
      The clinical and muscle strength assessment will be performed by a medical practitioner (to
      be appointed).

      At the WTCRF, The University of Manchester, facilities are already available for Bmode
      ultrasound CIMT measurement, EndoPAT, lean body mass measurement and contrast
      echocardiography. Cases and controls will have their cardiovascular risk factors assessed
      using a standardised questionnaire and blood tests. Further tests performed will include
      blood pressure, electrocardiogram, lean body mass, Bmode ultrasound carotid artery narrowing
      and EndoPAT. IIM cases will have additional blood tests and a clinical assessment to assess
      their disease status. As part of a linked study, subjects (but not controls) will also have
      GdDTPAMRI and contrast echocardiography of the heart performed. The primary research end
      point will be the detection of significant patient/control group differences.
    
  