
    
      Subjects will be asked to report to the exercise room at Mount St. Mary's College in the
      physical therapy building for only one session lasting approximately 15-20 minutes. The
      subject will fill out a small questionnaire to rule out any health conditions, which would
      exclude them. The subject will next be informed about the methods and nature of the study
      after which they will be asked to sign an informed consent form. Once signed, the subject
      will be included into the study and will be randomized to either the manipulative group, the
      sham manipulation group or the control group. The Biocomm HRV Live! heart rate variability
      monitor will be attached to the subject's wrist who will then be asked to lie supine on a
      treatment table for five minutes. The monitor is composed of a simple recording electrode
      that is secured to the wrist with either tape or a band. At this time the principal
      investigator will perform a manual technique on the individuals randomized into the
      manipulation group. The subject will be asked to place his/her hands behind her neck with her
      elbows aligned with their body. The principal investigator will then slightly roll the
      subject's torso towards herself while placing her left hand in a flexed position underneath
      the subject's spine at the T4-T5 level. The principal investigator will then flex the
      subject's thoracic spine by placing her right forearm on the subject's elbows and asking the
      subject to do a slight crunch. Then the principal investigator will apply the high
      velocity-low amplitude thrust in the anterior-posterior direction through the subject's
      forearms and over her left hand under the subject. For the sham manipulation group, no force
      will be placed through the elbows, but all other aspects of positioning will be the same as
      the manipulation group. The control group will be asked to link their fingers behind their
      neck and rest for one minute. Following the intervention, the subject will be asked to lie
      quietly in supine for an additional ten minutes to record post manipulation responses.
    
  