
    
      We have developed a new device for guiding invasive procedures with ultrasound (US), which we
      call the Sonic Flashlight (SF). We attach a half-silvered mirror and a small flat-panel
      monitor directly to an ultrasound transducer to project a virtual image of the US scan into
      its actual location within the patient. This permits the operator to guide a needle through
      the skin by aiming directly at the image, using natural hand-eye coordination rather than
      looking away from the patient at a conventional display. We believe the SF will increase
      accuracy, safety, and speed for a wide variety of invasive procedures and yield a faster
      learning of these procedures than conventional US displays.

      The research proposed here would bring the application of guided needle insertion to its
      clinical implementation, specifically addressing the placement of the Peripherally Inserted
      Central Catheter (PICC) line. The PICC line is increasingly viewed as a safe alternative to
      direct central line placement in the jugular, subclavian, and femoral veins, while being
      easier to maintain than a peripheral intravenous line. This study will test the hypothesis
      that PICC lines can be placed by experienced intravenous (IV) team nurses using the SF for
      real-time US guidance.

      Thirty nurse participants (ages 18-65) will be recruited from the IV team at UPMC
      Presbyterian Hospital to participate in the study. 200 patient subjects will be recruited
      from the adult (18 years and older) population of patients already scheduled to receive the
      PICC placement procedure; patients will have the lines placed by experienced IV team nurses
      using ultrasound guidance with either the SF or conventional ultrasound (CUS). Investigators
      will observe each procedure, using audio and video recording, ultrasound image data, and
      other characteristics of the procedure to monitor the success of each procedure. A set of
      feasibility trials will be conducted in the interventional radiology (IR) suite to assess the
      level of training the nurses have received prior to the start of the comparison trial.
    
  