
    
      PICO QUESTION:

        -  Does the amount of the resolution of the anterior lower arch crowding increase in the
           patients with superelastic NiTi archwire compared with the patients with heat-activated
           NiTi archwire during the first three months of orthodontic treatment and/or its
           mechanical properties change after three months of clinical use?

      Population: Orthodontic patients with moderate anterior mandibular crowding Intervention:
      .014" Superelastic NiTI archwire (3M Unitek, Monrovia, CA) Comparison: .014" Heat activated
      NiTi archwire (3M Unitek, Monrovia, CA)

      Outcomes:

      Primary Outcomes:

        -  Quantity of resolution of anterior mandibular crowding every month for three months

        -  Mechanical properties measured by tensile test and three point bending test before and
           after the three first months of orthodontic treatment.

      Secondary Outcomes: Archwires deformation under oral conditions during the first three months
      of the orthodontic treatment.

      AIMS

      GENERAL AIM To compare the changes of the mechanical properties measured by tensile test and
      three point bending test of two NiTi archwires (heat-activated and super-elastic); when
      exposed to the oral conditions during the first three months of orthodontic treatment and to
      evaluated the clinical efficacy in lower anterior arch crowding resolution.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

        -  To recruit 54 orthodontic patients, 13-25 years old, without extraction into a
           randomized clinical trial design, single-blinded trial, into the effects of NiTi
           arch-wires alloy in the resolution of the anterior mandibular crowding during the three
           first months of the orthodontic treatment.

        -  To test the hypothesis that, compared the resolution of the anterior mandibular crowding
           in the first three months of orthodontic treatment, with those to receive NiTi
           heat-activated arch-wire, those assigned to receive superelastic NiTi archwire

        -  More amount of resolution of the anterior mandibular crowding

        -  Differences in the changes of mechanical properties after clinical use

        -  Less archwire deformation

      METHODS

      OVERVIEW OF DESIGN Study Design: Randomized clinical trial

        -  Randomized clinical trial in 54 orthodontic patients with moderate crowding. They are
           going to be randomly assigned in to two intervention groups, each group with 27
           patients. One group are going to be treated with heat-activated NiTi archwires and the
           other group with super-elastic NiTi archwires.

        -  Blinding: It is not possible to blind patients and clinical staff, but we are going to
           blind the operators who will perform the measurements and the data analysis
           (single-blinded).

      We are going to have an exact clinical protocol for both groups with the only difference
      being in the NiTI arch-wire alloy.

      MBT prescription .022 slot. Alginate impressions and cast models at the beginning of the
      study, immediately after the first, second and third month of the orthodontic treatment.

      Measures of anterior lower arch crowding resolution are going to be taken by
      previously-calibrated operators.

      Arch-wires deformation are going to be evaluated by visual observation every month in monthly
      clinical visits.

      The measures of the mechanical properties measured by tensile test and three point bending
      test of two NiTi archwires (heat-activated and super-elastic); are going to take before and
      after the first three months of orthodontic treatment.

      DESIGN FOR SAMPLING

      Study Population:

      - Orthodontic patients from the orthodontic department clinic of the UniCIEO

      Sampling:

        -  No probabilistic: convenience sample

        -  Consecutive sample of consenting patients

      PLANS FOR RECRUITMENT

      Patients of the Clinic University (UniCIEO) that meet the selection criteria and accept to
      participate.

      MEASUREMENTS

      MAIN PREDICTOR VARIABLE

      - Type of NiTi Alloy used (NiTi superelastic arch-wire; NiTi heat-activated arch-wire)

      POTENCIAL CONFOUNDING VARIABLES - Age

      - Sex

      OUTCOME VARIABLES

      Plaster models Outcomes:

      - Quantity of anterior mandibular crowding resolution measured monthly

      Mechanical Properties Outcomes:

      - Measured in vitro with an Instrom before and after three months of the orthodontic
      treatment by tensile test and three point bending test

      Archwire Outcomes:

      - Archwire deformation measure at monthly visit, by visual evaluation

      STATISTICAL ISSUES

      APPROACH TO STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      The data will be processed in the statistics program Stata 14 (Stata Corp 2011. Stata
      Statistical Software: Release 14. College Station, TX: Stata Corp LP). Qualitative variables
      are going to be described by frequencies and percentages; quantitative variables will resume
      as average and standard deviation. The association between qualitative variables will be
      calculated by Chi-square test. For two group comparisons, we are going to use the t test or
      Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test. Significance level is going to be set at P<0.05.

      HYPOTHESIS, SAMPLE SIZE AND POWER

      Hypothesis:

      Null Hypothesis H0: compared the resolution of the anterior mandibular crowding in the first
      three months of orthodontic treatment, with those to receive NiTi heat-activated archwire,
      those assigned to receive superelastic NiTi archwire

        -  Same amount of resolution of the anterior mandibular crowding

        -  Same changes in mechanical properties after clinical use

        -  Same archwire deformation

      Alternate Hypothesis Ha: compared the resolution of the anterior mandibular crowding in the
      first three months of orthodontic treatment, with those to receive NiTi heat-activated
      archwire, those assigned to receive superelastic NiTi archwire

        -  More amount of resolution of the anterior mandibular crowding

        -  Differences in the changes of mechanical properties after clinical use

        -  Less archwire deformation

      Sample size calculation and power:

      It was calculated with the software Epidat (software Epidat version 4.1). With 90% power and
      a 5% level of significance and with standard deviation data from a previous study, the sample
      should comprise at least 27 patients per group.

      QUALITY CONTROL AND DATA MANAGEMENT

      Bias Control:

      Selection bias:

      - Randomization

      Information bias:

        -  The principal investigators are going to train the observers in the theoretical and
           practical issues of all the measures of the variables of this study developing an
           operations manual.

        -  The observers are going to be calibrated and evaluated in intra and extra observer
           concordance by Bland Altman plot with previously fixed acceptable limits.

        -  All variables, are going to be re-measured after two weeks in subjects randomly
           selected.

        -  Random and systematic errors are going to be calculated with Dahlberg´s formula and
           dependent t test, respectively.

        -  Same clinical protocol for groups, the only difference in the intervention. All clinical
           and laboratory procedures will meet quality standards. The research team will take care
           of the data in order to be reliable and accurate The research team will take care that
           complete and accurate records will be maintained Statistical methods are going to be
           pre-specified and carefully followed The results are going to be clearly and fairly
           reported
    
  