
    
      This study will recruit patients from a number of hospitals in England and study them over a
      number of years. The study will be divided in 2 parts. Part 1 will recruit patients with a
      diagnosis of DCM, Part 2 will recruit patients diagnosed with other heritable cardiovascular
      disorders. Family members of patients may be invited to take part in the study. Children may
      also be approached to take part in the study.

      Patients will attend for a baseline visit for a cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) scan,
      completion of quality of life questionnaires, collection of blood samples for whole genome
      sequencing and biomarker analysis, and collection of clinical data. Collection of health
      information via national registries including Office of National Statistics (ONS) and
      Hospital Episodes Statistics (HES) will be continued over the patients's lifetime. This will
      not require any direct contact with the participant.

      Recruitment will take place over a 3 year period, with annual completion of questionnaires at
      patients scheduled hospital visits. If the patient is not scheduled to attend the hospital
      for regular follow up, then patients may complete the questionnaires via an online system or
      over the telephone. Patients will be asked to complete questionnaires annually for 5 years.
      Sub-sets of patients may be invited for additional tests including exercise testing, and
      stress perfusion scans. These tests will not form part of the core tests for the study, and
      patients may choose not to have them. Separate informed consent will be obtained from
      participants for any additional tests.

      If patients are having clinical diagnostic tests that involve the removal of tissue, they may
      be asked to donate any surplus tissue sample, or be asked to provide their consent to collect
      an additional tissue sample. Separate informed consent will be obtained from participants for
      donation of additional tissue samples.

      Where patients are scheduled to have a CMR scan as part of their routine clinical care, an
      additional CMR scan for research purposes may not be required.

      Children will not be asked to complete any annual questionnaires, health information will be
      collected via ONS and HES.

      Family members of patients who take part in the study will only be asked to donate a blood or
      saliva sample, and provide consent to collection of their health information via ONS and HES
      records. They will not have any clinical tests such as CMR.
    
  