
    
      Klippel-Feil syndrome (KFS) was first described in 1912 by Klippel and Feil as a classic
      triad are comprised of a short neck, a low posterior hairline and restricted motion of the
      neck due to fused cervical vertebrae with the incidence of 1:42,000 live births1,2. The
      etiology is presumed to involve in PAX gene family mutation defect and Notch signaling
      pathway. KFS patients are classified into 3 types based on the location of fusion; Type 1
      patients have a single congenitally fused cervical segment; Type 2 patients show multiple
      non-contiguous, congenitally fused cervical segments; and Type 3 patients show multiple
      contiguous, congenitally fused cervical segments. In 1974, Hensinger et al studied 50 KFS
      patients aged 4 to 34 years and their associated anomalies. The findings revealed less than
      half had the classic triad of findings, more than half had scoliosis and a third had renal
      anomalies. All patients were at risk of having other serious anomalies such as Sprengel's
      deformity, hearing impairment, synkinesia and congenital heart disease.

      The current literature focused on isolated case reports suggested an awake fiberoptic
      intubation as a safest option to secure airway in adult patient with KFS. For pediatric
      patients with KFS, their airway management could be challenging, there is no literature
      report describing unsuccessful or difficult mask ventilation or LMA insertion. Bakan et al
      reported an overview of direct laryngoscopy for tracheal intubation in KFS patients aged 26
      days to 16 years old, 18 of 25 cases were successfully intubated by direct laryngoscope (DL).
      From 13 literatures reviewed by Bakan et al, there is no report of an unsuccessful DL in
      children with KFS younger than 4 years. Despite the formidable appearance for airway
      management, recent pediatric data encourage the anesthesia providers to perform DL instead of
      fiberoptic intubation. However, a successful DL event in anesthesia history record does not
      guarantee an ease of next DL event because the airway of KFS patients are progressively worse
      over time.

      The investigators propose a retrospective electronic chart review of patients with KFS who
      had undergone general anesthesia in Boston Children's Hospital from June 2012 to June 2018.
      The purpose of this study is to review the airway management techniques of pediatric patients
      with KFS and provide recommendation of airway management for these patients. A retrospective
      electronic chart review will be conducted by using Boston Children's Hospital (BCH) database,
      which identified patients with KFS who had undergone general anesthesia from June 2012 to
      June 2018.

      The investigators hope to provide specific anatomical abnormalities and age of pediatric
      patients with KFS to suggest they are at risk of difficult airway. Finally, the investigators
      hope this information can be used to suggest a proper choice of airway management for
      specific type and age group of KFS patients.
    
  