
    
      Objective: Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is the safe and the most effective treatment for
      patients with major depressive disorder. It is still inconclusive whether antidepressants are
      continued during the course ot ECT. In terms of efficacy and safety, three essential
      questions arise: 1) does concomitant treatment improve the short-term antidepressant effects
      of ECT, 2) does concomitant treatment reduce the rate of early relapse/recurrence following
      ECT, 3) does concomitant treatment has more side effects? The purpose of this study is to
      conduct a clinical trial to compare the efficacy, safety, and time to relapse/recurrence of
      ECT to ECT plus agomelatine in the treatment of patients with major depressive disorder.

      Methods: This is a prospective study. Inpatients with major depressive disorder for ECT will
      be randomly assigned to double-blind treatment with placebo or agomelatine 50 mg/d. After the
      ECT, the patients who meet the response criteria (i.e., at least a 50% reduction in symptom
      scores) or receive at least 6 treatments (i.e., acute phase) will receive the agomelatine 50
      mg/d for 3 months (i.e., follow-up phase). The severity of depression, severity of anxiety,
      psychosocial functioning and side effects will be measured using the 17-item Hamilton Rating
      Scale for Depression (HAMD-17), the Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S), Depression
      and Somatic Symptoms Scale (DSSS), Zung's Depression Scale (ZDS), Hamilton Anxiety Rating
      Scale (HAM-A), Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), Work and Social Adjustment Scale
      (WSAS), and UKU Side Effect Rating Scale before ECT, after every 3 sessions of ECT, at the
      end of acute ECT, and monthly during the 3-month follow-up period. Medical Outcomes Study
      Short-Form 36, Arizona Sexual Experiences Scale(ASEX), MINI Mental State Examination (MMSE),
      neuropsychological tests, and electroencephalography will be assessed before ECT, after ECT,
      and after the 3-month follow-up period. Questionnaire for patient attitudes about ECT after
      acute ECT will be completed. The Pearson chi-square test will be used to compare the response
      rate and remission (i.e., HAM-17≦7) rate between two groups. Analyses of group differences in
      efficacy will be performed by generalized estimating equations or ANCOVA. Survival analysis
      will be used to compare the time to response/remission and time to relapse/recurrence (i.e.,
      HAM-D-17≧14 or CGI-S ≧4 or rehospitalization) after ECT between two groups.

      Expected results: The results will provide evidence base for clinicians to decide to use
      antidepressants during ECT or not.
    
  