
    
      -  After consent is obtained patients will undergo the following treatment plan:
           randomization to treatment with 5% lidocaine ointment or placebo for vestibulitis. There
           will be 56 women total (28 in each arm).The placebo used will be hydrophilic petrolatum.
           Randomization will be performed using computer generated permuted blocks. A standard
           history and physical exam incorporating assessment of skin allodynia (testing with q-tip
           swab) on the vestibule and pressure measurements of the pelvic floor muscles (how much
           tenderness there is on perineal muscles with palpation) will be performed. Baseline
           questionnaires that will evaluate sexual frequency, sexual function survey (Female
           sexual function index), the modified Gracely pain scale of intercourse related pain, and
           psychometric evaluation including evaluation of anxiety, somatization (State-Trait
           Anxiety Inventory and Brief Symptom Inventory). Depression can also be evaluated with
           the Brief Symptom Inventory. Lastly, overall quality of health can be assessed with the
           SF-12. There is a baseline, 2 week and 6 week visit. Women will abstain from intercourse
           during these 6 weeks. Women will have a physical exam evaluation of the vestibule at
           each visit. They will then be able to have intercourse and will repeat surveys of sexual
           frequency, function, pain scale of intercourse related pain and the SF-12 at 8 weeks.

        -  Aim 1: To assess if lidocaine ointment produces a superior treatment response to
           placebo.

        -  Hypothesis 1: Use of topical lidocaine, compared with placebo, will result in improved
           sexual function and self-reported pain scores. This is to be measured as the ability to
           have successful intercourse. Secondarily, sexual function, quality of life and scores
           for intercourse related pain will be evaluated.

        -  Aim 2: To assess if there are predictors of response to treatment such as demographics,
           duration of disease, primary or secondary vulvar vestibulitis, or psychometric
           assessments (anxiety and somatization).

        -  Hypothesis 2: There are predictors of response to treatment of vulvar vestibulitis based
           upon patient characteristics, characteristics of the disease and psychometric
           assessments.
    
  