
    
      Cataract remains a leading cause of correctable blindness worldwide. Over 3.5 million
      cataract surgeries in the United States and 20 million cataract surgeries worldwide are
      performed every year. Cataract surgery is performed by making a small incision, removing the
      cataractous lens, most often through the process of phacoemulsification, and replacement with
      an intraocular lens. Like all surgeries, adequate exposure and field of view is vital for a
      safe and effective surgery. In cataract surgery, the field of view is limited by the diameter
      of the pupil. Several different drugs, such as cyclopentolate, tropicamide, phenylephrine,
      and epinephrine are utilized to maintain dilation (mydriasis) of the pupil during surgery.

      There are currently two prospective randomized controlled trials comparing
      phenylephrine/ketorolac to placebo in the published literature. Both of these studies
      demonstrated that phenylephrine/ketorolac is superior to placebo for the maintenance of
      mydriasis during cataract surgery. Epinephrine has been the standard of care for
      intraoperative mydriasis. Phenylephrine/ketorolac (Omidria) is a newly FDA-approved additive
      for the maintenance of intraoperative mydriasis, but there are currently no published studies
      comparing epinephrine to phenylephrine/ketorolac for maintenance of mydriasis during cataract
      surgery.

      While both of these drugs have been shown to be superior to placebo for the maintenance of
      mydriasis, there is a significant cost difference between epinephrine, which has been used
      for many years, and phenylephrine/ketorolac, which gained FDA approval in 2014. One 4 mL vial
      of Omidria® is utilized for one cataract surgery, which costs $465.

      The primary endpoint to be measured in the study is the mean area under the curve change from
      baseline in pupil diameter over time to the end of cataract surgery.

      Secondary endpoints will be maximum intraoperative pupil constriction, subjects with pupil
      diameter less than 6.5 mm at any during surgery, subjects with pupil less than 6.0 mm during
      cortical clean-up, and subjects with greater than 2.5 mm of pupillary constriction at any
      time during surgery.
    
  