
    
      The Southeast Permanente Medical Group (TSPMG) provides performance feedback to its
      providers. The performance feedback designs can vary and change over time in terms of
      targets, summary statistics, included measures, and frequency of delivery. The TSPMG health
      services research team will seek to compare different performance feedback designs to
      identify which are most effective at contributing to performance improvement. .

      The research team will randomly assign providers into different performance feedback
      conditions, as specified in the protocol. Providers will receive performance feedback through
      the standard mechanism in which it is conveyed by their supervisor.

      The objective is to investigate how to design performance feedback for providers to best
      motivate and support them in improving performance along with existing strategic priorities
      for care delivery.

      The research team will test alternative designs of performance feedback that vary on the
      following dimension:

      1) targets for comparison of one's own performance

      The research team will provide feedback on performance by measures that the organization
      already tracks internally and uses for performance improvement. These include a provider's
      utilization of opportunities to provide flu vaccinations.

      The study will randomly assign different designs of feedback to providers. In order to
      understand which designs of feedback have the best effects on performance, the research team
      will test the following hypotheses:

        1. Displaying the next-highest quartile will motivate improvement more than display of all
           quartiles.

           Theory: The next-highest quartile will serve as an injunctive norm, or suggested target,
           to repeatedly lift an individual's performance to the suggested level.

        2. The positive effect of displaying the next-highest quartile, relative to displaying all
           quartiles, will be most pronounced for initially low performers.

           Theory: The next highest quartile averts upward social comparison to a much higher level
           of peer performance, which can be discouraging and so negatively affect performance

        3. The positive effect of displaying the next-highest quartile, relative to displaying all
           quartiles, will diminish over time.

           Theory: Individuals may become worn out as they see a target ratchet higher when their
           performance improves.

        4. Displaying team relative performance along with individual relative performance will be
           more effective than displaying either type of information alone.
    
  