
    
      Background: Schizophrenia is one of the severe mental disorders. In addition to psychiatric
      symptoms, cognitive impairment is a key clinical feature in this population, which
      significantly negatively influences their functional performance and independence. While the
      cognitive remediation therapy demonstrates positive results, it often involves specialized
      and expensive computerized cognitive training system, which limits its application in
      clinical setting. More evidence is available to support the benefits of exercise training on
      cognitive functions of schizophrenia. Combination of exercise and cognitive training is a
      promising program and can improve cognitive functions of the elderly. However, this combined
      therapy is still limited to schizophrenia. Simultaneous training of walking and cognitive
      tasks via auditory mobile application is an innovative program for saving cost, time, and
      manpower. Further study is needed to develop the simultaneous training program and to examine
      the effectiveness.

      Purposes: To examine the effects of the training program on cognitive functions, fitness,
      functional performance and quality of life.

      Methods: A 3-arm, single-blinded, randomized controlled trial is used to recruit 90
      participants and then randomly allocated to the simultaneous training group, the cognitive
      training group, and the treatment as usual group. The first two training groups receive
      training for 30-40 minutes, 3 times a week for 12 weeks, as well as a follow-up of 12 weeks.
      All participants will be assessed at baseline, post-test and follow-up assessment. Primary
      outcome is cognitive function and secondary outcomes are fitness, functional performance, and
      quality of life.

      Contribution: The study can be used as an evidence-based program to improve cognitive
      functioning of people with schizophrenia. With the development of mobile App and the use of
      fitness wearable device, the training program enables people with schizophrenia to walk and
      practice cognitive training simultaneously in a group format. It will help clinical
      professionals be able to serve the increasing number of people with severe mental illness
      with less manpower and specialized equipment. The study is also helpful to better
      understanding the isolated role of aerobic exercise in the dual-task training, and to apply
      to other groups, like the elderly or dementia.
    
  