
    
      This study aims to disentangle the varying disinhibited eating patterns, or eating behavior
      endophenotypes, that lead to excessive weight gain and obesity-related comorbidities in
      youth. Extensive baseline evaluations, including three separate experimental paradigms, and
      annual follow-up assessments will assist with identifying biopsychosocial mechanisms that
      appear to increase risk for, and maintain, these eating behaviors and lead to weight gain.
      Illumination of early risk factors for specific eating behavior endophenotypes and their
      associated health outcomes will inform the development of targeted interventions for
      pediatric obesity. Participants for the current study will include 500 healthy obese and
      non-obese boys and girls (8 to 17yo at baseline) and their parents/caregivers. Youth will
      first complete two visits in order to ensure study eligibility and to evaluate
      self-regulatory, motivational, and neurocognitive factors that appear to be salient to the
      development and maintenance of disinhibited eating behavior, including: psychological
      distress, sleep behavior, food reinforcement, reward sensitivity, executive functioning,
      attention bias, and a range of related genetic and physiological factors. Eating behavior
      will be observed in the laboratory using several validated paradigms. For two weeks,
      participants will monitor their sleep using wrist actigraphy, as well as record their mood,
      eating behavior, and eating cognitions using smart phones (via ecological momentary
      assessment methods). Youth will then be invited to complete up to three separate experimental
      paradigms designed to further elucidate cognitive, emotional, and physiological processes
      associated with disinhibited eating behavior. All participants will then complete annual
      evaluations of weight and adiposity for a total of six years, with more extensive evaluations
      of self-regulatory, motivational and neurocognitive functioning every three years. Studying
      children and adolescents longitudinally will allow for examination of the independent and
      shared risk factors for pediatric disinhibited eating and excess weight. Data from these
      evaluations will not only be used to test specific hypotheses, but will also be
      hypothesis-generating in that they will inform the development of additional empirical
      questions and subsequent experiments. Thus, the current protocol will offer the flexibility
      to examine potentially critical contributions to weight gain in children as they continue
      their biopsychosocial development.
    
  