
    
      A cluster-randomized design will be used to assess the efficacy of the PCPHS intervention for
      multiple behavior change for cancer prevention by comparing 6- and 12-month outcomes among
      780 primary care patients recruited by 12 federally qualified health clinics randomly
      assigned to intervention or usual care. A Multiattribute Utility Measurement Approach will be
      used to ensure that clinics assigned to the two conditions are approximately equivalent on
      clinic size, patient demographics, and cancer risk behaviors (e.g., rates of smoking,
      overweight, and obesity). The most similar clinics will be paired, and one clinic within each
      pair will be assigned to intervention, and the other to usual care.

      Patients with an upcoming appointment and who meet study inclusion criteria will be invited
      to participate in the study, which will begin with an online baseline survey. In addition,
      patients in the intervention group will complete an online health risk intervention (HRI)
      that assesses and intervenes on the four cancer risk behaviors targeted in the
      intervention-cigarette smoking, risky drinking, noncompliance with national guidelines for
      physical activity, and overweight and obesity-as well depression. It will also assess whether
      participants have received cancer screenings recommended by age and gender.

      After the HRI session, intervention participants will have access to the TTM CTIs targeting
      their risk factors during the next six months. Patients assigned to the usual care condition
      will receive care as usual.

      Providers at the six clinics assigned to intervention will receive training on the TTM and
      the clinical dashboard. They will have access to the dashboard via the patient electronic
      medical record (EMR) during the intervention period, and will be expected to use the
      dashboard to deliver the one-on-one component of the TTM intervention. The clinical dashboard
      will:

        1. Report whether the participant has received recommended cancer screenings;

        2. Summarize data on targeted behavioral risks for cancer;

        3. Summarize data on level of depression;

        4. For each cancer risk behavior, show stage of change for meeting recommended guidelines;
           if at least mild depression show stage of change for using healthy strategies to manage
           depression; and

        5. For each cancer risk behavior and depression management, provide stage-matched scripts
           providers can use to help participants progress to the next stage of change or to
           prevent relapse to an earlier stage.

      Intervention group providers will deliver the dashboard-guided session at the patient's next
      clinic visit. The dashboard will be updated as the participant completes CTI sessions
      post-visit. Study participants who return to the clinic for any reason during the
      intervention period will be flagged, and the provider will use the dashboard to review
      progress and deliver updated stage-matched guidance.

      All study participants will receive an online survey to assess outcomes at 6 and 12 months
      follow-up. Participants who don't complete the online survey within two weeks will be
      contacted by a survey research company to complete the survey by phone.
    
  