
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Dramatic advances in medical and interventional treatment of clinically overt CHD have
      contributed substantially, perhaps predominately, to the decline over the past three decades
      in CHD mortality that has occurred despite relatively unchanged rates of myocardial
      infarction. By analogy, it is attractive to assume that substantial benefit could also be
      given to individuals with significant but asymptomatic coronary artery disease if only they
      could be accurately diagnosed. In this context, research to determine whether or not a
      non-invasive method like EBCT has sufficient independent predictive value for CHD events to
      play a useful role in this process has potentially considerable clinical and public health
      importance.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Follow-up of the 5,400 women and 12,600 men will be for an average of about 2.75 years with
      approximately 15,000 woman-years and 35,000 man-years of observations being available for
      analyses by June 30, 2000. An important strength of the study is the self-reported key health
      variables at baseline for all study participants. In addition, objective measures of blood
      pressure, total cholesterol, HDL- cholesterol, triglyceride, plasma glucose, resting and
      exercise electrocardiograms (ECG), maximal health rates, cardiorespiratory fitness, and other
      clinical and biochemical measurements are available for about half of the participants. CAC
      by EBCT has been associated with prevalent CHD and with incident CHD in recent small
      prospective studies. However, it is unclear whether CAC is predictive of MI or CHD deaths,
      because currently available studies had few individuals with evidence of hard CVD endpoints.
      The large cohort with CAC measurements provides the power to investigate an association
      between CAC and CHD morbidity, stroke, and all- cause mortality in terms of thresholds or
      dose-response effects. Exercise test results and measures of conventional CHD risk factors,
      including several health behaviors and biochemical markers, are available for about 50
      percent of the participants. This will allow evaluation of the separate and independent
      predictive value of CAC and exercise test results and the combination of these two exposures
      in relation to study outcomes. Furthermore, CAC scores, exercise test results, and the
      presence of conventional risk factors will be used together to identify participants at the
      highest risk of developing CHD outcomes.
    
  