
    
      It is increasingly clear that people with schizophrenia have a range of visual perception
      impairments, including in low-level vision (e.g., acuity, contrast sensitivity) and mid-level
      vision (e.g., perceptual organization, coherent motion detection). These impairments are
      significantly related to poorer performance on cognitive (e.g., visual learning and memory)
      and social cognitive (e.g., facial emotion decoding) measures, and to worse functional
      outcomes. To date, there is no accepted technique for visual remediation for schizophrenia,
      and almost no work has been done in this area. However, visual remediation is a
      well-developed subfield within cognitive rehabilitation for traumatic brain injury (TBI)
      patients, and initial studies of short-term visual perceptual learning in schizophrenia
      indicate that plasticity exists that could support longer-term changes. Therefore, the
      overall goal of the proposed project is to test a visual remediation intervention for
      schizophrenia and determine its effects on specific visual targets with well-understood
      neurobiological mechanisms. The goal of the R61 is to determine the optimal intervention for
      improving the targets of contrast sensitivity (CS) and perceptual organization (PO).
      Extensive evidence exists for impaired CS and PO in schizophrenia. Moreover, these targets
      are prototypical examples of gain control and integration, respectively, which were
      identified by the NIMH-sponsored CNTRICS initiative as being the two core mechanisms involved
      in visual disturbances in the disorder. The investigators will examine two computer-based
      interventions. One, ULTIMEYES (UE), targets CS. The other, contour integration training
      (CIT), targets PO. The investigators will also examine the effects of combined treatment
      (UE&CIT). An active computer-based control treatment will be included. There will be 40
      sessions, with assessments after every 10 sessions (N=20/group). The R61 Specific Aim is to
      evaluate the effects of UE and CIT on CS and PO targets, respectively, to determine if
      treatment effects meet a pre-specified effect-size criterion. Results of the R61 will be used
      to identify the treatment (UE, CIT, or UE&CIT) and duration (i.e., dose) that most
      effectively and efficiently improves the target(s). The goal of the R33 is to conduct an
      initial randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the optimal treatment identified in the R61. The
      R33 Specific Aims are to: 1) replicate and extend R61 results supporting visual target
      engagement in an adequately powered RCT (N=50/group); and 2) determine if visual target
      engagement is associated with improvements in cognition, social cognition, and functional
      capacity. If the R33 hypotheses are confirmed, results will inform the design of a later RCT
      to further explore mediators and moderators of treatment effects, and to move towards a
      precision medicine approach, wherein we determine which individuals are most likely to
      benefit from this intervention.
    
  