
    
      Patient Registries: A convenient consecutive sampling was used to recruit participants from
      outpatients in department of rheumatism of PUMCH. Prior to their enrollment in the study, all
      patients gave written, informed consent. To minimize subject non-response or rejection, the
      investigators inform patients the benefits and risks, and feedback them all physical
      examination results for free in the recruit period.

      Randomization: A randomization will be used to allocate patients into Lipid-lowering
      treatment group and control group.

      Blind: A trained ultrasonographer who assessed carotid intima media thickness (CIMT) (at
      baseline and 12 months) will be blinded to all clinical and treatment information.

      Statistical analysis: The characteristics of the study sample were summarized using
      descriptive statistics with dichotomous or ordinal data presented as percentages and
      continuous data as means, standard deviations, and medians, interquartile range. Differences
      of progression rate of atherosclerosis between intervention group and control group were
      assessed with either the t test or the non-parametric Wilcoxon test. A multivariable linear
      regression model will be used to evaluate the relationship between the progression of CIMT
      and intervention after controlling for confounding factors. Statistical significance was
      defined as a 2-tailed P value less than 0.05. All calculations were performed using SAS
      version 9.3.

      Quality Control and Data Management: Two doctors (not the main investigator) who come from
      department of cardiology with the experiences of clinical trial and a data manager will be
      serving as Data and Safety Monitor. A monthly meeting will be set up for investigators and
      monitors. The monitors need to review the study protocol and set Data Safety Management plan
      before recruitment. Then, they need to review rates of recruitment, adherence, follow-up
      conditions and assess the efficacy and harm during the study. If Monitors find that the
      simvastatin-ezetimibe combination therapy is causing severe adverse event, then a detailed
      record is needed. Monitors need to inform the main investigator within 3 hours and to inform
      state China Food and Drug Administration within 24 hours. Interim monitoring will focus on
      data quality, percentage of AE or SAE, and evidence of benefit.
    
  