
    
      I- Introduction:

      Benign prostatic enlargement is one of the most prevalent disorders in aging men and may
      develop into benign prostatic obstruction (BPO) causing a significant effect on the quality
      of life (QoL). Clinical manifestations of BPO include a variety of lower urinary tract
      symptoms (LUTS) that can be classified into voiding symptoms or storage symptoms.

      Laser prostatectomy includes two major technical principles; enucleation of the adenoma from
      the surrounding capsule or laser ablation of the adenoma. GreenLight laser (532-nm laser) and
      Holmium: Yttrium-Aluminum-Aarnet (Ho:YAG) laser (2100 nm) are commonly used nowadays.
      However, TURP remains the gold standard modality of treatment.

      Ejaculation is one of the fundamental domains of male sexual functions. It is well
      established that ejaculation disturbances, either anejaculation or loss of antegrade
      ejaculation, are almost inevitable adverse effects of prostate surgery especially TURP. A
      problem which also associates prolonged use of α-adrenoreceptros blockers. Such adverse event
      can be the reason why patients may choose to avoid surgical treatment.

      This ejaculatory dysfunction can be attributed, according to current theory of ejaculation,
      to the loss of bladder neck function after resection. However, many recent studies
      demonstrated that bladder neck closure may not have such important role in maintaining
      antegrade ejaculation. Recent techniques had been developed to preserve ejaculation including
      ejaculatory hood sparing technique, prostatic urethral lift and the Rezum System ( convective
      water vapor energy).

      Ejaculatory hood was defined as paracollicular and supracollicular tissue present 1 cm
      proximal to the verumontanum. Hermabessiere et al. used dynamic transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)
      findings after TURP to demonstrate that the ejaculate is directly expelled into the
      infra-montanal urethra with a direct closure mechanism of the paracollicular and
      supracollicular tissue without previous ballooning of the prostatic urethra.

      Various studies were published highlighting this ejaculation preserving technique and its
      impact on relieving LUTS. Alloussi et al. conducted ejaculatory preserving TURP (epTURP) on
      total number of 89 patients during which the ejaculatory hood area was preserved and was not
      affected by cutting or coagulation. Antegrade ejaculation was preserved in 90% of patients at
      3 months with significant improvement of LUTS and only 12.7% of cases needed a second session
      for bladder neck contracture after 60 months.

      GreenLight laser PVP is now challenging TURP as the standard treatment for lower LUTS caused
      by BPH for its many advantages e.g. short learning curve, a shorter period of postoperative
      bladder catheterization, lower levels of retrograde ejaculation and low indices of
      postoperative hematuria etc. Recently, with the introduction of the latest generation of the
      GreenLight laser (XPS), greenlight PVP using XPS system proved to be non inferior to TURP in
      reducing LUTS secondary to BPH with all the advantages of laser. [GOLIATH TRIAL].

      Tabatabaei S et al. described the ejaculation preserving PVP (EP-PVP) technique applied to
      160 patients and presented its outcomes. Postoperative ejaculatory function evaluation showed
      that 56% patients had normal antegrade ejaculation, 30.6% patients had diminished
      ejaculation, and 13.4% patients suffered no ejaculation. Post voiding residual urine (PVR)
      and peak urinary flow rate (Qmax) showed significant improvement. Overall, EP-PVP technique
      was successful in preserving ejaculatory function in 86.6% of patients, without compromising
      LUTS outcomes.

      Most of published similar studies relied on degree of reduction of International prostate
      symptoms score (IPSS), PSA, PVR and uroflowmetry to assess the improvement of LUTS following
      ejaculatory preserving prostate surgery, without actual functional assessment of degree of
      deobstruction via urodynamic investigations.

      Pereira-Correia JA et al. conducted a prospective urodynamic based trial comparing TURP and
      GreenLight laser PVP in total number of 20 patients over 2 years. In this study the older
      generation of the GreenLight laser (HPS) was utilized and conventional PVP technique was
      applied looking for the urodynamic changes between Greenlight PVP and TURP. They reported
      that high-power PVP can achieve and maintain the same results as TURP over a period of 24
      months as regards improvement of infravesical obstruction evidenced by reduction of mean
      micturition pressure and bladder outlet obstruction index (BOOI).

      GreenLight laser PVP currently gains wide acceptance and the emergence of ejaculatory sparing
      techniques made it feasible to get both benefits: relief of LUTS and preservation of
      ejaculation. However evaluation of actual infravesical deobstruction following such
      techniques remains a grey zone in the literature without an objective assessment of the
      degree of deobstruction. Furthermore, the impact of maintaining ejaculation on different
      domains of the sexual function using comprehensive assessment tools was not compared in
      ejaculatory sparring vs. non-ejaculatory sparring approaches.

      II- Aim of the work

      In this study, we planned to compare ejaculatory sparing and non-ejaculatory sparing
      (conventional) GreenLightTM Laser PVP using both subjective and objective assessment tools
      for the degree of deobstruction. Furthermore, the impact of both techniques on ejaculation
      and its secondary effect on orgasm perception and different domains of sexual function will
      be thoroughly assessed.

      III- Patients and methods

      III.1. Study design:

      A randomized controlled clinical trial

      Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov ID:

      III.2. Target population:

      In Prostate Unit, Mansoura urology and nephrology center, sexually active patients presented
      with LUTS secondary to BPO who failed medical treatment will be scheduled for GreenLightTM
      Laser PVP. BPH surgical candidates are patients presented with LUTS secondary to BOO due to
      BPH who failed medical treatment with IPSS score >15 and Peak urinary flow rate Qmax < 15
      ml/min with at least 125 ml voided volume.

      Legible subjects fulfilling inclusion criteria will be included in a randomized clinical
      trial and will be asked to sign an informed consent form according to Good Clinical Practice
      and the Declaration of Helsinki.

      III.3. Patients' allocation:

      Patients will be allocated into 2 groups. In the 1st one, patients will undergo regular non
      ejaculatory sparing GreenLightTM Laser PVP (Group I), while in the 2nd group (Group II);
      ejaculatory sparing technique will be applied. Patients are asked to sign the informed
      consent for participation in the study.

      III.4.Methodology:

      II.4.a. Intervention All laser surgeries will be performed or supervised by a single surgeon
      with large experience with laser prostate surgery. Procedures will be performed with the
      patient under general or regional anesthesia. Normal saline will be used as an irrigant. The
      GreenLight (532 nm) laser generator (XPS) will be used with our previously described
      technique for Group I. A side-to-side sweeping technique was used with the side firing fiber
      moving from the area of the bladder neck to approximately the level of the verumontanum. As
      much as possible, the end point of the laser procedure was a TURP-like cavity lined by
      capsular fibers, as judged by the operator.

      For Group II, similar equipment will be used and steps of PVP will be similarly performed.
      However the procedure starts by marking of the ejaculatory hood; paracollicular and
      supracollicular tissue present almost 1 cm proximal to the verumontanum using the Co-Ag mode
      of the laser (40W). The obstructing prostate tissue will be vaporized sparing the ejaculatory
      hood without vaporization or coagulation at the marked hood area.

      III.4.b. Assessment tools:

      Ejaculatory domain of Male sexual health questionnaire (Ej-MSHQ) 16 will be used for detailed
      assessment of the impact of each procedure on ejaculatory function and subsequently the
      impact of reported ejaculatory changes on orgasm perception. This domain entails seven
      questions assessing ejaculatory frequency, latency, volume, force, pain, pleasure, and dry
      ejaculation. Each question has a score from 1 to 5 (best function) and the outcome of each
      question is considered significantly impaired once equals 2 or less. A total Ej-MSHQ score of
      good ejaculatory function was considered for a range from 28-35, average from 22 to 27 and
      ejaculatory dysfunction for score less than 22 .

      International index of erectile function-15 (IIEF-15) 5 ; each of the five domains (EF,
      orgasm, desire, intercourse satisfaction and overall satisfaction) will be assessed and the
      degree of change from baseline to the last follow up will be depicted. EF domain is a 30
      points score and normal EF is considered for score more than 25.

      Urinary outcome evaluation will be done using IPSS (International prostate symptom score),
      QOL (quality of life), Q.max (maximum flow rate) and PVR (post void residual urine
      estimation).

      Urodynamic evaluation will be performed in accordance with the standards recommended by the
      International Continence Society.

      IV. Follow up:

      Patients will be evaluated at baseline and will be followed post procedure at 2 weeks, one,
      four and twelve months interval. In the first and second visits patients will be assessed for
      urinary function and once their voiding parameters deemed satisfactory, they will be
      counseled to resume their sexual activity as before. Patients will be thoroughly evaluated at
      subsequent visits for both urinary and sexual outcome parameters (4 and 12 months' visits)

      V.1. Randomization& masking:

      The randomization process was performed using computer-generated random tables in a 1:1
      ratio. Patients were randomly assigned to the study groups on the day of the surgery, once
      the patient signs the informed consent for participation in the study. We randomly assigned
      patients to one of our treatment groups by means of stratified-blocked randomization across
      two strata derived from predetermined size grouping (30-55ml and 55-80ml) and two strata
      derived from preoperative medication (alpha blockers vs. non alpha blockers user).

      This method ensured parity among our two treatment groups. In each stratum, given two
      possible block lengths of two and four respectively, with a random number generator giving
      numbers uniformly distributed between 0 and 1, we selected a block length of two for random
      numbers lower than 0.5 or a block length of four otherwise. Variation of the block sizes
      prevented the surgeon from guessing what the next treatment will be; it makes it difficult
      (although not impossible) to break the treatment code.

      V.2. Blinding:

      The surgeon knew the randomly assigned laser procedure for each patient in the operating
      room. All patients, nurses performing urine flow studies/ addressing the questionnaires, and
      physician doing the urodynamic studies will be blinded to the type of the procedure.
    
  