
    
      Sickle cell disease is an inherited blood disorder that affects approximately 100,000 people
      in the United States. People living with sickle cell disease have numerous complications that
      cause significant morbidity and mortality such as painful episodes of vasoocclusion, acute
      chest syndrome, stroke, end organ damage, and early death. Unfortunately, their lifespan
      remains markedly shorter than the general population and this had not dramatically changed in
      the last 2 decades. Adults, are now not dying primarily from infections and sickle cell
      disease related complications, but cardiopulmonary disease is a leading cause of death. The
      etiology of cardiopulmonary disease in sickle cell disease is unclear but studies suggest
      that microvascular hypoxia, inflammation and endothelial dysfunction play a major role in the
      pathogenesis. In the general population, exercise reduces cardiovascular complications,
      pulmonary exacerbations, and decreases cardiovascular death. However, exercise used as
      primary or secondary prevention in sickle cell disease for cardiopulmonary disease has not
      been explored. Evidence shows that exercise in sickle cell disease can decrease oxidative
      stress, lower blood viscosity, and increase nitric oxide levels in both human and mouse
      models, but there remains some concern that high-intensity training in sickle cell disease
      may trigger vaso-occlusive crisis and adverse outcomes. However, multiple recent studies show
      that moderate intensity exercise can be safely performed in adults with sickle cell disease.
      Currently, providers lack evidence-based knowledge to inform the quantity and quality of
      regular exercise training that is safe but also improves cardiovascular outcomes in sickle
      cell disease. In addition, data does not exist on the feasibility and adherence of home-based
      training regimens in adults with sickle cell disease. Only one study has explored the
      feasibility and adherence in children. This study will be a qualitative assessment of
      potential interventions of exercises in adults with sickle cell anemia, only including the
      more severe genotypes of sickle cell disease.
    
  