
    
      Pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) fruits are widely consumed as pomegranate juice (PJ), and
      their health benefits have been studied extensively in animals and humans (1-6). The
      pomegranate fruit is a rich source of polyphenols, most of which are ellagitannins (ETs).
      Pomegranate extracts,which incorporate these major polyphenols from the pomegranate fruit,
      have been developed in dry and liquid forms to provide alternative convenient sources for
      obtaining the bioactive polyphenols found in PJ. We have previously reported on the
      pharmacokinetics and metabolism of pomegranate polyphenols, after the consumption of PJ in
      normal healthy human volunteers (7). In humans, ETs are converted to ellagic acid (EA) in the
      small intestines and absorbed with a maximum plasma concentration observed at approximately 1
      hour. EA disappears from plasma 6 hours after administration of PJ. Ellagitannins and ellagic
      acid remaining in the intestine and are then further converted by gut microflora to
      urolithin-A, absorbed and derivatives, which are metabolized by phase II enzymes and excreted
      in human urine for up to 48 hours after consumption of PJ(7).

      Polyphenols are dietary constituents of plants associated with health-promoting effects. In
      the human diet, polyphenols are generally consumed in foods along with macronutrients.
      Because the health benefits of polyphenols are critically determined by their
      bioavailability, the effect of interactions between plant phenols and food macronutrients is
      a very important topic. The protein-polyphenol complexes can significantly change the plasma
      kinetics profile. (8) Protein-polyphenol binding is mediated by a combination of hydrogen and
      hydrophobic bonding depending on chemical (polarity) and structural (size/shape) properties
      of interacting molecules. Covalent interactions between purified glycinin, a soybean storage
      protein, and selected flavonoids and phenolic acids have also been reported. Recently it is
      reported that protein-rich defatted soybean flour protects anthocyanins during transit
      through upper digestive tract for subsequent colonic delivery/metabolism (9).
    
  