
    
      Mynd Analytics has developed the Psychiatric Electroencephalography Evaluation Registry
      (PEER) Online® clinical decision support database that uses a combination of software,
      analytics, and clinical outcomes to provide objective, adjunctive medication response
      information to physicians treating patients with non-psychotic behavioral disorders. PEER
      Online uses a statistical analysis of EEG outputs and other patient information to generate a
      report that indicates the statistical likelihood of the patient's responsiveness to classes
      of central nervous system (CNS) medications (i.e. antidepressants), groups (i.e. SSRI) and
      individual agents (i.e. fluoxetine). A discriminant analysis compares neurophysiologic
      abnormalities of the patient to patterns of abnormalities of known responders to CNS drugs in
      the company's outcomes database of symptomatic patients. This provides a probability estimate
      of the similarity of the patient's profile with the profile of groups of individuals
      constituting the normative and clinical (symptomatic) database, which provides the treating
      physician guidance to which treatments the patient will most likely respond to, and those
      treatments to which the patient is least likely to respond.

      Procedurally, PEER Online utilizes standard 21-lead digital electroencephalographic equipment
      measuring the patient in a resting (but awake) state. The recording generally takes 30-60
      minutes. Patients are classified based upon the 1,142 variables calculated in the recording
      (FDA-approved neurometric system) and categorized based on the outcome history in treating
      patients with similar neurophysiologic outputs. From these outputs and the correlation to the
      outcome database, reports may indicate single or multiple medications based on the nature of
      the physiologic abnormality discovered. The entire procedure is rapid, non-invasive, devoid
      of radiation or high strength magnetic fields, and results in a report, the PEER Outcome
      Report that is provided to clinicians in a format similar to antibiotic sensitivity testing.

      Study Design (summary)

        1. The patient population will consist of individuals with depression who in the opinion of
           their physician require medication management. A score of 10 or more on the PHQ-9
           instrument will be required for enrollment. Non-psychotic co-morbid illnesses will be
           permitted. Patients must not currently be receiving psychotropic medications (including
           stimulants, benzodiazepines, or THC). Patients previously on these medications but off
           treatment for >30 days are permitted.

        2. The physician will declare whether they wish to treat the depression or refer to a
           participating psychiatrist. Individual physicians (prior to enrolling any patients) will
           be assigned to either agree to utilize MYnd Analytic directed care or to be part of the
           control cohort. This will minimize any physician learning effect.

        3. The patient will sign informed consent to participate.

        4. All patients will undergo a study related EEG and MYnd Analytics will develop a PEER
           Online report. The report will be released to the treating physicians in the directed
           care group but will not be released to the control physicians.

        5. All patients will complete a disease specific assessment tool (QIDS-SR16) at every
           office visit (at a minimum assessments at baseline, 3 months into treatment, and 6
           months into treatment). Patients choosing to withdraw from the study or from treatment
           will also be offered the assessment at participation endpoint. COTA will score each
           patient based on the standardized tools as either improved, stable, or worsened. The
           primary endpoint for this study is QIDS-SR16 percent mean change from baseline, with
           response being defined as a reduction of >50% from baseline. Physicians may know the
           results of these tests and may alter therapy per their usual practice.

        6. Medication management will be at the final discretion of the treating physician.
           Physicians assigned to the MYnd Analytics directed care cohort will be encouraged, but
           not required, to follow the PEER Online report. Any change in therapy will be documented
           by the physician with reason (lack of efficacy, toxicity, patient preference).
    
  