
    
      Patients From April 2007 until February 2009 all patients undergoing periodontal treatment at
      the Department of Periodontology, Center of Dental, Oral, and Maxillofacial Medicine
      (Carolinum), Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University Frankfurt/Main and the Section of
      Periodontology, Department of Conservative Dentistry, Clinic for Oral, Dental and
      Maxillofacial Diseases, University Hospital Heidelberg are screened for this study. Patients
      and methods of this study have been described in detail before. Thus only a brief description
      is provided.

      The trial is approved by the Institutional Review Boards for Human Studies of the Medical
      Faculties of the Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University Frankfurt/Main (159/06) and the University
      of Heidelberg (ABmu-179/2006) as well as the German Federal Drug Authority (Bundesamt für
      Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte). All participating individuals are informed on risks,
      benefit and the procedures of the study. All give written informed consent. The study is
      registered under the EudraCT-Nr. 2006-001367-36 and under the number NCT01030666.

      Clinical measurements The following clinical parameters are assessed at six sites per tooth
      (mesiobuccal, midbuccal, distobuccal, distolingual, midlingual, mesiolingual) at baseline,
      12, and 24 months after surgery: Gingival Index (GI), Plaque Index (PI), PD and CAL-V to the
      nearest 0.5 mm using a straight manual periodontal probe (PCPUNC 15, Hu Friedy, Chicago, IL,
      USA). As reference for the CAL-V measurements, the cemento-enamel junction (CEJ) is used. If
      the CEJ is destroyed by a restoration the restoration margin (RM) serves as reference.

      Radiographic examination Standardized radiographs are obtained of test teeth by modified film
      holders (VIP 2 Positioning, UpRad Corp., Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA). These are done routinely
      in the clinical setting, after antiinfective and immediately before surgical treatment.
      Intraoral size 0 and 2 dental films (Insight, Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, NY, USA) are
      exposed using an x-ray source (Heliodent DS, Sirona, Bensheim, Germany) with 7 mA and 60 kVp
      and developed under standardized conditions (XR24pro, Dürr Dental GmbH, Bietigheim-Bissingen,
      Germany).

      Radiographic evaluation All radiographs are evaluated by one examiner (LR) who is blinded to
      the clinical results and to the time point the particular radiographs had been taken. All
      radiographs are digitalized using a computer program (SIDEXIS nextGeneration 1.51, Sirona,
      Bensheim, Germany) and a flatbed scanner (Microtek ScanMaker 4, Microtek, Hsinchu, Taiwan)
      with 600 dpi resolution and 8 bit grey values. The image files are stored as TIFF files and
      analyzed using the above mentioned computer program (SIDEXIS nextGeneration 1.51, Sirona,
      Bensheim, Germany) and a 19' flat Screen (Totoku CCL 192 plus, Totoku Electric, Ueda, Japan).

      For evaluation the analyzing tool of the program (SIDEXIS nextGeneration 1.51, Sirona,
      Bensheim, Germany) is used. The image files are opened and magnified by using the function
      "zoom" once. Then the distances CEJ/RM to alveolar crest (AC), CEJ/RM to bony defect (DB),
      and the depth of the infrabony component (INFRA) are measured. The definition of these
      radiographic landmarks has been published in detail before.

      Microbiological examination Immediately before and 14±2 days after surgery subgingival plaque
      samples are taken from the test sites of and analyzed by a commercially available real-time
      PCR test (Meridol Paro Diagnostik, GABA GmbH, Lörrach, Germany) for Aggregatibacter
      actinomycetemcomitans (A.a.), Porphyromonas gingivalis (P.g.), Tannerella forsythia (T.f.),
      Treponema denticola (T.d.), Fusobacterium nucleatum (F.n.), and Prevotella intermedia (P.i.).
      The detection limit of this test is 10².

      Periodontal Surgery Infrabony defects reported in this analysis are treated by application of
      EMD (Emdogain®, Institut Straumann AG, Basel, Switzerland). Before closure of the defect
      intrasurgical parameters are measured.

      Postsurgical Care

      All patients take a postsurgical medication once a day for 7 days after regenerative
      periodontal therapy:

        -  Test: 200 mg doxycycline

        -  Control: 200 mg placebo. Doxycycline and placebo are packaged identically and stored in
           sealed envelopes that were marked with the randomization code. Patients receive
           doxycycline or placebo after regenerative surgery is accomplished. Patient and clinician
           are blinded. Block randomization by smoking status (current smoking: smokers/former and
           never smoking: non smokers) is provided by the manufacturer of the doxycycline (August
           Wolff GmbH & Co. Arzneimittel, Bielefeld, Germany).

      Further, all patients are advised to rinse with a 0.12 % chlorhexidine gluconate solution
      (ParoEx, Butler, Kriftel, Germany) for 2 minutes bd for 5 to 7 weeks after surgery. During
      this time, all patients have to refrain from individual mechanical plaque control and thus
      are seen every other week for control and gentle cleaning of the teeth. In addition, 400 mg
      ibuprofen qd is prescribed for patient's comfort if necessary. If soft tissue dehiscence is
      noted the patient is advised to use a 1 % chlorhexidine gluconate gel (Chlorhexamed 1% Gel,
      GlaxoSmithKline, Bühl, Germany) twice daily. Sutures are retained as long as they maintained
      closure.18 Seven to 8 days after surgery wound healing is classified according to the Early
      Wound-Healing Index (EWI).

      Statistical analysis Sample size calculation is based on an observed standard deviation for
      CAL-V gain (1.6 mm) in a study comparing regenerative therapy with and without antibiotics.
      To detect a mean difference of 1.0 mm with a test power of 80% and a type 1 error alpha <
      0.05 a minimal sample size of 84 patients has to be recruited, 42 for each group. Thus, it is
      decided to recruit a total of 90 patients.

      The patient is defined as statistical unit. CAL-V gain at 6 months is used as primary and
      bony fill at 12 months as secondary outcome variables. All other parameters are control
      variables. Baseline patient characteristics are described as means±SD (age, PCR) or
      frequencies/percentages (sex, smoking). All clinical parameters are calculated as means±SD
      (PI, GI, PD, CAL-V, INFRA).

      After controlling for normal distribution CAL-V gain and PD reduction for the 2 test groups
      (DOXY/PLAC) are compared using an independent t test. Intragroup comparisons (baseline/12/24
      months) are calculated using the paired t test. Inter and intragroup comparisons for
      radiographic bone, PI and GI are calculated using Mann Whitney U and Wilcoxon test,
      respectively. To explore the impact of subgingival microflora on the primary and secondary
      outcome variables we compare CAL-V gain (independent t test) 6 months and bony fill (Mann
      Whitney U) 12 months after therapy according to presence/absence of the tested periodontal
      pathogens.

      A multiple regression model is calculated for the dependent variable bony fill with the
      independent variables baseline clinical parameters (CAL-V, PD, GI, PI), postsurgical
      medication (DOXY/PLAC), defect parameters (INFRA, % 1, 2, 3wall component), baseline A.
      actinomycetemcomitans, age, sex, centre, smoking, EHI. Sex, centre, and smoking habits are
      defined by indicator variables. All patients that are recruited and treated according to the
      study protocol are considered for analysis (intent to treat: ITT). If a patient left the
      study before finishing all re-examinations the respective data of the last re-examination are
      entered into the analysis (last observation carried forward: LOCF). Statistical analysis is
      performed using a PC program (SystatTM for Windows Version 10, Systat Inc. Evanston, IL,
      USA).
    
  