
    
      Background:

      The current approach to monitoring adverse symptom events in NCI-sponsored treatment trials
      is clinical staff reporting, using items from the Common Terminology Criteria for Averse
      Events (CTCAE). Of the 1,059 discrete items in the CTCAE, approximately 77 contain a
      subjective component sufficient enough to be amenable to patient self-reporting such as pain,
      fatigue, nausea,

      and hair loss. There is general agreement that the patient, via a self-report, is the best
      source for reporting symptoms. Studies have shown that when compared to clinician reports,
      patients report earlier onset, greater severity, and longer duration of symptoms.

      In September 2008, the NCI awarded a contract (N02-PC-85002-29; PI: Basch; Co-I: Hay) to
      support the development of an electronic-based and psychometrically robust patient-reported
      outcomes version of the symptom-related AEs listed in the CTCAE in an effort to improve the
      accuracy and precision of grading of this class of AEs. To achieve this goal, we will conduct
      cognitive interviews with 77 newly-developed PRO items that will subsequently be subjected to
      psychometric analysis, usability testing, and feasibility testing in a range of treatment
      settings among diverse groups of patients.

      Objectives:

      The overall goal of this proposed study is to evaluate patient comprehension of 77 newly
      developed PRO items in a range of treatment settings among diverse groups of cancer patients.
      The objectives are to evaluate: 1) patients understanding of the language and 2) the
      usability of the technology interface for collecting the PRO data of the PRO-CTCAE system.

      Eligibility:

      Patients will be eligible for the study if they are 1) aged 18 or older; 2) English-fluent;
      3) undergoing chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy with curative or palliative intent; and 4) can
      provide informed consent.

      Design:

      We will conduct up to three rounds of cognitive interviews in 100 cancer patients at
      participating cancer centers including MSKCC, Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Duke and M.D.
      Anderson. After completion of the first round of interviews, results will be analyzed for
      problematic items. Revised items will be reviewed in subsequent rounds as needed. The final
      PRO-CTCAE items will proceed to usability testing. Usability testing will comprise three main
      components: 1) observation of users interacting with the web-based assessment system coupled
      with think aloud protocols and extensive field notes; 2) user feedback using semi-structured
      interviews and short surveys; and 3) web analytics including tracking for different web
      pages, with clickstream analysis. Usability testing will be conducted with 60 clinical
      research staff and 60 patients.
    
  