
    
      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational
      drug or a combination of drugs. Phase I studies try to define the appropriate dose of the
      investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug and
      the combination of drugs are still being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the study drugs, ribociclib
      or everolimus, for relapsed ALL, but these drugs have been approved for other uses.

      Ribociclib is a chemotherapy drug that is approved by the FDA for the treatment of certain
      types of breast cancer. It has also been studied in children and adults with other types of
      cancer. Information from these research studies has suggested that ribociclib may also be
      effective in treating participants with leukemia that did not respond to standard treatment
      or participants with leukemia that has come back after standard treatment.

      The growth and survival of leukemia cells is controlled by proteins within the cancer cell.
      The study drug, ribociclib, blocks a specific type of protein called a cyclin-dependent
      kinases (CDK). Laboratory and other studies suggest that when ribociclib blocks CDKs, cancer
      cells stop growing.

      Everolimus is a chemotherapy drug that is approved by the FDA for the treatment of breast
      cancer, neuroendocrine tumor and kidney cancer. Laboratory and other studies suggest that
      everolimus may prevent leukemia cell growth and also that it has been shown to increase the
      effectiveness of other chemotherapy drugs, including ribociclib. It has been studied in
      hundreds of people with various types of cancer as a single agent (a drug that is used alone
      to treat the cancer) or in combination with a number of other drugs.

      The drug combination of ribociclib and everolimus has not been previously tested in children,
      though these agents have been used together in adults with breast cancer.

      In this research study the investigators are looking to learn more about how ribociclib and
      everolimus work in combination with other standard of care drugs commonly used to treat
      relapsed/refractory leukemia. The main goals of the study are:

        -  To evaluate the side effects (good and/or bad) of giving ribociclib in combination with
           other standard of care drugs.

        -  To determine the highest dose of ribociclib and everolimus that can be given safely in
           combination with other standard of care drugs.

        -  To determine the amount of ribociclib and everolimus in the blood when it is given in
           combination with other standard of care drugs.
    
  