
    
      Purpose and design This study will be the first of its kind to address the difference in
      inflammatory reaction between these two sutures in entropion repair surgery. Both sutures are
      widely used in the NHS in eyelid surgery already. The study design has involved peer review
      from eminent doctors and two statisticians. The questionnaire development involved patients.

      Recruitment Patients will be recruited from the oculoplastic clinics at the Western Eye
      Hospital and Royal Bournemouth Hospital where they will be approached by the principal
      investigator and colleagues who are also members of the regular care team and GCP trained.
      Patients will be informed about the study and given sufficient time to decide whether or not
      they wish to participate. Fully informed consent will be obtained before any study procedures
      will take place.

      INCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Adult patients (aged 18 years or over)

        -  Diagnosis of involutional entropion with sufficient lid laxity for a wedge excision

        -  Ability to provide informed consent EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Aged under 18 years

        -  Prior lower eyelid surgery

        -  Predisposing conditions and treatments known to interfere with scarring and healing

             -  Concurrent steroid treatment

             -  Addison's disease

             -  Poorly controlled diabetes

             -  History of keloid scarring

             -  History or current cicatrizing disease

             -  Warfarin

        -  Unable to provide informed consent No one will be unfairly excluded/included in the
           research

      Consent Consent will be taken by a researcher who is able to assess capacity and does so in
      everyday practice. Only participants who are able to give fully informed consent will be
      approached for participation.

      Risks:

      The suture material being studied are widely used in oculoplastic surgery internationally and
      within the NHS. All sutures can cause scarring, although the risk of significant scarring in
      eyelid surgery is low as eyelids tend to heal well due to a good blood supply. The main risk
      of surgery is that the procedure does not work, but these are standard NHS treatments and are
      accepted as being low risk. Patients will be informed that a benefit of being in the trial is
      that their procedure will be performed by a senior oculoplastic surgeon and much sooner than
      is usually possible on a standard NHS waiting list. They will have more close attention paid
      to their symptoms and a more detailed assessment and aftercare.

      Confidentiality The investigators will abide by the Caldicott principles. Confidentiality
      will be maintained at all times in compliance with the ICH GCP and applicable Trust
      protocols.

      Conflict of Interest There is no financial or other conflicts of interest. This is an
      investigator-led study. Ethicon are providing funding for the study but they have not been
      involved in the study design and will have no rights over the data handling or publication.
    
  