
    
      Objective: This trial will evaluate the effectiveness of photodynamic therapy (aminolevulinic
      acid plus blue light) for treatment of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma in situ (SCCis).

      This pilot study will prospectively recruit 40 subjects with biopsy proven SCCis at the time
      of their visit at University Dermatology East Providence office. Exclusion criteria include
      lesion in high-risk site (head, neck, hands, feet), previous severe adverse reaction to
      topical 20% aminolevulinic acid (Kerastick), previous severe adverse reaction to blue light
      (BLU-U), allergy to Tegaderm, primary or secondary immunosuppression, history of > 6 skin
      cancers in the past year, photosensitizing condition such as lupus, or sensitivity to
      porphyrins.

      Half of the subjects will be randomized to the control group (n=20), and the remaining
      subjects (n=20) will be randomized to the intervention group. The subject's age and gender,
      and size and location of the SCCis will be recorded. For the control group, subjects will
      undergo a surgical excision of the tumor, which is the gold standard of treatment for SCCis.
      After the excision, subjects will be asked to fill out a satisfaction survey. They will not
      receive any PDT treatment.

      For the intervention group, photographs of the lesion will be taken at each study visit. A
      clear transparency film will be used to trace the clinical margins of the lesion, as well as
      any other distinctive skin markings such as nevi or birthmarks. Subjects will then undergo
      the study procedure. The area to be treated will be swabbed with an alcohol wipe and allowed
      to dry. The investigator will apply topical 20% 5-ALA to the SCCis. Then, the area will be
      covered with Tegaderm film for 3 hours. At the end of 3 hours, the Tegaderm will be removed
      and the subject will be exposed to a blue light source, which is the standard protocol for
      treatment with blue light PDT. During administration of the light and immediately afterwards,
      the subject will be monitored for any side effects, such as erythema, edema,
      stinging/burning, blisters/crusting, hyperpigmentation, and hypopigmentation. These items
      will be graded on a scale of 1 to 4 (1=mild and 4=severe) assessed immediately after
      treatment. This process will be repeated at the next visit 3-5 weeks later. At six months
      after the last treatment, subjects in the intervention group will return for clinical
      follow-up and surgical excision of the lesion. Patients will complete a satisfaction survey
      at the end of this visit.
    
  