
    
      Aim:

      The primary aim of our study is to evaluate the antiproteinuric effect of irbesartan 300, 600
      and 900 mg once daily in type 2 diabetic patients with microalbuminuria. Secondary to
      evaluate the effect on 24-h ambulatory blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate (GFR),
      urinary TGF beta excretion, and markers of endothelial dysfunction, and finally to evaluate
      the association between treatment response and genotypes with possible implications for the
      risk of cardiovascular disease.

      Patients 60 type 2 diabetic patients with persistent microalbuminuria (at least two out of
      three 24-h urinary collections with albumin excretion between 30 and 300 mg/24-h).

      Duration of study 38 weeks (8 weeks wash-out and 30 weeks of double-blind randomized
      cross-over (treatment with irbesartan 300, 600 and 900 mg for 10 weeks at each dose level)).

      Design The study consists of an eight week wash-out period followed by a double-blind
      randomized three 10 week treatment period cross-over trial (please see enclosed flow chart).

      Wash-out period: Eight weeks prior to randomization all previous antihypertensive medication
      is discontinued and replaced by hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily throughout the entire
      study period. Hydrochlorothiazide is added to reduce blood pressure elevation and edema
      formation during the trial and to eliminate the influence of varying dietary salt intake on
      the effects of irbesartan during the double blind treatment periods.

      Double-blind cross-over periods: All patients receive treatment with irbesartan 300, 600 and
      900 mg once daily in random order, without wash-out between treatment periods. All treatment
      periods are of 10 weeks duration. They consist of an initial two week titration period on
      irbesartan 300 mg o.d. to minimize the risk of adverse events including hypotension during
      cross-over in doses followed by an eight week period on the full dose for the given treatment
      level.

      For safety reasons blood pressure, serum potassium and serum creatinine will be measured 4
      weeks after the beginning of each treatment period (two weeks after the full dose of the
      treatment period is reached).

      End-points are evaluated after the wash-out period (baseline) and at the end of each
      treatment period.

      Methods Albuminuria is assessed by turbidimetry in three 24-h urinary samples. 24-h
      ambulatory blood pressure by the Takeda TM-2420/2421 device. GFR by plasma clearance of
      51Cr-EDTA. DNA will be extracted from a venous sample to determine genotypes with possible
      implications for the risk of cardiovascular disease. Initially we will evaluate the influence
      of the ACE/ID- , Angiotensin II type I receptor (A1166C) - and the angiotensinogen (M235T)
      polymorphisms.

      Endpoints Primary endpoint: change in albuminuria Secondary endpoints: 24-h ambulatory blood
      pressure, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and to evaluate the association between treatment
      response genotypes with possible implications for the risk of cardiovascular disease
    
  