
    
      The measurements have to estimate the agreement of esCCO™ and PiCCO® related to the cardiac
      output (cardiac index). It should consult a comparison of methods between a complete
      non-invasive cardiac output monitoring method (esCCO™) and the transcardiopulmonal
      thermodilution technique (PiCCO®). The accuracy shall carve out as well as the power of
      agreement of both measurement methods.

      It takes two simultaneous measurements at a time of critically ill patients at
      interdisciplinary surgical intensive care units. Furthermore the force of the major variables
      (1. requirement of norepinephrine and 2. APACHE II-score) to the estimators shall be
      realized.

      esCCO™ vs. (PiCCO®)

      This research shall include 100 patients which have to undergo a complex intensive care
      treatment within predefined therapy intentions.

      During a daily screening within the interdisciplinary surgical intensive care units of the
      Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel it will be opted for the inclusion of
      the patients.

      Points of time x [x ε M and M = {1, 2, 3, 4}] - two test series (measurement 1 and 2).

      According to the ability of the patient to the research the predefined point of time number 1
      will be supposed (point of time number 1: inclusion criterium). The predefined point of time
      number 2 will be supposed if the therapy concept is planned or changed. The point of time
      number 3 is defined as the re-evaluation in the course of changed therapy conceptions. If the
      medical practitioner team decides to renounce the PiCCO-system, the predefined point of time
      number 4 has arrived.

      The requirement of norepinephrine will be registered in every measurement (1 and 2). The
      APACHE II-score will be surveyed each point of time x (see above).

      The remaining treatment of the patients will be performed in the conventional way by the
      medical practitioner team within the interdisciplinary surgical intensive care units.
    
  