
    
      Acute urinary retention is one of the most common complications after surgery and anesthesia.
      It can occur in patients of both sexes and all age groups and after all types of surgical
      procedures. It is linked to several factors including increased intravenous fluids,
      postoperative pain and type of anesthesia. Micturition depends on coordinated actions between
      the detrusor muscle and the external urethral sphincter. Motorneurons of both muscles are
      located in the sacral spinal cord and coordination between them occurs in the pontine
      tegmentum of the caudal brain stem. Motorneurons innervating the external urethral sphincter
      are located in the nucleus of Onuf, extending from the S1 to the S3 segment. The detrusor
      smooth muscle is innervated by parasympathetic fibers, which reside in the sacral
      intermediolateral cell group and are located in S2-4. Sympathetic fibers innervating the
      bladder and urethra play an important role in promoting continence and are located in the
      intermediolateral cell group of the lumbar cord (L1-L4). Most afferent fibers from the
      bladder enter the sacral cord through the pelvic nerve at segments L4-S2 and the majority are
      thin myelinated or unmyelinated. nlike spinal anesthesia, which is an all or none block,
      epidural anesthesia has applications ranging from analgesia with minimal motor block to dense
      anesthesia (differential blockade). Because epidural anesthesia can be performed at various
      levels of the spinal cord, it is possible to block only a portion of the spinal cord
      (segmental blockade). Therefore it can be assumed that epidural analgesia within segments Th
      4-6 to Th 10-12 has no or minimal influence on the micturition reflex. There are few studies
      on the urodynamic effects of various anaesthetic agents, focused on lumbar epidural
      anaesthesia. Under the influence of epidural analgesia, patients may not feel the urge to
      urinate, which can result in urinary retention and bladder overdistension. Overfilling of the
      bladder can stretch and damage the detrusor muscle. For example, the use of lumbar epidural
      analgesia for labor and delivery has frequently been implicated as a causative factor for
      postpartum urinary retention. This is supported by the fact that these patients demonstrate a
      difficulty voiding. Spinal and epidural opioid administration influence the function of the
      lower urinary tract by direct spinal action on the sacral nociceptive neurons and autonomic
      fibres. Long acting local anesthetics administrated intrathecally rapidly block the
      micturition reflex. Detrusor contraction is restored approximately 7-8 hours after spinal
      injection of bupivacaine. For this reason, bladder catheterisation is a common practice in
      patients with spinal or epidural anesthesia.The use of a transurethral catheter is associated
      with significant morbidity such as patient discomfort, urinary tract infections, urethral
      trauma and stricture. The risk of infection with a single catheterization is 1-2% and can
      rise by 3 to 7 % for every additional day with a indwelling catheter. Traumatic or prolonged
      catheterization may lead to urethritis and to urethral strictures. There has yet been no
      consensus for appropriate catheterisation strategy during regional anesthesia. We expect that
      a better knowledge on the bladder function under epidural analgesia could lead to a more
      restrictive use of perioperative transurethral catheters.Urodynamic changes under thoracic
      epidural anaesthesia are still unknown. The aim of this study is to compare lower urinary
      tract function before and during thoracic epidural analgesia within segments Th4-6 to Th
      10-12 for postoperative pain treatment in patients undergoing lumbotomy for kidney surgery.
    
  