
    
      This prospective, randomized, triple-armed trial compared the effectiveness of three
      different anesthetic approaches for intravitreal injections. Were included 92 consecutive
      patients scheduled to receive intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin, Genentech,
      Inc.) in one eye, from June 2014 to September 2014, evaluated at at a single center - Retina
      Clinic, Osasco, São Paulo, Brazil. The same ophthalmologist (CGA) administered both,
      anesthetic and therapeutic, injections. A masked nurse collected patient assessment responses
      and a masked statistician performed statistical analyses. The research followed the tenets of
      the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the Committee of Ethics in Research. All
      participants gave written informed consent prior to their participation.

      Patients were randomized to 1 of 3 groups before injection: proparacaine 0.5% drops
      (Anestalcon®, Alcon Lab. do Brasil Ltda, São Paulo, Brazil), (Group Drops), proparacaine plus
      subconjunctival lidocaine 1% (Xylestesin®, Cristália, São Paulo, Brazil) (Group SC), or 2%
      lidocaine gel (Xylestesin®, Cristália, São Paulo, Brazil) (Group Gel).

      A standardized method was used to prepare the injection site and disinfect the skin using
      povidone iodine 10%. Patients from groups Drops and SC received a drop of proparacaine 0.5%
      before receiving a drop of povidone iodine 5%. For the patients from Group Gel, the gel was
      placed on the eye before receiving the drop of povidone iodine 5%. Patients from Group Drops
      received a second drop of proparacaine 0.5%, 5 minutes after the drop of povidone iodine 5%.
      For the patients from Group SC, a subconjunctival bleb of anesthesia was created by injecting
      0.4 ml of lidocaine 1% into the subconjunctival space, posteriorly to the superotemporal
      limbus with a 30-gauge, 1/2-inch needle attached to a 1-ml syringe. After 5 minutes of the
      drop of povidone iodine 5%, sterile field and a lid speculum were placed. The injection site
      was measured with calipers to be 3.5 mm or 4.0 mm posterior to the superotemporal limbus, for
      pseudophakic and phakic eyes, respectively. A 30-gauge 1/2-inch needle was used to inject
      0.05 ml of bevacizumab (Avastin, Genentech, Inc.). After the injection, mild pressure was
      applied with a swabstick over the injection site to reduce vitreous reflux and
      subconjunctival hemorrhage another a drop of povidone iodine 5% was applied.

      Immediately following the injection, a nurse, who was masked to the treatment, explained the
      100-mm visual analog scale (VAS) for pain (Figure 1) and questioned the patients' level of
      pain perceived during the injection. This assessment was repeated 10 minutes, 1 hour, 6 hours
      and 24 hours later, without visualization of their prior responses. Patients were also asked
      to grade their overall experience with the injection procedure as Excellent (5), Very good
      (4), Fair (3), Poor (2) or Awful (1). The physician evaluated the patients' eye movement
      during intravitreal injection into three levels: none or minimal (0), not compromising the
      injection (1), compromising the injection (2). Complications that occurred during or after
      the procedures were also recorded.
    
  