
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (AlloHCT) is recommended as a post-remission
      therapy for patients with adult ALL, and reduced intensity conditioning has been tried to
      decrease treatment-related mortality (TRM) rate.

      Recent results showed that reduced intensity conditioning can be safely and effectively used
      for alloHCT of adult patients with ALL. However, the reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) can
      increase the possibilities of hematologic relapse, especially due to the reduced
      anti-leukemic effect. Another challenge in performing alloHCT for ALL is the donor
      availability - the limited availability of matched sibling donor (MSD) and well-matched
      unrelated donor (WMUD) forces us to find the feasibility of alternative donors such as
      partially-matched unrelated donor (PMUD) or haploidentical familial donor (familial
      mismatched donor, FMD).

      The previous study (NCT0137764) which the investigators performed showed that the use of RIC
      and alternative donor was feasible. However, the incidence of relapse was slightly higher
      among patients who received RIC when the investigators analyzed the interim analysis results.
      Especially, the graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) incidence was relatively higher among
      patients who received alloHCT from MSD, and the investigators think that the addition of
      antithymocyte globulin will reduce the incidence of GVHD for these patients.

      In this study, the dose of busulfan will be increased when the recipients are below 55 years
      old, irrespective of donor type. The investigators will also define the partially matched
      donor exactly and find the feasibility of PMUD and FMD again. Another endpoint for this study
      is to find out whether the addition of antithymocyte globulin may be helpful in preventing
      the GVHD incidence for patients who received alloHCT from MSD without increasing the chance
      of hematologic relapse.
    
  