
    
      Since March 2020, Europe has been facing the spread of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19),
      an emerging infectious disease of viral zoonosis type, caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-21.
      This virus is responsible for an epidemic in Wuhan in November 2019 and a pandemic in March
      2020. The mode of transmission, both respiratory and by contact, carried by microdroplets
      emitted by an infected person and inhaled by a person nearby, induces a very high
      contagiousness rate2. In the majority of cases, CoV-2-SARS infection is not very symptomatic,
      but some evolve into severe forms, particularly in frail people: elderly subjects, those
      affected by chronic diseases (diabetes, obesity or cancer) or those undergoing
      immunosuppressive treatments. There is still little information on the reasons why some will
      develop a severe form while others will remain asymptomatic. The immune response is little
      studied in this context.

      Functional study of the cellular immune response has shown its interest in predicting the
      risk of infection in different cohorts, particularly in renal insufficiency subjects awaiting
      transplantation with an over-risk of developing an infection within a year in patients with a
      low level of gamma interferon (INFγ: main anti-viral cytokine) after non-specific stimulation
      of T lymphocytes.

      A study published the clinical characteristics of 41 patients infected with coronavirus at
      the Huanan seafood market (first contact cases). Despite a similar clinical symptomatology:
      cough (76%) and fever (98%), some patients required rapid ventilatory assistance. These
      patients had an increased production of inflammatory cytokines: IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10,
      MCP1, MIP1A, and TNFα3.

      Here, the objective is to identify cytokine profiles in subjects exposed to or infected with
      SARS-CoV-2 that can predict their risk of developing a severe pauci-symptomatic form at the
      time of exposure or during the development of a severe form. the team believes that the
      immune response to this infection is a major factor in the risk of developing an asymptomatic
      infection, a flu-like symptomatology or a respiratory failure syndrome (ARDS).3,4 The team
      believes that the immune response to this infection is a major factor in the risk of
      developing an asymptomatic infection, a flu-like symptomatology or a respiratory failure
      syndrome (ARDS). The team thus wishes to better direct patients to appropriate care
      structures to optimise the care pathway (ambulatory, infectiology, intensive care),
      respirators and number of beds so as not to overload the staff) and to enable treatments to
      be personalised and adapted as best as possible: corticosteroids, immunomodulators,
      antivirals.

      The study will be based on 2 axes: a first clinical axis (i) and a cellular axis (ii).

      In its clinical part (i), the intensity of the immune response in COVID19 subjects presenting
      different forms of the disease (asymptomatic, moderate and severe forms) will be measured.
      These subjects will be recruited from two different patient populations:

        -  Subjects at risk of infection with CoV-2-SARS. We will test the Th1 response of
           caregivers at the time of their entry into a COVID-19 service by measuring the level of
           INFγ released after non-specific T-cell stimulation. The hypothesis is that a high level
           of INFγ at the time of exposure prevents the risk of developing severe disease and
           directs the patient towards less symptomatic forms. Thus, thanks to serological tests,
           it will be possible to determine retrospectively in this group how many subjects
           presented an asymptomatic form and thus to determine with the help of a functional test
           mimicking a viral infection the level of IFNγ measured after stimulation.

        -  Patients with CoV-2-SARS infection hospitalized in the Infectious Diseases Department
           with a moderate form or in resuscitation with a severe form of COVID.19 The evaluation
           of these patients on admission using a functional test mimicking a viral infection the
           rate of IFNγ measured after stimulation will be carried out.

      The levels of IFNγ measured after stimulation will be compared in these 3 groups of COVID19
      patients if the evolution towards inflammatory cytokinic profiles at D0, D5 and D10 can
      predict the risk of developing ARDS...

      Then, the impact of different therapeutic interventions on the secretion of INFγ will be
      tested in vitro in an ancillary study (ii): anti-inflammatory, corticosteroids, anti-IL6,
      IL2, IL7, chloroquine on their capacity to produce anti-viral cytokines of the type INFγ on
      different T cells while limiting the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines by cells of
      innate immunity, from healthy subjects, COVID-19 subjects with a mildly symptomatic form or
      COVID-19 subjects with ARDS.
    
  