
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) of nivolumab in combination with
      DA-REPOCH with short course nivolumab maintenance.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR), complete response (CR) rate, and duration
      of response to nivolumab in combination with DA REPOCH with short course nivolumab
      maintenance.

      II. To establish that nivolumab in combination with DA-REPOCH with short course nivolumab
      maintenance is feasible at standard dosing.

      III. To establish the toxicity profile of nivolumab in combination with DA-REPOCH with short
      course nivolumab maintenance at standard dosing.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate the presence of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II by
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) with PFS.

      II. To correlate tumor and microenvironment expression of PD-L1 and microenvironment
      expression of PD-1 with PFS.

      III. To correlate cell of origin, MYC and Bcl-2 expression, Epstein-Barr virus
      (EBV)-positivity, and Ki67 proliferation index with response to treatment.

      IV. To determine the effect of nivolumab in combination with DA-REPOCH on immune cell subsets
      in the peripheral blood over time.

      V. To correlate circulating tumor (ct) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) with disease response by
      positron emission tomography (PET) imaging.

      VI. To track clonal evolution and detect the emergence of treatment-resistance by ct-DNA
      monitoring.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) and nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1.
      Patients also receive etoposide, vincristine sulfate and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV
      continuously over 96 hours, cyclophosphamide IV bolus, and prednisone orally (PO) on days
      1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. After course 6, patients receive nivolumab IV over 60
      minutes on day 1 every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      3 years, and then every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  