
    
      Acute respiratory failure (ARF) represents one of the most common causes of ICU admission.
      Support management begins with oxygen administration in a noninvasive way until invasive
      mechanical ventilation (IMV) is needed. If IMV is used, sedatives and likely neuromuscular
      blockade is required to facilitate ventilatory support. Sedation and paralysis preclude
      mobilisation, promoting neuromuscular deconditioning, and potentially contributing to
      long-term sequelae.

      High-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) is a relatively new, easy-to-use respiratory support for
      patients with ARF. HFNC has shown to lower the respiratory drive and improves oxygenation, is
      more comfortable for patients, and may reduce the risk of reintubation.

      Although HFNC may lower the risk of mortality in patients with hypoxemic ARF, a recent trial
      in immunocompromised patients showed no benefit on mortality over standard oxygen therapy,
      raising the question if other adjunctive therapies could improve patient outcomes.

      Prone positioning (PP) has shown to improve survival in selected patients with ARDS. This
      survival benefit is likely mediated by reduced VILI, as regional differences in lung
      aeration, compliance, and shear strain are minimised.

      PP benefits may also concern to spontaneous breathing patients. PP application in patients
      undergoing NIV or oxygen therapy suggests good patient tolerance, improved oxygenation with
      neither increase in nurse workload nor respiratory or technical complications. A recent
      electrical impedance tomography study on healthy volunteers under HFNC showed a more
      homogeneous dorsal-to-ventral ventilation pattern in PP, as compared to the supine position.
      Notably, dorsal-to-ventral air redistribution may benefit hypoxemic patients as PaO2 response
      to oxygen supplementation can be fostered by more homogeneous regional lung inflation.

      Given its tolerability and few complications in spontaneous breathing patients, PP could be
      an adjuvant therapy in patients with ARF under HFNC therapy and may avoid the need of IMV and
      its side effects.

      The investigators propose a randomised multicentre controlled trial to determine whether
      prone position (PP) in patients with de novo acute hypoxemic respiratory failure under high
      flow nasal cannula (HFNC) decreases the intubation rate at 28 days after randomisation.

      ARF will be defined as respiratory rate (RR) > 25 breaths/min, PaO2/FiO2 ≤300 mm Hg on oxygen
      ≥10 lit/minute for at least 15 minutes, partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2)< 45 mm Hg,
      and no history of chronic moderate to severe respiratory failure.

      Patients will be assessed during the first 12 hours of ARF as per the following inclusion
      criteria:

        -  > 18 years

        -  RR >20 and <35

        -  SpO2/FiO2 < 201 in supine semi-recumbent position (SP), measured after 15 minutes of
           HFNC (50 lit/min, T° 37°C, FiO2 > 0.5 set for a SpO2 >92% and <96%).

      Eligible patients will undergo HFNC during a 15-minute monitoring window in SP. If SpO2/FiO2
      <123 mmHg and RR>35 bpm, the patient will be excluded for safety reasons. After signed
      informed consent, if the patient is allocated to PP, he/she will be placed for at least 2
      hours, which may be prolonged if the patient is comfortable or interrupted in case of
      non-tolerance or adverse event. After the PP period, the patient will be rotated and will
      undergo 2-4 hours of SP, depending on nursing availability, need for hygiene, complementary
      explorations or diet.

      The study will be carried out in 40 ICUs. Patients will be randomised centrally and
      stratified on 1:1 ratio by recruitment centre.
    
  