
    
      This study will investigate the effects on bone quality of a medication used to treat severe
      osteoporosis. Teriparatide (PTH) is the only bone formation therapy that has been approved
      for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in Canada. It works by inducing new
      periosteal bone apposition, which results in improved bone geometry and increased bone
      strength, changes that may not be captured by bone mineral density (BMD) measurements.
      Randomized controlled trials have shown that teriparatide increases BMD at the lumbar spine
      and total hip, while BMD at the forearm may decrease after 20 months of therapy. As no data
      to date has been published on changes in bone geometry at the radius either by bone biopsy or
      high resolution peripheral quantitative computer tomography (HR-pQCT) in patients receiving
      PTH therapy, it is unclear whether the decline in BMD at the distal radius observed during
      PTH therapy is indicative of decreases in bone strength, or is a result of increases in the
      width of the radius. It is our intention to fill this gap in knowledge with regard to how PTH
      affects BMD and bone structure at the radius and tibia in postmenopausal women with severe
      osteoporosis. Examining these two components will enable us to better understand the effect
      of teriparatide on bone strength at the radius and the tibia, and bone strength in general,
      independent of changes in BMD after a course of treatment.

      The main objectives of this study are to determine the effect of 24 months of teriparatide
      therapy on cortical thickness, trabecular thickness, trabecular number, trabecular separation
      and BV/TV, as measured by HR-pQCT (XtremeCT, Scanco Medical, Switzerland) at the radius and
      tibia in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. The primary outcome will be cortical
      thickness; the other measures will be secondary outcomes. The secondary objective is to
      determine the effect of 24 months of teriparatide therapy on moment of inertia, connectivity
      index, and bone strength, as measured by the HR-pQCT and calculated using finite element
      modeling analysis at the radius and tibia in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.

      This is an open label before and after study of a cohort of postmenopausal women taking
      teriparatide at baseline and at 24 months of teriparatide therapy. Recruitment of these
      subjects will be by referral from specialty clinics of the participating investigators. The
      postmenopausal women in this study will be prescribed teriparatide according to the most
      recent Canadian product monograph for Forteo™. Participants will undergo two(2) procedures on
      five(5) separate occasions (at baseline, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months and at 24 months).
      The procedures are HR-pQCT and DEXA. In addition to the above procedures, subjects will be
      asked to complete blood tests which are part of standard clinical practice. Blood will be
      drawn both at baseline and at 1 month. A follow up phone call will also be made to the
      participant at 1, 6, and 12 months to discuss any updates in health status.

      With this data, the investigators hope to provide a better understanding of the changes that
      occur in bone structure at the distal radius and tibia during teriparatide therapy.
    
  