
    
      Despite the changed age structure with a steady increase in life expectancy, doctors with
      geriatric expertise are lacking in many hospitals. In the "Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische
      Hochschule" (RWTH) Aachen University Hospital there is also the problem that the Department
      of Geriatrics is outsourced and therefore geriatric expertise is not always available in the
      emergency department. One way to solve this problem is to use telemedicine.

      The aim of the present study is the implementation of a telemedical geriatric co-evaluation
      in the emergency department.

      For the study it is planned to carry out a geriatric co-evaluation of geriatric emergency
      patients (age ≥ 70 years, "Identification of Seniors at Risk" [ISAR] -Score ≥ 2) with
      operative or conservative illnesses via a telemedical visit in the acute setting of the
      emergency department. There is a presentation of the patient by means of video transmission.
      The geriatrician then has the opportunity to question the patient independently or to carry
      out a physical assessment. Since there is no geriatrician at the Department of Geriatrics 24
      hours a day, patients are included on weekdays between 8am and 5pm only.

      Whenever possible, all patients in the emergency department at this time with an age ≥ 70
      years and an ISAR score ≥ 2 will be enrolled at set times of the day. Due to the high number
      of patients in the emergency room, however, it may not be possible at times to include all
      patients. In order to ensure sufficient neutrality, in this constellation, the selection is
      made from the patients currently in the emergency room by means of randomization. Should
      there be age-related difficulties in communicating between patients and geriatrician during
      the telemedical visit, the present scientific assistant or doctor from the emergency
      department will assist to avoid an associated influence on the procedure.

      The rationale behind the telemedicine visit is that this additional early geriatric
      co-assessment will result in improved geriatric follow-up beyond geriatric special care. In
      this pilot study, which aims at an analysis of the actual state with identification of
      potential problem areas, the focus is primarily on pharmacotherapeutic aspects.

      The aim is to compare the diagnostic and treatment recommendations initiated in the emergency
      room by means of telemedical geriatric consultation with the standard treatment of the
      treating internist, neurologist or surgical assistant doctors of the central emergency
      department. The treatment plan defined in the telemedical visit is only a treatment
      recommendation. Prior to the implementation of the recommendations, a check is carried out by
      the responsible senior physician of the emergency department after completing the emergency
      geriatric visit. Thus, there are no risks dependent on the procedure for the patient.

      Due to the high priority of the drug therapy in the emergency department, the primary
      endpoint is a comparison of the drug recommendations. Initially, a quantitative evaluation
      with determination of the number of different views per patient in the pharmacological
      differential therapy was performed. Secondary endpoints are to evaluate the use of
      medications that are considered inadequate for elderly patients. Since no special list of
      inadequate drugs has been validated specifically for the emergency room, the treatment
      recommendations are checked using a standard treatment list, the "Fit for the aged" (FORTA)
      classification system.
    
  