
    
      Current cardiac rehabilitation (CR) guidelines recommend moderate intensity, steady state
      exercise training (MISS). However, this guideline predates significant advances in
      interventional and medical treatment for coronary heart disease (CHD) and may not, therefore,
      be the most effective strategy for the 'modern' patient with CHD. Recent research has
      indicated that greater benefit may be attained by participating in high intensity interval
      training (HIIT) which involves repeated short bursts of harder exercise interspersed with
      short recovery periods. Studies suggest that this can be performed without any compromise in
      exercise adherence or patient safety. The benefit of this approach in 'real world' CR
      programmes in the UK cannot be confirmed, as studies have been predominantly conducted in the
      laboratory and exclusively outside the UK.

      In patients attending CR programmes in the UK, the investigators hypothesise that HIIT will
      improve VO2 peak to a greater extent than MISS. The investigators also hypothesise that HIIT
      will: 1) be more palatable than MISS and demonstrate greater patient compliance and
      adherence; 2) improve cardiovascular health to a greater extent than MISS; 3) improve HR-QoL
      to a greater extent than MISS; 4) lead to more positive motivation and attitudes to exercise
      than MISS; 5) increase short and medium-term participation in lifestyle physical activity to
      a greater extent than MISS; 6) be a cost effective alternative to MISS; 7) be as safe as
      MISS.

      The HIIT or MISS study is a pragmatic single-blind, multi-centre, longitudinal, randomised
      controlled trial. Participants will be randomly allocated to 8 weeks of HIIT or MISS (usual
      care). Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 8 weeks and 12 months by assessors blinded to
      group allocation. Study interventions will be delivered by clinical (not research) staff.
    
  