
    
      Our gut has a complex and diverse bacterial population which is called the microbiome. The
      number of bacteria in the intestine is estimated to exceed 10^14. The composition of the
      microbiome is individual and changes over the lifetime of the host.

      The composition of a healthy microbiome consists more than 90% of bacteria from the
      Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes phyla types. Nevertheless the microbiome varies even between
      healthy individuals and evolves over the lifetime.

      Most of the microorganisms are not pathogen, thus they have been shown to interact with
      several physiological processes in our body. In Addition it has been shown that the bacterial
      population has an impact on building our gut epithelial cells, our immunology and the defence
      against pathogens.

      Interestingly estrogen and the microbiome seem to be under reciprocal influence. In our body
      estrogen is only active in the deconjugated form. Therefore, after it was conjugated in the
      liver, the bacteria in the gut can perform a deconjugation through the secretion of the
      enzyme ß-glucuronidase. Ultimately, the activated estrogen is going back into blood
      circulation, otherwise it would leave the body through bile excretion. The composition of the
      microbiome is fundamental, because the presence and abundance of different gene expressions
      varies between the different types of bacteria. The bacterial genes which are responsible for
      metabolizing estrogens are called the estrobolome. However, data whether there is a
      relationship of the changes of the sex hormones during the menstrual cycle and the intestinal
      microbiome in women is sparse.

      Parts of the estrogens circulating in the body are metabolised in the liver and are then
      secreted to the intestine conjugated with glucuronide. The intestinal microbiota could
      potentially affect estrogen metabolism via Beta-glucuronidase activity. Beta-glucuronidase is
      an enzyme that catalyses the deconjugation of estrogen. As a consequence, it may bind to
      estrogen receptors and unfold its downstream effects.
    
  