
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse is a common female condition; it is estimated that 50% of women
      experience some degree of prolapse and 30% of attendees at gynaecology clinics present with
      this problem. Vaginal delivery is cited as the main cause of prolapse but menopause, heavy
      lifting, chronic cough and straining are also important factors. Symptoms associated with
      prolapse are backache, pelvic heaviness and bladder, bowel and sexual dysfunction. Thus, the
      condition is debilitating and can greatly affect the sufferer's daily activities and quality
      of life.

      Traditionally, treatment of prolapse consists of surgery or conservative treatment. Surgical
      procedures to repair the fascia vary and improved techniques are constantly being sought. At
      present however the recurrence rate of prolapse after surgery is 25%, with 80% re-occurring
      within two years of surgery. Conservative treatment is often considered if the prolapse is
      small or the patient is not a good candidate for surgery. There are three types of
      conservative treatment: 1) Physical interventions that aim to improve pelvic floor muscle
      function by using pelvic floor muscle assessment and exercises, neuromuscular electrical
      stimulation, 2) Mechanical interventions that aim to manage the prolapse by supporting the
      pelvic area (e.g. using vaginal ring pessaries) and, 3) Lifestyle interventions (such as
      weight loss and reducing exacerbating activities) that seek to avoid exacerbation of the
      prolapse by decreasing intra-abdominal pressure.

      The promotion of pelvic floor exercises (PFEs) for prolapse varies between hospitals with
      some providing only a patient information leaflet and others giving individual instruction
      from a physiotherapist. Such a programme is referred to as pelvic floor muscle training
      (PFMT). An ongoing Cochrane review of the literature has, to date, found no evidence for
      management of pelvic organ prolapse using PFMT. This proposal addresses a gap in the research
      evidence by developing a multi-centre randomised controlled trial of a PFMT intervention for
      women with prolapse. The feasibility of all aspects of such a trial will be assessed, and
      pilot data will be collected at two Scottish Centres (Glasgow and Aberdeen). Ultimately, a
      multi-centre trial would aim to establish if PFMT is better than standardised management for
      reducing prolapse specific symptoms, prolapse severity, the need for surgical prolapse repair
      and the costs associated with the condition.

      50 women attending out-patient clinics who are suitable for the study will be randomised to
      either the control or intervention arm of the trial. Women in the intervention arm will
      receive an individualised programme of PFMT delivered by a physiotherapist via 5 sessions of
      physiotherapy over a 16 week period. This programme will include pelvic muscle assessment,
      teaching and prescription of pelvic floor exercises, and provision of lifestyle advice. Women
      in the control arm will only receive, by post, a lifestyle advice leaflet. Type and severity
      of prolapse will be quantified according to ICS guidelines (POP-Q method). Data on outcome
      measures relating to improvement in prolapse symptoms and associated quality of life will be
      obtained via self-completion questionnaires
    
  