
    
      Patients harboring a primary intracerebral high grade tumor (WHO III- IV) have a median
      survival of six to 12 months. Combined chemoradiotherapy with temozolomide is now the
      standard of care since results of the joint EORTC-NCIC phase III study randomizing between
      radiotherapy alone and combined radiochemotherapy with temozolomide showed a significant
      improvement in 2-years survival from 8% to 24% for the combined treatment arm (Stupp 2005).

      A differentiation between possible responders and non-responders before the start of
      irradiation may eventual be possible by the use of 18F-FDG PET-CT. Preliminary own results
      have shown that a higher metabolic activity in glioblastoma as measured on a simulation
      18F-FDG PET-CT scan can be a prognosticator for shortened survival (Baumert, 2006).

      Our preliminary data show that a high uptake of 18F-FDG on a PET-CT scan before radiotherapy
      in glioblastoma could be a marker for reduced survival.

      Popperl et al showed that dual phase FDG PET imaging is superior in differentiating low-grade
      from high-grade recurrent astrocytomas (Popperl, 2006). Visual analysis of delineation of
      glioma showed that the delayed images (imaged first 0-90 min and once or twice later at
      180-480 min after injection) better distinguished the high uptake in tumors relative to
      uptake in gray matter. SUV comparisons also showed greater uptake in the tumors than in gray
      matter, brain, or white matter at the delayed times (Spence et al).

      These findings support the view that by using FDG-PET scans we could image active areas
      within the tumor. Indeed, in vivo, a cancer is made up by different types of cells, including
      hypoxic cells, cells that proliferate more fast, as well as by non-malignant tissues,
      including inflammatory cells and vasculature.

      Intra-tumor heterogeneity in malignant glioma is often observed and can be visualised also by
      current PET-CT techniques.

      The dynamics of the tracer uptake in the different tumor sub-volumes may give important
      information about the biological characteristics as well. Indeed, the dynamics of FDG uptake
      per cell are dependent on the blood flow, the uptake in the cell and the phosphorylation. All
      these of these steps give information on the biology of the cancer in that particular area of
      the tumor.
    
  