
    
      People with spinal cord injury (SCI) can have an abrupt loss of upright mobility, function
      and physical activity. Inflammation and pain are reported to be increased, with negative
      impacts on quality of life. Powered exoskeletons are a technology that offer standing and
      walking for eligible persons with SCI and have predominantly been used in the chronic SCI
      population with positive benefits in mobility, function, body composition, and quality of
      life (QOL). Despite the potential for exoskeletal-assisted walking (EAW) to promote
      functional recovery and mitigate secondary medical complications, no reports exist on the use
      of exoskeletons in acute inpatient rehabilitation (AIR). The goal of this study is to test
      the effect of early EAW training (incorporated into regular AIR) on accelerating functional
      recovery and reducing pain and inflammation. A total of 30 people with non-progressive SCI
      (≥18 years; <6 months after SCI), who are clinically eligible for gait training during AIR,
      will be randomly assigned into one of two groups (15 participants/group, stratified evenly
      for traumatic and non-traumatic SCI). The intervention group will receive gait training with
      an Ekso powered exoskeleton, incorporated into usual 3-hour AIR (AIR with EAW group). The
      control group will have usual 3-hour AIR, but without using an exoskeleton (AIR only group).
      Motor function, functional activities, pain and inflammation will be assessed after
      enrollment in the study and before discharge from AIR. The intervention group is expected to
      have significantly better outcomes compared with the control group. The impact of successful
      completion of this study would increase knowledge of the effect of using EAW during
      acute/subacute AIR. The expected outcome of this study is that exoskeletal-assisted walking
      during AIR will have significantly greater effects on mitigating some of the secondary
      consequences of paralysis from SCI during the early phases of recovery and rehabilitation.
    
  