
    
      Shockwave Medical Inc. intends to conduct a prospective, multi-center, single blind,
      randomized (1:1) study of Lithoplasty treatment used in combination with DCB versus standard
      balloon angioplasty used in combination with DCB to treat moderate and severely calcified
      femoropopliteal arteries. The Shockwave Medical Peripheral Lithoplasty System is indicated
      for lithotripsy-enhanced, low-pressure balloon dilatation of calcified, stenotic peripheral
      arteries in patients who are candidates for percutaneous therapy. Up to 400 subjects at 60
      sites in Europe, the United States and New Zealand.

      Subjects will be followed through discharge, 30 days, and 6, 12 and 24 months. DUS
      assessments will be completed at 12 and 24 months. Procedural success is defined as residual
      stenosis ≤30% without flow-limiting dissection (≥ grade D) prior to DCB or stenting by
      angiographic core lab.

      Subjects who do not meet the randomized study inclusion and exclusion criteria, but meet the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria for the observational study may be enrolled in the
      observational study. The objective of the observational study is to assess the real-world
      acute performance of the Shockwave Medical Lithoplasty System in the treatment of calcified,
      stenotic, peripheral arteries.The observational study is a prospective, multi-center, single
      arm observational study for subjects who do not meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria of the
      randomized study. A maximum of 1000 subjects at the same 60 sites will be enrolled in the
      observational study. Procedural success is defined as residual stenosis ≤30% without
      flow-limiting dissection (≥ grade D) prior to DCB or stenting by angiographic core lab.
      Enrollment in the observational study is anticipated to last approximately 22 months.
      Subjects in the observational study will be followed through hospital discharge. Once
      enrollment in the randomized portion of the study is complete, subjects may continue to be
      enrolled in the observational study provided they meet OS eligibility criteria.
    
  