
    
      Following informed consent, the study staff member will complete a very brief set of
      demographic and medical history questions, limited to the presence or absence of medical
      problems and treatment for them.

      Participants with capacity to consent will be recruited into either Sub-protocol 1, 2 or 3 on
      the basis of which vital signs are expected to be abnormal. Participants who lack capacity to
      consent to take part in the study will be recruited into Sub-protocol 4.

        -  Sub-protocol 1 participants will have blood pressure, oxygen saturation and heart rate
           measured.

        -  Sub-protocol 2 participants will have respiratory rate and oxygen saturation measured.

        -  Sub-protocol 3 participants will have oxygen saturation measured.

        -  Sub-protocol 4 participants will have blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and
           oxygen saturation measured.

      Participants may also be recruited to a sub-protocol on the basis of their skin tone. This is
      because there are targets within Sub-protocols 1, 2 and 3 related to skin tone.

      Not all vital signs are collected in all participants to focus study nurse attention on fewer
      tasks and to avoid collection of data that is not subsequently used to meet the study
      objectives. This approach should help to keep all aspects of data collection as high quality
      as possible and is consistent with the GDPR requirement of data minimisation.

      For all Sub-protocol 1, 2, 3 and 4 participants, the study team will complete a set of
      pre-measurement observation questions. Background luminosity will be measured using a
      handheld lux meter. The staff member will then prepare for and take the participant's routine
      observations using standard clinical equipment during the same 60-second period that video is
      captured of the participant's face using the Data Collect app. Best efforts will be made to
      adhere to the Lifelight® measurement conditions listed in Appendix B. These measurements and
      video capture will be repeated once more in the case of Sub-protocols 2 and 3, and twice more
      in the case of Sub-protocols 1 and 4. Once measurements are concluded, the study staff member
      will complete the post-measurement observation questions. In all cases, the cleaning protocol
      outlined in Appendix D will be adhered to after each study session.

      A selection of Sub-protocol 1, 2 and 3 participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire
      related to vital sign monitoring and their preference of Lifelight® or other technologies for
      measuring vital signs.
    
  