
    
      Acute viral bronchiolitis is the principal lower respiratory tract infection in infants
      worldwide, 10% of canadian infants are affected each year. It is characterized by a first
      episode of difficulty to breathe, preceded by symptoms of fever, rhinorrhea and cough. The
      only accepted treatment for bronchiolitis is nasal cleaning, hydration and oxygen
      administration. Multiple studies have documented variation in diagnostic testing, clinical
      scores used and different treatment modalities. This suggests a lack of consensus on the
      diagnosis, on criteria for hospitalization and on treatment. Nebulized 3% hypertonic saline
      solution has been proposed as a potential treatment for the reduction in the severity of
      respiratory symptoms and the rate of admission in bronchiolitis, it has never been studied
      alone and the effect on the rate of admission has been little studied.

      We propose a randomized double blind multicenter clinical trial on infants 6 weeks to 12
      months old with moderate or severe bronchiolitis, in 9 emergency departments of hospitals
      situated in different provinces across Canada, during 3 winter seasons. We hypothesise that
      infants with bronchiolitis treated with nebulized hypertonic 3% saline solution would have
      less risk of being hospitalized and would have shorter and less intense respiratory symptoms
      than those infants treated with nebulized normal saline solution. Our principal objective is
      to determine if nebulized 3% hypertonic saline solution reduces admission rate 48 hours after
      treatment compared to placebo. Secondary objectives are to compare between groups intensity
      of respiratory symptoms measured by different clinical scores (RDAI,PRAM, PASS and IRAS),
      duration of symptoms, length of hospital stay, added secondary effects and subsequent office
      visits for the same problem.

      Comparatively to other therapies already studied such as (dexamethasone and epinephrine),
      hypertonic 3% saline constitutes an interesting choice due to the absence of potential
      secondary effects. Our study will try to optimize the utilization of hospital resources
      involved in the treatment of bronchiolitis. Infants suffering from this disease could
      therefore profit from better treatments which will be reflected in a better condition, life
      quality and consequently those of their parents.
    
  