
    
      The anterior hip joint is innervated by articular branches from the femoral nerve (FN), the
      obturator nerve (ON) and the accessory obturator nerve (AON). The posterior and inferior
      parts of the hip joint capsule are innervated by the sacral plexus via a) the sciatic nerve,
      b) the sciatic branch to the quadratus femoris muscle and c) the superior gluteal nerves.
      Gerhardt et al showed that nociceptive fibers are predominantly present in the anterior and
      superolateral parts of the joint capsule, suggesting that the femoral and obturator nerves
      should be the most important nerves to target for hip analgesia.

      The 3-in-1 block and FIB are currently used to provide hip analgesia. However, recent MRI
      imaging studies have shown that proximal local anesthetic spread was not consistent following
      a 3-in-1 block and did not consistently cover the obturator nerve. Similar findings were
      reported for the FIB.

      A recent study on the innervation of the anterior hip revealed the relevant landmarks for the
      articular branches of the FN, AON and ON. This study found that high branches of femoral
      nerve, which were given off superior to the inguinal ligament, play a greater role in the
      anterior hip innervation than previously reported. These high articular branches of the FN
      and AON are consistently found between anterior inferior iliac spine (AIIS) and iliopubic
      eminence (IPE). With the help of ultrasound imaging, these landmarks can be identifiable and
      it is possible to target them directly in order to provide hip analgesia.

      These recent data suggests that blocking these branches as they course deep to the iliopsoas
      muscle should result in superior hip joint analgesia compared to a FIB since the local
      anesthetic spread from a FIB is neither proximal nor deep enough to cover these articular
      branches consistently. Real-time ultrasound can help identify these proximal FN and AON
      branches using the anterior inferior iliac spine and the iliopubic eminence as landmarks.

      The overall aim of this study is to determine in a prospective, randomized, double blind
      manner, the analgesic profile associated with two different regional anesthetic techniques:
      (1) FIB and (2) Femoral articular branches (FAB) block.
    
  