
    
      The National Children s Study (NCS) is a planned, observational, and longitudinal study that
      will enroll and follow a national sample of approximately 100,000 children born in the United
      States (US) to participating women from before birth through the child s 21st birthday. The
      goal of the NCS is to provide information that will ultimately lead to improvements in the
      health, development, and well-being of children. The primary aim of the NCS is to investigate
      the separate and combined effects of environmental exposures (chemical, biological, physical,
      and psychosocial) as well as gene-environment interactions on pregnancy outcomes, child
      health and development, and precursors of adult disease. In-person contacts with the NCS
      participants include visits during pregnancy, after delivery, and throughout infancy and
      childhood at the participant s home and sometimes in a clinical setting. The collection of
      biospecimens, environmental samples, and physical measures is involved in addition to the
      examination of the infant and periodic contacts with the family. In addition, interim phone
      interviews regularly occur with in-person contacts. The NCS consists of the NCS Vanguard
      Study with any sub-studies and the NCS Main Study with any sub-studies. The Vanguard Study is
      the precursor to the Main Study.

      The NCS Vanguard Study is designed and implemented to determine the feasibility,
      acceptability and cost of the elements that will form the Main Study. The Vanguard Study
      enrolls participants at forty Study locations and will have a planned duration of 21 years
      following completion of enrollment. The Vanguard Study will precede the Main Study on an
      ongoing basis to pilot all aspects of the Main Study. The specific objectives of the Vanguard
      Study are:

        1. Evaluation of recruitment, enrollment and retention strategies

        2. Evaluation of study logistics and operations including sites and mechanisms of data
           acquisition, collection, transport and storage of environmental and biological samples,
           and design and performance of information systems

        3. Evaluation of study visit assessments for feasibility, acceptability, reliability,
           reproducibility, cost, value, stability, and redundancy with other assessments

      Families who participate in the NCS will come from forty Study locations across the US. Study
      visit assessments are the tests, environmental samples, biospecimens, questionnaires and
      other forms of data acquisition that are scheduled at the study visits. The evaluation of the
      Vanguard Study will be based on a series of targeted and specific statistical techniques and
      tests selected for each evaluation. Multiple performance measures will be used to inform the
      scope, design, visit structure and schedule, mechanisms and procedures, and analysis plan for
      the Main Study.
    
  