
    
      Despite remarkable progress in recent decades in modern psychopharmacotherapy, patients vary
      substantially in their response to antidepressants, ranging from total remission to complete
      treatment failure. Adverse effects, often bothersome and occasionally life-threatening,
      continue to represent significant challenges to patients and clinicians. Mechanisms
      responsible for such variability remain poorly understood. In addition, although less
      appreciated, substantial cross-ethnic variations in psychotropic responses often exist.
      Recent developments in the field of pharmacogenetics indicate that genetic factors may
      account for a large part of these differences in response. Specific genetic polymorphisms
      affecting the function of the serotonin (SERT) system has been postulated to predict the
      effect of antidepressants. Similarly, genetic mutations have been shown to exert a
      predominant influence on the expression of a number of drug-metabolizing enzymes, including
      most of the cytochrome P-450 enzymes (e.g., CYP2C19 and CYP3A4) that are responsible for the
      biotransformation of most antidepressants. Polymorphisms of genes controlling these enzymes
      have been found to be strongly associated with the propensity for various kinds of side
      effects. Capitalizing on these new developments, the proposed study will examine the
      predictive value of some of these genetic polymorphisms in 400 patients with DSM-IV major
      depression prospectively treated with citalopram (CIT). It is postulated that mutations
      affecting the function of SERT will predict responses to CIT, polymorphism of CYP2C19 will be
      associated with the side effect profiles and pharmacokinetics of CIT. The proposed study
      represents an extension and replication of a 5-year NIH/NIMH collaborative project that had
      designed and initiated in 2001 by the PI, which is currently ongoing at three sites in the
      U.S. ( "Ethnic Variations in Antidepressant Response" 1 R01 MH62421; 1R01MH626761R01MH62531,
      07/01 - 06/06). In the original study, the inclusion of the two comparison groups, African
      Americans and Caucasians, whose genetic mutation patterns diverge significantly from each
      other, will allow us to examine how these differences affect their antidepressant response
      patterns and whether the associations are "replicable" across ethnicity. Results will be
      pooled with those derived from other sites, and will represent a rare opportunity to compare
      findings across Taiwanese, African American and Caucasian subjects with comparable diagnosis
      and treated with an identical protocol.
    
  