
    
      Fatigue is the most frequently reported symptom in patients with cancer. The causes of
      fatigue are multifactorial and include the disease itself, antineoplastic therapies, anemia,
      depression, and malnutrition. Our preliminary data suggest that micronutrient deficiencies,
      specifically carnitine deficiency, may be an important factor in fatigue. Carnitine plays a
      major role in energy metabolism. Systemic depletion is characterized by weight loss, fatigue,
      muscle weakness, decreased tolerance to metabolic stress, and cardiomyopathy. We found
      deficiency of the micronutrient carnitine in 17/27 patients with cancer. Symptoms of fatigue
      and functional status improved significantly in those patients who received oral L-carnitine
      supplementation. In addition, we observed similar results in 6/10 patients with end stage
      AIDS presenting with carnitine deficiency. Objectives: a) To determine the effect of
      L-carnitine therapy on symptoms of fatigue in patients with terminal cancer and serum
      carnitine deficiency, and b) to determine the effect of L-carnitine therapy on performance
      status, cognitive function, mood, quality of life, and motor activity in these patients.
      Study Design: We propose to conduct a Phase Il developmental randomized double-blind
      placebo-controlled study to determine the effect of the micronutrient L-carnitine on fatigue
      and other outcomes in patients with terminal cancer. A sample of 130 patients with terminal
      cancer, fatigue and serum carnitine deficiency will be recruited into the intervention study.
      At the first visit, the patients will receive a baseline assessment of fatigue, performance
      status, cognitive function, mood, and quality of life and motor activity. a) During weeks
      1-4, patients will be randomized to receive L-carnitine, 2 g/day, placebo. b) During weeks
      5-8, all patients will receive L-carnitine at a dose of 2 g/day, for a period of 4 weeks.
      Measures will be repeated at 48 hs, 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 8 weeks. The primary endpoint will
      be change in fatigue at 4 weeks. Analysis will evaluate group differences in the primary
      endpoint and other outcomes. An interim analysis will be done once 15 patients have been
      observed in each group at 4 weeks. Paired and unpaired data analyses between groups will be
      conducted with the assistance of a statistician.
    
  