
    
      Objective: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the hallmark injury of deployment in Iraq and
      Afghanistan. Up to one-third of service members who sustain a TBI are diagnosed with a sleep
      disorder; insomnia being one of the most common. Currently, over half of TBI-associated
      insomnia cases remain untreated due to poor efficacy of available pharmacologic agents.
      Neuroendocrine dysfunction is an important mechanism linking TBI and disordered sleep, thus
      pharmacological agents that address this dysfunction may be effective in treating TBI-related
      insomnia. The neuroendocrine system is essential for regulating sleep and circadian function.
      Decreased neuroendocrine function, including the hypothalamus and the somatotrophic cells of
      the anterior pituitary, which regulate growth hormone secretion, likely contributes to
      insomnia. This assertion is supported by previous studies that demonstrated the
      sleep-promoting effects of growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) administration in healthy
      controls, the elderly, and participants with depression. Therefore, we propose that
      administration of GHRH will address the underlying mechanisms of insomnia in service members
      and veterans who sustained a TBI, and provide a pharmacological agent more robust than
      currently available treatments.

      Study population: This study will recruit 50 active duty service members and veterans with a
      documented TBI to participate in one of two study groups. The insomnia group (n=25) will
      include participants that have a current clinical diagnosis of insomnia without obstructive
      sleep apnea. The no-insomnia group (n=25) will include participants with no current clinical
      diagnosis of insomnia or obstructive sleep apnea. Withdrawals/dropouts will be replaced to
      obtain 20 participants per group who complete the study.

      Design: A double-blind, randomized, crossover design will be used to examine the impact of
      tesamorelin (GHRH (1-44) analog) or placebo on total non-rapid eye movement (NREM) time
      evaluated during two polysomnography visits, scheduled 1-3 weeks apart. Serial blood draws
      will be obtained during the polysomnography to examine endocrine function and neuropeptide
      release.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome is change in NREM time following tesamorelin
      administration compared to placebo. The secondary outcomes are (1) within and between group
      differences in plasma concentration levels of neuroendocrine proteins following tesamorelin
      administration compared to placebo and (2) within and between group differences in urinary
      concentration levels of growth hormone following tesamorelin administration compared to
      placebo.
    
  