
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the anti-tumor activity and toxicity profile of timed delivery of conventional
           paclitaxel and carboplatin (PC) in patients with stage IV melanoma who have received
           prior chemotherapy for their metastatic disease.

        -  To assess the anti-tumor activity and toxicity profile of timed delivery of conventional
           temozolomide (TMZ) chemotherapy in patients with stage IV melanoma who have received
           prior chemotherapy for their metastatic disease.

        -  To assess the anti-tumor activity and toxicity profile of timed delivery of conventional
           PC in patients with stage IV melanoma who have not received prior chemotherapy for their
           metastatic disease.

        -  To assess the anti-tumor activity and toxicity profile of timed delivery of conventional
           TMZ chemotherapy in patients with stage IV melanoma who have not received prior
           chemotherapy for their metastatic disease.

        -  To evaluate the changes of T-regulator cells, melanoma-specific functional parameters as
           a function of time in all four patient cohorts.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease (yes
      vs no) and scheduled chemotherapy regimen (paclitaxel and carboplatin vs temozolomide).

      Beginning at the predicted day of C-reactive peptide (CRP) peak levels, patients receive
      paclitaxel IV and carboplatin IV on days 1, 8, and 15 OR oral temozolomide alone on days 1-5.
      Treatment repeats every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for pharmacological studies. Samples
      are analyzed for CRP quantification via ELISA; presence and number of circulating blood
      T-regulator cells via immunophenotyping for CD4/CD25+ and CD4/fox-p3+ T cells; level of
      functional immunity against melanoma specific antigens (MART-1, tyrosinase, and gp100) and
      survivin in patients that are HLA-A2+ via intracellular staining; total number of cytotoxic T
      lymphocytes (CTLs) capable of reacting against melanoma targets via tetramer staining
      (Becton-Coulter); and quantification of interferon γ-producing, peptide-specific CTLs via
      multicolor conventional flow cytometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 2 years.
    
  