
    
      All twelve community centres, which provide similar types of community care and social
      support services for community-dwelling older people, have been invited by a convenience
      method to work as collaborators in this study. The target population of this study are
      community-dwelling frail older people with general fatigue with a nonspecific cause who will
      be recruited through the community centres. Using computer-generated random numbers, a
      biostatistician not affiliated with this study will randomize the centres into either:
      control, EXER, or COMB. The number of participants recruited in each centre will be in
      proportion to the size of the centre.

      Participants allocated to the COMB group will receive a 16-week programme with a combination
      of the BCE programme and exercise training. The BCE programme is designed based on the Health
      Action Process Approach (HAPA) model and was piloted by the principal investigator, which
      aims to motivate the participants to develop the intention to actively manage their fatigue;
      and to encourage them to gradually exceed the perceived limits of their energy and to
      recondition their bodies by participating in exercise according to their individual exercise
      regimens. The BCE programme consists of three phases (the goal initiation, plan formulation
      and action execution) with 6 face-to-face 1-hour sessions plus two booster BCE sessions at 2
      and 6 months after the programme.

      For the exercise training, a weekly 45-60 minute centre-based exercise programme, which is
      designed according to the American Heart Association's recommendations on exercise for older
      people will be arranged from weeks 4-16 during the execution phase. The exercise sessions
      consist of balance training, resistance exercises, and aerobic training. All participants
      will receive circuit training with set exercises, but the dosage of different components will
      be tailor-made for each participant by a physiotherapist after having their physical
      conditions examined.

      The EXER group will receive a 16-week programme with a combination of exercise training and
      centre-based health talks on the management of different health issues with the exception of
      fatigue.

      The control group will attend centre-based health talks only.

      The number and timing of the health talks for the other two groups will be similar to those
      in the BCE sessions.
    
  