
    
      Partial nephrectomy is a surgical procedure wherein a diseased segment of a kidney is
      surgically removed, leaving behind the remaining healthy kidney parenchyma. This surgical
      procedure is typically performed to remove mass lesions suspicious for malignancy. A major
      goal of partial nephrectomy is to spare as much renal function as possible by preserving the
      healthy portion of the kidney while removing only the pathologic portion of the kidney.

      Hemostatic agents (HA) are devices commonly used during robotic-assisted laparoscopic partial
      nephrectomy (RALPN) due to the risk of bleeding posed by incising a highly vascular organ.
      The use of various HAs as part of the surgical technique for RALPN is well-described.
      Potential benefits such as lower blood loss, lower rate of urine leak, and lower blood
      product transfusion rates have been suggested in small case series. However, larger
      prospective studies have failed to demonstrate these benefits of HAs. They report similar
      patient outcomes regardless of HA use. However, these studies are subject to selection bias
      given the lack of randomization, and they had a small relative number of partial
      nephrectomies performed without HAs.

      To the knowledge of the investigators, no randomized trials have addressed the use of HAs in
      RALPN. Randomized, controlled trials for partial hepatectomy and knee arthroplasty have shown
      no benefit when using hemostatic agents to control bleeding.

      At the home institution for this study, surgeons routinely use HAs in the resection bed
      during RALPN. Available, FDA approved, commercial agents include Floseal and Nu-Knit®. Each
      unit of HA costs $150 - $419 per unit, and often multiple units are used during a given
      procedure. The hospital is paid a set amount based on the patient's insurance for performing
      the procedure regardless of use of HA. The use of HAs therefore increases costs incurred by
      the hospital when performing these procedures. It is imperative to determine if this
      expenditure is justified.

      The primary aim of this study is to compare surgical outcomes in patients undergoing RALPN
      with and without the use of hemostatic agents. Given the small nature of and conflicting
      information from the aforementioned cohort studies, it is imperative to remove selection bias
      and perform a randomized comparison of HA use. This study will provide a much more definitive
      head-to-head comparison of the overall utility of HAs. Additionally, it may provide more
      information about differential patient selection for more appropriate and judicious use of
      HAs. No study has evaluated differential patient selection for HA use, and therefore any
      finding in this realm would be novel.
    
  