
    
      Randomized clinical trial (RCT) in accordance with the recommendations of the Report of
      Consolidated Standards Trials (CONSORT) held in Clinical School of Physical Therapy, Federal
      University of Bahia (UFBA), Salvador, Bahia, with cerebral palsy patients and their
      caregivers. Selection of the population: Inclusion criteria 's own diagnosis of cerebral
      palsy for children, children will be included presenting grade I, II, III, IV and V in the
      System Gross Motor Function Classification (GMFCS) aged 1 year to 12 years old, and a parent
      or caregiver who dedicate themselves in full-time child, comply with the intervention
      protocol and sign the free and informed consent (IC). They will be deleted: Patients will be
      excluded disease of the peripheral nervous system or brain stem, children with other chronic
      diseases receiving palliative care, and children who have bone deformities such as scoliosis
      structured Cobb > 30 and lower limb deformity. A sample of 20 patients group is required. The
      sample size for the study was calculated, considering a statistical power of 80% to 5% alpha.
      Evaluation procedures: To measurement of motor function were used the Gross Motor Function
      Measure (GMFM-88) scales . The range consists of 5 sizes and each size is an engine
      development phase that is related to the first quarters of life. The GMFM-88 with respect to
      motor development stage presented by the child and the evaluator should assess only the
      dimensions that represent the stages of engine development for age. To check the Activity and
      Participation will be used Inventory Pediatric Disability Assessment (ASK). applied in
      children from 6 months to 7.5 years. It can also be used with older children who have
      functional limitations with performance below the expected for their age compared to typical
      children of the normative sample and can be used with children with various types of
      disabilities.

      The ASK can be applied by any member of the interdisciplinary team through interviews with
      the caretaker. Each item is a task and the ability to realize it is scored as (1) whether the
      child is able and (0) if it is not able to perform it. Evaluates functional abilities and
      their performance in the areas of self-care (73 items), mobility (59 items) and social
      function (65 items).

      Measures also the amount of assistance given by the caregiver when performing these tasks and
      the possible use of adaptations and changes in the environment. In caregiver assistance area
      for self-care are 8 items, 7 items mobility and social function 5 items. The score ranges
      from 0 to 5 (total dependence to complete independence).

      To investigate the Quality of Life will use the Child Health Questionnaire (CHQ - PF50), in
      its version for parents, applicable to children through fifteen in health. Each concept has a
      score of 0-100, with higher scores indicating better health status, satisfaction and
      well-being, and result in two summary scores - physical and psychosocial (0-70). This
      questionnaire has been validated for children with cerebral palsy. All these measures will be
      evaluated in the pre-intervention, 4 weeks, 8 weeks and 12 weeks after initiation of therapy.

      Procedure: Using Education will be a protocol for caregivers of children with cerebral palsy
      for the intervention group, once a week, while children in the control and intervention
      groups will receive conventional physical therapy twice a week. The established training
      period will last twelve weeks. Software to create randomization lists (randList®) is used in
      order to ensure that all individuals have equal chances allocation in groups.
    
  