
    
      This study is a human challenge model with five arms corresponding to controlled exposure to
      bites of uninfected laboratory-adapted colonies of Anopheles minimus, An. maculatus, An.
      dirus, Aedes. aegypti or Ae. albopictus. Following screening and eligibility assessment, 150
      participants will be enrolled in the study using a block-randomized design stratified on the
      mosquito species and number of bites (35 or 305 bites in total) such as to constitute 10
      groups of 15 individuals for each of the study condition. Participants will be in the study
      for 112 days. The baseline will consist of 2 visits over 2 weeks (day 0 and day 7).

      In the low-exposure groups, participants will be exposed to 5 mosquito bites at weekly
      intervals from day 14 to day 56 (seven challenges with 5 mosquito bites/challenge over six
      weeks, yielding a total of 35 mosquito bites). In the high-exposure group, participants will
      be exposed to 5 mosquito bites on day 14 and then to 50 mosquito bites at weekly intervals
      from day 21 to day 56 (one challenge with 5 mosquito bites and six challenges with 50
      mosquito bites/challenge over 6 weeks, yielding a total of 305 mosquito bites).

      The number of bites and modalities of the follow up used in this study were chosen based on
      previous entomological investigation conducted in this area, published reports of human
      challenge with mosquito bites and current knowledge on the characteristic of the humoral
      response against saliva antigens. Both immediate and delayed skin reactions will be recorded
      after day 14 and day 21 challenges, requiring additional visits at day 15 and day 22.
      Participants with hypersensitivity to mosquito bites will be withdrawn from the study. Both
      capillary and venous blood samples will be collected weekly from each study participant.
      Eighteen venous blood samples will be collected including one sample of 2 mL drawn during
      screening visit, 14 samples of 8.6 mL during visits 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16,
      17, 18 and 19, and 3 samples of 18.6 mL during visits 4, 13 and 20 (178.2 mL of venous blood
      per participant in total). Seventeen dry blood spot (DBS) samples will be made from of 300 μL
      of capillary blood collected during visits 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
      18, 19 and 20 (5.1 mL of capillary blood per participant in total).

      Candidate peptides will be identified in silico using publicly available genomes sequences
      and B-cell epitope prediction algorithms. The kinetic of antibody titers against candidate
      biomarkers will be assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and mesoscale
      screening performed with serum and DBS specimens. Briefly, the positivity threshold of the
      assay will be determined using reference sera specimens from individuals not exposed to
      mosquito bites, as described previously. The ELISA signal measured in 60 reference sera
      obtained from unexposed individuals (30 Thai sera obtained from the Thai Red Cross and 30
      Australian sera obtained from the Burnet Institute) will be used to define the positivity
      threshold of the assay. The positivity threshold of the assay will be defined as three
      standard deviation (SD) above the mean optic density (ΔOD) measured for the unexposed control
      population. A test in the study population with a ΔOD above this cut-off will be considered
      positive (i.e. an immune response). The specific antibody titer of study samples will be
      determined by performing serial dilution experiments. Serial dilution will be made from study
      samples and the ΔOD will be determined for each dilution. The antibody titer will be defined
      as the highest dilution giving a positive signal. Results obtained with DBS and serum
      specimens will be compared in order to assess the feasibility of using DBS samples to monitor
      exposure to bites of mosquitoes during epidemiological studies. Serum specimens collected
      during visits 4 (baseline), 13 (early after the end of exposure) and 20 (post-exposure) will
      also be analysed with immuno-proteomic approach (2D gel electrophoresis of salivary gland
      protein extracts, Western blot and mass spectrometry) yielding additional information on the
      antigenic properties of mosquito salivary gland proteome.

      Planned Sample Size: 150 participants followed-up for 16 weeks

      Participant Identification:

      Study participants are defined as healthy participants aged between 18 and 60 years old and
      willing to participate in the study. This study will take place at the Shoklo Malaria
      Research Unit (SMRU) research centre in Mae Sot.
    
  