
    
      The proposal is for an assessor-blind, parallel-group, stratified, randomized controlled
      trial. Potential participants will be identified from the population of persons enrolled in 3
      MS clinics in the Montreal area and in 3 clinics in Toronto. All persons who are known to be
      ambulatory and not to have co-morbidity preventing exercise engagement or capacity to consent
      will be informed of the study in writing and will be invited for an assessment to determine
      eligibility for entry into the trial. Those consenting will be randomly assigned to either
      the MSTEP program or the general exercise guideline program. The intervention period will be
      one year with follow-up to a second year.

      The investigators are targeting a sample size of 120 per group (total 240), which would be
      sufficient to detect RR of > 1.5 with 80% power. Sample size estimated using pc-size
      software. The sample size takes into account that drop-outs will inflate the variance of
      outcomes as multiple imputation will be used to deal with missing data.

      The main analysis will be logistic regression to test the main hypothesis related to the
      superiority of the MSTEP program based on a greater proportion of people making a clinically
      relevant gain in exercise capacity at 1 year. A secondary outcome will be the differences in
      proportions at 2 years also using logistic regression. The analysis will be based on
      intention-to-treat and all persons will be analysed in the groups to which they were
      randomized.

      A secondary analysis will estimate the impact of exercise on the other relevant outcomes. For
      this approach, each outcome will be converted to a binary response variable based on
      published clinically meaningful changes and generalized estimating equations (GEE) will be
      used to test the rate of response in the MSTEP program to the rate of response in the general
      guideline approach. Multiple outcomes improves the efficiency of the study as the total
      number of data points is equivalent to the total n multiplied by the number of tests and
      reduced by the extent to which the outcomes are correlated. Highly correlated outcomes will
      make the effective sample size smaller than less strongly correlated outcomes. If there is a
      statistically significant effect of the intervention, then and only then, can the effects of
      the separate outcomes be interpreted as real.

      The results of the trial will be used to develop guidelines for exercise for MS. The
      investigators are in the process of copyrighting the name of the program (MSTEP). Upon
      publication of the findings, the description of content will be made available at no cost. If
      proven effective, a training guide for professionals and patients will be produced most
      likely taking advantage of the end-of-grant Knowledge Translation (KT) Supplement. Note: The
      investigators have been funded by the KT supplement to produce a general guide for people
      with MS, entitled: Getting on with Your Life with MS. The knowledge generated can be used by
      people with MS and health professional to promote exercise engagement.
    
  