
    
      Poor adherence with prescription medications is ubiquitous, regardless of the disease,
      medication, patient population, or country studied. It is also expensive - annual costs of
      poor adherence in the United States were recently estimated at $290 billion. This problem has
      two components: diagnosis and treatment. Regarding diagnosis, doctors' assessments of
      patients' adherence are inaccurate, and doctors often do not discuss adherence problems with
      their patients. This makes it attractive to use pharmacy claims to identify nonadherence.
      While diagnostic data is necessary to solve the non-adherence problem, it is not sufficient.
      Once diagnosed, doctors must take action to treat nonadherence. Research shows that simply
      giving doctors claims data about nonadherence is ineffective, probably because it is not
      clear what action to take, and because the costs in time and energy of taking action are too
      great. What is currently lacking is a practical way to effectively integrate this diagnostic
      information and treatment expertise into work flows in primary care doctors' offices, and an
      effective method of inducing doctors to act on it. Behavioral economics suggests that
      barriers to doctors' action may be overcome in a cost effective way by altering the
      architecture of choices doctors face.

      The long term goal of this research is to develop systems that effectively connect pharmacy
      benefits managers (PBMs), primary care doctors, clinical pharmacists, and patients in ways
      that improve medication adherence and patients' health outcomes. The overall objective of
      this application, which is the next step toward attainment of the investigators long term
      goal, is to conduct a pilot test of an intervention that delivers timely diagnostic
      information about nonadherence to doctors, and then offers the services of clinical
      pharmacists to treat these nonadherence problems. Participating doctors will be notified when
      a patient is 10 days late refilling a medication for diabetes, hypertension, or
      hypercholesterolemia. Taking advantage of the principle of intelligent choice architecture
      from behavioral economics, in one arm the pharmacist will contact the patient as the default
      option (with no action required by the doctor), and in the other the pharmacist will contact
      the patient only if the doctor actively chooses that the pharmacist take action. Patients of
      participating doctors will be randomized to 1) one of these two pharmacist options, 2) an
      information only control arm in which the doctor gets adherence information but does not have
      access to a pharmacist for that patient, and 3) a no information control arm. Further
      randomization for patients in the experimental arms will occur where the patient's Health
      Maintenance Organization (HMO)/Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) status will be revealed
      to the physician, or not. The investigators central hypothesis, which is strongly supported
      by work in other fields, is that the pharmacist will be consulted more often when
      intervention by the pharmacist is the default outcome and that the default pharmacist
      intervention will be the most beneficial for adherence outcomes.

      This study is a collaboration between researchers at Brown University, Tufts University,
      Harvard University, and Johns Hopkins University; Express Scripts; Blue Cross Blue Shield;
      and a network of primary care doctors in Eastern Massachusetts. The team is led by Dr. Ira
      Wilson, an experienced adherence researcher, and includes behavioral and health economists,
      and a statistician experienced in adherence issues. The investigators will accomplish the
      investigators overall objectives by pursuing the following Specific Aims:

        1. Establish and test the technical and communications infrastructure required for the
           conduct of this clinical trial. The following steps must occur in a secure environment:
           a) Express Scripts notifies the study that a patient is late filling a prescription, b)
           the study notifies the doctor, c) the doctor makes a choice about how to respond, and d)
           a pharmacist, in some cases, contacts the patient.

        2. Conduct and evaluate a clinical trial of an intervention comparing methods of offering
           pharmacist services to primary care doctors. Eligible doctors and patients will be
           randomized to a) pharmacist services under one of two choice architecture conditions
           (default or choice), b) adherence information only, or c) no information; further
           randomization for patients in the experimental arms will occur where the patient's
           HMO/PPO status will be revealed to the physician, or not. Outcomes include medication
           adherence, duration of nonadherence event, and physician participant behavioral
           outcomes.
    
  