
    
      Twenty community-dwelling older adults who satisfy the study criteria will be recruited to
      participate in this study. This group of participants will be selected to represent the
      general community-dwelling older adults as much as possible. They will demonstrate a range of
      ability in terms of their balance and mobility in which some are non-fallers and some
      fallers. All adults who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria and have access to the internet
      via wireless connection will be included.

      Participants will be consented for the research study and will be assessed initially, after 1
      month of exercise and at the end of 2 months of exercise. Assessment will include
      questionnaires about health history, including falls, physical activity, balance confidence
      and system usability. Participants will also complete strength, balance and mobility physical
      performance tests. Age, sex, presence of comorbidities, medication list, functional
      abilities, balance confidence, fear of fall behavior and fall history will be assessed by
      questionnaire. Usability of the tablet-based questionnaire will be assessed by questionnaire.
      Participants will be tested with standard clinical tests of balance and gait.

      Participants will be closely supervised by a Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) student during
      training in how to use the exercise program. Participants will complete a full set of
      exercises with the tablet in the presence of the DPT student. The DPT student will determine
      whether participants are safe with the program before allowing them to perform the program on
      their own at home. If the research team determines that a participant is unable to exercise
      safely on his/her own he/she will be withdrawn from the study.

      The tablet-based, video game exercise program is called Health in Motion and was developed by
      Blue Marble Game Company. Health in Motion was tested in a pilot study and found to reduce
      fall risk in 8 of 15 older participants without any adverse events. Participants will
      complete 2 months of the home-based balance exercise program using the Health in Motion app.
      Participants will be asked to perform the exercises for 30 minutes 3x/week. Participants will
      be asked to perform the exercise program for 2 months.

      Performance scores from the clinical gait and balance measures obtained during the initial
      visit will be compared to the performance scores obtained after 1 month and 2 months of
      performing the exercise program. We hypothesize that balance and gait will improve following
      2 months of performing the tablet-based fall prevention exercise program at home. The
      assessments performed by the DPT students and by the participant using the app will be
      compared. We hypothesize that the scores from self-assessment will closely correlate to the
      students' assessment. The system usability score will be examined to understand issues
      associated with using technology. We hypothesize that older adults will enjoy performing the
      exercises using the tablet format.
    
  