
    
      Advance care planning (ACP) involves patients making decisions about the kind of medical care
      they would want to receive if they became unable to speak for themselves. Patients share
      their wishes in a written document (living will or healthcare proxy) and/or discuss their
      wishes with family, friends, and doctors. ACP improves the quality of end-of-life care by
      increasing the likelihood that patients receive care that reflects their preferences and
      values. Seriously ill African Americans are less likely to take part in advance care planning
      and experience lower quality care at the end of life, including poorer communication with
      clinicians and a lower likelihood of receiving the kind of care that they would want.

      This study will include 800 seriously or chronically ill community-dwelling older adults
      (equal number of African Americans and whites) and their caregivers from 10 primary care
      practices at five medical centers in the Deep South. Eligible patients include those with
      cancer, advanced heart disease, advanced lung disease, end-stage kidney disease, cirrhosis,
      diabetes with severe complications, recurrent hospitalizations, or difficulty with basic
      activities of daily living. For each enrolled patient, one caregiver who is likely to assist
      the patient with healthcare decisions is also eligible to participate.

      The goals of the study are to:

        -  Compare the effectiveness of two approaches to increasing formal advance care planning
           (completing written documents like living wills, health care proxies, medical orders for
           life-sustaining treatments, or other advance directives) and informal advance care
           planning (having conversations with doctors, family, friends, and others about wishes
           for future healthcare) for African Americans and for Whites.

        -  Determine which intervention is most effective in reducing differences between African
           Americans and Whites in rates of advance care planning.

        -  Determine whether the effectiveness of the advance care planning approach differs based
           on whether the person assisting with advance care planning is of the same or different
           race as the patient.

      Administered by community health workers, the two advance care planning approaches which will
      be compared are:

        -  Patient-driven approach which includes a Five Wishes Form (advance directive written in
           easy to understand language)

        -  Structured approach with an advance care planning conversation led by a trained person
           using Respecting Choices (First Step) conversation guide.
    
  