
    
      This study was performed on the 72 eyes of 51 patients who were referred to our clinics for
      epidemic keratoconjunctivitis (EKC).Diagnosis of EKC was based on the constellation of
      clinical features. The investigators conducted a double-blind randomized prospective parallel
      trial involving : 38 patients treated with topical fluorometholone and 34 eyes treated with
      cyclosporine A 0.5% eye drops. Cyclosporine A eye drops were prepared in Ricin oil by the
      pharmacy of Tunis Military Hospital. The sample size was measured by our research department,
      to obtain a conclusion of non-inferiority of cyclosporine A compared to fluorometholone in
      the chronic phase of EKC.

      Duration of the whole regimen was six months. The study included an extra month after the end
      of the regimen. It was called " wash-out ". Patients who had less than one month of treatment
      or an uncontrolled treatment side effect or who presented a degenerative iron line were
      excluded from the rest of the regimen.The regimen was the same for both treatments in order
      to preserve the double-blind characteristic : 4 times a day for one month then 3 times a day
      for one month and 2 times a day for four months.

      Patients were examined on admission to the study and one month , three months, six months and
      seven months after the onset of treatment. The investigators followed a double-masked fashion
      in all the phases of the study.

      Information gathered in M0 included basic demographic information (age and sex), medical and
      ophtalmological history, involved eye(s) and duration of symptoms in the acute episode. The
      investigators evaluated and recorded the interval of time between the onset of the infection
      and the beginning of the trial and called it " pretherapeutic period ". At each visit, SEIs
      were photo-documented, best corrected visual acuity (converted to mean logarithm of the
      minimum angle of resolution), spheric equivalent, SEIs number, intraocular pressure (with non
      contact tonometers), break-up time and Schimer test type 1 and cup/disc score were recorded.
    
  