
    
      There are now a variety of treatments that can help to manage insomnia, including
      non-pharmacological and pharmacologic measures. Although many of these strategies have been
      proven to be effective in the general population very few studies have been conducted with
      Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients. Insomnia in PD has unique characteristics and
      pathophysiology; therefore, measures to treat insomnia in the general population may be
      ineffective in PD.

      The goal of this project is to test in a pilot study the tolerability and effectiveness of
      pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatments to improve insomnia in patients with
      Parkinson's disease.

      Participants will come for four visits: for screening, then in 1 week, 3 weeks and 7 weeks.
      Study visits should take approximately 1.5 to 2 hours. During the entire period of the study,
      the participant will be wearing a wrist actigraph - this is a motion sensing device the size
      of a wristwatch. Specific instructions how to use this device and how to use the sleep diary
      will explained at the first visit. Participant will also be filling out sleep diaries every
      day, to keep track of how many hours you sleep, etc. During each of the study visits there
      will be an in-depth interview, and researcher will review with the participants their sleep
      diaries and troubleshoot any problems.

      In this trial the investigators will be testing three main treatment strategies. The
      treatment that the patient will receive first will be chosen randomly - this is essential to
      properly test our strategies. Participant will know which group he/she has been assigned to.
      If the first therapy has not been effective for the patient, he/she may choose to re-enroll
      in the trial, in which case participant will receive one of the remaining two therapies. The
      therapies are:

        1. Light therapy, which patient will use for 30 minutes, starting at two hours (+/- 1 hour)
           before your usual bedtime. Light boxes will be provided by our team. Patient will be
           instructed how to use this light.

        2. Cognitive behavioural therapy and sleep hygiene training - This will involve education
           about sleep in general, giving techniques related to sleep and relaxation, tips on
           stress management, etc.. This will take place at the Lady Davis Institute of the Jewish
           General Hospital. There will be 6 weekly sessions totaling 90 minutes - most of the time
           this will be in a group setting, with a maximum of 6 patients per group. Light therapy
           will also be part of this treatment strategy.

        3. Insomnia medications - In this portion patient will receive medications to help them
           sleep. Depending on the type of patient's sleep problem, this will either be a
           medication called desipramine (also called Doxepin), or zopiclone (also called Imovane).
           Both of these medications are currently used for insomnia in people without Parkinson's.
           These medications will be prescribed exactly as any other medical prescription, and
           participant will take them as any other medical prescription.
    
  