
    
      Subjects will be consented for inclusion into the study at the time of their presentation for
      one of the eligible presenting complaints. Those that agree to be part of the study will then
      be randomized to either stirrup or no-stirrup examinations. This will be done by opening
      previously sealed envelops with a data collection sheet inside of it. The sheet will say
      "stirrups" or "no-stirrups" at the top. This choice will be made via a random number table
      prior to beginning the study. The patient will then undergo examination using the indicated
      procedure. See Appendix A.

      All patients will undergo speculum examination with medium Graves speculum. Patients needing,
      or requesting, other size speculums will be removed from the study. The participating
      provider will fill out the top of the data collection sheets and the patient will be asked to
      fill out the bottom of the sheet after the provider leaves the room. The sheets will then be
      dropped off at the nurses' station or leave them in the examination room.

      Multiple aspects of physical discomfort, sense of control and sense of vulnerability will be
      assessed using a continuous scale. Patients will be asked to place a mark on a continuous
      line between two extremes. The distance will then be measured in millimeters in order to
      convert it to a numeric value. The measurement will be done by an independent provider in a
      blinded manner.

      Medical providers participating in the study will be consented for enrollment. They will be
      mailed consent forms and asked to sign them in front of a witness and mail the consent form
      back to the PI. They will be eligible as long as they believe they can enroll 25 patients
      over the course of approximately one year. Providers will be trained on how to perform a
      no-stirrup examination. The training will include standardized draping of patients as well as
      standardized positioning of patients in order to reduce the amount of variation introduced by
      the providers into these examinations. The training will include still images and an
      instructional video. The Principal Investigator will be available to anyone who has further
      questions regarding the technique. Participating providers will also be asked to perform at
      least 5 no-stirrup examinations on non-study subjects prior to beginning enrollment into the
      study to ensure familiarization with the technique. Providers will be recruited if they agree
      to attempt to enroll 25 or more patients to the study over the course of approximately one
      year. This will not be a difficult number to achieve for an active clinician.

      Providers who had not been trained on the no-stirrup speculum examination prior to the
      beginning this study will be sent a questionnaire querying them about their experience with
      the method after all data is collected.

      Protected Health Information will not be collect, so HIPAA forms will not be required.
    
  