
    
      This study evaluates Quantiferon-CMV assay ability for CMV (cytomegalovirus) risk prediction
      in kidney transplant recipients. Quantiferon-Monitor ability to predict infection or graft
      rejection will be evaluated as an exploratory objective.

      It is a prospective cohort study. The assumption is that CMV disease or preemptively treated
      viremia (dependent variable) may be predicted by Quantiferon-CMV result (independent
      variable). Quantiferon-CMV results will be masked for the assistant physician.

      Patients are evaluated for eligibility on their hospital admission for kidney
      transplantation. Type of induction therapy follows current local protocol: thymoglobulin is
      given to sensitized patients against HLA - human leukocyte antigen (that is, PRA > 0%), and
      basiliximab to unsensitized patients (PRA = 0%). Initial maintenance immunosuppression
      includes prednisone, tacrolimus and mycophenolate sodium to all patients. If a patient is
      enrolled in the study, blood is drawn before transplantation for pre-transplant Quantiferon
      assays (CMV and Monitor).

      For CMV disease prevention, transplant recipients undergo until day 90 post-transplant:
      either weekly CMV monitoring (qPCR - quantitative polymerase chain reaction - and pp65
      antigenemia) and preemptive treatment if given basiliximab or antiviral prophylaxis if given
      thymoglobulin for induction. Cutoff values for preemptive treatment are 4,000 IU/ml of plasma
      for Abbott Real Time PCR or ≥ 4 cells/300.000 neutrophils for pp65 Antigenemia. After day 90
      post-transplant, all participants undergo biweekly CMV monitoring until day 180 with
      preemptive treatment as needed.

      Quantiferon-CMV results from 2 or 3 different moments (pre-transplant, day 30 and for
      patients given thymoglobulin also day 90) will be analyzed with subsequent occurrence of CMV
      disease/treated viremia. Analysis will be stratified by type of induction therapy. A high
      negative predictive value of pre-transplant or day 30 Quantiferon-CMV could indicate unneeded
      monitoring for preemptive treatment. On the other hand, a high positive predictive value for
      CMV occurrence could indicate the necessity of antiviral prophylaxis implementation.

      Patients given thymoglobulin will undergo a third Quantiferon-CMV on day 90, at the end of
      their antiviral prophylaxis. This third Quantiferon-CMV may predict occurrence of late
      disease, together with clinical variables (low kidney graft function / glomerular filtration
      rate, lymphopenia or type of donor). A high positive predictive value for CMV disease/treated
      viremia could indicate the need for antiviral extension beyond 3 months.

      Clinical and laboratory parameters evaluated also include: demographic and pre-transplant
      clinical data, monthly creatinine and blood cell counts, complement 3 fraction, total IgG,
      blood BK and EBV virus qPCR, CD4/CD8 cells counts, CMV serology, acute rejection and type of
      treatment, opportunistic and bacterial infections, post-transplant diabetes, maintenance
      immunosuppression, diabetes, delayed graft-function.

      Multivariable logistic regression models will be tested for their performance to predict CMV
      disease/treated infection.

      For the cost-effectiveness analysis, current strategy without QF-CMV will be compared with a
      simulated strategy with a QF-CMV-oriented CMV prevention. For this analysis, costs will be in
      the perspective of Hospital das Clinicas de Sao Paulo with values obtained part from
      micro-costing and part from secondary data.
    
  