
    
      Study Design This is a 24-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled investigation of
      40 chronic schizophrenia patients.

      Participants Forty patients will be drawn from the patient population of Be'er Sheva Mental
      Health Center. Recruitment period will last over 2 years.

      Patients will be required to have a primary diagnosis of chronic schizophrenia as defined in
      DSM-IV with predominantly persistent negative signs.

      The study will commence only after approval by the local Institutional Ethics Review Board
      ("Helsinki Committee"). Only willing subjects and able to provide written informed consent,
      after receiving a comprehensive explanation of the study procedures, will be included in the
      study. Confidentially will be ensured by means of a number coding system, and all completed
      research forms will be stored in secure areas.

      Procedure Patients will continue receiving their regular antipsychotic medication. The dose
      will be kept constant for at least 3 months prior to entry and throughout the study period.
      Curcumin is provided as Curcumin Forte ® (Solgar Israel SupHerb). Circumin capsules are
      supplied as an 1000 mg soft gelatin capsule for three daily oral administration with meals.
      At entry patients will receive curcuma capsules (3000 mg/day, three capsules) or placebo in
      identical capsules in a randomized, double blind mode for 24 weeks: 20 patients will receive
      curcumin, and 20 patients - placebo.

      Participants will be assessed at baseline and after 4, 8, 12, 16 and 24 weeks of treatment.
      In a case of treatment discontinuation for 24-week of the trial, patients will be followed
      until end of study period.

      Outcome variables will be evaluated by scoring the severity of symptoms (positive, negative,
      and etc.), and side effects. In addition, liver function tests and a blood cell count will be
      monitored at baseline and during the study.

      For analyzing the results, within-subject pre- and post-treatment responses would be subject
      to statistical procedures to evaluate whether curcumin can ameliorate the persistent negative
      symptoms in schizophrenia.
    
  