
    
      Study Design: Prospective randomized control study

      Scientific Background/Intro: Total hip or knee arthroplasty is associated with the risk of
      moderate to significant blood loss. Approximately one-third of patients undergoing total
      joint replacement surgery require one to three units of blood postoperatively. Tranexamic
      acid is a synthetic antifibrinolytic agent that has been successfully used orally,
      intravenously, and topically to control bleeding after total joint replacement. The use of
      TXA has been shown to significantly reduce the need for blood products during total joint
      replacement.1-3

      Many studies have explored the use of various TXA regimens following primary TKA. Tanaka et
      al. demonstrated both that pre-operative administration of TXA was superior to
      intra-operative administration and that a double dose regimen is superior to a single dose
      regimen.4 Maniar et al. further supported the idea that pre-operative TXA administration is
      superior, and the addition of higher doses of TXA improved efficacy without an increase in
      thromboembolic complications.5 More recently, Lin et al. demonstrated that combining a
      pre-operative IV dose of TXA with an intra-articular dose after arthrotomy closure was
      superior to an intra-articular dose alone.6 Also, in an unpublished randomized control trial
      that we recently completed, we found oral TXA to provide equivalent blood control at a lower
      cost than IV TXA.

      It is well known that revision joint arthroplasty cases are more complex than primary joint
      replacements. Revision total knee arthroplasty is associated with a greater risk of blood
      loss and increased transfusion rates compared to primary TKA.7 Despite the vast body of
      literature investigating TXA following primary TKA, only three retrospective studies have
      been published on the use of TXA after revision TKA.8-10 All three studies have shown that IV
      TXA decreased both the rate of transfusions and the amount of blood transfused when compared
      to controls.8-10

      Although the TXA formulations used in primary TKA have been shown to be effective in the
      retrospective studies, the amount of blood loss and risk of transfusion still remains
      significantly higher than during primary TKA. By performing the first randomized control
      trial on the use of TXA following revision TKA, we believe it will help change practice
      patterns by providing evidence that the same TXA formulations used in primary TKA are
      inadequate for revision TKA. Additionally, we will be exploring new combinations of TXA
      administration to answer some questions brought up by previous studies in regards to the
      optimal TXA regimen.
    
  