
    
      Various markers have been proposed for the early diagnosis of preeclampsia: determination of
      mean arterial pressure; presence of multiple risk factors of preeclampsia; biochemical,
      ultrasound, and angiogenic markers; uterine artery Doppler, etc. These are used to
      determinate which patients have an increased risk of developing preeclampsia during
      gestation, and therefore carry out closer monitoring of pregnancy in this population. In
      addition, these markers can also identify patients at increased risk of developing other
      problems such as IUGR or preterm labor.

      For nearly 30 years, there have been multiple studies trying to demonstrate that aspirin
      prevents the onset of preeclampsia with inconclusive results. However, recent studies in
      which aspirin was administered at an early stage (before 16 weeks of gestation) in patients
      at high risk of complications, have demonstrated a decrease in the incidence of this entity.
      Thus, administration of aspirin to patients at high risk (patients classified with a high
      risk of complications during pregnancy, based on markers mentioned above) seems to be useful
      in preventing onset of preeclampsia, IUGR and other complications, whenever it is
      administered at an early stage, as shown by several studies carried out so far.

      The incidence of preeclampsia, IUGR and other complications of pregnancy is increased in
      patients undergoing treatment for ovulation induction, being much higher in recipients of
      donated oocytes. It appears that this increase may be explained by immunological processes.
      The focus lies on the interaction between HLA-C fetal antigen with the maternal natural
      killer cells. We postulate, therefore, that the administration of aspirin in recipients of
      donated oocytes at an early stage of pregnancy, may also reduce the incidence of preeclampsia
      in this group of patients.

      Moreover, it has been observed that patients with preeclampsia exhibit lower levels of VEGF,
      PlGF and PAPP-A (factors involved in placental angiogenesis) and that this is accompanied by
      an increase in the sFlt1 (a potent PIGF and VEGF antagonist).
    
  