
    
      Context: Families of children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) often have
      difficulty getting access to behavior therapy for their children. The project focuses on
      children and families of low-income, racial/ethnic minority background, who have particular
      difficulty getting access to behavior therapy. This study will compare behavior therapy
      integrated into primary care (known as Partnering to Achieve School Success [PASS]) to
      treatment as usual (TAU) informed by American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) guidelines for the
      treatment of ADHD plus family education. In this study, behavior therapy will include
      components to address the unique needs of low-income families of minority status.

      Objectives: This project is designed to improve family use of services for ADHD; improve
      children's academic achievement, behavioral compliance, interpersonal relationships, and life
      satisfaction; and reduce ADHD symptoms.

      Study Design: The study is a randomized controlled trial.

      Setting/Participants: The study is being conducted in five CHOP primary care practices
      serving a high percentage of families of low-income, racial/ethnic minority status.
      Participants will be children ages 5 to 11 with ADHD and in kindergarten through grade 5.
      Children will be randomly assigned to PASS or TAU plus family education, with 150 per group.

      Study Interventions and Measures: PASS is a behavioral intervention for childhood ADHD that
      includes behavior therapy strategies and enhancements to promote family engagement in
      treatment, team-based care, and high quality therapy. PASS uses a fully integrated service
      model that includes regular collaboration between the PASS provider and primary care provider
      (PCP). The primary outcomes are patient-centered outcomes pertaining to child academic
      achievement, behavior compliance, interpersonal relationships, and life satisfaction, as
      assessed by parent, child, and teacher rating. Secondary outcomes are informant ratings of
      ADHD symptoms.
    
  