
    
      Asthma is the most common respiratory disorder in children characterized by periodic airway
      obstruction, bronchial hyper-responsiveness, and airway inflammation. The symptoms of asthma
      may include cough, wheeze, or bronchoconstriction with airflow limitation. The severity of
      asthma may vary from mild to severe. Mild asthma is associated with rear events of short of
      breath. However, the exacerbation of the disease often leads to acute respiratory adverse
      events with severe hypoxia that requires hospitalization. The hospital care involves travel
      costs for the children and parents, school and work absenteeism.

      The primary objective of the study is to investigate whether the annual occurrence of asthma
      exacerbation can be decreased by the use of the telespirometry system. Another objective is
      to determine which lung function parameters are best to predict asthma exacerbation.

      To address these aims we plan to involve two groups (telemonitoring and control) of asthmatic
      children with GINA 2-5 stage under 18 years of age. Poor general condition, any disease which
      endangers the health of the volunteer or contraindicates the study and lack of parental
      consent are defined as the exclusion criteria.

      The lung function in the children in both groups will be monitored by conventional
      spirometric assessment performed at the Department of Pediatrics and Pediatric Health Care
      Center of the University of Szeged. After each lung function assessments children will be
      asked to fill the Asthma Control Test (ACT).

      Patients in the telemedicine group receive the home mobile controlled spirometer and trained
      by a pediatric pulmonologist for home examination. The spirometers are handed for 12 months,
      and children are asked to perform measurements minimum 4 times per week (at least one day a
      week in the morning and in the evening). In the case of asthma exacerbation, more frequent
      measurements repeated several times a day are required. Children in the telemedicine group
      complete the ACT after each measurement, which provides a numerical score related to the
      severity of asthma symptoms. Lung function parameters measured by children and the ACT test
      results are automatically uploaded to a clinical server where the pulmonologists and built-in
      algorithms are monitoring the quality of the data. In case of deterioration of the lung
      function parameters, the patients are called for a personal visit and their treatment can be
      revised.

      Every three months, members of both groups come to the outpatient clinic for a personal
      visit, where the same examinations are performed.
    
  