
    
      The classical pathway for the diagnosis of prostate cancer is trans-rectal ultrasound guided
      (TRUS) biopsy of the prostate following a raised PSA. This is currently the mainstay for
      prostate cancer diagnosis in the majority of centres. It has many advantages and can be
      performed routinely under local anaesthetic in an outpatient setting. However it does have
      some limitations, including the over-diagnosis of insignificant cancer and the
      under-diagnosis of significant cancer.

      An alternative pathway for the diagnosis of prostate cancer in men with raised prostate
      specific antigen (PSA) is to perform a multi-parametric MRI to localize cancer and to use
      this information to influence conduct of a subsequent biopsy, known as an MRI-targeted
      biopsy. MRI-targeted biopsy has been shown in preliminary studies to detect a similar amount
      of clinically significant cancer to TRUS-biopsy but may have several advantages, for example
      in reducing the number of men who require biopsy.

      This randomized controlled trial aims to assess the detection rate of clinically significant
      and clinically insignificant cancer of MRI-targeted biopsy compared to standard 12-core TRUS
      biopsy in men referred with clinical suspicion of prostate cancer who have had no prior
      prostate biopsy.

      A 'clinically insignificant cancer' is cancer which is unlikely to progress or affect a man's
      life expectancy and therefore does not warrant treatment. However when diagnosed with
      insignificant cancer a large proportion of patients request treatment in case a more
      significant cancer is present. A prostate cancer detection pathway that finds significant
      cancers while avoiding the diagnosis of insignificant cancer is a major unmet need.

      The potential implications of this trial include:

        -  A redefining of the prostate cancer diagnostic pathway

        -  A reduction in the number of patients undergoing prostate biopsy

        -  A reduction in the number of biopsy cores taken per patient

        -  A reduction in biopsy-related sepsis, pain and other side effects

        -  A reduction in the over-diagnosis of clinically insignificant prostate cancer

        -  A reduction of the economic burden of diagnosing and treating prostate cancer
    
  