
    
      Consecutive children (n=130) who are referred to the departments of pediatric dentistry at
      Eastman Dental Institute, Public Dental Service and Dental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet,
      who fulfill inclusion criteria are invited to participate in the study. This is done during
      the visits preceding the anesthetic evaluation of the patient. Parents will be given written
      information about the study. During the last visit preceding the GA, a contact is established
      between dental health coach and family. During this visit the aim of the project is explained
      and an agreement is signed and informed consent is obtained from the parents only (the
      parents are the target for this intervention, it is they who perform the preventive oral
      health measures and supports the child). During this interview, the parents will also answer
      a structured interview measuring level of self-efficacy and well as their thoughts on dental
      health care as well as why the situation has occurred. After the initial interview patients
      are assigned to either intervention group (dental health coach group) or to a control group.

      The dental healthcoach will keep in close contact with the intervention group, and by
      telephone based support provide information, support parental self-efficacy, motivate the
      family to keep preventive measures that have been individually agreed on, motivate parents to
      keep preventive appointments and to provide tools for caries prevention.

      A follow-up visit is scheduled after 1 year. Parents who decline participation in the program
      will receive treatment as usual and will be followed for 1 year.

      Patients in the control group will receive treatment as usual. This means recall visits to
      the dental clinic within 3 months after the procedure, reinforcing the individually tailored
      preventive program. Recall visits after that are scheduled based on treatment needs. A
      follow-up visit is scheduled after 1 year.

      Caries will be diagnosed at baseline ( during GA) and progression will be monitored according
      to ICDAS after 12 and 24 months. Plaque and gingivitis will be registered.
    
  