
    
      Spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) include over thirty different subtypes of central nervous
      system diseases that affect approximately 1 in 30,000 persons. The investigators have
      identified the causative gene for SCA38, a novel rare form of cerebellar ataxia. Estimated
      frequency of the disease is below 1% of SCAs. The disease gene encodes an enzyme involved in
      omega-3 fatty acid biosynthesis, whose products are reduced in SCA38 patients' serum.

      The investigators reasoned that the administration of specific omega-3 fatty acids could
      ameliorate the disease symptoms in SCA38 patients. Indeed, preliminary data obtained in a
      pilot trial on two patients, now in their 8th-month therapy, are remarkable, with an
      improvement of disease symptoms and quality of life, without any adverse effect.

      The investigators will perform a clinical trial to prove this therapeutic strategy of SCA38.
      The investigators will evaluate clinical SARA scores, ICARS scores, brain PET images, and
      plasma metabolic pattern in ten SCA38 patients.

      The trial will consist of two phases: 1) a randomized double-blind placebo/treatment (600 mg
      DHA/day) from T0 (baseline observation) to T1 (evaluation at four-month). Patients who will
      meet the study eligibility criteria will be randomized to receive the drug or the placebo
      (ratio 1:1). A second open-label phase on all patients from T2 (6 months) to T5 (30 months)
      will be performed with repeated measures of the medication group (n=10).

      Patients will complete a personal diary during the whole treatment and a quality of life
      questionnaire at each visit. The primary outcome will be the clinical improvement, whilst
      secondary outcome will be considered the improvement of brain metabolism by PET-FDG.

      At each time point, clinical evaluation (video-record of SARA/ICARS scores) will be
      performed. Videos will be randomized and evaluated blindly by two independently clinicians.

      At T0, T1, T2, T5, patients will undergo brain PET-FDG scan. PET-FDG scans will be performed
      by the same scanner at the University of Brescia.

      This project will provide helpful data on possible replacement treatment in this novel form
      of cerebellar degeneration.
    
  