
    
      Chronic pain is devastating to individuals and society. Individuals who experience chronic
      pain have poorer health outcomes, utilize increased healthcare resources and have higher
      rates of disability. At present, treatment of chronic pain is limited to behavioral
      interventions and pharmacologic interventions. Many individuals with chronic pain will use
      opioid analgesics at some point in the continuum of pain. Prolonged use of opioid
      analgesics--even for durations as short as 3 days puts individuals at risk for nonmedical
      opioid use, addiction, and may fuel transitions from oral opioids to heroin.

      Outside of the original insult precipitating chronic pain, increasing evidence suggests that
      individual factors such as anxiety and catastrophizing are associated with development of
      chronic pain and increased painful response to stimuli. It is therefore suggestive that
      treating underlying causes of anxiety and catastrophizing may lead to novel adjunctive
      therapies to manage chronic pain.

      Music is emotive and known to modulate affect. Music that "feels good" has been described to
      modulate the dopaminergic and serotonin reward pathways in the brain thereby improving
      positive affect. Improved affect counteracts negatively valenced affect like depression,
      anxiety, and catastrophizing, and may be able to modulate the individual response to pain.
      The purpose of this pilot study is to investigate the acceptability and feasibility of a
      smartphone-based app on healthy volunteers.

      In order to measure the impact of the music app on individual responses to pain, the
      investigators will use quantitative sensory testing (QST) to induce a mild-moderate,
      standardized pain stimulus, and measure participants' pain in the absence and presence of
      this music intervention. The QST is a 10 minute session that includes a set of sensory tests,
      which elicit a mild to moderate painful response, including a pressure pain threshold and
      tolerance using a handheld digital algometer, the temporal summation of pain using a set of
      weighted pinprick probes, and immersing hand in cold water. Primary outcome will be the
      modulation of pain scores by music, and secondary outcomes will include the impact of music
      on anxiety and catastrophizing, using brief, validated questionnaires, and whether changes in
      these measures of affect mediate any impact on pain processing.
    
  