
    
      Adequate drug dosing is essential to prevent allograft rejection and subsequent allograft
      loss. Many studies have shown that serum levels of immunosuppressant medications can be
      strongly influenced by the patient's genetic profile. Genetics has been shown to influence
      tacrolimus drug dosing in both liver and kidney transplant recipients 1. Whether these
      genetic differences influence care in clinical practice though is not known. Several genetic
      influences have been identified in Hispanic patients, such as polymorphisms in Cytochrome
      genes 1 and Nuclear Factor-kappa B genes 2, that might influence tacrolimus dosing and blood
      levels. In a study of Hispanic children, significant correlations were found to suggest that
      ethnic differences resulted in the need for higher or more frequent tacrolimus doing in
      Hispanic children 3. According to the Centers for Disease Control, Hispanics are 1.5 times as
      likely as non-Hispanic whites to develop ESRD 4 and Hispanics are the largest minority with
      the fastest growth of ESRD in the United States 5. Therefore it is likely that the unanswered
      question of whether there are differences in bioavailability of Envarsus in Hispanic patients
      will become even more relevant over time. Strategies that target improved bioavailability
      have the opportunity to significantly improve outcomes for all recipients of kidney
      transplants. Specifically, vulnerable patient populations, such as Hispanic patients, need to
      be studied to better understand the potential for altered bioavailability of
      immunosuppressive medications based on inherited pharmacologic traits.

      Providing patients a once-a-day option for their immunosuppressive medication dosing is
      predicted to improve adherence, but whether once daily Envarsus provides adequate drug levels
      in Hispanic patient groups is not known. This study will carefully evaluate drug levels as a
      primary endpoint in this investigator-initiated study. Additional secondary outcomes to be
      measured over the two years of the study will be allograft rejection and allograft loss. The
      hypothesis of this study is that kidney transplant recipients receiving once-a-day extended
      release tacrolimus (Envarsus) will have outcomes that are not inferior to those who received
      twice-a-day tacrolimus during the two-year study period.
    
  