
    
      Purpose: To determine whether use of an Internet-based glucose monitoring system (ALR
      Technologies Inc.) improves Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels in patients with type 2 diabetes
      mellitus treated with 2 or more oral anti-diabetic medication.

      Hypothesis: We propose that the standardized encounters using the Internet will improve the
      outcome of treatment for patients with type 2 DM.

      Justification: An important aspect of diabetes care is the self-monitoring of blood glucose
      (SMBG) levels in order to assess the effectiveness of treatment and to modify the treatment
      to achieve the desirable glucose levels. All patients with type 2 DM are recommended to
      perform SMBG. However, it often requires intervention by health professionals in order to
      prevent the immediate and serious complications of hyper or hypoglycemia. The frequent SMBG
      and effective interventions by the health professionals may eventually allow tighter control
      of blood glucose levels and delay or prevent the complications associated with diabetes.

      Objectives: We propose to measure HbA1c levels at the beginning of the study and compare this
      with HbA1c levels at three and six months after initiating Internet-based blood glucose
      monitoring system (IBMS).

      Research Method: Fifty patients will be randomized equally (a 50/50 chance) to either
      conventional therapy or the use of the Internet blood glucose monitoring system.

      Conventional therapy (Control group) will consist of general care comprising of SMBG 3 or
      more times per day and visits to the endocrinologist at 3-month intervals with HbA1c,
      cholesterols, and serum creatinine determinations at 3-month intervals for 6 months.

      Those patients randomized to the Internet system (Intervention group) will be required to
      perform SMBG 3 or more times per day and to upload their metered glucose values online every
      2 weeks to be reviewed by the doctor. As well, there will be visits to the endocrinologist
      every 3 months with HbA1c, cholesterols, and serum creatinine measurements at 3-month
      intervals for 6 months.

      Statistical Analysis: The primary endpoint is the HbA1c level or the change in A1c level. The
      secondary endpoints include severe hypoglycemia defined as requiring external aid, hospital
      admissions for any CVD related intervention, and adverse events such as unplanned
      hospitalizations for any cause that last more than 24 hours. For each group, A1C levels
      before the start of study will be compared to A1C levels 3 and 6 months after the start of
      the study. Paired t-tests and random effects models (longitudinal analyses) will examine
      differences in A1C values before and after the study duration. Unpaired, independent t-tests
      will be done to examine the difference in A1C values between the two groups before and after
      the interventions. Planned sample size is 50.
    
  