
    
      Delirium occurs in about 25% of patients after cardiac surgery. It is an independent factor
      of poor outcome and recovery after ICU stay as it is associated with mortality and impaired
      mental function one year after its onset. It is associated with increased public health costs
      during the hospital stay and after.

      The use of Dexmedetomidine as sedative medication is more and more described. It is well
      established that it can lower delirium onset comparatively to Midazolam or Propofol. It is
      also useful in agitated delirium as a complementary medication to reduce delirium duration. A
      study published by Su et al in 2016 assessed the efficacy of Dexmedetomidine in prevention of
      post-surgical delirium for patients older than 65 years after non cardiac surgery. Patients
      were mainly admitted in the ICU after abdominal surgery for malignant tumor. Dexmedetomidine
      was used at very low dose to promote sleep during ICU stay. In this study the onset of
      delirium was significantly lowered by one half for the first week after surgery. However,
      this study only focused on older patients and non-cardiac surgery population with short
      mechanical ventilation duration, short ICU stay and low incidence of complications.

      We designed a prospective, double blind, randomized, controlled versus placebo study to
      evaluate the efficacy of nightly low dose of Dexmedetomidine infusion to promote sleep and
      lower delirium in a population of post cardiac surgery patients. This population is
      characterized by longer ICU stay, more physical restraints such as catheters and drains, pain
      and sleep deprivation. It is associated with higher prevalence of Delirium and agitation
      leading to exposure to severe agitation related adverse events. In the study by Su and al low
      dose Dexmedetomidine did not induce adverse events such as bradycardia or hypotension,
      conversely safety outcomes showed that Dexmedetomidine use was associated with fewer
      tachycardia and hypoxaemia. Moreover, data shows that Dexmedetomidine is likely to play a
      cardio protective role in the same way as Clonidine. Those findings are encouraging for its
      use after cardiac surgery.

      Delirium will be assessed by the Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU (CAM ICU) and the
      primary endpoint of the study is the occurrence of delirium in the first 7 days following
      surgery.
    
  