
    
      In patients with hemodialysis, the prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) is high, and is
      the leading cause of death. Among several cardiovascular risk factors of hemodialysis
      patients, elevated fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF23) level is common, and plays major role
      in the development of CVD with independent pathophysiologic mechanisms. Evidence from animal
      studies demonstrated that low-phosphate diet reduced FGF23 level. Clinical trials assessing
      the effect of dietary phosphate restriction on FGF23 focused on non-dialysis populution.
      However, little is known about the effect of low-phosphate diet on FGF23 in hemodialysis
      patients who have higher prevalence of hyperphosphatemia and severely elevated FGF23 level.
      In addition, current clinical guideline, based on evidence from observational studies of
      non-dialysis population, has recommended that dietary phosphate intake should be restricted
      to 800-1000 mg/day (adjusted for dietary protein needs) when serum phosphate levels are
      greater than 5.5 mg/dL in those with kidney failure. For hemodialysis population, the optimal
      amount of dietary phosphate restriction has not been determined. The aims of the study are to
      evaluate the effect of low-phosphate diet on FGF23 level and to determine the optimal amount
      of dietary phosphate restriction in hemodialysis patients. In particular, the investigators
      will compare the effect of pre-specified low-phosphate diets, very low-phosphate diet,
      phosphate-to-protein ratio (PPR) value of 8 mg/g, versus low-phosphate diet, PPR value of 10
      mg/g, on the change of FGF23 and phosphate level.

      It is to conduct a randomized, active-controlled trial with cross-over design at a
      hemodialysis unit of tertiary teaching hospital in Northern Taiwan. Subjects with aged older
      than 20 years, end-stage renal disease undergoing thrice-weekly hemodialysis for more than
      three months, having adequate dialysis (urea reduction ratio equal to or greater than 65%)
      and the most recent serum phosphate level greater than 5.5 mg/dL or between 3.5 and 5.5 mg/dL
      with regular phosphate binder use will be randomly assigned into two groups: those in group A
      will receive 2-day diet with known PPR of 8 mg/g, followed by 5-day washout period and then
      receive another 2-day diet with PPR of 10 mg/g. The opposite order of diets will be
      prescribed in group B. The study diets will be prepared and cooked at hospital cafeteria.
      Dietary compositions of the study diets were analyzed before the start of the study. Primary
      outcome measures are difference in change-from-baseline intact FGF-23 level between the two
      dietary interventions. Secondary outcomes include changes in serum phosphate, intact
      parathyroid hormone and C-terminal FGF-23 level.

      Since food additives include readily absorbable inorganic phosphorus, only natural food
      sources were chosen for study diets. All study food items had the following unique
      characteristics including: 1. Using locally produced raw materials. 2. Meeting healthy and
      safety requirements. 3. Complying with national quality standards. Prior to enrollment of the
      eligible patients, the study diets were prepared and cooked with the food hygiene practice
      using Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) system at hospital cafeteria and
      dietary composition of study diets were analyzed for chemical analysis. With reference to
      Association of Official Analytical Communities (AOAC) Official Method 984.27, phosphorus, and
      calcium were determined by inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES)
      analysis with the detection limit of 0.1 mg/L. In brief, the sample weight were obtained, the
      edible portions of samples were ashed at high temperature, digested in nitric acid, and used
      inductively coupled plasma to determine their actual contents of phosphorus and calcium. With
      reference to Taiwanese official methods, study diets were measured for analyses of protein,
      fat, saturated fat, sugar, moisture, and ash. Carbohydrates were calculated by the formula:
      100 - (Protein + Fat + Moisture + Ash) (g/100 g). Calories were calculated by the formula:
      Protein (g) x 4 kcal + Fat (g) x 9 kcal + Carbohydrate (g) x 4 kcal.

      Based on the measured values of food items, dietitian had crafted low-phosphate diets. Less
      than 800 mg per day of phosphate amount is designed to fulfill the current clinical
      recommendation. Two different contents of phosphate diets were prepared to find out the
      optimal amount of dietary phosphate. Each of the diets was designed to have similar calcium,
      protein and total caloric contents but only differ in phosphate contents. To enhance
      nutrition, and to reduce phosphate amount and bioavailability, study diets were designed to
      fulfill the following criteria including high protein diet (≧1.2 g/kg/day), adequate calories
      (≧ 30 kcal/kg/day), low phosphate-to-protein ratio (< 10 mg/g), and higher percentage of
      plant source of phosphate than that of animal source. In addition, meats were sliced and
      boiled for 30 minutes before cooking to reduce the amount of phosphate while preserving
      protein content.
    
  