
    
      The purpose of the study is to develop and evaluate a web-based intervention for insomnia
      among children with neurodevelopmental disabilities (NDD), including Autism Spectrum Disorder
      (ASD), Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD), Cerebral Palsy (CP), and
      Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Using the internet to deliver an
      intervention program for insomnia in children will address access barriers and provide
      evidence-based treatment to large numbers of children with NDD.

      This study will adapt the Better Nights, Better Days (BNBD) e-intervention that was developed
      for typically developing children ages 1-10 years. The adaptation of BNBD will be led by a
      team of experts in the fields of sleep in children with NDD, including ASD, FASD, CP, and
      ADHD. The adaption will focus on behaviours that pose challenges to implementation of the
      evidence-based sleep intervention strategies (e.g., anxiety, parental stress, sensory
      sensitivities, language impairments, attention difficulties, etc.), rather than
      disorder-specific symptoms. The intervention will be developed for children between the ages
      of 3-10 years, with mild to moderate NDD impairment.

      The effectiveness of this intervention in improving children's sleep and daytime functioning,
      as well as secondary effects on the well-being of caregivers, will be evaluated through a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). A parallel-design RCT (one per diagnostic group) will be
      conducted to determine if the web-based sleep intervention for NDD improves children's sleep
      and is associated with improved psychosocial outcomes for children and their caregivers.

      This study is comprised of a development phase and an RCT phase.

      Phase 1: Adaptation of web-based intervention and usability testing. A 3-step process will be
      used to adapt the BNBD e-intervention for use by caregivers of children with NDD.

      Step 1: Development of modifications based on team lead input and literature reviews, with
      the objective to identify specific adaptations for sleep interventions. The investigators
      will conduct a Delphi study to gain consensus from leading experts on the most appropriate
      modifications.

      Step 2: Modification of the BNBD program. The investigators will work with BeHealth
      Solutions, the company that created the BNBD web-program, to adapt the intervention for
      caregivers of children with NDD. Modifications will include changes to the information
      already included in BNBD, and addition of informational and videos.

      Step 3: Usability study with experts and caregivers. The investigators will evaluate the
      e-intervention on 6 dimensions: usable, credible, accessible, desirable, useful, and
      valuable. The investigators will obtain participants' perceptions of whether the caregivers
      will be well supported by this e-intervention, and how to incorporate additional supports.
      Participants will be 5 health care professionals who work with children with NDD, and 3
      caregivers for each NDD group, for a maximum sample of 17.

      Phase 2: RCT of the BNBD-NDD Sleep Intervention. In Phase 2, the investigators will evaluate
      the effectiveness of the web-based intervention for insomnia in 3 to 10-year-olds with NDD.
      Assessments will be conducted at Baseline and at 3 and 6 months post-randomization. The
      primary objective is to assess the intervention's immediate impact (Baseline vs. 3 months) on
      children's sleep. Th secondary objective is to evaluate longer-term impact (Baseline, 3, 6
      months) on children's sleep, as well as the longer-term impact on child and caregiver
      psychosocial health outcomes.

      Research Design. Investigators will use a RCT design, with a pragmatic trial approach, to
      evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention, adhering to CONSORT 2010 guidelines.
      Specifically, the investigators will conduct 4 individually randomized parallel-group RCTs,
      one for each NDD group (ASD, FASD, CP & ADHD), to assess whether the intervention improves
      children' sleep within each group at 3 months. Data collected at 6 months will assess the
      degree of maintenance of any initial treatment effects on child sleep, and the intervention's
      impact on child and caregiver psychosocial health.

      Randomization. After Baseline caregivers will be randomized to usual care or internet-based
      sleep intervention (BNBD-NDD). The usual care group may access other interventions. They will
      be given access to BNBD-NDD after all follow-up assessments. Caregivers in the intervention
      group will also be allowed to access other interventions. The investigators will use
      block-randomized stratification for each of 3 age groups (preschoolers [3-4years], early
      elementary [5-7years], and mid-elementary [8-10years]). A staff member (not affiliated with
      the project) will prepare computer-generated block randomization.

      Participants. The investigators will recruit enough participants to have 60 caregivers
      complete the post-treatment (3 month) assessment in each of 4 RCTs. Given the likelihood of
      overlap in diagnoses across groups, participants will be enrolled based on their primary and
      most impairing disorder. The intervention will be designed for children with mild-to-moderate
      disabilities, as it is expected that children with severe neurologic disease will not benefit
      from this type of intervention.

      Screening Assessment. Caregivers will be asked questions through an online screening
      instrument to assess whether their child meets the study's inclusion criteria and does not
      meet any of the exclusion criteria. To determine if the child has behavioural insomnia,
      criteria outlined by Richman and modified by Anders and Dahl, which are consistent with the
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) insomnia criteria, will be
      used. To determine if the child may have sleep apnea (an exclusion item), caregivers will
      complete the Pediatric Sleep Questionnaire (PSQ).

      Baseline and Outcome Assessments. Assessments will be conducted at Baseline and at 3 and 6
      months post-randomization for all participants. A research assistant blinded to treatment
      condition will email caregivers at the appropriate time requesting that they complete the
      assessment, and will follow up by email to answer questions and encourage completion of
      forms. The primary outcome measures are total sleep duration based on diary data and
      actigraphy. Total sleep time is the variable most consistently related to improved daytime
      functioning, both for psychological and physical health. Secondary outcomes will examine
      change in other sleep variables (i.e., sleep onset and sleep efficiency) as well as change in
      all sleep variables over the 6-month trial duration, and will include questionnaire measures
      of children's sleep, caregivers' daytime fatigue level, and children's and caregivers'
      psychosocial health (behavioural and emotional functioning).
    
  