
    
      The purpose of the study is to assess potential age-related differences on coagulation
      profile of patients undergoing Cesarean Section, using thromboelastography (TEG). The
      investigators will compare coagulation data collected from the study to assess potential
      differences in coagulation parameters for the following age groups: (i) women less than 35
      yrs (ii) women 35 yrs or older. This study will allow us to collect more information about
      differences regarding coagulation profile in patients undergoing cesarean section who are
      less than 35 y vs. 35y or older. This information will add to current knowledge base about
      potential risk for thrombotic events according with age.

      All obstetric patients presenting for elective Cesarean delivery (CD) will be informed about
      the study prior to and on admission to the labor and delivery unit. Patients will be informed
      at parents' education classes (during education sessions by obstetric anesthesiologists who
      are also members of the research team). Potential participants will be approached by a member
      of the research team prior to surgery. A study investigator will obtain patient written
      informed consent.

      Pre-operatively, blood sampling will take place by venepuncture for the following analysis:

      Hematocrit, Platelet count (which are part of standard of care), TEG, prothrombin time (PT),
      Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT), International Normalized Ratio (INR), fibrinogen (for
      research purposes only, unless they are needed for clinical purposes).

      The investigators would prefer to avoid taking blood samples from indwelling peripheral IV
      lines, as the samples will likely be diluted with intravenous fluid and therefore may
      significantly affect blood sampling analysis. The volumes of blood necessary for TEG analysis
      are extremely small (1 ml - less than half of a teaspoon - per TEG analysis; total =3
      samples), and therefore will not significantly affect any potential degree of hemorrhage or
      total blood loss incurred. The volumes of blood for laboratory analysis will also be small
      (4-5 ml - about 1 teaspoon - for each research sample: total =3 samples), and will not affect
      overall blood loss. No randomization will be possible. TEG and laboratory samples will be
      taken at the following time intervals: prior to anesthesia in the preoperative holding unit,
      post-operative days one and three.

      Data will be assessed for normality using normality plots and the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.
      Normally and non-normally distributed TEG parameters before and after CD (PACU samples) will
      be assessed by using the paired t-test and Wilcoxon signed-rank test respectively. The
      percentage change from baseline for each TEG parameter and Hb before and after CD will also
      be calculated. Longitudinal analysis of individual changes for each TEG parameter will be
      performed using mixed effects regression modeling, due to the non-uniformity of
      time-intervals and to account for correlation among repeated measurements on the same
      participants. The investigators will examine longitudinal models for individual TEG
      parameters as a dependent measure, with study group as a fixed factor, and number of previous
      cesarean section, total blood loss, IV fluids, platelet count and fibrinogen counts as
      potential covariates (tbc). Separate models will incorporate age as continuous independent
      variable (as both a fixed and random effect). The investigators will analyze these data using
      SAS version 9.2 (SAS Institute, Cary, N.C., USA).

      Study data will be stored in secured, locked storage boxes which will only be accessed by
      study investigators. Samples and labels will be identified using a numerical system based
      allocated prior to the start of the study. Only investigators directly involved in the study
      will have access to the study data and other related documents.

      Study data will be protected as follows:

      Hard data will be stored in secure box-files kept in locked file cabinets; databases with
      study data will be password-protected. Study information will be coded in advance using a
      numerical coding system not linked to the patients' medical record number or other PHI.
      Coding will be performed when data is entered into the database. Only study investigators
      will have access to the coding system for de-identifying data. All codes used to protect
      study data and confidential information will be used solely by study investigators. All codes
      used for data- protection will be known only to the study investigators, and
      software-protection and encryption programs will be used as appropriate.

      TEG will be performed by study investigators on the labor and delivery unit. Blood samples
      will be destroyed after TEG analysis. Other laboratory samples will be analyzed as per normal
      procedure.

      Electronic data will be stored at the Stanford File Management Tool. Only researchers and
      research staff will be granted password-protected access to identifiable and coded data
      stored on this server.

      All persons involved in this study will receive appropriate training and abide by
      confidentiality guidelines to protect the subject's privacy. All HIPAA rules and regulations
      will be strictly followed.
    
  