
    
      Traumatic memories are responsible for significant emotional distress and disability. They
      are a cardinal feature of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Re-experiencing the original
      traumatic event in a number of different ways (e.g. nightmares, intrusive recollections and
      dissociative flashbacks) is accompanied by distressing symptoms. The reconsolidation theory
      of memory proposes that when long-term memories are reactivated, they remain labile for
      several hours before conversion back to long-term memory. During this period they are
      susceptible to amnestic agents, like propranolol.

      Propranolol Hydrochloride will be compared to placebo in subjects who have emotional distress
      associated with re-experiences of traumatic events, whether in the context of PTSD or not.
      Two doses of propranolol or two doses of placebo will be given at the first visit.

      The objective of the trial is to determine the effectiveness of brief treatment with
      propranolol on subjects with traumatic memories and associated symptoms. The research
      hypothesis is that propranolol will be more effective than placebo, as determined by the
      measures used, and that this positive outcome will support the reconsolidation theory of
      memory.

      The subjects will undergo clinician rated assessments/scales to determine the presence of
      pre-treatment mental disorders. Subjects will complete self-rating measures/scales to
      determine the impact of the traumatic experience. Blood pressure and pulse rates will also be
      recorded.

      Post-treatment outcomes using the same instruments to determine changes at four weeks will be
      recorded. The differences will be compared and subjected to statistical analysis.

      There is an optional component of the study for subjects allocated to the placebo group. At
      the end of the study, these subjects will be given the opportunity of taking two doses of
      propranolol and attending a single follow-up session four weeks later for a further
      interview, rating scale and questionnaire completion. This will provide the subjects who were
      on placebo an opportunity of possibly benefiting from the active treatment.
    
  