
    
      Objective:

      Neural imaging during functional tasks has become more portable and accessible than magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) by utilizing non-invasive near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) as a
      means to isolate areas of brain activity by measuring blood flow dynamics and
      electroencephalography (EEG) to measure electrical activity on the cortical surface. Although
      use of these technologies for assessing cortical activation patterns is increasing,
      validation of these approaches, particularly in children and those with brain injuries such
      as cerebral palsy, is in the early stages with few reports in the literature. The use of
      these in motor training paradigms for rehabilitation populations has not yet been reported.
      The objectives of this protocol are to: 1) systematically compare cortical activation
      patterns associated with specified motor and sensory tasks in healthy children and adults to
      those with unilateral or bilateral childhood-onset brain injury; 2) extend the use of EEG in
      our laboratory across subject groups and tasks, when used alone or with NIRS; and 3) pilot
      the use of NIRS and/ or EEG as a brain biofeedback device in children with childhood-onset
      brain injury. The first two objectives are observational only, the third objective includes a
      pilot intervention. The results of this study are expected to increase knowledge of brain
      activation patterns across tasks and groups with and without brain injuries and to provide
      proof of concept and power estimates for future clinical studies with these technologies. A
      secondary question we would like to examine with these imaging technologies is the potential
      effect of motor impairments resulting from childhood-onset peripheral injuries (e.g.
      obstetrical brachial plexus palsy) on brain reorganization.

      Study population:

      The childhood-onset brain injury group will consist of up to120 individuals (5 years and
      above) spanning the three objectives. The childhood-onset peripheral injury group will
      consist of up to 100 individuals within the same age-range spanning only Objectives 1 and 2.
      The control groups for each participant cohort will consist of up to 50 individuals spanning
      Objectives 1 and 2, for a total recruitment of up to 100 healthy volunteers within the same
      age range.

      Design:

      Objective 1, the primary focus of this research protocol, is a cross-sectional analysis of
      multiple tasks across subject groups. Objective 2 is primarily a descriptive study, and
      Objective 3 is a pilot evaluation of the effectiveness of novel short term motor training
      program in children with childhood-onset brain injury targeted at improving brain activation
      patterns and motor performance.

      Outcome measures:

      Objective 1 is the primary quantitative objective in this protocol, in which we will compare
      location, magnitude, volume and area of cortical activation across tasks and groups.
      Secondary outcomes include descriptive measures that will be used primarily to evaluate the
      two techniques or to monitor motion and muscle activation (EMG and ultrasound) data to help
      interpret task and group differences. Objective 3 will measure changes in brain activation
      and motor performance in childhood-onset brain injury before and after a short training
      program.
    
  