
    
      Randomized, open-label, parallel-group, multicenter, phase III trial with two arms, one with
      acalabrutinib (Arm A) and the other with the standard of care for the management of early
      Binet stage A patients "clinical observation (watch & wait)" (Arm B) in patients with
      untreated early stage CLL and risk factors for early disease progression. Early risk of
      disease progression will be defined by the GCLLSG prognostic index: intermediate (3-5), high
      (6-10) or very high (11-14) risk scores are required to be included in the study.
      Randomization will be managed through an IRT system:

        -  Arm A (65 patients): Patients assigned to arm A, will receive acalabrutinib as one
           capsule of 100 mg orally twice daily on a continuos schedule until disease progression,
           unacceptable toxicity or early withdrawal.

        -  Arm B (65 patients): Patients assigned to arm B, will remain on the w&w approach until
           disease progression or early withdrawal.

      The enrolment period is estimated in 24 months. A treatment cycle is defined as lasting 28
      days.

      The duration of the study will be of 60 months from the inclusion of the first patient to the
      last patient has completed the last follow up visit.

        1. Periods of patient participation in the study

             -  Screening Phase: After providing the written Informed Consent Form (ICF) to
                participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for eligibility, baseline
                characteristics and risk factors, during a screening period up to 28 days prior to
                randomization.

             -  Treatment/Observation Phase: The treatment/observation Phase extends from
                randomization until symptomatic disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or early
                withdrawal. A treatment cycle is defined as lasting 28 days.

             -  Suspected Disease Progression Visit: A visit should be performed at any time when
                disease progression is suspected. If progression is confirmed, the patient will be
                followed every 6 months to assess survival status and receipt of subsequent
                antileukemic therapy until death, patient withdrawal, loss to follow-up, or study
                termination, whichever comes first. The subsequent treatment decision will be up to
                the investigator and should generally follow the routine practice.

             -  End-of-Treatment/Observation Visit: For patients receiving acalabrutinib, the
                End-of-Treatment Visit will be performed within 30 days (± 3 days) after the last
                dose of treatment administration or progression. For patients remaining in the w&w
                approach, the End-of- Observation Visit will be performed within 30 days of
                progression.

             -  Follow-up for Progression (Pre-PD FU): Patients who discontinue the study treatment
                without confirmed progression (according to iwCLL guidelines) will continue to be
                followed for progression every 4 months (±7 days) for the first 24 months of study,
                then every 6 months (±7 days) until progression or study closure.

           Study visits will no longer be carried out for patients who have withdrawn their
           informed consent, have died or have been lost to follow-up.

        2. Study drug - dosage and administration:

           Acalabrutinib is orally administered and is suitable for formulating in capsules.
           Acalabrutinib will be supplied by ASTRAZENECA FARMACÉUTICA SPAIN, S.A., on behalf of the
           Sponsor, as hard gelatin capsules of 100 mg for oral administration. Acalabrutinib can
           be taken with or without food. As acalabrutinib is metabolized by CYP3A, subjects should
           be cautioned against using herbal remedies or dietary supplements (in particular, St
           John's wort, which is a potent CYP3A inducer). Otherwise, subjects should maintain a
           normal diet unless modifications are required to manage an AE such as diarrhea, nausea
           or vomiting.

        3. Description of Procedures

             -  Confirmation of Eligibility: Perform all necessary procedures and evaluations to
                document that the patient meets each eligibility criterion.

             -  Medical History: will include concurrent medical signs and symptoms based upon
                available documents and patient history.

             -  Adverse Events: All medical occurrences that meet the accepted regulatory
                definition of AE must be recorded from the time the informed consent form is signed
                until 30 days after the last dose of study drug (in Arm A) or progression (in both
                arms).

             -  Physical Examination, Vital Signs, Height and Weight, ECOG. This will include the
                lymphatic system, spleen and liver examination as well. will be performed at every
                visit during the study.

             -  Clinical Stage Rai/Binet: A Binet or Rai staging system will be used at every study
                visit (except on Day 15 Cycle 1 and Day 15 Cycle 2) to stratify patients according
                to the disease risk.

             -  Disease-related symptoms will be assessed and collected at every study visit.

             -  Electrocardiogram (ECG) done only at Screening.

             -  Concomitant Medication: All medications from 14 days before the start of study drug
                administration through 30 days after the last dose of study drug or progression.

             -  German CLL Study Group (GCLLSG) prognostic index will be determined for each
                patient only at screening.

             -  Cumulative Illness Rating Scale is a measure of comorbid medical conditions that
                help to characterize patients with concomitant morbidity and fit.

             -  Hepatitis Serologies: Hepatitis serologies include Hepatitis C antibody, Hepatitis
                B surface antigen, Hepatitis B surface antibody, and Hepatitis B core antibody.

             -  Hematology: will be performed at every visit by local laboratory and will include a
                complete blood cell count.

             -  Coagulation Panel: Measurement of prothrombin time /INR, and activated partial
                thromboplastin time will be performed at Screening.

             -  Serum chemistry will be locally performed at every visit (except on Day 15 of
                Cycles 1 and 2)

             -  Creatinine clearance (Cockcroft-Gault) will be evaluated (only at screening) by
                local laboratory.

             -  Cytogenetic, CLL FISH Panel within 90 days prior to the inclusion in the study to
                detect abnormalities in chromosomes 13q, 12, 11q, and 17p must be evaluated.

             -  Blood for immunophenotyping (for diagnosis), IGVH mutation status, and serum
                markers (B2-microglobulin and thymidine kinase) will be centralized in the
                department of Hematology of the University Hospital of Vall d'Hebron. Blood samples
                will be collected for all patients at Screening.

             -  Serum quantitative immunoglobulin (IgG, IgM, IgA) levels will be evaluated by local
                laboratory at screening, on Day 1 of every odd cycle from Cycles 3 through 12, on
                Day 1 of every odd cycle (for Cycles 13, 15, 17, 19, 21 and 23), and then every 3
                cycles until progression or study closure.

             -  Coombs test will be performed (only at screening) by local laboratory.

             -  CT scans of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis.

             -  Bone Marrow Aspirate and/or Biopsy should be obtained to confirm CR, or confirm
                cytopenic progression and distinguish autoimmune versus treatment-related causes.
                In addition, a further marrow assessment should be performed at any time during
                follow-up when the patient has cleared MRD from the peripheral blood. Marrow
                aspirate to confirm CR should have a flow-cytometry-based MRD; MRD should be also
                analysed in peripheral blood .

             -  Overall response assessment will include evaluation of physical exams, recording of
                symptoms, and hematological evaluations. OR will be assessed on Day 1 Cycle 2, on
                Day 1 of Cycles 3 to 12, and on Day 1 of Cycles 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, and 23, and
                then every 3 cycles to disease progression or study closure. For patients in Arm B,
                response assessment will be performed on Day 1 of every 3 cycles to progression or
                study termination.

             -  Overall Survival: After progression, patients will be followed every 6 months to
                assess survival status and the start of subsequent cancer therapies until death,
                patient withdrawal, loss to follow-up, or study termination, whichever comes first.

             -  Biomarkers: Blood samples will be collected for an exploratory biomarker assessment
                at baseline and at progression. Samples at month 3, 6 and 12 will be optional and
                will collected in patients who have accepted in the inform consent form.

        4. Main Efficacy Evaluations Suspected Disease Progression: should be confirmed with a CT
           scan (or MRI, if CT is contraindicated).

           Disease Evaluation: Objective response will be categorized as CR, CR with incomplete
           bone marrow recovery (CRi), nodular partial remission (nPR), partial response (PR),
           stable disease, or progressive disease-all based upon IWCLL criteria (Hallek 2018).
           Patients who achieve PR in all parameters except lymphocyte count will be considered a
           PR with lymphocytosis, for the purposes of the Protocol. CRs must be confirmed by bone
           marrow biopsy/aspirate.

           Given the known mechanism of action of BCR-inhibiting agents, including acalabrutinib,
           and the treatment-related lymphocytosis frequently observed during treatment with
           acalabrutinib, isolated treatment-related lymphocytosis (in absence of other clinical,
           CT, or laboratory evidence of disease progression) will not be considered progressive
           disease. This approach is supported by the IWCLL guidelines (Hallek 2018).

        5. Safety, Monitoring and Reporting: An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical
           occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a medicinal
           product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment. An
           AE can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally
           associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the
           medicinal product.

           PETHEMA Foundation has delegated Pharmacovigilance functions to the Pharmacovigilance
           Department of the CRO Dynamic Science S.L.

        6. Warnings, Precautions, and Adverse Effects: Acalabrutinib is contraindicated in subjects
           with clinically significant hypersensitivity to the compound itself or to the excipients
           in its formulation.

           Hemorrhagic events, including CNS, respiratory, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage, have
           been reported in clinical trials with acalabrutinib. The mechanism for hemorrhage is not
           well understood.

           Serious infections, including fatal events, have been reported in clinical studies with
           acalabrutinib. The most frequently reported Grade 3 or 4 infection was pneumonia. Cases
           of hepatitis B virus reactivation (resulting in liver failure and death in 1 case) and
           cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy have occurred in subjects with
           hematologic malignancies.

           Cytopenias: treatment-emergent Grade 3 or 4 cytopenias including neutropenia, anemia,
           and thrombocytopenia have occurred in clinical studies with acalabrutinib.

           Events of second primary malignancies, including non-skin carcinomas, have been reported
           in clinical studies with acalabrutinib. The most frequently reported was skin cancer.

           Events of atrial fibrillation/flutter have been reported in clinical studies with
           acalabrutinib, particularly in subjects with cardiac risk factors, hypertension,
           diabetes mellitus, acute infections, and a previous history of atrial fibrillation. The
           mechanism for atrial fibrillation is not well understood.

           Subjects should be managed per institutional guidelines with supportive care and
           diagnostic evaluations as clinically indicated.

        7. Drug-drug Interactions: Acalabrutinib is partially metabolized by CYP3A; its exposure is
           affected when coadministered with strong CYP3A inducers or inhibitors. Consequently, the
           concomitant use of strong inhibitors/inducers of CYP3A should be avoided when possible.
           Subjects who require therapy with strong inhibitors of CYP3A should not be enrolled into
           the study.

           Subjects should avoid the use of calcium carbonate containing drugs or supplements for a
           period of at least 2 hours before and 2 hours after taking acalabrutinib. Use of
           omeprazole, esomeprazole, lansoprazole or any other proton pump inhibitors while taking
           acalabrutinib is not recommended due to a potential decrease in study drug exposure. For
           subjects who require H2 antagonists, the recommendation is that acalabrutinib is taken
           at least 2 hours before the H2 antagonist.

        8. Treatment-related lymphocytosis, for the purposes of this Protocol, is defined as an
           elevation in blood lymphocyte count of ≥50% compared to baseline. Acalabrutinib
           associated treatment-related lymphocytosis generally occurs within the first weeks of
           therapy, peaks within the first few months, and resolves slowly. Patients with
           treatment-related lymphocytosis should remain on study treatment and continue with all
           study-related procedures.

        9. Once the complete study is explained, written Informed Consent will be obtained from the
           patient, legal guardian or representative before starting participation in the study.

       10. In order to respect patient privacy, patients will be identified by patient number in
           all case report forms, study drug accountability logs, study reports and communications.
           Confidentiality of patients will be kept and their identity will not be disclosed as far
           as permitted by the law and relevant regulations. Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
           European Parliament and of the Council, of 27 April 2016, on the protection of natural
           persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such
           data, and Organic Law 3/2018 of December 5, on the Protection or Personal Data and
           guarantee of digital rights.

       11. Early study discontinuation: This study may be discontinued early if, in the Sponsor's
           opinion, there is sufficient reasonable cause.

       12. Data registering and storage: The investigator will keep all study records in compliance
           with ICH-GCP requirements and current regulations.

       13. Responsibility and insurance: The Sponsor has taken out an insurance policy covering, in
           its terms and conditions, the liability for damages caused to participants and derived
           from this research, performed fully in compliance with both the scientific Protocol and
           the applicable law and professional standards.
    
  