
    
      -  This is a blanket protocol to cover a series of in vitro diagnostic, Phase 4,
           sub-studies to determine the performance of 18 various marketed blood glucose meter
           systems over a 12 month period. All activities performed in these sub-studies will fall
           within the parameters outlined in this protocol.

        -  At least 100 and not more than 125 subjects will participate in a sub-study

        -  All activities will be conducted according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP)

        -  The protocol, informed consent form, advertisements, and all appropriate documents, will
           be submitted to an Institutional Review Board (IRB) for approval prior to any study
           conduct.

        -  Informed consent will be obtained from each subject for each sub-study. The informed
           consent form for each sub-study will clearly identify and explain the specific
           procedures for that sub-study.

        -  All values obtained by the Blood Glucose Monitor Systems (BGMS) assayed at the clinical
           site will be compared with glucose values of plasma from the same subjects. Plasma
           samples will be properly prepared at the clinical site, frozen and shipped on dry ice to
           a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) /College of American Pathologists
           (CAP) certified/accredited laboratory for analysis on a glucose comparative instrument

        -  Glucose Comparative instruments will be tested with appropriate manufacturers controls
           as well as with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 965b controls to
           assure accuracy and quality (analytical imprecision < 2.9% a bias of < 2.2%, and a total
           error < 6.9%)

        -  Brief demographic and medical history information will be collected from subjects. In
           addition, information will be collected regarding medications taken in the previous 48
           hours by the subjects such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, salicylate-containing drugs,
           ascorbic acid-containing drugs since such compounds could affect the testing results

        -  Trained study staff will perform both shallow and deep finger punctures on subjects
           using sterile lancing devices to obtain capillary blood for testing on the BGMSs, as
           well as for testing on a comparative glucose instrument - subjects will not be asked to
           do any self-testing

        -  Subject's capillary blood will be directly applied to the test strip of the BGMSs as per
           labeling of the device

        -  In some cases, subject's fingerstick blood will also be collected into a micro-tube and
           modified (for example, glycolyzed) to obtain blood samples in the hypoglycemic range not
           BGMSs that are oxygen insensitive since oxygen levels in blood can change during
           glycolysis.

        -  Testing of blood may include, but not limited to: -glucose concentration measured on
           BGMS, hematocrit, comparative glucose assay

        -  A volume of no greater than 2000 microliters of finger stick capillary blood will be
           obtained from any subject at a single visit to the site

        -  No more than ten finger punctures will be performed on any subject. The number and type
           of finger sticks that a subject may receive in each sub-study will be disclosed in the
           sub-study informed consent form. All lancets will be sterile; they may either be one
           time use devices, or lancing device with lancets that are generally used by people with
           diabetes for self-monitoring of their blood glucose. A new lancing device will be used
           on each subject.

        -  Study documents will be retained by the investigative clinical site, the clinical
           laboratory and Sponsor (Diabetes Technology Society) as required by GCP but no less than
           3 years following publication of results.

        -  Plasma from subjects will be shipped to the accredited clinical laboratory for assay
           using appropriate shipping methods for biological specimens

        -  A Contracted Research Organization (CRO) will oversee the studies, monitor the clinical
           and laboratory sites, conduct Part 11 compliant data management, perform statistical
           analysis, create reports and post results on clintrials.gov and on the DTS Blood Glucose
           Monitor System Surveillance Program website that will be created.

      To access the full protocol:
      http://dst.sagepub.com/content/early/2015/12/10/1932296815614587.full.pdf+html
    
  