
    
      As many as 30% of individuals seeking treatment for obesity meet the Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) criteria for binge eating
      disorder (BED). BED is marked by recurrent episodes of bingeing, accompanied by feelings of
      loss of control, and involves chronic disregulation of physiological, emotional and
      behavioral systems. Meditation-based interventions have been used successfully to treat
      disorders with similar addictive and disregulatory characteristics, but have not been applied
      to treating BED. Data from an uncontrolled pilot study suggests that such an intervention can
      have marked immediate impact on decreasing episodes of binge eating and other associated
      characteristics in obese women. Therefore, this study incorporates appropriate comparison
      conditions to further investigate the efficacy of a mindfulness meditation-based intervention
      as a treatment component for treating BED symptoms. Exploratory aspects include further
      development of a manual, establishment of effect size (in comparison to appropriate
      comparison groups), inclusion of a more diverse population, and of measures that address: 1)
      individual differences in treatment response, 2) possible mechanisms, 3) time course of
      response, and 3) impact on medical/health variables.

      Women from two communities will be randomly assigned to 3 conditions: 1) an 8-week manualized
      meditation-based group intervention, 2) a psychoeducational comparison condition, or 3) a
      waiting-list control. Primary outcome variables will be changes in binge eating behaviors,
      and associated measures of depression, anxiety, self-esteem, and diet; secondary variables
      include medical variables sensitive to dietary change (i.e., weight; blood pressure; lipid
      profile; blood glucose levels), and process variables related to meditation practice, such as
      the Tellegen Absorption Scale, perceived value and use of the meditation practice, and
      experiences of increased control and awareness. Participants will be evaluated pre- and
      post-treatment, and at 1, 3, and 6 months followup. This data would then support the further
      investigation of a meditation-based intervention as part of a more comprehensive treatment
      program for BED.
    
  