
    
      Insulin resistance (IR), a hallmark of metabolic syndrome and diabetes, is strongly linked to
      numerous health disorders, including cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease. In adults,
      data indicate IR negatively impacts brain structure and function, such as decreased regional
      brain volumes, increased white matter hyperintensities, and poorer memory and attention, all
      of which are hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. In parallel with data
      from adults, emerging data from adolescents with IR suggest similar brain structural and
      functional changes. Importantly, these changes occur during a critical period for proper
      brain development and maturation, thus having a potentially fateful impact on these young
      brains as they mature into adulthood.

      In addition to brain structural and cognitive changes, IR is also associated with lower
      cerebral blood flow (CBF), which is linked to neurocognitive problems in adults. The
      consequences of IR on cerebrovascular dysfunction- and its interaction with neurocognition-
      in adolescents remain largely unexplored. Therefore, impaired vascular function may hold
      tremendous influence over brain health in adolescents at a vital period in brain development.

      Exercise is a key factor in treating IR from a metabolic perspective, and acts as the only
      effective intervention known to combat dementia-related diseases in adults. Furthermore,
      exercise can acutely increase cognitive abilities and CBF, and adults with higher aerobic
      fitness demonstrate greater CBF, and CBF is increased following exercise training. With this
      as background, a few questions emerge regarding adolescents with IR: is there a dose-response
      relationship between IR severity and cognitive function? Can exercise improve cognition and
      impact brain health? What is the role of vascular function in cognition on potential
      exercise-induced improvements?

      The long-term goal of this research program is to determine the influence of IR, physical
      activity, and their interaction on brain development in adolescents by interrogating the
      relationships between neurocognition, brain structure, and underlying mechanisms. The primary
      goal of the current pilot project is to quantify neurocognitive function in relation to the
      severity of IR and use acute exercise as a tool to improve function. The central hypothesis
      is that as IR worsens: 1) subtle neurocognitive abnormalities worsen, 2) exercise-mediated
      improvements in neurocognitive function are blunted, due in part to 3) reduced CBF responses.

      Participants will be recruited primarily from pediatric and pediatric endocrinology clinics
      via our collaborator, Dr. Aaron Carrel, and his staff in UWHC Pediatric Endocrinology.
      Additionally, participants will be recruited from the greater Madison, WI community.
    
  