
    
      Patients with typical Familial Partial Lipodystrophy Disease (FPLD) have a marked loss of
      subcutaneous fat from the extremities and trunk accompanied by a variable amount of excess
      fat deposition in the nonlipodystrophic areas such as the face, chin, back, and
      intraabdominal regions. Dietary fat restriction and other lifestyle changes are first line
      therapy to avoid weight gain, critical for effective management of metabolic complications in
      patients with lipodystrophy. However, despite lifestyle changes and conventional hypoglycemic
      and hypolipidemic therapies, some FPLD patients continue to have extreme
      hypertriglyceridemia, hepatic steatosis, and poorly controlled diabetes.Hypertriglyceridemia
      is a common condition of FPLD and serum triglyceride levels of 250-1999 mg/dL, classified as
      moderate to severe hypertriglyceridemia, indicate risk for development of very severe
      hypertriglyceridemia, causative of pancreatitis and hepatic steatosis. In patients such as
      those with FPLD with severe or very severe hypertriglyceridemia, fibrates, omega-3 fatty
      acids (OMG-3) and occasionally niacin are first-line therapy. Non-alcoholic fatty liver
      disease (NAFLD) is often associated with FPLD. The spectrum of NAFLD associated with FPLD
      which appears to be more frequent than what is seen in common Type 2 diabetes and appears
      more severe than common forms of NAFLD and very often associated with NASH. The etiology for
      the latter is not clear, however, the fact that a mouse model of liver specific laminopathy
      develops NASH in a cell -autonomous manner suggests that the specific cellular defects seen
      in FPLD may play a role in the development of NAFLD/NASH. Triglyceride content in the liver
      is regulated by fatty acid uptake as well as fatty acid and VLDL production rates.
      Derangements in these processes, such as excessive production of fatty acids and
      triglycerides that can occur with excessive carbohydrate consumption contribute to NAFLD.
      Patients with NAFLD compared to controls, present with an atherogenic dyslipidemic profile,
      characterized by increased serum levels of triglycerides, ApoB, VLDL-C, and LDL-C with a
      proportionally greater content of small dense LDL-C (sdLDL-C) 18-20. NAFLD is also associated
      with aberrant nuclear receptor function and systemic inflammation. NAFLD can progress to
      NASH. NASH is marked by hepatocyte ballooning and liver inflammation, which may progress to
      scarring and irreversible damage. Macro and microscopically, NASH is characterized by lobular
      and/or portal inflammation, varying degrees of fibrosis, hepatocyte death and pathological
      angiogenesis. At its most severe, NASH can progress to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC) and liver failure. It is estimated that 20-33% NAFLD patients will progress to NASH,
      with about 5% ultimately progressing to cirrhosis. Cirrhosis has a reported 7- to 10-year
      mortality of 12-25%. As NAFLD and NASH continue to be a growing epidemic, gemcabene's
      clinical and preclinical data suggest that this novel agent may provide benefit to patients
      with the diagnosis of NAFLD and/or NASH. As such, further development of gemcabene may help
      meet an unmet medical need in these patient populations. In Phase 2 studies, gemcabene has
      shown triglyceride lowering from 20 to > 50% based on dose and severity of
      hypertriglyceridemia and lowering in hsCRP of up to 50%. Additionally, in animal and cell
      based models, gemcabene studies have provided evidence demonstrating: reduction in de-novo
      lipogenesis, reduction in intrahepatic TG levels, modulation of inflammation and reduction of
      the NAFLD activity score, particularly related to hepatic ballooning, steatosis, fibrosis,
      and collagen accumulation. As such gemcabene may have utility in hypertriglyceridemia of FLP
      and ultimately in the prevention or treatment of NASH in these patients.
    
  