
    
      Study Design The study is planned to be a cross-sectional, case-control study and it will be
      carried out between October 2020 and November 2020 in our tertiary care center (university
      hospital located in Ankara, Turkey). The study will be conducted with the collaboration of
      the departments of Pediatric Immunology and Allergy and Nutrition and Dietetics. The study
      was approved by our University ethics committee (2011- KAEK-19) with the decision number of
      108/2019. The children eligible for the study group will be enrolled from the pediatric
      allergy and immunology outpatient unit. The control group children will be selected from the
      health visitor clinics of Pediatrics. The patient informed consent form will be obtained from
      all children's parents at the beginning of the study.The study will be performed on Caucasian
      origin children who are among 2 to 6 years of age. The study group will be composed of
      children (n=31) who had CMA (Ig E-mediated and/or non-Ig E-mediated and/or mixed type) proved
      with oral food challenge tests in their early childhood (in ages of 0-2). The control group
      (n=31) will include healthy children who had never been on a diet throughout their lives. No
      children in the study and control groups will be on a dietary restriction during the study.
      The inclusion and the exclusion criteria are given in detail at the space for eligibility.

      Data collection The children's eating behavior will be evaluated with Turkish validated
      Children's Eating Behavior Questionnaire - (CEBQ) by interviewing mothers face to face. The
      CEBQ is a Likert type, parent-report rating scale measuring the variation in eating behavior
      in children. The CEBQ consists of 35 items comprising eight subscales, each containing 3 to 6
      items. Parents were asked to rate their child's eating behavior on a five-point scale (never,
      rarely, sometimes, often, always; 1-5, respectively).

      The 8 subscales of CEBQ and their interpretation are: The sub-scales Satiety Responsiveness
      (SR) (i.e., "My child has a big appetite", 7 items), Slowness in Eating (SE) (i.e., "My child
      eats slowly", 4 items), Emotional Undereating (EUE) (i.e., "My child eats less when she/he is
      tired", 4 items), and Food Fussiness (FF) (i.e., "My child refuses new foods at first", 3
      items) assess "food avoidance" (i.e., increased internal satiety and avoidance of eating),
      while the sub-scales Food Responsiveness (FR) (i.e., "My child is always asking for food", 5
      items), Enjoyment of Food (EF) (i.e., "My child loves food", 5 items), Desire to Drink (DD)
      (i.e., "My child is always asking for a drink", 3 items), and Emotional Overeating (EOE)
      (i.e., "My child eats more when worried", 4 items) assess "food approach" (i.e., high
      responsiveness to food). Higher scores indicate a stronger display of food approach or food
      avoidance (except FF) behavior. In the Turkish version of the CEBQ, a lower score for FF
      means a stronger display for fussy eating. Therefore, while calculating the food avoidance
      total score, reversed items of FF were summed with SR, SE, and EUE. The food approach total
      score will be calculated by the summation of FR, EF, DD, and EOE.

      Another questionnaire that will be conducted with the mothers will be to discuss their
      socio-demographic characteristics. Three days' food record will be obtained from each mother
      (2 weekdays and 1 weekend day). On the same days, the food consumed by children at school
      will be recorded by the teachers, and consumption registration forms will be combined at the
      end of three days. Portion sizes and volumes will be estimated with a portion size picture
      book, including 120 photographs of foods, each with 3-5 different portion sizes. In addition,
      each serves of participants will be confirmed with the pictures taken by the parents that
      will show the plates of their children before and after each meal. Only the forms accurately
      registered will be evaluated. BeBiS software version 7.2 will be used to calculate the daily
      intake of energy, macronutrients, micronutrients, and dairy products. The Nutrition Guide
      will be assessed the adequacy of children's nutrient intake for Turkey according to age and
      gender. The same researcher will take the body weights (kg) and height (cm) of the children
      with the same method, previously described by the World Health Organization (WHO) using the
      same measuring instruments. Measurements will be performed using the standardized Conformité
      Européene marked scales and stadiometers [A baby scale (Testut, Paris) will be used for
      infants weighing <15 kg and an electronic scale (Seca, Hamburg, Germany) will be used for
      children weighing >15 kg. Seca 213 and infantometer will be used for measuring participants'
      height]. Scale and stadiometer are routinely calibrated in our hospital according to rules of
      quality. Body Mass Index (BMI) will be calculated with the formula kg/m2. The anthropometric
      (height-for-age [HFA], weight-for-age [WFA], and body mass index-for-age [BMI]) measurements
      will be evaluated according to the Z-score using the WHO ANTHRO program (Version 3.2.2,
      January 2011) and WHO ANTHRO Plus Software (WHO, 2009b) [Z-score = Patient's value - Average
      value / Standard Deviation (SD)]. The Z-score (SDS) in the average child by age will be "0".
      Values between +2 SD and - 2 SD will be considered normal upper and lower limits.

      Primarily, we will compare the eating behavior of children who had a strict CME diet due to
      CMA in early childhood with healthy children. Secondarily, we will evaluate the effects of
      children's eating behavior on participants' nutritional status and anthropometric
      measurements.
    
  