
    
      One in four women in the United States has some form of CVD, which includes heart disease,
      high blood pressure, and heart attack. Minority and low socioeconomic status populations show
      particularly disproportionate rates of CVD morbidity and mortality. Previous research
      suggests that individuals with lower social status may suffer negative emotional and physical
      health consequences due to increased stress experienced across multiple areas of life. It is
      believed that stress may directly affect behavioral, physiological, and emotional risk
      processes, which have all been linked to increased CVD risk. In addition, people with low
      socioeconomic status are often less capable of seeking psychosocial resources with which to
      manage stress, making them especially vulnerable to the associated physical and emotional
      wear and tear. More information is needed on the effects of psychosocial variables on the
      cardiovascular health of minority, specifically Mexican-American, women. This study will
      examine the associations among socioeconomic status, psychological and social factors, CVD
      biomarkers, and CVD in Mexican-American women.

      Participation in this study will involve two home visits, with total participation time
      lasting about 6 hours. During the first study visit, participants will complete a variety of
      questionnaires on stressful experiences, social relationships, background and culture,
      thoughts and emotions, health habits, and medical history. Participants will also have their
      blood pressure measured and will be given a container and instructions to perform a 12-hour
      overnight urine collection.

      During the second study visit, occurring a couple of days after the first visit, participants
      will undergo a blood draw, physical and vital sign measurements, and a training session on
      how to use an ambulatory blood pressure monitor and handheld computer diary. Participants who
      fit properly into the arm cuff of the ambulatory blood pressure monitor will then be asked to
      wear the monitor for 36 hours. Every time the monitor records a blood pressure reading,
      participants will be asked to use their handheld computer diary and answer questions about
      temperature, exercise, posture, stress, mood, and social interactions. There will be a total
      of 52 to 56 diary entries, taking between 2 and 3 minutes to complete each entry. Within 1
      month, participants will receive a letter summarizing their health profile in terms of
      weight, cholesterol levels, and blood glucose. Participants will also be provided with
      information on seeking appropriate treatments for any health problems discovered on their
      profile.
    
  