
    
      BACKGROUND:

      One of the major health problems facing industrialized countries is the persisting social
      class differences in the rate of occurrence of the major chronic diseases. It is true in the
      United States as it is in the United Kingdom, Scandinavia, Japan, and other countries. The
      advantage of investigating these social differences in the United Kingdom is that they have
      been most extensively documented, but findings are likely to be generalizable. The Black
      Report comprehensively reviewed the persisting social inequalities in health and concluded
      that the reasons were not completely understood. The Whitehall Study of the British civil
      service confirms the social gradient in mortality.

      In the British civil service studies, as in the country as a whole, social class is defined
      on the basis of occupation. This raises the question as to whether the observed differences
      in morbidity and mortality are due to factors related to occupation or the general way of
      life. In many countries there are well documented social class differences in aspects of
      life-style: smoking, leisure-time physical activity, obesity, diet. Such differences were
      confirmed in civil servants studies, but these were insufficient to account for differences
      in mortality. There are thus two types of question: what accounts for the differences in
      smoking and other aspects of life style among men and women in different occupations? and; to
      what extent may the unexplained social differences in disease rates be related to factors
      associated with work as distinct from way of life?

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There was a cross-sectional study and a short-term longitudinal study linking baseline data
      with morbidity based on sickness-absence records collected over an eighteen month period.
      Each subject was screened in an on-site work clinic. Questions were included on birthdate,
      civil service grade, marital status, family history of cardiovascular disease, occupation,
      car and house ownership, ethnicity, medical history of cardiovascular and respiratory
      problems, smoking, coffee and alcohol use, dietary intake, physical activity, work
      characteristics, social support, life satisfaction, life events, and mental illness. Type A
      behavior was assessed by the Framingham Type A Scale. A separately funded physical exam was
      conducted and included data on blood pressure, height, weight, pulse, ECG, blood clotting
      factors, and serum cholesterol. Initial analysis included calculation of prevalence rates of
      ischemic heart disease by age, sex, and social class as measured by employment grade.
      Dependent variables were crosstabulated for various categories of independent variables. The
      independent variables consisted of measures of psychosocial stress arising from work and
      personal situations.

      The study was renewed in 1993 and again in 1997 to continue the follow-up of the cohort and
      collect further outcome data. This was achieved by 1) continued collection of sickness
      absence data; 2) obtaining information from GP's regarding long spells of absence; 3)
      obtaining death certificates and cancer registrations; and 4) a repeat questionnaire to all
      10,314 participants to ensure completeness of outcome data. With additional outcome data the
      investigators used their extensive exposure database to explain the socio-economic gradient
      in health, encompassing both external influences and biomedical mechanisms. The main focus of
      the analysis was the role of work stress and social supports and networks both in explaining
      differences in health between socio-economic groups and individual differences in health. The
      analysis of these individual differences in health paid particular attention to women and
      ethnic minorities.

      The study was renewed in 2002 to :(1) determine the extent to which socio-economic position
      and psychosocial factors influence pathophysiological responses and sub-clinical vascular
      disease directly and via health related behaviors, (2) examine psychosocial explanations for
      socio-economic differences in coronary health in an occupational cohort moving out of work,
      (3) determine, in our aging population, the relationships between socio-economic position,
      coronary disease and health functioning and disability.
    
  