
    
      Hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is associated with up to an 80% lifetime
      risk of developing colorectal cancer and a 40-50% chance of a metachronous tumor after
      partial colectomy for the disease. For these patients, prophylactic colectomy has been
      proposed as a potential risk management alternative to a lifetime of intensive surveillance
      by colonoscopy. The highly personal nature of such risk management decisions has been
      recognized in the development of individualized genetic counseling services. However, prior
      psychosocial research in this area has tended to use linear statistical techniques in which
      clinically important details are lost in an overly broad, one size-fits-all model that is
      difficult to apply in a one-to-one counseling session. We propose an innovative approach
      based on the Cognitive-Social Health Information Processing (C-SHIP) model in which we will
      explore how attitudes towards prophylactic colectomy are organized into meaningful patterns
      or types that can translate readily into tailored counseling recommendations. Specific aims
      of this study are: 1)to assess levels of intention in prophylactic colectomy among HNPCC
      patients; 2)To identify distinctive decision types based on profiles of perceived pros and
      cons of prophylactic colectomy; and 3) To explore the pattern of relations between decision
      types and counseling-related outcomes (level of intention in colectomy, cancer-specific
      anxiety, and colonoscopy adherence). We will conduct a one-time cross-sectional telephone
      survey of 320 HNPCC patients (defined as either carriers of a mutated mismatch repair gene
      associated with HNPCC or those with a personal/family history meeting published criteria for
      HNPCC). Using cluster analysis we will create a taxonomy of decision types. Prior research
      leads us to expect at least three types: Disengaged, Risk-Focused, and Ambivalent. We
      hypothesize that each type will have a different pattern of relations with the outcome
      variables (e.g., Risk-focused types will show higher level of intention regarding surgery,
      high anxiety, low avoidance, and high colonoscopy adherence, whereas Ambivalent types will
      show higher level of intention regarding surgery, high anxiety, high avoidance, and low
      colonoscopy adherence). Understanding these patterns will enhance the ability of physicians,
      genetic counselors, and other providers to help their patients make well informed, thoughtful
      decisions about the preventive strategy that will best protect their health, emotional
      well-being, and quality of life.
    
  