
    
      Background: Obesity is a global pandemic and is an independent risk factor for chronic
      disease. Dietary intervention is an essential component of obesity management. Observational
      studies show an inverse relationship between dietary fibres and body weight. Therefore,
      supplements of dietary fibres have the potential to facilitate weight reduction, possibly on
      the basis of the viscous properties of the fibre. Viscosity is the ability of gel forming
      that holds water and increase satiety and decreases the amount of intake food. This ability
      makes dietary fibre supplements considered as appetite suppressants. To date, the evidence of
      the effect of dietary fibre on weight is inconsistent and controversial and may be dependent
      on the ability of fibre to induce viscosity. Three previous meta-analyses on Konjac show
      inconsistency on the effect and its significance. In addition, other meta-analyses on
      individual viscous fibres show that some viscous fibre does not has an effect on body weight.
      This is the first meta-analysis that studies the effect of all these fibres together based on
      their viscosity.

      Objective: Two systematic reviews and meta-analyses of RCTs will be conducted to evaluate the
      effect of viscous and non-viscous fibres on body weight, BMI, waist circumference, and body
      fat percentage.

      Methods: To meet eligibility criteria, the study should be: randomized, controlled, include
      one of the selected fibres (agar, alginate, b-glucan from oat and barley, guar gum, konjac,
      pectin, PGX, Psyllium, and xanthan) as a supplement and one of the required outcomes (body
      weight, BMI, waist circumference or body fat percentage). Studies shorter than 4 weeks in
      duration will be excluded. Three databases (Medline, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library) were
      searched. After the search, a title/abstract screening was done to exclude the ineligible
      articles before extracting data from full eligible studies. Data were extracted using a
      PROFORMA. Review Manager 5.3 (RevMan) was used to carry out the analysis using generic
      inverse variance method (GIVM). Change from baseline and standard deviation were utilized in
      random effect model to get the pooled mean difference effect. Subgroup analyses were done
      using meta-regression in STATA to explore confounders. GRADE approach was conducted to
      evaluate the quality of evidence and the strength of recommendations.

      Results: Databases were searched through 04/03/2016 and updated on 11/04/2017. Twenty-seven
      studies were eligible for analyses . The overall effect of viscous fibres on body weight was
      a significant reduction of -0.38 kg [95%CI: -0.3, -0.13] (P=0.003). BMI, waist circumference
      and body fat were also significantly reduced: -0.41 kg/m2 [95% CI: -0.61, -0.21](p = 0.0001)
      -0.78 cm[95%CI: -1.33, -0.24] (p = ) and -1.28 %[95% CI: -2.09, -0.46] (p = ), respectively.

      Significance: This study is the first systematic review and meta-analysis that evaluated
      separately the effect of viscous and non-viscous fibres on weight in the general population.
      The analysis may help guide diet recommendations for obesity and identify the effect of
      fibres to direct future research this area.
    
  