
    
      Adjuvant radiotherapy after breast conserving surgery for breast cancer reduces the
      locoregional recurrence rate and improves overall survival. In recent years, it has become
      clear that breast cancer cells are more sensitive to fraction dose than originally presumed.
      Large randomized trials confirm this hypothesis: moderate hypofractionation schemes in 15 or
      16 fractions are at least equivalent in tumor control and toxicity although the total dose is
      lower than the traditional 50 Gy in 25 fractions. Further acceleration to 5 fractions is
      expected to have an even larger radiobiological advantage regarding tumor control. Additional
      advantages are patient comfort and a better use of radiotherapy resources. Due to capacity
      problems some radiotherapy departments are faced with waiting lists which not only delay the
      time between surgery and radiotherapy, but also interfere with the introduction of more
      sophisticated treatment techniques like prone whole-breast irradiation (WBI). Prone WBI has
      several advantages over supine WBI: less acute skin toxicity and improved breast cosmesis and
      reduced doses to heart and lung leading to less radiation-induced heart diseases and
      secondary lung cancer induction.

      Hypofractionation and acceleration (shorter radiotherapy schemes with less fractions and a
      higher dose per fraction) are attractive both for the patient (less treatment sessions) and
      for the hospital (more treatment capacity and shorter waiting lists). Moderate
      hypofractionation in 15 or 16 fractions has been generally accepted as a valid alternative
      for the historical schedules of 25-30 fractions for whole-breast irradiation (WBI) after
      breast conserving surgery (BCS). With a median follow-up of 9.9 years, the UK START-B trial
      showed no significant difference in locoregional control between a hypofractionated schedule
      of 40.05 Gy in 15 fractions and a normofractionation scheme of 50 Gy in 25 fractions1. The
      Canadian schedule of 42.5 Gy in 16 fractions was also not inferior to the 50 Gy/25 fractions
      after 10 years of follow-up2. Aside from the obvious advantage of shortening the overall
      treatment time from 5 weeks to 3 weeks, both for the patient and the radiotherapy department,
      there might be some radiobiological advantages too. In the START-B trial, breast shrinkage,
      telangiectasia and breast oedema were significantly less frequent in the hypofractionation
      group. Better disease free survival and overall survival were also reported in the 15
      fractions group, due to less distant relapses. The superiority of hypofractionation on
      survival and cosmesis was not observed in the Canadian trial.

      While Belgium is a country with extensive health care facilities, some countries have a
      limited number of radiotherapy departments and patients have to travel a long distance for
      radiation. In those countries the pressure to evolve to even more retracted radiotherapy
      schemes is high. WBI in 5 fractions of 5.7 Gy over 5 weeks was tested in the FAST trial. A
      first analysis after 3 years demonstrated equivalence in toxicity and tumor control in
      comparison with the standard prescription of 25 x 2 Gy3. This accelerated schedule is in
      particular attractive for older patients since they often face logistic problems (frailty,
      impaired mobility, transportation difficulties). This sometimes leads to omission of
      radiotherapy leading to a reduced breast cancer specific survival4,5. For this reason, at UZ
      Gent a feasibility trial was started testing a highly accelerated schedule in 5 fractions
      over 12 days in patients of 65 years or older. The investigators used the FAST-scheme for WBI
      (5 x 5.7 Gy), but also included patients requiring a boost (5 x 6.5 Gy). With patient
      inclusion nearly finished, an interim analysis shows <10% grade 2-3 erythema, with only one
      case of moist desquamation, located at a skin fold6. In this study the investigators propose
      a multi-center randomized trial comparing our accelerated schedule in 5 fractions with a
      moderate hypofractionation scheme of 15 fractions in patients treated with WBI. The primary
      endpoint is breast retraction 2 years after radiotherapy.
    
  