
    
      The CoSImmGEn protocol is dedicated to the study of the immune system in healthy people or
      people with specific pathologies. It is composed of 6 arms (sub-cohorts):

        -  Arm "main cohort CoSImmGEn": comprised of 5 sub groups (A, B, C, D, M) of healthy adult
           subjects from various ethno-geographical origins.

        -  Arm "ancillary cohort P" comprised of first-degree relatives (including parents,
           siblings, or children), whether they are healthy or ill. It will allow, whenever
           necessary, to remove allelic ambiguities for example for the study of HLA and MHC genes.

        -  Arm "ancillary cohort HS": comprised of subjects suffering from Suppurativa Hidradenitis
           (or Verneuil's disease.) The investigators will include patients suffering from this
           disease and their close relatives, in order to understand the genetic, immunological,
           microbiological and metabolomic bases of this disease.

        -  Arm "ancillary cohort J": comprised of elderly patients (≥ 65 years old) with
           Alzheimer's disease and with mild, moderate or severe cognitive impairment. It will help
           understand the role of the gut microbiota in age-related brain deficits.

        -  Arm "ancillary cohort F": comprised of patients with familial adenomatous polyposis and
           carrying a mutation of the APC (Adenomatous Polyposis Coli) tumor suppressor gene. That
           arm has been set up to carry out a pilot phase on the role of APC mutations on
           anti-tumoral immune response.

        -  Arm "ancillary cohort I": comprised of patients with chronic inflammatory diseases such
           as Ankylosing spondylitis and Crohn's disease.

        -  Arm "ancillary cohort V": comprised of subjects vaccinated against COVID-19. It will
           help to follow-up the immune response after vaccination against COVID-19 in the general
           population.

      Additional arms may be set up through new collaborations in the next few years to study
      others diseases in which the immune system intervenes, such as: infectious diseases,
      allergies or cancers.
    
  