
    
      Various strategies using electronic technologies or educational programs have been proposed
      to improve the quality and efficiency of care for people with diabetes. In the previous
      study, we introduced a new bidirectional communication tool for diabetes management termed
      the Internet-Based Glucose Monitoring System (IBGMS), and demonstrated its short-term and
      long-term effects on glycemic control in type 2 diabetic patients. Other researchers have
      also showed the effectiveness of telecommunication between health-care providers and patients
      for maintaining appropriate blood glucose control. These systems allow patients to send data
      to doctors, identify specific problems and receive recommendations from health-care providers
      more frequently and with fewer time and place limitations than at traditional face-to-face
      outpatient clinics. With the IBGMS, physicians can monitor patients' self-monitored blood
      glucose data at regular intervals, and patients can communicate with their physicians
      whenever they have any questions. Although bidirectional interactive communications between
      physicians and patients can be achieved with the IBGMS, there remain time and place
      limitations. Patients must connect to the Internet using their personal computer to input
      their data or questions on the IBGMS, while physicians only visit the website at regular
      intervals unless they have received questions from patients.

      To improve the efficiency of communication, we linked the IBGMS to the short message service
      (SMS) delivered by cellular phone. The patients sent their data to doctors through the IBGMS
      and then received the doctors' recommendations about adjustment of drug dosage and other
      related data on the cellular phone. This system improved the efficiency of communication and
      patients' satisfaction also slightly increased. However, patients were still limited by place
      and time when sending questions and blood glucose-monitoring data.

      Recently, cellular phones have been developed that can measure blood glucose level and
      transmit data directly to a web server (Diabetes Phone). The combination of a glucometer with
      the cellular phone function makes it easier for patients to report their self-monitored blood
      glucose (SMBG) levels and receive feedback from their doctors. However, it was not known how
      effective this cellular phone glucose-monitoring system would be for control of blood glucose
      levels, compared to the IBGMS tested previously. We investigated the effectiveness of the
      diabetes phone for blood glucose control and compared it with that of the IBGMS.
    
  