
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in North America and in the world. The vast
      majority of lung cancers are associated with cigarette smoking. Lung cancer incidence and
      mortality rates are similar because lung cancer is a highly fatal disease. Unfortunately, the
      majority of lung cancers are detected at an advanced stage when they have a very poor
      prognosis. A substantial amount of data has been reported on low-dose computed tomography
      (LDCT) screening. The results of the National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) showed a 20%
      reduction in mortality from lung cancer with LDCT screening in addition to a 6.7% decrease in
      all-cause mortality, the first ever screening intervention to demonstrate an improvement in
      this latter outcome. Yet endorsement of lung cancer screening has not been universal.
      Although the NLST results are encouraging, more investigation is needed.

      The objectives of this study are to prospectively compare the performance of a lung cancer
      risk prediction model (RPM) vs. NLST criteria to inform optimal inclusion criteria for a
      clinical screening program; to prospectively compare a novel screening based nodule
      malignancy probability calculation which has been developed in the Pan-Canadian Early
      Detection of Lung Cancer study vs. NLST criteria; to complete a randomized controlled trial
      as a substudy comparing an intensive tobacco cessation counseling program to a usual care arm
      for subjects with ongoing tobacco use; to perform a cost analysis evaluating the incremental
      costs associated with LDCT screening for lung cancer compared to no screening; to determine
      the average cost associated with incidental findings, false positive findings and lung
      cancers found during the screening period; and to compare cost implications of both screening
      enrollment criteria.

      The backbone of this research project will be the screening of at risk individuals for lung
      cancer with LDCT scan. Eight hundred at risk Albertans will be screened at baseline, year 1
      and year 2. Additional clinical LDCT or other investigations may result from findings on the
      study CT scans.
    
  