
    
      For completion of specific aims 1-2, the protocol will be identical. Specific aim 1 involves
      analysis of patients with HFrEF as defined above; specific aim 2 involves analysis of
      patients with HFpEF as defined above. The protocol for specific aim 3 (analysis of endurance
      athletes) incorporates a different protocol than that described for specific aims 1-2.

      For HFrEF and HFpEF patients (specific aims 1-2): There will be a single visit for testing.
      This visit will involve a baseline assessment of hemodynamics using a Swan-Ganz catheter,
      followed by invasive exercise testing with a high-fidelity conductance catheter, which
      provides the real-time RV PV loops. The Swan-Ganz catheter is a 7-French flexible catheter
      that is routinely used for hemodynamic assessment for clinical and research purposes (we are
      currently using this catheter for COMIRB #16-1635, and COMIRB #17-1042). The purpose of this
      catheter is to determine baseline hemodynamic parameters (in "layman's terms", to describe
      left and right-sided filling pressures, as well as pressures in the lungs), and to determine
      resting cardiac output. The Swan-Ganz catheter will be inserted and removed after obtaining
      these measurements - it is anticipated that this procedure will take 10-15 minutes. The
      primary investigator for this study, Dr. Cornwell, routinely performs these procedures in
      both clinical and research settings, and will use standard techniques for catheter insertion.
      Ultrasound guidance will be used to identify the right internal jugular vein, where the
      catheter is inserted, and fluoroscopy will be used to guide placement of the catheter for
      hemodynamic monitoring.

      After completion of the baseline hemodynamic assessment, the Swan-Ganz catheter will be
      removed. Thereafter, the high-fidelity conductance catheter will be inserted into the RV
      using standard techniques. This catheter is also a 7-French flexible catheter (currently
      being used for COMIRB #17-1042) that has a pressure manometer on the tip, along with several
      conductance electrodes that continuously measure volume in the ventricle - by continuously
      recording changes in pressure and volume throughout the cardiac cycle, the catheter generates
      the "PV loop". These catheters provide information that is not available with standard
      Swan-Ganz catheters (refer to outcome measures listed above). Following insertion of the
      conductance catheter, an arterial line will be placed in either the left or right radial
      artery, using sterile technique and with ultrasound-guidance. The purpose of this catheter is
      two-fold: 1) to provide a gold-standard assessment of BP during exercise; and 2) to measure
      arterial oxygen saturation to calculate a cardiac output from the Fick equation. Baseline
      hemodynamic assessment will involve monitoring for approximately 5 minutes during spontaneous
      breathing, followed by approximately 6 minutes of breathing at a controlled respiratory rate
      (12 times per minute), which allows for determination of short-term blood pressure
      variability after controlling for the effect of respiratory variation, followed by Valsalva
      maneuver and vasomotor reactivity (inspiratory breath-hold for 30 seconds).

      Following insertion of the conductance catheter, arterial catheter and acquisition of
      baseline data, the patient will be positioned on an upright cycle ergometer. In the event
      that the patient is not able to perform upright exercise, a supine ergometer will be used.
      The patient will then complete exercise at two submaximal workloads (below their ventilatory
      threshold) that simulate real-world scenarios/normal activities of daily living, followed by
      peak exercise. To obtain submaximal data, workload on the bicycle will begin at 0 Watts.
      Every 1-2 minutes, workload will be steadily increased, generally in 12.5-25 Watt-increments,
      until the patient indicates that the rate-of-perceived exertion (RPE) score is 7-9, on a 6-20
      point scale.24 This workload will correspond to "mild" exercise, or steady-state 1. Workload
      will be held at this level for approximately 4-5 minutes, during which time hemodynamic data
      will be obtained. Thereafter, workload will again be increased in 12.5-25 Watt increments
      until the participate indicates that the RPE score is 11-13.24 This workload will correspond
      to a "moderate" exercise, or steady-state 2. Workload will be held at this level for
      approximately 4-5 minutes, during which time hemodynamic data will be obtained. The patient
      will then be allotted a 5-10 minute break. After the break, the patient will complete a
      symptom-limited cardiopulmonary exercise test, whereby workload will begin at 0 Watts, and
      generally increase every 1-2 minutes in 12.5-25 Watt increments until exhaustion. Hemodynamic
      data will be continuously recorded, and final data will be obtained at the peak workload
      achieved. This protocol will allow for acquisition of data at five different positions: 1)
      supine rest; 2) upright rest; 3) steady-state 1, or "mild" exercise; 4) steady-state 2, or
      "moderate" exercise; and 5) peak exercise. Blood samples will be collected at each of these
      stages: blood will be tested for arterial and venous oxygen saturation levels (to calculate a
      Fick cardiac output), as well as a venous/capillary lactic acid level by finger stick. Lactic
      acid levels will be used to assess the participant's work effort at each stage of exercise
      (as a "rule-of-thumb", submaximal levels of exercise have an associated lactic acid level of
      below 4mmol/L. A complete blood count will be obtained in the supine resting position to
      determine hemoglobin concentration, which will be used to calculate Fick cardiac output
      during all stages of exercise. Following completion of the study, the patient will be
      returned to a supine position and de-instrumented. This protocol is very similar to protocols
      used as part of COMIRB #16-1635 and #17-1042; based on our experience with these protocols,
      it is anticipated that this study will last approximately 4-5 hours.

      For Endurance Athletes (specific aim 3): There will be two visits for this study:

        -  Visit 1: Baseline Assessment: this visit will include informed consent, study
           enrollment, history and physical, followed by a non-invasive cardiopulmonary exercise
           test (CPET) with stress echocardiography. The CPET will be conducted in the following
           manner: a resting echocardiogram will be performed to assess cardiac structure and
           function and rule-out any structural disease. The athlete will then complete a
           symptom-limited CPET, whereby workload on the ergometer will start at 0 Watts, and
           increase by approximately 50-Watt increments every 1-2 minutes until exhaustion.
           Immediately following completion of the test, echocardiography will be repeated to
           assess wall motion and cardiac structure at peak exercise. During this test, heart rate
           (HR) and rhythm, as well as blood pressure (BP) will be continuously monitored
           non-invasively. In the event that any abnormalities are detected during this period of
           time, the patient will be excluded from further testing. Results of the test will be
           communicated with the participant.

        -  Visit 2: "Race-Day". On this day of testing, participants will complete a non-contrast
           cardiac MRI prior to and immediately following testing. Testing will include a
           timed-trial for completion of a 180km cycling event (the distance of the bicycling
           portion of an Ironman event)22.

             -  Baseline cardiac MRI: to evaluate baseline cardiac structure and function. This
                will be completed in the Brain Imaging Center at the Anschutz Medical Campus.

             -  Testing: after completion of cardiac MRI, participants will be escorted to
                laboratory for testing. Athletes will undergo insertion of a Swan-Ganz catheter
                using standard techniques (as described above). Baseline hemodynamic assessment
                will be obtained to determine left and right-sided filling pressures, as well as
                cardiac output. Spontaneous and controlled breathing, as well as Valsalva maneuver
                and vasomotor reactivity, will also be obtained. Following this assessment, the
                Swan-Ganz catheter will be removed and a conductance catheter will be inserted in
                order to obtain RV PV loops. Supine resting loops will be acquired. Thereafter, the
                athlete will be positioned on an upright bicycle. The participant will then
                complete a timed-trial (ie, we will record the time required to completion of the
                event). The distance will be the same for all participants and will be 180km (the
                distance of the cycling portion of an Ironman competition)22. Participants will be
                instructed to complete the event at a pace that they are comfortable with and is
                compatible with their typical racing pace. Breaks during cycling will be allotted
                at the athlete's request. Food and drink/snacks will be allotted at the athlete's
                request (the goal is to simulate a real-world race-day scenario). During the event,
                HR and rhythm, as well as BP, will be continuously recorded. RV PV loops, as well
                as gas-exchange metrics via indirect calorimetry, will be analyzed continuously and
                recorded every 30 minutes during the event. Following completion of the event, the
                athlete will be placed back in supine position, and post-event hemodynamic
                assessment will be completed. This will include acquisition of resting RV PV loops
                from the conductance catheter, followed by re-insertion of the Swan-Ganz catheter
                for spontaneous and controlled breathing, as well as a Valsalva maneuver and
                vasomotor reactivity. The participant will then be de-instrumented and the
                test-phase completed. Based on our experience with performing similar assessments,
                coupled with typical cycling times to complete 180km cycling events, it is
                anticipated that this test will take ~6 hours to complete.

             -  Post-Test cardiac MRI: to evaluate cardiac structure and function following
                completion of test.
    
  