
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and spondyloarthritis (SPA) are the two most common chronic
      inflammatory rheumatic diseases, with a prevalence of 0.5-1% for RA and about 0.35% for SPA.
      Many studies have described an increased risk of serious infectious diseases directly
      associated with increased morbidity and mortality among those patients. This increased risk
      (frequency and severity) results from the disease itself, especially if the rheumatism is not
      controlled with high disease activity, but also due to the immunosuppressive treatments used
      to treat these patients. The risk of infection is measured by the Incidence Rate (IR)
      corresponding to the number of events (infections) per 100 patients/years of follow-up. This
      risk is accepted as comparable between patients with SpA or RA and ranges from 22 to 34/100
      patient-years, depending on the studies, for patients on biologics. The risk of infection is
      higher for patients on biotherapy than for patients on Disease Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs
      (DMARDs - mainly Methotrexate) and the combination of corticosteroid therapy with the
      biotherapies further increases this risk of infection. Lung and upper respiratory tract
      infections are the most common infections observed under biotherapy. The risk of infection
      may be different depending on the biotherapy considered. Moreover, the vaccine response is
      also highly variable depending on the biotherapy, treatments with Rituximab, methotrexate and
      abatacept being those interfering the most with the quality of the vaccine response. The
      working hypothesis is therefore that certain immunosuppressive treatments used in these
      inflammatory rheumatic conditions may interfere with the humoral and/or cellular
      anti-SarS-Cov-2 immune response.

      Since December 2019, the first SARS-Cov-2 (Severe acute respiratory coronavirus 2 syndrome)
      infections have been described in Wuhan province in China. In April 2020, 1,824,950 people
      were officially infected in 193 countries worldwide with 112,510 deaths reported (Agence
      France Presse and World Health Organization; 13 April 2020). To date, the investigators have
      a limited amount of data concerning the seroconversion of infected subjects, the protective
      or non-protective nature of the specific antibodies generated, and the duration of
      protection. No data have been generated on the specific B and T responses of SarS-Cov-2. In
      addition, the few available data in the literature on SarS-Cov-2 only concern the general
      population, not exposed to immunosuppressive treatments.

      However, major questions are currently unanswered for patients on immunosuppressive
      treatments: Are they excreting the virus for longer periods of time? How long can this viral
      excretion be measured in the upper airways and in the stool? Do they develop a humoral and
      cellular immune response similar to the general population? Accurate knowledge of the
      dynamics of the virus and the immune response induced will be essential for the development
      of strategies for antiviral treatment, vaccination protocols and for the epidemiological
      control of Covid-19.
    
  