
    
      Parkinson disease (PD) causes cognitive deficits that can impair instrumental activities of
      daily living function and quality of life (QOL) even in the absence of dementia. Currently,
      there are no treatments to address this pressing burden and, even worse, some medical
      treatments for PD can exacerbate cognitive deficits. For these reasons, behavioral
      interventions that attenuate the negative functional consequences of cognitive decline in PD
      and thus potentially delay the onset of dementia are in high demand. An intervention that
      enables people with PD to remember to perform necessary and meaningful daily activities could
      improve or maintain their independence, disease self-management, participation in society,
      and reduce caregiver burden. The primary goal of this study is to determine the efficacy of
      such an intervention. Importantly, in doing so, the investigators will directly address a
      critical point of contention in cognitive intervention research: Which approach (process or
      strategy training) is the best option for producing functionally-relevant benefits for people
      with PD? Additionally, the study team will investigate behavioral and neurobiological
      correlates of prospective memory in PD, including individual characteristics that may predict
      treatment response. This work will lead to a targeted and tailored biobehavioral intervention
      that optimizes function, promotes QOL, and improves the long-term management of a common
      chronic neurological condition. It will move the field of rehabilitation forward by providing
      valuable theoretical and practical information related to the type of cognitive intervention
      approach that is most appropriate for people with PD. This then will stimulate and justify
      the channeling of future research efforts and funding toward further development, testing,
      dissemination, and implementation of said approach.

      Primary Outcomes:

      Aim 1. Laboratory prospective memory performance - The Virtual Week test will be administered
      to PD participants at Pre and Post to assess near transfer of training objectively (primary
      endpoint). It will also be administered to PD participants at 12mo FU to explore long term
      training effects (secondary endpoint) and to HC participants at Pre to investigate neural
      mechanisms of prospective memory performance (Aim 3). It is a computerized board game that
      simulates daily life and real-world prospective memory challenges. Each circuit represents
      one day in which the participant completes time-appropriate activities and makes choices
      about them. Embedded in each day are 8 prospective memory tasks (4 event, 4 time).
      Participants complete a practice day and then 4 test days; equivalent versions are
      counterbalanced across testing sessions. The main outcome variable is prospective memory
      accuracy, defined as the proportion of correct prospective memory responses (32 total: 16
      event, 16 time). To further explore the effects of time-based training, the investigators
      will record strategic clock-checking behavior by requiring participants to click a button to
      reveal the virtual time of day.

      Aim 2. Reported everyday prospective memory: (2a) General everyday prospective memory
      function - The Prospective and Retrospective Memory Questionnaire (PRMQ)will be administered
      via web-based or mailed survey to PD participants and informants at Pre, Post and 3mo FU to
      assess far transfer of training (primary endpoint), to PD participants and informants at 6mo
      and 12mo FU to explore long term training effects (secondary endpoint), and to HC
      participants at Pre to determine neural mechanisms of everyday prospective memory (Aim 3).
      The PRMQ is the most widely used questionnaire for everyday prospective memory. Participants
      rate the frequency of 8 everyday prospective memory failures (1=Never, 5=Very Often), item
      scores are summed, and higher scores indicate worse everyday prospective memory. The PRMQ
      includes environment- and self-cued subscales (4 items each) that parallel the event- and
      time-based task distinction, respectively. (2b) Personalized real-life prospective memory
      tasks - The Bangor Goal-Setting Interview (BGSI)offers a standardized means of eliciting
      individual goals and rating goal attainment over time and has been successfully used in
      cognitive rehabilitation RCTs with older adults, including those with mild to moderate
      dementia. During the first two training sessions, after an explanation of the prospective
      memory task types (session 1: event, session 2: time), participants will complete the BGSI
      with the trainer to identify and set goals for 3-6 real-life prospective memory tasks they
      anticipate having to complete over the training period. They and their informants will rate
      their Pre and Post attainment of these goals on a 10-point scale (1=never remember to do;
      10=always remember to do). Goal attainment ratings are averaged to yield mean attainment
      scores.

      Additional measures:

      Aims 3 & 4. Neural correlates of prospective memory and treatment response - Rs-fcMRI data
      will be collected and managed under the auspices of the parent study at Pre. Briefly, MRIs
      will be completed OFF PD medications on a 3T Siemens Prisma scanner with a 20 channel head
      coil and include up to 6 BOLD rs-fcMRI scans (416 volumes/run, TE=26.6ms, TR=800ms, FOV=
      213mm, flip angle=61°, 3mm3 voxels; multiband factor=4; 5:39min) during fixation (eyes open).
      More details, including rigorous quality control methods, are in references. The
      investigators will use a network-level analysis approach using standard nodes from canonical
      networks. Our primary variables of interest will be intranetwork integrity scores, calculated
      based on the cross-correlations of each node within the network, for the following cognitive
      networks: DMN, CON, FPN, PMN, and MTL. Alternate approaches may include seed-based analyses
      (e.g. DLPFC) and Object Oriented Data Analysis followed by post-hoc identification of
      significant networks.

      Aim 4. Behavioral predictors of treatment response - Based on our pilot RCT (Prelim Data 2)1,
      The investigators will administer the Credibility and Expectancy Questionnaire (CEQ)109 and
      Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) at Pre as potential motivational predictors of
      treatment response. The CEQ will be administered at the end of training session 2, so
      participants have some knowledge of the intervention on which to base their perceptions of
      credibility and expectancy. The investigators will utilize the extensive neuropsychological
      data collected at Pre in the parent study to assess potential cognitive predictors of
      treatment response. Our primary cognitive variables will be the domain z-scores for Memory
      and Executive Function, computed as the average of standardized scores from measures
      assessing that domain. Other - PD (and normal cognition for HCs) will be determined via MDS
      Level II diagnostic criteria in the parent study based on a comprehensive neuropsychological
      assessment battery and in-depth clinical interviews (CDR). In addition to the main measures
      of interest described above, the investigators will collect other data to characterize
      participants, as covariates, or as secondary outcomes (Table 3). This will permit exploration
      of the influence of sex or other relevant biological variables (e.g. co-morbidities,
      medication) and broader functional outcomes. The investigators will obtain much of this data
      from the parent study.
    
  