
    
      The study consists of 2 parts: a Pilot study and a Main Study as detailed below.

      The purpose of the Pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility of RV quantification using
      two-, three-dimensional and Multiplane echocardiography.

      About 100 subjects undergoing LVAD implantation in the European Registry for Patients with
      Mechanical Circulatory Support (EUROMACS) Registry are included in the Pilot study. These 100
      patients will undergo routinely scheduled echocardiography before, within 1 week, 3 months
      and 1 year after LVAD implantation. Echocardiography will be performed using ultrasound
      machines that are capable of acquisition of two-, three-dimensional and Multiplane
      Echocardiography of the right ventricle.

      Echocardiographic analysis will include three-dimensional quantification of the RV size and
      function as well as RV strain analysis in the Multiplane format as described in the Appendix
      Echocardiography Procedure Manual.

      The Echocardiographic analyses of the first 50 patients, included in selected sites, will be
      used to further specify the protocol for image acquisition and analysis to be used in the
      Main Study. Furthermore, all sites will first enter 2 patients in the Pilot Study before they
      can participate in the Main Study. The echocardiographic results of these 2 patients will be
      assessed by the core lab for quality.

      The purpose of the Main Study is to assess the evolution of RV function before and after LVAD
      implantation utilizing the acquisition and analysis protocol developed in the Pilot Study.

      500 patients will undergo routinely scheduled echocardiographic imaging before LVAD
      implantation, and at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year thereafter.
      Echocardiography will be performed using the detailed protocol developed in the Pilot Study.
      All Echocardiographic images will be submitted to an independent Core Laboratory for
      analysis.

      The evolution of RV function will be documented with standardised two-, three-dimensional and
      Multiplane Echocardiography of the right ventricle. The echocardiographic parameters include:
      RV strain and strain rate, RV Fractional Area Change, RV longitudinal function, RV volumes,
      RV ejection fraction, tricuspid regurgitation severity, estimated pulmonary artery pressures,
      pulmonary artery resistance, pulmonary artery compliance, RV stroke work index, right atrial
      size, and RV - pulmonary coupling.

      Invasive hemodynamic data will be collected in the perioperative period. These RV parameters
      will be linked to the occurrence of clinical signs, hemodynamic and laboratory evidence of
      RHF.
    
  