
    
      There is no research that addresses the use of Facebook as a tool to affect autonomous
      motivation in cardiac rehabilitation.

      The purpose of the current feasibility study is to determine the feasibility of using a
      Facebook intervention, providing education, peer support and provider support, to affect
      change in motivation and self-determination for exercise, and adherence to cardiac
      rehabilitation in patients with CHD during a 12-week Phase II cardiac rehabilitation program.
      It is hypothesized that:

        1. Scores for motivation for exercise overall will increase for patients exposed to a
           Facebook intervention and across individual motivational subtypes (regulations) relative
           to a comparison group who receive educational handouts and emails.

        2. Percentage of cardiac rehabilitation sessions attended will be higher relative to a
           comparison group who receive educational handouts and emails.

        3. Engagement in the private Facebook group (number of "hits" and "likes") will predict
           number of cardiac rehabilitation sessions attended and the change in motivation. The
           feasibility of a larger trial will be based on sample size and participants' engagement
           in the Facebook group.

      Methodology Design This is a prospective, randomized controlled pilot trial to evaluate the
      feasibility of using a social media intervention to affect change in motivation for exercise
      and adherence to cardiac rehabilitation.

      Setting and Sample:

      The setting for this study will be in the outpatient cardiac rehabilitation at the main
      campus of a large tertiary care center in Northeast Ohio and several satellite facilities in
      the region. All patients receive an individualized exercise prescription based on functional
      capacity at intake. Most patients will be able to attend up to 3 sessions per week for a
      total of 36 sessions.

      All patients who are current and regular Facebook users, have qualified for cardiac
      rehabilitation (diagnosed with CHD), and are entering cardiac rehabilitation at the main
      campus or one of the regional satellite hospitals of this tertiary care center, will qualify
      to participate in the study prior to beginning Phase II cardiac rehabilitation. Current
      Facebook users were chosen . Regular use will be defined as logging onto Facebook at least 2
      times in the last month. Inclusion criteria will include both men and women 18 years of age
      or older and live within 100 miles of the main campus of this tertiary care center.
      Participants must be able to read and understand English in order to complete the
      questionnaires: the Psychological Need Satisfaction in Exercise Scale (PNSE) [37] and the
      Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-3 (BREQ-3). There will be no exclusion based
      on secondary diagnosis; however, participants must be able to exercise well enough to qualify
      to take part in cardiac rehabilitation.

      Measures:

      Change in motivation for exercise, will be measured at baseline and post-intervention using
      the BREQ-3. The BREQ-3 is a 24 question validated instrument that measures forms of intrinsic
      and extrinsic regulation of exercise behavior and is based on self-determination theory.
      Psychometrics were completed for the BREQ-2 by Markland and Tobin. Cronbach's alpha
      reliabilities were: amotivation = 0.83, external regulation = 0.79, introjected regulation =
      0.80, identified regulation = 0.73, and intrinsic regulation = 0.86. The BREQ-3 includes 5
      additional questions in addition to those on the BREQ-2 and has a new subscale for integrated
      regulation [33]. The subscales (regulations) of the BREQ-3 are used to calculate a relative
      autonomy index (RAI). Each question is answered on a 5 point Likert scale (0-4) and
      represents one of the regulations. The regulations are weighted then summed to give a single
      score. The resulting index gives an indication of individual respondent's self-determination
      for exercise.

      The RAI will place individual motivational subtypes or behavioral regulations on the
      self-determination continuum from amotivated (lacking intention to exercise) to intrinsically
      motivated (self-determined or autonomously motivated).

      The PNSE will be used to assess need satisfaction with exercise. This scale was designed to
      assess the perception of psychological need satisfaction associated with self-determined
      motivation for exercise and consists of 18 items on a 6 point Likert scale, with 3 subscales
      measuring perceived competence, autonomy, and relatedness. The scale showed high internal
      consistency (Cronbach >0.90) [37].

      The percentage of cardiac rehabilitation sessions attended will be measured at the time of
      cardiac rehabilitation completion or dropout. It will calculated by dividing the number of
      sessions attended in a 3 month period of time by the total number of sessions allowed by
      insurance, and multiplying by 100.

      Facebook engagement, will be assessed by measuring the number of "likes" by individuals on
      the private Facebook group. "Likes" (the number of times a participant clicks "like" on any
      of the Facebook posts) will be counted and, along with "hits" will be used to examine the
      association between engagement in the intervention, and cardiac rehabilitation adherence and
      change in motivation. A post-intervention questionnaire will be given to determine number of
      "hits". The participants will be asked to circle the number of times they accessed the
      private Facebook group per week: 0, 1-5, 6-10, 11-15 or > 15 times. The questionnaire will
      also be used to collect qualitative data on participants' perceptions of the intervention,
      including whether they felt supported in their care, more in touch with providers, whether or
      not they chatted with other Facebook members and if the Facebook group affected their
      exercise behaviors. The questionnaire will use a Likert scale (1, "not at all"-5, "quite a
      bit") for all questions and a section for comments.

      Patient characteristics will include key demographic variables (age, gender, race,
      employment, distance to cardiac rehabilitation, socioeconomic status), engagement (number of
      "hits" and "likes"), and key clinical variables (functional capacity as measured in
      METS,cardiac rehabilitation indication, hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia and waist
      circumference), which will be obtained from the electronic medical record.

      Data Collection Procedures:

      Volunteers will be recruited from the main campus or regional satellite hospitals of this
      tertiary care center during their inpatient stay, at the intake visit for cardiac
      rehabilitation at the main campus and satellite facilities in the region, or via phone call
      after discharge and up to the first cardiac rehabilitation session. Volunteers will be
      screened for Facebook use and interest in the study, then an email link will be sent which
      will include an information sheet. The Facebook group will be private in the sense that those
      not in the group will not be able to see the content. Participants will be given a baseline
      BREQ-3 questionnaire and PNSE scale. Participants will then be randomized to Facebook versus
      comparison groups using blocked randomization.

      Intervention. The Facebook intervention will include peer support, education, provider
      support. These interventions are designed to minimize pressure, offer choices, and allow for
      peer interaction, and positive feedback in order to provide support for competence, autonomy
      and relatedness. Competence will be supported with use of educational posts. Autonomy support
      will come from provider posts. Relatedness will be supported by peer interaction and
      engagement in the Facebook group.

      Educational posts will cover topics that will encourage participants to practice preventive
      heart care. The educational portion of the intervention is designed to offer clear
      information and structure, thus supporting competence. The posts may be in the form of text,
      video and/or pictures and will include materials from the hospital's health library, the
      American Heart Association and the Center for Disease Control.

      Provider posts will include topics such as motivational quotes, encouragement, reminders to
      exercise independently, and reminders to contact providers with questions. These postings are
      designed to promote a sense of choice and help participants feel that providers see them as
      having a unique frame of reference thus being autonomy-supportive. Providers will be nurses
      on the research team, exercise physiologists nurse practitioners and physicians. Provider
      support will also include links to provider health chats, in which patients can chat online
      with providers at set dates and times.

      Peer interaction on Facebook will be as frequently as the participant chooses and will be
      monitored daily by the research team. Engagement in Facebook is designed to offer an
      opportunity for social inclusion and a sense of involvement.

      The comparison group will receive the same educational and provider support materials as the
      Facebook group but will receive it via email. Both groups will have the opportunity for
      weekly education classes and typical peer interactions.

      Upon cardiac rehabilitation completion or dropout, post-data will be collected. It is
      anticipated that this pilot will take up to one year and will be completed when 30
      participants for each group have been obtained.

      Data Analysis Statistical Methods. This is a feasibility study and the sample size obtained
      will determine if the study is appropriately powered to detect the desired effect size.
      Patient characteristics will be summarized group using frequencies and percentages for
      categorical factors, and means and standard deviations for continuous measures. In order to
      examine the primary outcome, differences in change in motivation between groups, overall
      motivation using the RAI from the BREQ-3 will be evaluated using analysis of covariance
      (ANCOVA) models. Mean differences with 95% confidence intervals for group differences will be
      presented. Multivariate analysis of variance models will be used to evaluate differences in
      the change across individual motivation subtypes (regulations), using the BREQ-3, between
      groups overall. If significant, separate ANCOVA models for each subtype will be fit. Similar
      models will be used to compare changes in needs satisfaction scores, overall and separately
      among the three subscales, between groups. Two-sample t-tests will be used to compare number
      of sessions completed. As a secondary analysis, the relationships between patient
      characteristics, "hits" and "likes", and the outcome variables RAI change, number of
      sessions, and needs satisfaction change will be examined using t-tests and Pearson
      correlations. The correlation between changes in RAI and needs satisfaction will also be
      evaluated. Analyses will be performed using SAS software (version 9.4; Cary, NC). An overall
      significance level of 0.05 will be assumed for all tests.

      Sample Size. The investigators plan to enroll 30 patients in each group. In the first 9
      months of 2016, cardiac rehabilitation at the main campus of this tertiary care center had
      approximately 170 patient intakes. It is assumed that there will be a similar number of
      patient intakes for a 9 month period in 2017. Based on Facebook participation rates for those
      over age 50 [21] and the high participation rates in previous research projects in this
      facility's cardiac rehabilitation, it is estimated that 40% may meet eligibility requirements
      and agree to participate. Allowing for use of the first 8 participants to establish the
      Facebook group, the estimated sample size would then be 60 total participants for
      randomization to study group who can then be included in analysis. With this sample size,
      there will be 86% power to detect large effect sizes (d=0.8) for our study outcomes [40]. The
      primary aim of this sample size determination is to evaluate whether the proposed
      intervention is feasible, and to estimate the differences that might exist so that a larger
      trial that would have adequate power to detect smaller differences could be designed based on
      what was learned in this pilot study. The sample size of 30 per group was chosen primarily to
      facilitate a large intervention group, since the value of the intervention is predicated upon
      interaction among the participants.
    
  