
    
      Term newborns have anatomic and sonographic evidence of in utero estrogen exposure. Over the
      first six months to a year of life, as the influence of maternal hormone wanes, these
      findings recede. Soy infant formula contains large amounts of isoflavones (diadzein and
      genistein) that can occupy estrogen receptors and act as estrogens in the laboratory. A food
      substance with estrogen activity might prolong the effect of maternal hormones, or interfere
      with hormonal homeostasis the child. Two cross-sectional pilot study (SEAD 2 and SEAD 3) will
      be undertaken in order to establish the methods for a future, multi-center study designed to
      assess the potential effects of soy formula on estrogen activity in infants. Another
      cross-sectional pilot study (SEAD 1) will be undertaken to evaluate anatomical evidence
      detected by ultrasound and will be conducted at The Children's Hospital in Boston. Details of
      the SEAD 1 study will not be presented in this protocol. In the first pilot study (SEAD 2),
      84 examinations of full-term infants, ages 0-6 months and on one of three feeding regimens
      (soy formula, breast milk or cow's milk formula) will be conducted. This study will establish
      a protocol for examining and sampling methods to be used for a later trial investigating
      whether exposure to soy estrogen compared to breast milk and non-soy formulas prolongs
      anatomical evidence of estrogen exposure and response. In addition to the physical
      examination, vaginal cells will be collected for cytology analysis. Breast nipple secretions,
      if present, will also be collected and analyzed for protein and sugar levels. In the second
      pilot study (SEAD 3), 372 evaluations on full-term infants will be conducted in parallel with
      the first study. SEAD 3 will assess the hormonal and biochemical status of full-term infants
      age 0-12 months. This study will establish a protocol for sampling methods to be used for
      collecting urine, saliva, serum, and hair samples. Endogenous hormone levels such as
      testosterone, estradiol, and isoflavone levels (genestein and diadzein) will be measured in
      serum and the results will be compared against the non-serum tests (urine, saliva and hair).
      The purpose of these two pilot studies is twofold. The first is to develop and finalize
      recruitment and collections procedures in preparation for a larger, comprehensive trial of
      biological response in children to soy formula with and without the estrogenic isoflavones.
      The second is to study the natural history of estrogen activity in infants on a variety of
      feeding regimens.
    
  