
    
      SUBJECTS and SAMPLES

      Obese patients (n=2000) presenting to Obesity, Endocrine and Medical Clinics at Imperial
      College Healthcare NHS Trust will be recruited at initial presentation to the service. The
      patients will be included for this study are patients with BMI >28 kg/m2 and aged between
      18-65.

      Subjects will undergo blood, saliva, urine and faeces sampling. Patients will also be asked
      to consent for muscle, liver, subcutaneous and visceral fat tissue collected at the time of
      surgery. If any of the patients have to undergo a re-operation then blood sample, muscle,
      liver, subcutaneous and visceral fat tissue will need to be collected again.

      Collections of samples from other centres ( e.g Gothenburg) may be analysed in a similar way
      alongside the samples specified here.

      METHODS

      The investigators will use methods representing the state-of-the-art at the time of the
      analysis. Current plans are outlined below:

      Standard current methods will be used to extract DNA from saliva or blood and all patients
      will be screened for monogenic obesity and diabetes.

      RNA will be extracted from blood and tissues to perform genome-wide expression analysis.

      DNA will be used for performing genome-wide targeted SNP genotyping for the identification of
      eQTLs, and of genetic variations influencing the outcomes of bariatric surgery.

      DNA will be extracted from blood and tissues using standard methods to perform epigenetic
      analyses.

      Patients will be asked to bring an early morning urine sample as well as a faeces sample for
      later metabonomic/ metagenomic analyses.

      Blood samples will also be used for measuring C-peptide, fasting glucose and insulin and
      other biomarkers as they become available. Subject's weight will be taken at each of the
      follow-up visits. Subjects will also be analysed for a range of phenotypes concerned with
      obesity and its co-morbidity as well as for psychological and related outcomes.

      PROTOCOL

      First point of contact (at group information session):

        1. Verbal introduction to study

        2. Participant information sheet (Appendix 2)

        3. Containers for urine and faeces samples will be handed to patients

        4. 1 week follow-up telephone contact for consent to proceed onto first study visit

      Visit 1: Screening visit (at pre-surgery assessment (part of routine visit)):

        1. Further explanation of study and confirmation of understanding

        2. Signed consent form (Appendix 3)

        3. Family history questionnaires

        4. Measurement of height, weight, head circumference, foot and hand size (supported with
           Photographic documentation)

        5. Psychological questionnaires (these are completed by all patients prior to first study
           visit upon initial referral to obesity service for audit purposes. Consent will be
           sought to use these during the first study visit)

        6. Blood or saliva

        7. Routine blood test to measure C-peptide, fasting glucose and insulin

        8. Early morning urine and faeces sample

      Visit 2 (during actual surgery):

        1. Blood, muscle-, liver-, subcutaneous- and visceral fat tissue

      Visit 3 (2 days after surgery):

        1. Blood

        2. Weight

      Visit 4 (10 days post-surgery):

        1. Blood

        2. Weight

        3. Urine

      Visit 5 (6 months post-surgery):

        1. Blood

        2. Weight

        3. Urine

           Visit 6 (12 months post-surgery - part of routine follow-up visit):

      1 Blood 2 Weight 3 Psychological questionnaires

      Visit 7 (18 months post -surgery):

        1. Early morning urine and faeces sample

        2. Weight

      QUESTIONNAIRES

      Before the 1st study visit and at 12 months post-surgery, subjects will complete the
      following questionnaires to assess eating behaviour and personality measures:

        1. Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire (EDEQ) - to identify number of binges per 28
           days (Fairburn CG, Beglin S Int Jour. Eat Dis 16:363370, 1994) (Appendix 4).

        2. Dutch Eating Behaviour Questionnaire (DEBQ) to measure restraint, emotional and external
           influences on eating behaviour (Wardle J Psychosom Res 31:1619, 1987) (Appendix 5).

      4. Three Factor Eating Questionnaire (TFEQ) - to measure restraint, disinhibition and hunger
      (Stunkard & Messick. J Psychosom Res 29:7183, 1985) (Appendix 6).

      8. Barratt Impulsiveness Scale to measure impulsivity which has been linked to overeating
      (Patton JM et al J Clin Psych 51: 76874, 1995; Yeomans MR et al. Appetite. 50:46976, 2008)
      (Appendix 7).

      9. PANAS - questionnaire measuring positive and negative affect (Watson, Clark & Tellegen. J
      Pers Soc Psych 54(6): 10631070, 1988) (Appendix 8).

      10. Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence - a questionnaire assessing current smoking
      behaviour (Heatherton et al. British Journal of Addiction 86: 1119-1127, 1991) (Appendix 9).

      11. Impact of Weight on Quality of Life Questionnaire (IWQOLLite) - a questionnaire measuring
      the change in subjective quality of life after bariatric surgery (Kolotkin et al. Obesity
      Research 9: 102111, 2001) (Appendix 10).

      12. SF-36 - to assess health of individual patients, to evaluate cost-effectiveness of a
      treatment and to monitor and compare disease burden (McHorney and Ware, 1995) (Appendix 11).

      13. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - to indentify psychiatric disorder or depression
      (Spinhoven et al., 1997) (Appendix 12).

      14. AUDIT drug and alcohol questionnaire (to pick up the early signs of hazardous and harmful
      drinking and identify mild dependence (Saunders et al., 1993) (Appendix 13).

      SALIVA SAMPLING

      Saliva samples will be collected using Oragene DNA vials. The acquisition of the saliva
      sample is done accordingly to the manufacturer's instructions. The patient should not eat,
      drink, smoke or chew gum for 30 minutes before giving the saliva sample. The patient has to
      spit into the container until the amount of liquid saliva (not bubbles) reaches at least the
      level shown in the manufacturer's instructions. The member of staff puts the container on a
      flat surface, screws the cap onto the container and needs to make sure that the cap is closed
      tightly. The container has to be mixed gently for at least 10 seconds and kept at room
      temperature.

      BLOOD SAMPLING

      At study visit 1-7, venous blood samples will be taken. No more than 100 mls of blood will be
      taken from each participant during the entire study (no more than 15 mls on each visit).
      Standard methods will be used to obtain DNA, RNA and serum from blood. Plasma levels of
      glucose, insulin and C-peptide will be measured by immunoassay.

      URINE AND FAECES SAMPLING

      Urine and faeces will be collected for metabolomic analysis in 10ml and 20ml Sterilin
      containers by patients. faeces samples will be collected in sterile containers containing 10
      mL of phosphate buffered saline (PBS) (containing, per liter, 8 g of NaCl, 0.2 g of KCl, 1.44
      g of Na2HPO4, and 0.24 g of KH2PO4 [pH 7.2]) and stored in home freezers until brought to the
      laboratory where samples were stored at -80°C until further processing.

      TISSUE SAMPLING DURING SURGERY

      All biopsies will be taken with scissors and/or Harmonic scalpel (ultrasound instrument for
      dissection). Muscle tissue will be taken from the abdominal wall at a troachar site. Liver
      tissue will be taken from the edge of the left liver lobe via needle biopsy. Subcutaneous fat
      tissue can be taken from an incision for a troachar (about 2 g) and visceral fat tissue can
      be taken from the major omentum at the greater curvature of the stomach. This will be done at
      the time of the surgery, and again in any patients requiring re-operation. Standard methods
      will be used to store the tissues and to stabilize and purify DNA and RNA from the tissues
      for the purpose of our study.
    
  