
    
      Introduction :

      75% patients in the chronic phase of a stroke (>6 months) keep walking disabilities. Focal
      spasticity in the paretic lower limb frequently causes these walking disabilities, and the
      gold standard treatment is intramuscular injection of Botulinum toxin A in the spastic
      muscles.

      To potentiate the effects of toxin, walking rehabilitation is usually prescribed in the weeks
      following injection, but the protocols vary and few have been evaluated in the medical
      literature.

      In particular, the effect on walking ability of combined treatment by botulinum toxin A and
      robot-assisted gait training has never been evaluated.

      Materials and Methods:

      Tested hypothesis:

      Robot-assisted gait training by Lokomat® motorized exoskeleton potentiates botulinum toxin's
      effects better than conventional walking therapy.

      Aims:

        -  Primary: to evaluate the effects on walking ability of the association of focal
           spasticity treatment by Botulinum toxin and Lokomat-assisted walking rehabilitation in
           patients suffering from spastic hemiparesia after stroke in the chronic phase.

        -  Secondary: to determine the optimal time between the toxin injection and the start of
           robotic rehabilitation; to evaluate the effects of the combined treatment on the balance
           and spasticity.

      Outcome:

        -  Primary: distance walked (meters) in the six-minute walk test (SMWT)

        -  Secondary: walking speed (meters/seconds), balance (Timed Up and Go Test, Berg Balance
           Scale), spasticity (score on the Modified Ashworth Scale and joint range of motion)

      Study Design:

      Prospective, randomized, controlled, opened, monocentric study with a crossover design.

      Recruitment of patients over 18 years of age, in the chronic phase of stroke, who have
      already been treated by Botulinum toxin injection for focal spasticity in our PMR ward.

      Assessment at Day one (D0), Week four (W4) and Week eight (W8).

        1. st Group D0: Injection of Botulinum toxin A in triceps surae, according to
           pre-established modalities (no influence of the experimental protocol on this stage)
           W2-W4: Robotic walking rehabilitation by Lokomat® in the functional rehabilitation
           department (conventional hospitalization) W4-W6: Return to home, "wash-out"period W6-W8:
           Conventional walking rehabilitation in the functional rehabilitation department
           (conventional hospitalization)

        2. nd Group: D0: Injection of Botulinum toxin A in triceps surae W2-W4: Conventional
           walking rehabilitation in the functional rehabilitation department (conventional
           hospitalization) W4-W6: Return to home, "wash-out"period W6-W8: Robotic walking
           rehabilitation by Lokomat® in the functional rehabilitation department (conventional
           hospitalization)

      Expected results:

      Following a preliminary study which had the six-minute walk test as a secondary outcome, the
      expected results are a significant improvement of the distance walked in the SMWT after
      robotic rehabilitation, and a lack of significant improvement following conventional therapy.

      The study should serve to further harmonize and optimize rehabilitation protocols after toxin
      injections, and to justify the use of robotic rehabilitation for patients in the chronic
      phase of stroke.
    
  