
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the efficacy, based on progression-free survival (PFS), of fluorouracil,
      oxaliplatin, and leucovorin calcium (modified [m]FOLFOX6)/bevacizumab plus atezolizumab
      (combination) as compared to single agent atezolizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival. II. To compare the objective response rates (ORR) per
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

      III. To determine the safety profiles of the single agent atezolizumab and the combination of
      mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab/atezolizumab in patients with mismatch-repair deficient
      (dMMR)/microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).

      IV. To determine the duration of response. V. To determine the duration of stable disease.
      VI. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) at 12 months. VII. To compare disease
      control rate (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR] + stable disease [SD]) at 12
      months.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the health-related quality of life and patient-reported symptoms.

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank tissue and blood samples for other future correlative studies from patients
      enrolled on the study.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1,
      oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 of cycles 1-10, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on
      day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment with oxaliplatin
      repeats every 2 weeks for up to 10 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Cycles of bevacizumab, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil repeat
      every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED TO
      ACCRUAL)

      ARM II: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      2 weeks for up to 48 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 2 weeks for up to 48 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1, oxaliplatin IV
      over 2 hours on day 1 cycles 1-10, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and
      fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on day 1. Treatment with oxaliplatin repeats every 2 weeks
      for up to 10 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cycles of
      bevacizumab, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8 weeks for 18 months,
      and then every 12 weeks for up to 5 years.
    
  