
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) as defined by "the presence of any two out of three criteria
      i.e. Oligo and/or anovulation, excess androgen activity and/or polycystic ovarian morphology
      on ultrasound", is a prevalent cause of female infertility. In the endocrine milieu of PCOS
      higher levels of insulin due to insulin resistance (IR) exert direct effects on the ovaries,
      release insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) from the liver and both then increase levels of
      testosterone. The resultant prevents the growth of ovarian follicles to acquire the required
      dimension for ovulation (i.e. > 10 mm) hence leading to anovulation and therefore
      subfertility. Vitamin D (VD) has found to be predominantly deficient in PCOS females,
      documented to cause IR giving rise to anovulatory cycles, hyperandrogenism and other
      significant features of PCOS. Therefore, we have hypothesized that treatment with VD in PCOS
      females can reduce IR, improve ovulation and signs of hyperandrogenism. Since Metformin is
      frequently prescribed for reducing IR and hence the treatment for anovulatory infertility in
      these females, we have planned to conduct an open label randomized control trial in PCOS
      infertile females who have vitamin D levels < than 25 ng/ml and are receiving Metformin
      therapy after ethical approval from Aga Khan University. The intervention group will receive
      VD Cholecalciferol (D2) 50,000 I.U once weekly for 12 weeks, followed by 50,000 I.U once
      every fortnight for 24 weeks with the Metformin treatment as prescribed by the physician
      whereas control group will receive Metformin treatment during the study period. We will
      compare change in number of dominant follicles (more than 10 mm) / endometrial thickness in
      both groups by Day 12 trans-vaginal ultrasound at the time of enrollment with scans done
      after 12 and 24 weeks. The other biochemical parameters [Total Testosterone, Steroid Hormone
      Binding Globulin, Free Androgen Index, Lipid accumulation product LAP , serum Insulin, C
      Reactive Protein (hs-CRP) Serum Triglycerides, serum calcium and albumin] will be done at the
      time of recruitment in both the intervention and control groups and compared
    
  