
    
      This NIMH sponsored study is being done to determine the safety and efficacy of a selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), fluoxetine (Prozac), compared to placebo in the
      treatment of children and adolescents with bipolar disorder who, while taking a mood
      stabilizer, are currently experiencing an episode of major depression. Bipolar disorder is a
      recurrent, episodic illness with key features of severe mood swings from one extreme
      (depression) to the other extreme (mania). These mood swings and associated symptoms are not
      similar to the normal mood changes that individuals experience from time to time. A person
      suffering from bipolar disorder, while in an episode of depression or mania, experiences
      problems in their functioning in several different areas in his or her life such as
      interpersonal, social, academic and occupational. Symptoms of depression include sad or
      irritable mood, sleep and appetite disturbances, trouble concentrating, inability to enjoy
      things that are normally fun, feelings of guilt, low self-esteem, withdrawal from family and
      friends, suicidal ideation. Symptoms of mania include extremely happy or irritable mood,
      little need for sleep, poor judgment, continuous high energy, overconfidence, racing
      thoughts, increase in social interactions, frequent or constant thoughts about sex. There are
      varying degrees and types of bipolar disorder.

      Pediatric bipolar disorder is now recognized as a significant health problem. Studies of
      adults have shown that approximately 40% of bipolar patients started to suffer from this
      disorder during their teens. Bipolar disorder is usually treated with medications, such as
      lithium or valproate (Depakote), to stabilize the mood swings. Sometimes people with bipolar
      disorder experience depression, even when they are taking a mood stabilizer medication. When
      this happens, an antidepressant medication may need to be added to treat the depressive
      symptoms. The current practice for treatment of bipolar disorder in children and adolescents
      in the depressed phase follows treatment guidelines developed for adults, but it is unknown
      whether these treatment strategies are appropriate for children and teens. Few studies have
      been done in youth.

      Fluoxetine has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of
      depression, bulimia, and obsessive-compulsive disorder in adults, but not in children or
      adolescents. Previous research has shown that fluoxetine is an effective treatment for
      periods of depression, however, in this study the investigators are evaluating whether it is
      effective for periods of depression associated with bipolar disorders. In this study, about
      100 children and adolescents (ages 8-18 years) who are taking lithium carbonate or valproate
      (Depakote) and are experiencing depression will be randomized to receive fluoxetine (Prozac)
      or placebo for 12 weeks. Weekly visits to the clinic are necessary for participation to
      ensure safety. At the end of the 12 weeks there is an 18-week open treatment period, which
      will involve clinic visits at least monthly. Those who were taking fluoxetine and improved
      will continue taking the fluoxetine during this time period. Those who did not improve will
      either receive an increased dose of fluoxetine or will be assigned to a different medication.
      Those who were taking placebo and did not improve will be offered treatment with fluoxetine
      and those who improved with placebo will continue taking only lithium or valproate.
    
  