
    
      Periodontitis defined as destruction of periodontal tissue caused by specific microorganisms
      resulting of pocket formation, recession and mobility.Obesity known to increase the host
      tolerance by influencing the immune and inflammatory mechanisms in a way that inflammatory
      tissue destruction is predisposed and leave a person at high risk of developing
      periodontitis.the relationship between periodontitis and obesity has been reported in several
      epidemiological and experimental studies.

      Obesity can be a higher trigger of chronic stress , stress and how a person copes with stress
      has been shown to increase the risk of periodontitis.several studied have shown that
      preserving of normal weight by maintaining regular physical exercise is linked with a lower
      incidence of periodontitis.

      As a matter of truth , overweight and obese individuals are more than twice as likely to have
      periodontitis compared to normal healthy persons. It has been suggested that obesity
      decreased the blood flow to periodontal tissue, enabling the development of periodontal
      disorders. The blood vessels of obese subjects demonstrate a thickening in the inner wall of
      arteries that reduce the flow of blood into periodontium. The adipocytes produce various
      active molecules called adipokines involving (TNF- α, IL-6, leptin, adiponectin and others).
      These compound secrete various molecules of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that lowered
      antioxidant enzymes activity like (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione and others).
      Thus modulating the effect of adipokines can lower the pathogenicity of periodontitis by
      reducing the effect of oxidative stress.

      Oxidative stress appear to be the main link between obesity and periodontitis and can
      aggravates pro-inflammatory pathways frequent in both pathologies. Regarding the significance
      of oxidative stress in pathologies of both periodontitis and obesity, several antioxidants
      play an amazing role as a preventive and therapeutic measures for both diseases. Multiple
      studies had a greater evidence toward melatonin which have an active antioxidant properties ,
      which is an indolamine produced mainly by pinealocytes. It has been documented that salivary
      melatonin were significantly decreased in patients with periodontal disease, indicated that
      melatonin may act as a biomarker for periodontal diagnosis and can be used as a possible
      therapeutic agent in various periodontal diseases.

      It is indicated that adjunctive use of melatonin in combination with non-surgical scaling and
      root planning for 3 weeks can lead to improvement of clinical periodontal parameters in
      diabetic patients. It was demonstrated that daily dietary supplementation with 3mg melatonin
      tablet for 4 weeks along with scaling and root planning significantly reduced the oxidative
      stress in periodontitis patients.

      similarly , significant reduction in gingival inflammation when melatonin administrated
      locally as adjunctive measure to standard periodontal therapy. Melatonin promote bone
      formation by activating type 1 collagen fibers in osteoblast and enhancing the genetic
      expression of bone sialoprotein , alkhaline phosphates, osteopontien and osteocalcine and
      downregulate the RANKL mediated osteoclast formation and activation.

      It had been reported that circulatory serum level of melatonin significantly reduced in
      obesity .Supplementation of antioxidants in conjunction with other treatment modalities such
      as dietary changes, behavioral changes, and drug therapy might be beneficial in treatment of
      obesity and associated inflammatory states ., as melatonin participated in homeostasis and
      metabolism of energy through activation of brown adipose tissue and enhance energy
      expenditure. furthermore, significant reduction in body weight along with adipose tissue
      deposit when melatonin were administrated in obese subjects was reported in. Multiple studies
      reported that melatonin significantly increase HDL level and decrease TG and HDL level in
      addition to increased cholesterol catabolism.
    
  