
    
      Background: Doripenem is a group 2 carbapenem with enhanced in vitro activity against
      Gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Currently, there is a paucity of
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic data on doripenem in patients with febrile neutropenia.

      Objectives: To conduct a pharmacokinetic and safety evaluation of two doses of doripenem in
      febrile neutropenic patients and provide probability estimates of attaining effective drug
      exposure against common Gram-negative pathogens.

      Methods: We obtained multiple blood samples from 12 adult patients with febrile neutropenia
      who were receiving either 500 mg or 1000 mg of doripenem IV over 4-hours every 8 hours.
      Following at least 2 doses, serum concentrations were measured in each subject at 1, 4, 6 and
      8 hours after initiation of a dose by a validated HPLC assay. The derived pharmacokinetic
      (PK) parameters from these serum levels were utilized to perform a 5000 patient Monte Carlo
      simulation against bacteria with minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of 0.008 to 64 mg/L
      to determine probability estimates of time of free drug concentration > MIC (fT>MIC).

      Results: The mean PK parameters in these patients were a volume of distribution (Vd) of
      43.9L, an elimination rate constant (k) of 0.37 hr -1, a total clearance (Cl) of 14.4 L/h,
      and an area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of 57.6 mg∙h/L. An optimal probability
      of target attainment (40% fT>MIC) of 90% was obtained against bacteria with MICs ≤ 2.0 and ≤
      4.0 mg/L with 500 mg and 1000 mg doses, respectively. Adverse events associated with
      doripenem were not observed in these patients.

      Conclusions: The findings from this analysis of doripenem suggest that higher doses as well
      as prolonged infusions may be necessary to optimally treat selected Gram-negative bacteria
      (eg. Pseudomonas aeruginosa) in patients with febrile neutropenia
    
  