
    
      This is an open-label study involving patients who are status post ileal pouch-anal
      anastomosis age 18 and 75 who receive care at Boston Medical Center's Center for Digestive
      Disorders (CDD). There is no randomization or use of placebo in this study and patients will
      be recruited sequentially. This is an open-label, single center study evaluating the
      effectiveness of SBI or EnteraGam (10.0 g twice per day) on nutritional status and quality of
      life in patients with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis.

      Nutritional status and inflammation be assessed by measuring CBC with differential, vitamin
      D, vitamin B12, pre-albumin, albumin, ferritin, ESR, CRP, alpha-1-antitrypsin, and fecal
      calprotectin levels at screening, Day 84, and Day 168. Stool samples from these same time
      points will also be frozen and stored until the end of the study for potential fecal
      microbiome analysis depending on the results of other outcome measures.

      The effect of SBI on a subject's quality of life (QoL) will be evaluated using the Short
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire and Cleveland Global Quality of Life scores at
      baseline, Day 28, Day 84, and End of Study.

      The short form of disease specific QoL (s-IBDQ) includes 10 questions derived from the 32
      questions IBDQ concerning QoL. It covers four items: bowel symptoms, systemic symptoms,
      emotional, and social functions. The total score ranges from 10 (worst health) to 70 (best
      health).

      The Cleveland Global Quality of Life (CGOL) score is an instrument specifically designed for
      patients with ileal pouches. Subjects will be asked to rate each of three items (current QOL,
      current quality of health, and current energy level) on a scale of 0-10, 0 being the worst
      and 10 the best. The sum of the three scores divided by 30 will provide the CGQL score.

      The Modified Pouchitis Disease Activity Index (mPDAI) will be used to evaluate for pouchitis
      and assess the overall disease activity for each subject at baseline pouchoscopy. This
      modified diagnostic instrument consists of two component scores: clinical symptoms (range 0-6
      points) and endoscopic appearence (range 0-6 points). Follow-up pouchoscopy is not part of
      the study protocol. However, if a patient warrants follow-up pouchoscopy at any point during
      the study period based on standard of care (most likley due to worsening or non-responsive
      symptoms), then the mPDAI at follow-up pouchoscopy will also be calculated and included in
      outcomes analysis.
    
  