
    
      Around 600,000 hysterectomies are performed every year in the United States, making
      hysterectomy the second most common surgery for women, first being cesarean section. Most of
      the hysterectomies are done for non cancerous conditions. And the most common indication for
      the same is symptomatic fibroid uterus.

      In spite of being the most common gynaecological surgery the route of hysterectomy has always
      been an issue of debate since early 19th century. In the beginning it started as vaginal
      hysterectomy which soon was taken over by laparotomy route. With the advent of laparoscopy as
      the recent minimally invasive route the choices have further increased. Laparoscopic route
      has prompted the need for development of other forms of hysterectomy which are minimally
      invasive and are associated with less perioperative morbidity with better postoperative
      outcomes. Abdominal route includes both conventional and minilaparotomy; laparoscopic route
      includes both Laparoscopic Assisted Vaginal Hysterectomy (LAVH) as well as Total Laparoscopic
      Hysterectomy (TLH). Each method has its own advantages and disadvantages. The vaginal route
      is preferable because it is associated with less perioperative morbidity and faster recovery.
      Although laparoscopic route offers minimally invasive alternative to abdominal hysterectomy
      when vaginal route is contraindicated (In case of huge fibroid uterus or patients with pelvic
      pathology), it has its own drawbacks. The laparoscopic instruments are costly, there is a
      long learning curve involved in the training, and the operating time with this route is
      prolonged.

      The EVALUATE study suggested that majority of surgeons(67%) preferred abdominal approach as
      the route of surgery, especially when dealing with pelvic pathology. Hence, minilaparotomy
      hysterectomy as an alternative minimally invasive surgery method was started. It relies on
      traditional open techniques and inexpensive instrumentation, making it significantly faster
      than laparoscopy and easy to perform. Hoffman et al found minilaparotomy hysterectomy
      procedure effective and safe in non-obese women in whom vaginal approach was contraindicated.
      Fanfani et al did a retrospective analysis on 252 patients who underwent minilaparotomy
      hysterectomy and found it to be a feasible route of surgery in benign gynaecological
      conditions with operative time similar or shorter as compared to vaginal, laparotomy and
      laparoscopy surgery. Few surgeons have modified the incision depending on the their
      experience which led to development of Pelosi method of Minilaparotomy Hysterectomy in 2003.

      The final choice of the route and method depends on multiple factors which include indication
      of surgery, size of fibroid, equipments available in the surgical set up, surgeons'
      expertise, patient's financial background.

      All patients followed the same standard pre-operative protocol. All surgeries were performed
      under general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation. Demographic details that included age,
      parity, body mass index (BMI), baseline investigations, diagnosis, and co-morbidities, were
      collated a day prior to the day of surgery. On admission, patients were informed in detail
      about the operation modalities and the associated complications. Patients along with their
      relatives were counselled about the advantages and disadvantages of both the surgical methods
      and the final decision was made on a joint consensus between the surgeon and the patient,
      following which an informed written consent was obtained.

      The aim of the study was to compare the feasibility of two minimally invasive surgical
      procedures in low resource settings (such as India) - Laparoscopic assisted vaginal
      hysterectomy (LAVH) and Minilaparotomy hysterectomy (transverse suprapubic incision <7cm).
    
  