
    
      GO MOMs is an observational study designed to characterize the glycemic profile of pregnancy
      using continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) technology in order to develop criteria using CGM
      measurements and/or early pregnancy oral glucose tolerance testing (OGTT) at 10w0d-14w0d
      gestation that are predictive, along with clinical factors, of adverse pregnancy outcomes in
      mothers and their newborns. GO MOMs involves multiple institutions and an anticipated 2150
      participants. Participants will attend 4 research study visits: Visit 1 (10w0d-14w0d
      gestation), Visit 2 (16w0d-20w0d gestation), Visit 3 (24w0d-28w0d gestation), and Visit 4
      (32w0d-36w0d gestation). Additional data will be collected at a Delivery Visit and via chart
      abstraction. Mothers will have a Remote Follow-up call after delivery to collect additional
      data. At Visits 1-4, a blinded CGM sensor will be placed. Participants will be instructed to
      wear the sensor for 10 days after which time they will follow instructions to return it to
      their study site. At Visit 1 (10w0d-14w0d gestation), participants will undergo a 75 g 2-hour
      (hr) OGTT. At Visit 3 (24w0d-28w0d gestation), participants will undergo a 100 g 3 hr OGTT.
      Visit 1 will include an extended maternal interview to collect social and demographic,
      medical history, obstetrical history, surgical history, family medical history, current
      health and pregnancy, and lifestyle (sleep, alcohol, tobacco use) data. Medical history,
      alcohol and tobacco use data will be updated at each study visit. Sleep data will be updated
      at Visit 3 (24w0d-28w0d gestation). Blood and urine samples will also be obtained at each
      visit for additional laboratory testing and some will be stored for ancillary investigations.
      At the Delivery Visit, newborn physical measurements including weight, length and skinfolds
      will be performed. Birthweight at delivery will also be obtained through chart abstraction.
      Primary statistical analyses will be performed to develop predictive criteria based on CGM
      and/or OGTT measures at Visit 1 (10w0d-14w0d gestation) along with clinical factors for
      primary maternal and newborn outcomes. Secondary analyses will further refine predictive
      models and will evaluate associations of maternal glucose with secondary outcomes and
      longitudinal modeling of maternal glycemia over the course of pregnancy.
    
  