
    
      Objective: To determine the effect of non-invasive brain stimulation on anxiety and
      anxiety-cognition interactions in healthy subjects. Toward this aim we will test the effect
      of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) on two outcome measures: 1) Fear and anxiety
      during the threat of predictable and unpredictable shock (NPU threat test), and 2) Working
      memory (WM) related anxiety downregulation while performing the Sternberg WM task under
      threat of shock.

      Study population: The study population will consist of up to 184 healthy volunteers between
      the ages of 18-50.

      Design: This study will consists of two (sub-studies 1 and 2) or three (sub-study 3)
      outpatient visits (1 MRI, 1 or 2 TMS visits [2 for sub-study 3]). In this protocol we will
      explore the effect of TMS in three sub-studies in the TMS study visit. The sub-studies will
      contain either the NPU or the Sternberg task during the TMS visits. The first visit (MRI)
      will consist of the same procedures for all sub-studies. Each subject will be assigned to
      only one of the sub-studies.

      Sternberg Task: Expose subjects to active or sham TMS to a region of the frontoparietal
      attention network during the Sternberg WM task. Subjects will have to maintain a series of
      letters in WM for a brief interval during blocks of safety and threat of shock.

      NPU Task: Expose subjects to active or sham TMS to a region of the frontoparietal attention
      network during the NPU threat test. Subjects will be exposed to blocks in which they are
      either 1) safe from shock (neutral), 2) at risk of shock delivered only during a cue
      (predictable), or 3) at risk of shock presented randomly (unpredictable).

      Outcome measures: In both studies the primary outcome measure will be anxiety-potentiated
      startle (APS), which is the increase in startle magnitude during periods of threat compared
      to periods of safety. We expect active, but not sham TMS to increase activity in the dlPFC,
      and therefore reduce APS in both studies
    
  