
    
      Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a disorder that forms in response to a traumatic
      event. The symptoms of PTSD, such as hyper-arousal and re-experiencing the traumatic event,
      are common in all people who have recently experienced a trauma, but those who develop PTSD
      continue to have these symptoms more than a month after the trauma. Some researchers believe
      that developing PTSD is the result of a failure to adequately recover from the trauma. This
      study will determine whether providing a common form of treatment for PTSD, prolonged
      exposure (PE) therapy, to people who have recently experienced trauma will prevent them from
      developing PTSD. The study will also seek to identify predictive markers, such as hormone
      levels and genes, for developing PTSD.

      Participation in this study will last 3 months. Participants will first undergo an evaluation
      session that will include an interview, questionnaires, and a medical chart review for blood
      pressure and heart rate measurements taken after their trauma. They will then be randomly
      assigned to receive either PE therapy or assessments only. Participants receiving PE therapy
      will complete three weekly treatment sessions, with the first occurring immediately after the
      evaluation session. Treatment will involve reviewing memories of a recent trauma out loud
      with a therapist and audio-recording these discussions for review at home. All participants
      will undergo assessments 1 and 3 months after the initial evaluation session. The 1-month
      assessment will involve an interview and questionnaires similar to the evaluation session,
      and the 3-month session will involve only a brief phone interview. Some participants will
      also be asked to complete an optional part of the study in which they provide two saliva
      samples to researchers: one to measure stress hormones and one to test for genetic bases of
      trauma response.
    
  