
    
      After the NICHD Consensus Development Conference in 1994, the antenatal administration of
      antenatal corticosteroids (betamethasone or dexamethasone) for prevention of death and the
      serious morbidities associated with preterm birth has become an accepted standard in American
      obstetric practice. Studies have shown that maximum beneficial effect occurs when the fetus
      is delivered within 7 days of antenatal steroid administration. The efficacy and safety of a
      single course of corticosteroids has been substantiated but it is unknown whether repetitive
      dosing has similar efficacy or what the maternal, fetal and neonatal risks are. Repeat
      courses of steroids are often administered. Two popular regimens exist for the patient who
      remains undelivered more than one week after initial therapy but who remains at risk for
      preterm birth. In one, steroids are repeated weekly until 34 weeks gestation, while in the
      other, steroids are only given once.

      This multicenter trial is testing the safety and efficacy of weekly administration of
      antenatal steroids. Twenty four hundred women < 32.0 weeks gestation who are at risk for
      spontaneous preterm delivery and remain pregnant at least seven days after an initial course
      of corticosteroids are being randomized to either weekly courses of masked study drug
      (betamethasone or placebo) for 4 weeks or delivery, whichever comes first. Patients are asked
      about side effects at the weekly visits and samples of maternal blood at randomization and
      delivery are collected. Cord blood and placentas are also collected. Cranial ultrasounds are
      done on all neonates. On a subgroup of patients, an adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)
      stimulation test is being performed and an auditory brainstem response (ABR) performed. All
      infants attend a follow-up visit at 18 to 22 months corrected age where certified examiners,
      masked to study group assignment, collect physical and neurological data. The Bayley Scales
      of Infant Development will also be administered. A subgroup of infants will be seen at 36
      months to administer the Intelligence scale from the McCarthy Scales of Children's Abilities.
    
  