
    
      Objectives:

      To understand whether the implementation of warfarin dose management using NextDose
      (nextdose.org) at The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University (Suzhou, China)
      improves the quality of anticoagulation therapy.

      Endpoint Primary

        1. Percentage of time within the acceptable INR range estimated using linear interpolation
           during the 28 days after initiation of warfarin.

           Secondary 2.1 Percentage of Time Measures

             1. Percentage of time within the acceptable INR Range estimated using linear
                interpolation during the 90 days after initiation of warfarin.

             2. Percentage of time spent above and below the acceptable INR range at day 28, and 90
                after initiation of warfarin estimated by linear interpolation.

           2.2 Time to Stable Dose a. Number of days to achievement of stable dose (defined as 3
           consecutive INR measurements within acceptable range for the same mean daily dose).

           2.3 Safety Outcomes a. Number of participants who experience at least one of the
           following safety events: major bleeding within 30 days, INR of 4 or greater within 30
           days, death within 30 days, and symptomatic or asymptomatic VTE confirmed by objective
           testing within 60 days of surgery.

           2.4 Acceptability of NextDose Recommendations

             1. Percentage of prescribed doses within 0.625 mg of the NextDose proposed dose.

             2. Mean difference between the prescribed dose and the NextDose proposed dose.
                Exploratory 3.1 Percentage of Time Measures

           a. The percentage of time spent within, above and below the acceptable INR range
           estimated by numerical integration with the Bayesian parameter estimates of the PKPD
           model at day 28 and at day 90 after initiation of warfarin.

           3.2 Time to Stable Dose a) Days to first INR measurement within the acceptable range. b)
           Days to second consecutive INR measurement within the acceptable range. c) Number of
           dose adjustments to achievement of stable dose (3 consecutive INR measurements within
           acceptable range for the same mean daily dose).

           d) Total number of dose adjustments at day 90. e) Total number of INR measurements at
           day 90. 3.3 Safety Outcomes

           a) Incidence of minor and major bleeding events. b) Incidence of thromboembolic events.
           c) 30 day all-cause mortality. d) 90 day all-cause mortality. e) 90 day cardiovascular
           mortality. f) Number of warfarin doses withheld due to high INR (as determined by the
           treating clinician).

           3.4 Acceptability of NextDose Recommendations a) Percentage of prescribed doses within
           20% of the NextDose proposed dose. 3.5 Model Evaluation

           a) Predictive performance of the model for patients with steady-state warfarin doses
           below 2 or above 7 mg/day.

           3.6 INR Variability

           a) INR variability as described by Lind et al. (the standard deviation of transformed
           INR values).

           Population:

      240 participants of any sex between the age of 18 and 80 years. Patients requiring treatment
      with warfarin following cardiac surgery.
    
  