
    
      The VASOTENS Registry is an international, multicenter, observational, prospective project
      Actually, it is a large database of ambulatory blood pressure recordings obtained with a
      non-invasive device, able to determine central blood pressure and various indices of arterial
      stiffness (mainly pulse wave velocity and augmentation index) over the 24-hours, based on a
      clinically validated technology of pulse wave analysis of oscillometric blood pressure
      measurements, integrated in an ambulatory blood pressure monitor. Specifically, this project
      aims at creating an international network of centers performing ambulatory blood pressure
      monitoring and arterial stiffness monitoring, in order to evaluate the impact of such
      estimates on the clinical outcome of hypertensive patients. The results of the data collected
      at baseline and during regular follow-up of hypertensive patients (up to 2 years) will help
      to provide evidence on the clinical usefulness of such technologies for the screening and
      follow-up of the hypertensive patients. The registry will include data from subjects
      fulfilling the inclusion criteria and whose data are contained in existing databases
      collected by the participating centers and who are regularly followed-up at the center. New
      subjects can be enrolled for this project, but they must be submitted to ambulatory blood
      pressure monitoring because it is required for evaluating their hypertension status,
      according to current recommendations. Data collection is ensured by a dedicated web-based
      telemedicine platform, including an electronic case report form (e-CRF). The e-CRF allows
      collection of patient's clinical data, such as family history, anthropometric data, habits,
      past and current diseases, therapies, office blood pressure, and laboratory tests, including
      evaluation of target organ damage. The project does not involve any type of intervention
      related to the study and the physicians can manage the patients included in the Registry
      according to the requirements of clinical practice and current guidelines. However, as
      recommended by current guidelines, each patient has to be followed-up with visits occurring
      at regular intervals (ideally every 6 months, and not less than once a year). The physicians
      is also free to use the ambulatory blood pressure data in the clinical management of the
      patients. At least 30 Hypertension centers are planned to be involved in the project, each
      one providing at least 100 patients, which have to be followed-up over time. Centers will be
      selected in different countries, initially in Europe, starting from Italy and Russia.
      Mandatory criteria of a center to be included in the study are the availability in the
      facility of a BPLab ambulatory blood pressure monitor, the potential for providing and
      properly following-up the number of patients required by the protocol, the availability of
      Internet connection, regular access to the web and human resources to upload ambulatory blood
      pressure and clinical data.
    
  