
    
      Background:

      Despite recent advances in supportive care for patients with acute respiratory distress
      syndrome (ARDS), mortality remains >40%. Fever worsens and hypothermia mitigates animal
      models of ALI and in small non-randomized in patients with ARDS. Since hypothermia reduces
      oxygen utilization as long as shivering is blocked, TH may reduce injury in part by allowing
      lower levels of assisted ventilation. TH likely exerts additional lung protective effects by
      directly modifying temperature-dependent cellular processes in endothelium, epithelium, and
      leukocytes. Neuromuscular blockade (NMB) is the ultimate treatment to block shivering and is
      frequently used in patients with ARDS to facilitate ventilator management. Since the recently
      completed NHLBI PETAL ROSE trial showed that NMB caused conferred neither benefit nor harm in
      patients with moderate to severe ARDS, the investigators have bundled TH with NMB to reduce
      shivering. An open-label study of 8 ARDS patients showed that studying TH + NMB in patients
      with moderate to severe ARDS was feasible. Moreover, the patients treated with TH +NMB had
      more 28-day ventilator-free days (VFDs), ICU-free days (ICU-FDs) and greater hospital
      survival (75% vs. 25%; p = 0.027) than historical controls with ARDS and NMB but without TH.
      Within the limits of historical comparisons, these results support further study of TH in
      ARDS. A Department of Defense-funded Phase IIb multicenter trial of TH+NMB in patients with
      moderate to severe ARDS will begin enrolling in Fall, 2020. Since COVID-19 has become the
      most common cause of ARDS, it is important to understand whether patients with
      COVID-19-associated ARDS can be included in the multicenter trial.

      Focus of Study: We will conduct a single-site feasibility and safety RCT pilot of TH+NMB for
      48h vs. usual temperature management in 20 patients with COVID-19-associated ARDS. We will
      also analyze efficacy markers to help decide whether the treatment duration (48h) to be used
      in the multicenter trial is appropriate for patients with COVID-19-associated ARDS. The
      results of this pilot help us decide whether to include patients with COVID-19-associated
      ARDS in our planned multicenter trial of TH+NMB in ARDS from all causes or to pursue a
      separate trial focused on patients with COVID-19-associated ARDS.

      Primary and secondary objectives: The primary objective is to assess the safety and
      feasibility of the 48h TH+NMB treatment protocol. The secondary objective is to compare the
      TH+NMB and control arms for efficacy markers to be used in the multicenter trial.

      Study design: The CHILL trial is a single center RCT.

      Intervention: The study intervention is TH to core temperature 34°-35°C + NMB for 48h.
      Patients in the TH+NMB arm will receive deep sedation, continuous infusion of cisatracurium
      and mechanical ventilation for at least 48h. Decisions about transition to unassisted
      breathing, extubation, and transfer from ICU will be based on criteria in the CHILL study
      protocol.

      TH+NMB: Once sedation and NMB are confirmed, TH to 34°-35°C will be initiated using surface
      cooling. Temperature will be measured from a central probe. Once target temperature is
      reached, TH will be maintained for 48h. Patients will then be rewarmed to 35.5°C by 0.3°C/h
      and the cooling devices removed. Post-TH fever suppression is not part of the CHILL protocol
      and will be performed at the discretion of the primary ICU team. TH+NMB will be aborted for
      persistent severe bradycardia, uncontrolled bleeding, and intractable arrhythmias.

      Usual temperature management: Patients will receive light sedation (RASS 0 to -1). During the
      54h post-randomization treatment period, acetaminophen will be given for core temperature
      >38°C and surface cooling will be initiated if core temperature remains >38°C within ≥45
      minutes of receiving acetaminophen and adjusted to maintain core temperature ≤38°C. If core
      temperature ≤36°C, patients in this arm will receive surface warming to core temperature
      37°C. Following the 54h treatment period, temperature will be managed at the discretion of
      the primary ICU team.

      Concomitant Treatment: Since prone positioning independently improves survival in ARDS,
      starting and stopping rules for prone positioning have been protocolized.

      Primary and Secondary Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint: The low and high core temperatures in each 2-hour period will be recorded
      for each of the first four study days. The time required to reach the target temperature and
      the percent of readings within the target range in the TH+NMB arm will be determined.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Clinical: (a) 28-day VFDs. The 28-day VFDs will be calculated at day 28. (b) 28-day ICU-FDs:.
      The 28-day ICU-FDs will be calculated at day 28; (c) day 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 non-neurologic
      SOFA score; (d) Glasgow coma score at hospital discharge; (e) 60- and 90-day survival; (f)
      60- and 90-day functional status. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment Tool (MOCA) will be
      administered at ICU and hospital discharge.

      Physiologic: (a) day-3 and -7 driving pressure; (b) day-3 and day-7 oxygen saturation index
      (OSI).

      Plasma Biomarker: Day 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 plasma IL-1ß, IL-6, IL-8, IL-18, soluble-RAGE,
      surfactant protein-D, soluble ICAM-1, MMP8, and soluble TNFRI.

      Safety:

        1. For the first 54h: (a) continuous cardiac monitoring for bradycardia with associated
           hypotension requiring i.v. fluid or vasopressors; (b) every 6h blood glucose
           measurement; (c) every 12 h potassium, magnesium and phosphate; (d) significant bleeding
           event (requiring 2u packed red blood cells or surgical or interventional radiologic
           intervention)

        2. First 7 days: (a) Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP); (b) other secondary infections;
           (c) monitor for SAEs

      Schedule of Clinical and Laboratory Evaluations:

        1. Definitions:

             1. Day 0: day of randomization

             2. Comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP): includes basic electrolytes, BUN, creatinine,
                ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, calcium, magnesium, phosphate,
                C-reactive protein (CRP)

             3. CBC: complete blood count

             4. Driving Pressure = Plateau Pressure - PEEP with patient NOT making inspiratory
                effort (on NMB or post-NMB and observed RR at set ventilator rate)

             5. OSI = Mean airway pressure x 100 x FIO2/SpO2

        2. Clinical and Research laboratory testing: Two purple top (EDTA; 14 ml blood) tubes will
           be collected for biomarker analysis at randomization and on study days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7
           at 8:00-10:00 on study days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7. Clinical laboratory testing required for
           secondary clinical outcomes at enrollment and on study days 1, 2, 3, 4, and will be
           performed as part of usual clinical care whenever possible) at 6:00-10:00 AM and
           6:00-10:00 PM

        3. Day -2 to 0 (Screening and enrollment): To facilitate randomization within the inclusion
           window, we will consent and enroll based on partial fulfillment of randomization
           criteria and randomize once all criteria are met. Patients with COVID-19, receiving
           mechanical ventilation for ≤7 days and have bilateral pulmonary opacities not fully
           explained by pleural effusions, atelectasis, or hydrostatic pulmonary edema for <48h
           will be offered enrollment and will be randomized when P/F ratio is <200. In patients
           without arterial blood gas values, the P/F ratio will be inferred from SpO2 readings as
           described by Brown et al. (Chest 150:307; 2016).

             1. Pregnancy testing in women of child-bearing years

             2. Obtain informed consent from patient or Legally Authorized Representative (LAR)
                depending on capacity

             3. Complete Screening, enrollment, and randomization CRFs.

             4. If P/F<200 at enrollment, proceed with randomization, otherwise follow until P/F <
                200 or patient exits the 48 hr ARDS or 7 day mechanical ventilation windows.

      3. Day 0 (Randomization day): Pt. identified in screen:

        1. Obtain baseline plasma for research testing. If >8h since last CBC and CMP or >24 since
           last CRP, send new samples to lab.

        2. Randomize.

        3. If patient does not have a central temperature probe, place esophageal probe.

        4. For TH+NMB arm, confirm adequate sedation (RASS -4) and NMB (Train of four ≤2 twitch)
           and initiate TH protocol.

        5. Complete Randomization Worksheet and Randomization and Baseline Data CRFs

        6. Note time cooling initiated and time patient first reached target temperature on
           Baseline CRF

           4.Day 1-4:

      a. Fill out Daily CRFs b. Collect plasma for research testing. c. Measure Driving Pressure
      and OSI d. Make sure CBC and CMP sent every 12h and CRP every 24h e. Rewarming starts after
      48h cooling on day 3 f. Complete Unassisted Breathing Checklist form if applicable g. Assess
      for adverse events

      5. Days 5-6:

      a. Follow for ventilator status, ICU status, survival, SAEs b. Follow CRP daily c. Complete
      Unassisted Breathing Checklist form if applicable d. Assess for adverse events

      6. Day 7:

      a. Fill out Day 7 CRF b. Collect plasma for research testing. c. Measure Driving Pressure and
      OSI d. Make sure CBC, CMP, and CRP sent e. Complete Unassisted Breathing Checklist form if
      applicable f. Assess for adverse events

      7. Day 8-27:

      a. Follow for ventilator status, ICU status, survival, SAEs b. Complete Unassisted Breathing
      Checklist form if applicable

      8. Day 28:

        1. Complete Day 28 CRF

        2. Calculate 28 day VFDs and ICU-FDs

           9. When patient is discharged from the ICU, complete ICU discharge CRF

           10. When patient is discharged from the hospital, complete Hospital discharge CRF.

           11. Day 60 and 90: Follow up about patient status. Complete phone follow-up CRF.

           Study population: Adult patients with COVID-19 diagnosed by PCR testing within previous
           2 weeks and moderate to severe ARDS based on Berlin criteria (P/F < 200 while on PEEP ≥8
           cm H2O) <48h in duration.

           Data Analysis: This is a pilot trial to determine whether patients with
           COVID-19-associated patients with ARDS should be included in a multicenter trial of
           TH+NMB in patients with ARDS from all causes. The data from this pilot will not be
           merged with data from the planned multicenter trial. The primary analysis of this pilot
           study will be to determine the effectiveness of the TH+NMB protocol in maintaining
           targeted temperature and to determine whether there are any safety issues with the
           TH+NMB protocol in this patient population.

           Data Management: Data for this pilot RCT will be recorded on paper CRFs. Completion of
           all fields will be checked in real-time. The forms have been designed to be compatible
           with the electronic versions developed for the multicenter trial.

           Randomization Plan: The investigators will use a randomization protocol stratified for
           proning status using pre-generated random assignment lists. Assignments will be made
           using an in-house Excel-based assignment tool, which blinds the observer to the
           assignment list.

           Subject Participation Duration: The duration of intervention, TH + NMB vs. usual
           temperature management, is 48h, followed by rewarming for 3-6h in the TH group. NMB will
           be discontinued and sedation reduced when subjects are rewarmed to core temperature
           ≥35.5°C. In the control group fever and hypothermia during continuous renal replacement
           therapy (CRRT) will be treated by protocol for 54h post-randomization. Physiologic and
           clinical parameters will be collected through study day 7. In hospital follow-up up to
           90 days will include determination of 28-day VFDs and ICU-FDs, and day of hospital
           discharge. When the patient regains competence, consent for continued participation will
           be obtained

           Study Duration: Completion of enrollment is anticipated within 6 months.
    
  