
    
      Aspergillus is a saprophytic fungus which is present normally in our surroundings and causes
      a large number of pulmonary diseases spreading through inhalational route. The spectrum of
      disease caused by aspergillus spp. is wide with the manifestations of the disease being
      governed primarily by the status of the underlying host immunity, which then determines the
      nature of the host-aspergillus interaction. Patients with an intact immunity have a more
      stable and indolent form of disease like aspergilloma whereas with a worsening immune status,
      the risk of invasive disease increases. Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis (CPA) and allergic
      bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) are two of the commonest pulmonary manifestations seen
      in non-immunocompromised patients whereas invasive pulmonary aspergillosis being more common
      in the immunocompromised patients.(1-3) Estimates suggest that CPA affects around 3 million
      people across the globe, which may still be an under estimated number as the disease co
      exists with other pulmonary co-morbidities which make accurate diagnosis a pitfall. In India
      the annual incidence of CPA was estimated in 2011 and varied between 27,000-0.17 million
      cases, with different estimates. Based on the mortality rate for CPA which was estimated to
      be 15% annually, the 5-year prevalence of CPA was placed at 290,147 cases with 5-year
      prevalence rate being 24 per 100,000 in the same year.(4, 5) The disease confers significant
      morbidity and mortality, making it a significant burden for the society as well as the
      healthcare. Apart from the respiratory symptoms, CPA causes significant constitutional
      symptoms as well which adds to the misery of the patient. The diagnosis of CPA is based on
      presence of chronic symptoms, consistent radiology and demonstration of Aspergillus by direct
      (culture) or indirect (serological) methods.(1-3) Even though CPA is more of a disease
      spectrum but overall it is characterized by slowly progressive lung cavitation which may or
      may not show presence of mycetoma /fungal ball in patients with pre-existing structural lung
      diseases, even though other patterns have also been identified.

      The treatment options majorly consist of medical management with at least 6-month long
      treatment with antifungal drugs - most significantly the azole groups. Itraconazole is the
      preferred azole for the treatment of CPA.(6-8) However the response with itraconazole is seen
      in around 60-75% of the subjects.(9) Moreover, about 30%-50% of the subjects have disease
      relapse that requires prolonged therapy. The lower response could be because of variable
      pharmacokinetics and drug absorption of oral itraconazole. Also, itraconazole has many drug
      interactions. Voriconazole is a third-generation azole and is currently the therapy of choice
      for invasive aspergillosis due to its lower minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) values
      compared to itraconazole. In addition, the pharmacokinetics of voriconazole are not variable
      and oral form has a good bioavailability (up to 95%). In a previous study, the use of
      voriconazole resulted in radiological control in 97% of the subjects and a significant
      improvement in patients' symptoms but global success at six-months was only seen in 32%
      subjects.(10) However, despite being multicenter the study only included 48 subjects.
      Moreover, there was no control group and the authors did not use therapeutic dose monitoring.
      In addition, the study also included subjects with subacute invasive aspergillosis (SAIA).
      Thus, there is lack of information regarding the role of voriconazole in subjects with CPA.
      We hypothesize that the use of voriconazole will be associated with better treatment outcomes
      compared with oral itraconazole in treatment naïve subjects with CPA. In this randomized
      controlled trial, we compare the clinical outcomes of six months therapy with oral
      itraconazole with oral voriconazole in treatment naïve subjects with chronic pulmonary
      aspergillosis.

      REFERENCES

        1. Ullmann AJ, Aguado JM, Arikan-Akdagli S, Denning DW, Groll AH, Lagrou K, et al.
           Diagnosis and management of Aspergillus diseases: executive summary of the 2017
           ESCMID-ECMM-ERS guideline. Clinical microbiology and infection : the official
           publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.
           2018.

        2. Patterson TF, Thompson GR, 3rd, Denning DW, Fishman JA, Hadley S, Herbrecht R, et al.
           Practice Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Aspergillosis: 2016 Update by
           the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2016;63(4):e1-e60.

        3. Denning DW, Cadranel J, Beigelman-Aubry C, Ader F, Chakrabarti A, Blot S, et al. Chronic
           pulmonary aspergillosis: rationale and clinical guidelines for diagnosis and management.
           The European respiratory journal. 2016;47(1):45-68.

        4. Agarwal R, Denning DW, Chakrabarti A. Estimation of the burden of chronic and allergic
           pulmonary aspergillosis in India. PloS one. 2014;9(12):e114745.

        5. Agarwal R. Burden and distinctive character of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis
           in India. Mycopathologia. 2014;178(5-6):447-56.

        6. Agarwal R, Aggarwal AN, Sehgal IS, Dhooria S, Behera D, Chakrabarti A. Performance of
           serum galactomannan in patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. Mycoses.
           2015;58(7):408-12.

        7. Agarwal R, Dua D, Choudhary H, Aggarwal AN, Sehgal IS, Dhooria S, et al. Role of
           Aspergillus fumigatus-specific IgG in diagnosis and monitoring treatment response in
           allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. Mycoses. 2017;60(1):33-9.

        8. Ashbee HR, Barnes RA, Johnson EM, Richardson MD, Gorton R, Hope WW. Therapeutic drug
           monitoring (TDM) of antifungal agents: guidelines from the British Society for Medical
           Mycology. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2014;69(5):1162-76.

        9. Agarwal R, Vishwanath G, Aggarwal AN, Garg M, Gupta D, Chakrabarti A. Itraconazole in
           chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis: a randomised controlled trial and systematic
           review of literature. Mycoses. 2013;56(5):559-70.

       10. Cadranel J, Philippe B, Hennequin C, Bergeron A, Bergot E, Bourdin A, et al.
           Voriconazole for chronic pulmonary aspergillosis: a prospective multicenter trial.
           European journal of clinical microbiology & infectious diseases : official publication
           of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology. 2012;31(11):3231-9.
    
  