
    
      Background:

        -  Treatment of pediatric sarcomas has enjoyed progress in the past 25 years for patients
           with localized, chemosensitive disease and prognostic factors are now available to
           identify subsets of patients who have very dismal prognoses; patients with primary
           metastatic disease, especially those with bone and bone marrow metastases.

        -  Patients with primary chemoresistant disease and early recurrence also have very poor
           prognoses and lack suitable treatment options. For these patients, it is critical that
           alternative approaches to cytotoxic chemotherapy be identified.

        -  Basic laboratory studies have shown that Ewing's sarcoma is susceptible to immune
           mediated mechanisms of cytolysis in vitro. Interestingly, for Ewing's sarcoma this
           appears to be true for both chemosensitive and chemoresistant cell lines.

        -  Recent progress in the field of bone marrow transplantation has identified approaches
           that can reproducibly induce allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell engraftment in adults
           with hematologic malignancies. In some cases, this same approach has shown beneficial
           effects for patients with solid tumors as a result of the development of allogeneic,
           immune-mediated graft versus tumor effects.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine if the transplantation of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matched, peripheral
           blood stem cells can result in full donor engraftment (greater than 95 percent by day
           100) in patients with high risk-pediatric sarcomas.

        -  To identify and characterize the toxicities of HLA-matched peripheral blood stem cell
           transplant (PBSCT) in patients with high-risk pediatric sarcomas. In particular we will
           identify the incidence of graft versus host disease (GVHD) and the pace of immune
           reconstitution in this population.

        -  To determine if allogeneic graft-versus-tumor responses following allogeneic PBSCT can
           induce clinically significant anti-tumor effects as measured by radiographic evidence of
           antitumor responses following PBSCT in patients with measurable disease and improved
           clinical outcome compared to historical controls in this patient population with a
           universally poor outcome.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients, age of greater than 4 years at enrollment to less than 30 years at diagnosis
           and age less than 35 at enrollment, with ultra-high risk Ewing's sarcoma family of
           tumors, desmoplastic small round cell tumor or alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma.

        -  Patients must have completed standard front-line therapy and salvage therapy.

        -  Patient must have the availability of a 5 or 6 antigen HLA-matched first-degree relative
           donor or a genotypically identical twin.

        -  Patients must have adequate cardiac, pulmonary, renal, liver, and marrow function.

      Design:

      -Donor will be prepared for peripheral blood stem cell harvest with Filgrastim mobilization,
      10 microg/kg per day subcutaneous (SQ) for 5-7 days until they have stem cell collected by
      apheresis. The stem cells will then be cryopreserved.

      Patients will receive 1 to 3 21 day cycles of Fludarabine-EPOCH induction chemotherapy. The
      preparative regimen will consist of cyclophosphamide, fludarabine and melphalan followed by
      stem cell infusion. GVHD prophylaxis will consist of sirolimus and tacrolimus.
    
  