
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is one of the most common tachyarrhythmias with substantial
      morbidity, disability and mortality. Its prevalence increases with advanced age. About one
      percent of patients suffering from AF are younger than sixty years, twelve percent are
      between seventy-five and eighty-five years, and about thirty-three percent are older than
      eighty years. It is estimated that the number of patients with AF is expected to reach 7
      million by 2050. At present, the medical anti-arrhythmic therapy and radiofrequency ablation
      have been as important treatment for patients with AF. Compared with the treatment of
      anti-arrhythmia therapy, radiofrequency ablation could significantly improve the rate of
      long-term AF-free survival. Thus, radiofrequency ablation has become the radical method for
      patients suffering AF.

      However, the successful rate of first radiofrequency ablation for patients with persistent AF
      was only about 65%. Due to low sinus maintenance rate after catheter ablation,
      anti-arrhythmic drugs (AADs) or external electric cardioversion was used to converting atrial
      fibrillation during the procedure. Compared with traditional AADs for pharmacologic
      cardioversion, such as quinidine, propafenone and amiodarone, nifekalant is a new class III
      AADs for rapid cardioversion of persistent AF during radiofrequency ablation, and its
      prevalence of AF termination during procedure was approximately 64.6%. Nevertheless, the
      efficacy and safety of different doses of intravenous nifekalant injection in the rapid
      cardioversion of persistent AF during radiofrequency catheter ablation has not been tested in
      large, randomized, controlled trials, and guidelines provide no clear consensus regarding the
      best dose recommended.

      In order to address this issue, the investigators initiated the study to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of different doses of intravenous nifekalant injection in the rapid
      cardioversion of persistent AF during radiofrequency catheter ablation.
    
  