
    
      Many of the medications that clinicians prescribe to prevent or treat disease can result in
      unanticipated and unintended toxic effects. Many national clinical guidelines recommend
      baseline and periodic laboratory monitoring to avoid adverse drug events. Our Safety in
      Prescribing project (SIP) has found many significant gaps in medication safety. Lab Alert
      will evaluate electronic tools to improve Kaiser Permanente's performance in laboratory
      monitoring to avoid adverse drug events. We will enroll patients who are taking high-risk
      medications and who have not received laboratory monitoring. The primary outcome of this
      2-year study is the proportion of patients who receive guideline-based laboratory monitoring
      at 1 and 3 weeks post-intervention.

      Fifteen primary care clinics will be randomly assigned to: (1) usual care (UC) (2) electronic
      message reminder (EMR) (3) automated voice message (AVM) (4) pharmacy outreach team
      (Pharmacy). The reminders will notify of the patient's need for guideline-specified
      laboratory testing due to medication use. Using electronic data, patients with PCPs assigned
      to intervention clinics who are on study-specified medications will be identified and
      screened for exclusions, to yield 600 patients (200 per intervention group). Patients will be
      assigned to the treatment groups on the basis of the condition assigned to their usual
      clinic. After the intervention and observation periods, and using the same time frame and
      inclusion and exclusion criteria used to identify the patients in the intervention arms, we
      will retrospectively identify a comparison 200-patient cohort in the usual care clinics.
      Thus, approximately 800 patients will be included in the study. Baseline, follow-up, and
      outcome data will be obtained from electronic records.

      Study-defined medications will be finalized by the study team and quality committees. These
      medications are identified based upon previous work and are prescribed with reasonable
      frequency, commonly have gaps in laboratory monitoring, carry significant risk of toxicity,
      and are of interest to the participating HMOs because of prior and potential adverse events.
      We anticipate focusing on baseline monitoring for new prescriptions. New starts will be
      defined as patients with an index prescription but no other dispense of that medication in
      the prior 6 months.

      Lab Alert will assess the effectiveness of a patient-specific electronic medical record (EMR)
      in-basket reminder to the primary care provider (PCP) (EMR reminder), an automated recorded
      voice message to the patient (AVM), pharmacy team outreach (Pharmacy) to increase the
      proportion of patients receiving all guideline-based laboratory monitoring, when compared to
      usual care (UC). If any intervention is better than UC, Lab Alert will assess and compare
      their effectiveness and costs. The study also will evaluate PCP and patient experiences with
      the intervention in order to refine the interventions in the future.
    
  