
    
      Numerous studies documented that low vitamin D levels are a serious health risk. Despite the
      sunny climate in Australia, low vitamin D status is becoming increasingly prevalent and
      people with vitamin deficiency represent more than 30% of the healthy Australian population.
      Although sun exposure can maintain good vitamin D levels, often sun exposure is limited as
      people work long hours indoors, and use sunscreen or protective clothing to reduce skin
      cancer risk when outdoors. Moreover, it is difficult to obtain sufficient vitamin D from food
      alone; few foods are naturally rich in vitamin D and in Australia, few foods are fortified.

      While the importance of vitamin D for bone mineralization is well known, it is less clear how
      vitamin D protects against type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Every day in Australia
      around 275 adults develop diabetes and its prevalence continues to rise.

      We are therefore arguing for a well-designed intervention trial to define the preventive
      potential and physiological mechanisms of the effects of vitamin D supplementation. In
      addition, we plan to explore the mechanisms underlying the relationship between vitamin D
      deficiency and the risk for type 2 diabetes, via its influence on chronic inflammation. Our
      clinical trial will focus on healthy adults with low vitamin D status and will examine the
      effects on insulin sensitivity and secretion measured by 'gold standard' methodology when
      vitamin D is restored to optimum levels. It is in particularly important to determine whether
      vitamin D affects both or only one of these defects because there is evidence from
      observational studies that there is a relationship between vitamin D levels and both insulin
      sensitivity and secretion.

      The proposed intervention study will potentially supply important evidence on how restoring
      vitamin D levels may protect against type 2 diabetes. Such findings could have direct
      relevance for novel approaches to diabetes prevention.
    
  