
    
      This is a randomized controlled, parallels-groups, four-arm trial with 1:1 allocation ratio
      study on the clinical, histological and immunohistochemical changes induced by
      Daylight-Photodynamic Therapy (DL-PDT) in 40 patients presenting face-photodamaged skin with
      actinic keratosis, attended at the Dermatology outpatient clinic of Hospital Antônio Pedro
      (HUAP) of Universidade Federal Fluminense - UFF, who meet the inclusion criteria and agree to
      sign the informed consent form (TCLE) for participation in clinical research. There will be
      four treatment groups with different protocols. These protocols were chosen by hand draw
      using two boxes containing folded papers. One with the 4 numbers of the groups (1, 2, 3, 4),
      and another with 4 papers with the names of the protocols. At each draw, one paper from each
      box was withdrawn, and the combined results from the two boxes defined the treatments of each
      group. Group I was randomly selected to be DL-PDT alone (standard procedure - group control);
      Group II was randomly selected to be DL-PDT with TED (microneedles); Group III was randomly
      selected to be DL-PDT with TED (CO2 laser) and Group IV was was randomly selected to be
      DL-PDT with TED (microdermabrasion with crystal peeling). Two treatment sessions will be
      performed with a 4-week interval, regardless of the protocol chosen per group. Patients will
      be numbered according to the registration for participation in the study. These numbers will
      be distributed in 4 groups randomly through the computer, using an Apple application called
      Random (random number generator: seller Mireia Lluch Ortoloa, category utilities, version 1).
      Each DL-PDT session will consist of: superficial skin curettage all face with a
      dermatological curette; application of pure chemical sunscreen for 15 minutes; application of
      methyl-aminolevulinate (Metvix®, GALDERMA), approved by ANVISA under Registration No.
      1291600650016, for 30 minutes without occlusion, before exposure to daylight for 2 hours.
      Regarding the association of techniques, these will be varied according to the group. For
      clinical evaluation, patient data will be recorded on the evaluation form, and photographs
      with the same position and lighting patterns will be performed before and after predetermined
      periods. For histological and immunohistochemical evaluations, skin biopsies will be
      performed before and after 3 months of the last treatment session.
    
  