
    
      20-30% schizophrenia (SCZ) patients struggle with auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH)
      minimally responsive to pharmaceutical treatments. Add-on fronto-temporoparietal transcranial
      direct current stimulation (tDCS) is suggested to address persistent AVH in SCZ patients.
      High heterogeneity among existing randomized control trials for AVH treatment in SCZ and lack
      of empirical studies investigating tDCS action mechanism warrants a systematic investigation
      into the mechanistic basis of tDCS action.

      This study proposes and examines the brain's neuroplasticity potential as biological
      phenomena driving treatment effects of tDCS. Using a randomized, double-blind,
      sham-controlled parallel-arm, pre-post design, changes in neuroplasticity potential with tDCS
      treatment for AVH in SCZ will be assessed. The four composite primary outcome measures of
      this study are:

        1. changes in N100-derived event-related-potential waveforms (neurophysiological),

        2. changes glutamine-glutamate levels (neurochemical),

        3. changes in resting-state functional connectivity (neuroimaging), and

        4. reduction in AVH severity (clinical).

      Secondary objectives of this study are:

        1. exploring the correlation between neurobiological measures of neuroplasticity changes
           induced by tDCS and clinical improvement in AVH to indicate the nature and strength of
           the relationship between the two;

        2. exploring the effect of verum (active) tDCS on early course versus late course SCZ
           patients will uncover if illness chronicity is a potential barrier to tDCS responsivity;
           and

        3. utilizing disorder-related (age at illness onset, medication, the severity of the
           symptom, etc.) and biographic (age, sex, years of education, etc.) features of the study
           sample towards predicting neuroplasticity modulation in the study sample.
    
  