
    
      Present study aims to develop and validate a web-based digital distance visual acuity test
      (Democritus Distance Vision Test - DDVIT). DDVIT is an application, which will be easily
      accessed through a simple internet connection. This application will provide the possibility
      of a simple but reliable examination of patients, establishing a commonly accepted way of
      measuring the distance visual acuity among rural doctors, general practitioners and
      ophthalmologists.

      Specifically, present study aims to develop a new online distance visual acuity test (DDVIT)
      according to the standards of the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) test and
      to evaluate the level of agreement between the two visual acuity tests, as well as the
      test-retest reliability of the online DDVIT visual acuity test.

      The first part of the study is the development of the online visual acuity test (letters,
      numbers, symbols) including the following smart features:

        1. Adjustment of the font size according to the size of the computer screen used for the
           examination

        2. Real time calculation of the patient-screen distance through a face detection system

        3. Automatic calculation of the reading time of each line (each logMAR)

        4. Entering the number of patient's reading errors for each line

        5. Automatic calculation of the visual acuity in the following score units:

             -  Number of Letters (max 85)

             -  Visual Acuity Score (max 100)

             -  logMAR

             -  Decimal

             -  Snellen Fraction

      The calculation of various reading parameters resulting from the aforementioned features
      (visual acuity score in different units, reading duration (in sec) and number of errors for
      each slide (line), patient-screen distance for each slide) will be performed after the end of
      the examination. Except for the html format, a file in the format of Microsoft Excel and Pdf
      are also generated.

      The second part of this study is the clinical validation of the DDVIT visual acuity test. In
      this part, the reading acuity measured with the DDVIT and ETDRS test are compared.

      All the comparisons will take place in two groups: a) a Normal Vision Group (NVG), and b) a
      Low Vision Group (LVG) in order to estimate the visual acuity in a population with a wide
      range of vision.
    
  