
    
      Pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) with lymphadenectomy is the current treatment of pancreatic
      ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). The optimal lymphadenectomy during PD (standard versus
      extended) has been largely debated during the last two decades. Four randomized controlled
      trials (RCTs) published afterward reported no survival benefit, and no arguments could be
      presented based on the evidence of these studies to support the role of extended
      lymphadenectomy during PD. A similar conclusion was underlined also in two meta-analyses, the
      first from Michalski et al., in which 3 RCTs were analyzed, and the second from Iqbal et al.,
      in which both RCTs and cohort studies were included, both of which showed no benefit of
      extended lymphadenectomy. However, the definition of lymphadenectomy varied considerably
      between the RCTs. For this reason, in 2014, the International Study Group on Pancreatic
      Surgery (ISGPS) defined the "standard lymphadenectomy" during PD for PDAC. Lymphadenectomy
      should include the removal of the hepatoduodenal ligament nodes (stations 5, 6, 12b1, 12b2,
      12c according the classification of Japanese Pancreas Society), nodes along the hepatic
      artery (station 8a), the posterior surface of the pancreatic head (station 13a and 13b), the
      superior mesenteric artery (14a right lateral side, 14b left lateral side) and nodes of the
      anterior surface of the pancreatic head (stations 17a and 17b). Para-aortic lymph nodes
      (PALN; station 16) are considered as "extra-regional" lymph nodes. Some questions about PALN
      still remain open: a) should the removal of station 16 be routinely included in the standard
      lymphadenectomy during PD for PDAC? b) in case of removal of station 16 and intraoperative
      demonstration of PALN metastases at frozen section, should PD be avoided ? Several
      retrospective reports described that the prognosis of patients with metastatic PALN is
      significantly worse if compared with patients with negative PALN. Two recent-metaanalyses
      have been published on this topic, confirming that PALN metastases correlated with poor
      prognosis in patients with PDAC. However, these meta-analyses concluded that, due to the
      presence of some long survivors even in cases of PALN metastases, the definitive avoidance of
      PD in these cases needs further investigation. Until now, no consensus in case of
      intraoperative metastatic PALN has been reached. Moreover, it's not still clear if the
      removal of PALN during PD should be routinely performed. Until now, no randomized studies
      comparing PD with or without removal of PALN have been published. In 2014, during the
      consensus meeting of ISGPS, there was extensive discussion about PALN removal: no strong
      recommendation was formulated on dissecting station 16 routinely and it was not included in
      standard lymphadenectomy. For this reason, we decided to plan this multicentric RCT that
      compares upfront PD with and without the removal of PALN, in order to evaluate if their
      removal should be routinely included in standard lymphadenectomy during PD for PDAC.
    
  