
    
      Changing the behavior of health providers can be challenging, and significant gaps exist in
      our knowledge of how to best disseminate new medical evidence into everyday practice. This is
      true when the evidence involves a new paradigm of patient-centered care delivery such as
      shared decision making (SDM). The most common dissemination used is passive diffusion, which
      includes journal publications, didactic presentations, and educational material and often
      fails to produce timely or sustainable practice level changes. A unique partnership between a
      Medicaid network and a well established consortium of practice-based research networks
      provides an ideal venue to examine the effectiveness of new effective methods of
      dissemination. We previously developed an asthma toolkit that was funded by the Agency for
      Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and tested across a regional network of Pediatric,
      Family Medicine, and Internal Medicine ambulatory practices in Mecklenburg County North
      Carolina. During this study, key principles of community based participatory research were
      used engaging providers and patients to develop a Facilitator-Led participant OWned (FLOW)
      Approach to dissemination. The FLOW approach uses Practice Facilitators to guide practices
      through the process of adapting the Toolkit into the existing culture and workflow. This
      approach led to rapid dissemination and sustainability of the Toolkit across six practices.
      The initial results have showed marked improvement in patient outcomes (improved medication
      adherence and decreased asthma exacerbations) with increased patient involvement in the
      creation of the care plans. The objective is to determine what dissemination strategy most
      effectively increases practice level adoption of shared decision making, improves patient
      outcomes, and increases patient involvement in care decisions. We will leverage a partnership
      between the statewide Medicaid network and NCNC, a state-wide consortium of research
      networks, to identify best practices for dissemination of the shared decision making toolkit.
      We will test the FLOW method for dissemination on a larger scale by randomizing 30 primary
      care practices from 4 practice based research networks to one of three dissemination arms:
      (1) Facilitator-Led participant OWned (FLOW) Approach to Dissemination; (2) Traditional
      dissemination (Active Diffusion) with facilitator exposure; and (3) Passive dissemination.
    
  