
    
      1. Rational Mechanical ventilation following tracheal intubation is a common life-support
           procedure to treat patients with acute respiratory failure. However, even if the acute
           event is resolved, the ICU length of stay may be prolonged by prolonged mechanical
           ventilation. Many factors contribute to prolonging mechanical ventilation and prevent
           progression in weaning from the ventilator: neuromuscular blocking agents, pulmonary
           infections, pre-existing respiratory disease, etc. In case of prolonged invasive
           ventilation, following several failures of weaning and re-intubation, these patients are
           therefore most often tracheostomy by percutaneous or surgical way in order to optimise
           the mechanical ventilation weaning strategy.

           The weaning units, initially created in the United States and then in France in the
           early 2000s, have improved the success rate of mechanical ventilation weaning in these
           difficult-to-wean patients. The factors associated with the success of decannulation are
           not well known in the literature and the decision to remove the tracheostomy is
           primarily based on the clinical impression. The rate of tracheostomy removal failure
           ranges from 2 to 25%, with a poor prognosis in case of failure.

        2. Hypothesis The severity of the critical care patient, the factors related to mechanical
           ventilation, the respiratory and extra-respiratory status are independent factors for
           successful decannulation.

        3. Main objective Determine the factors associated with successful tracheostomy removal in
           difficult-to-wean patients hospitalised in respiratory weaning unit.

        4. Secondary objectives

           The secondary objectives are to evaluate in tracheostomy and hospitalised patients in
           weaning unit:

             -  The prevalence of successful tracheostomy removal;

             -  The prevalence of successful weaning from mechanical ventilation;

             -  The factors associated with successful weaning from mechanical ventilation;

             -  Demographic characteristics of these patients at admission;

             -  Respiratory characteristics of these patients at admission;

             -  Biological characteristics of these patients at admission;

        5. Method This is a prospective, single-centre, interventional cohort study with an
           expected duration of 2 years. This study will be performed per the ethical standards of
           the Declaration of Helsinki and will be reported according to the Strengthening the
           Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement.

           All patients admitted to the respiratory weaning unit in the Forcilles' hospital, with a
           tracheostomy and an expected duration of mechanical ventilation > 48 hours will be
           consecutively included.

           Data will be recorded using a local case report form by the investigator. Demographic
           data, comorbidities and medical and surgical history, biological findings, the
           ventilatory parameters and the nutritional state will be recorded at inclusion. All
           factors potentially associated with successful tracheostomy removal will be
           prospectively collected: severity factors related to the ICU stay, ventilatory factors,
           respiratory and extra-respiratory factors.

           On-site monitoring is planned every month.

        6. Statistical plan:

      Continuous variables will be expressed as the mean (± standard deviation) and compared using
      the Student's t test if the null hypothesis is not rejected by the Shapiro-Wilk test.
      Continuous variables will be expressed as the median (interquartile range) and compared with
      the Mann-Whitney U or Kruskal-Wallis test if the null hypothesis is rejected by the
      Shapiro-Wilk test. For categorical variables, the proportions of patients in each category
      will be calculated. Then the groups will be compared using Chi squared test.

      A multivariate logistic regression model will be carried out to assess the relation between
      decannulation success and variables associated in univariate analyses. All statistically
      significant variables will be included in the model. Variable selection will be stepwise,
      based on Akaike Information Criterion. To check multicollinearity between independent
      variables, the variance inflation factor will be calculated before performing multivariate
      logistic regression. Multicollinearity will be regarded as present when the variance
      inflation factor is > 5. Goodness of fit will be assessed by Hosmer-Lemeshow method.

      For all tests, a p-value ≤ 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. All statistical
      analysis will be made using R software (version 3.6.1, www.R-project.org).

      Sample size calculation:

      The investigators based the sample size calculation on the number of independent variables
      which will be included in the logistic multivariable regression model. The investigators use
      the criterion of one variable per 10 events for binary logistic regression analysis. The
      investigators plan to include the 8 most relevant ultrasound measures in the model. As
      prevalence of tracheostomy success in our unit is estimated at 0.8, the investigators plan a
      sample size of 100 patients.
    
  