
    
      Depression is a mental health condition in which symptoms such as sadness, inability to feel
      pleasure, and loss of energy interfere with a person's normal life. Postpartum depression is
      a type of depression experienced by women after giving birth to a child. In this study an
      intervention for preventing postpartum depression that has been adapted for use over the
      Internet will be tested. Administering a depression-prevention program over the Internet has
      several advantages: after the initial investment is made to develop the program, costs are
      lower for treating each patient; online treatment is more accessible to a greater number of
      people than any given clinic; and participants who may be worried about a stigma associated
      with mental health problems often feel more comfortable seeking information through the
      Internet. Previous research has shown that symptoms of depression can be reduced through
      Internet-based interventions, but no research has examined such interventions specifically
      for postpartum depression. The program tested in this study is not aimed at replacing
      in-person mental health care-in fact, people who have signs of serious depression will be
      directed to in-person mental health care. Instead, the program is aimed at providing an
      additional mental health service among the range of available options.

      The original trial was a two-arm pilot prevention of postpartum depression trial comparing
      the Internet-based course called "Mothers and Babies/Mamás y Bebés" (M&B) to informational
      materials on postpartum depression. In the original trial, 1088 pregnant women were recruited
      and randomized (as anticipated) to either condition. The study Website has therefore been
      modified such that all participants who consent to participate will now receive materials
      from both conditions. We have eliminated the randomization procedure.

      As in the original study, participants be allowed to enroll at any time during their
      pregnancies and will be followed for 6 months after the birth of their children, so the
      length of participation will vary between 6 and 15 months. After undergoing a screening
      process, participants will now have access to both the Internet-based course called "Mothers
      and Babies/Mamás y Bebés" (M&B) and the informational materials. The informational materials
      will include information about postpartum depression and depression that may occur before
      childbirth. All participants will be invited via email to complete monthly assessments for
      the duration of the study. These assessments will measure mood, depression, and satisfaction
      with the assigned intervention.
    
  