
    
      Intervention (High Flow and Low Flow):

      The participants after fulfilling the eligibility criteria will be randomly assigned to the
      respective arm (High Flow, Low Flow or Standard). For procedure, depending upon the arm, the
      head side of the patient bed will be elevated up to 30 degrees in order to better visualize
      the glottis. The participants in the high flow oxygen delivery through nasal cannula
      preoxygenation will be set for 4 min at 6 L/min through humidified and heated pure oxygen
      (fraction of inspired oxygen 100%, 37C). Similarly, participant in the low flow oxygen
      delivery through nasal cannula preoxygenation will be set for 4 min at 3 L/min through
      humidified and heated pure oxygen (faction of inspired oxygen 100%, 37C). Throughout the
      procedure the high flow nasal cannula or low flow nasal cannula will be maintained trying to
      achieve a continuous oxygen during direct laryngoscopy for RSI.

      Standard Arm:

      In the standard arm the head end of the bed will not be raised to 30 degrees instead the
      whole bed is raised up to the operator belly button in order to ease glottis visualization.
      In the standard group the preoxygenation is for 4 min or till achievement of peripheral
      oxygen saturation greater than 95% with a face mask that will be connected to the oxygen port
      at 10 L/min. During the direct laryngoscopy there will be no insufflation of oxygen through
      nasal cannula or face mask.

      Data collection:

      Research staff involved in collecting data, will be independent from primary research team in
      order to minimize observer bias. The oxygen saturations will be recorded using pulse oximetry
      (through a standard infrared oximetry tape) exclusively used for research purpose and will
      record time using stop watch (Casio Digital Stop Watch) during and after the procedure. The
      operator will report research staff about all subjective assessments of difficult intubation
      and airway complications during procedure on the data collection tool. The operator while
      performing the direct laryngoscopy, if experience difficulty as per Corkman Lehman grade,
      will inform research staff for protocol deviation.

      Intubation attempts (number of time laryngoscope blade placed in the mouth) will be counted
      for each patient. In those patients where first pass is failed and subsequent attempt is made
      without assisted ventilation, the apnea time will be noted as mentioned above. To confirm the
      accuracy of data collected, the investigators will conduct a concurrent assessment of the
      outcomes for a convenience sample of 10% of enrolled participants.
    
  