
    
      This phase of the study is Aim 1 and it will lead to Aim 2, which specifically will address
      the Prevention of Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS).

      NAS is a constellation of narcotic drug withdrawal symptoms that develops in 42-94% of the
      infants born to narcotic dependent mothers. This severe syndrome, of which there are no
      preventative treatments, can result in prolonged hospitalization, some of which may be in the
      neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). The investigators have shown that ondansetron can
      eliminate or alleviate the symptoms of narcotic drug withdrawal in experimental studies in
      mice and in humans. Based upon these results, it is quite possible that ondansetron
      administration to pregnant narcotic-using mothers just prior to delivery, followed by a 3-day
      period of ondansetron administration to the neonate, could reduce the incidence or severity
      of NAS symptoms.

      AIM 1 is a pharmacokinetic (PK) study of intravenous (IV) ondansetron in three different
      groups of participants: Study Group #1 = non-pregnant women undergoing surgery; Study Group
      #2 = pregnant women scheduled for cesarean section delivery; Study Group #3 = viable, full
      term, singleton neonates born to study group #2 mothers. Group #1 will be given IV
      ondansetron prior to their surgery and up to 5 PK blood samples will be drawn from an
      indwelling IV line or by IV stick. The PK samples will be 2-5 ml each and will be drawn at
      baseline (prior to ondansetron) and then at 7, 15, and 40 min and 8 hours after the
      ondansetron. Group #2 will be given IV ondansetron prior to their cesarean section and up to
      6 PK blood samples will be drawn from an indwelling IV line or by IV stick. The PK samples
      will be 2-5 ml each and will be drawn at baseline, 7, 15, 40 min and prior to delivery and 8
      hours after the ondansetron is given. The Group #3 neonates will provide a section of the
      umbilical cord from which arterial and venous blood samples will be drawn (this section of
      cord would normally be thrown out and the parents are consenting to allow the Investigators
      to take these two samples). Each time the baby has a "Standard-of-Care" lab test ordered by
      heel stick or needle stick, the investigators will obtain a few drops of blood to place on
      the special research filter paper to determine how much ondansetron is in the baby's blood.
      If the parents will allow any extra heel sticks, the Investigators will try to obtain 1-2
      samples of blood in the first 6 hours of life. If the parents only want their baby's blood
      taken at the standard-of-care lab draws, then the first scheduled lab draw is at 24 hours of
      life for the newborn screening which is a mandated by state law. All blood samples taken for
      this study are being processed by the investigator, not the Stanford Lab. Also, the
      investigators are doing the PK analysis of the dried blood spots on the filter paper and the
      analysis of the frozen plasma samples.

      Aim 2 of this NIH grant will be entered separately into ClinicalTrials.gov. It will be a
      multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to determine whether
      ondansetron treatment will reduce the incidence or severity of NAS in babies born to
      narcotic-using mothers.
    
  