
    
      Schizophrenia is one of the most disabling psychiatric disorders that almost 1% worldwide
      population suffer from this devastating illness. The clinical expression of this illness has
      been categorized into different dimensions, though most of the patients are well treated with
      antipsychotic medication, the negative symptom is still one of the very refractory symptoms.
      Emerging evidence shows that transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a promising
      treatment for schizophrenia negative symptoms, however, findings are still controversial.
      HD-tDCS can provide a more stable and accurate direct current comparing with traditional
      tDCS, which gives a hope to treat negative symptoms in a more reliable way.

      An association between negative symptoms and grey matter reductions in the prefrontal cortex
      is found, moreover, even during rest, hypoactivity of the prefrontal cortex, particularly of
      the left dorsolateral, and of the anterior cingulate regions, has been linked to negative
      symptoms of schizophrenia. It has been observed that tDCS could relatively alleviate negative
      symptoms in patients with schizophrenia by stimulating the left DLPFC through an anodal
      electrode, which has been proved can also modulate brain functional connectivity and have
      clinical improvements.

      Half of the participants with a clinical presentation of predominant negative symptoms will
      be stimulated by active HD-tDCS and the rest will have a sham stimulation. HD-tDCS is going
      to be delivered at 1.5 mA intensity for 20 minutes once a day; sessions will be performed on
      10 days 5 consecutive weekdays with sustained effects at 1 (T2) and 3 (T3) months. A Soterix
      Medical 4x1 HD-tDCS will be used with the anode placed over the left DLPFC (F3), surrounded
      by four cathodal electrodes at F5, F1, FC3 and AF3, based on the 10/20 international EEG
      system. All the outcomes will be assessed at baseline (T0, before HD-tDCS sessions), one day
      after the 10th HD-tDCS sessions (T1), and also at T2 and T3. Both participants and
      investigators will be blind to this treatment.
    
  