
    
      SAPPHIRE will use autologous progenitor cell-based gene delivery to enhance lung
      microvascular repair and regeneration in patients with severe symptomatic PAH. A total of 45
      patients will be enrolled in this multi-centre, phase II, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, 3-arm protocol. Up to nine centres across Canada will participate.

      Consented study participants who meet all eligibility criteria during the screening period
      will be scheduled to undergo apheresis. Following successful apheresis collection and receipt
      of the cell samples by the cell manufacturing facility, randomization will take place though
      a web-based system. Manufacturing of the cell therapy product will then be performed by the
      cell manufacturing facility according to the assigned treatment allocation:

      Arm 1: Placebo (Plasma-Lyte A; 4 monthly IV infusions) in Course 1 (1st 6 months) followed by
      Autologous EPCs transfected with human eNOS in Course 2 (2nd 6 months; 4 monthly IV
      infusions)

      Arm 2: Autologous EPCs transfected with human eNOS in Course 1 (1st 6 months; 4 monthly IV
      infusions) followed by Placebo (Plasma-Lyte A) in Course 2 (2nd 6 months; 4 monthly IV
      infusions)

      Arm 3: Autologous EPCs transfected with human eNOS in Course 1 (1st 6 months; 4 monthly IV
      infusions) followed by a repeat dosing with Autologous EPCs transfected with human eNOS in
      Course 2 (2nd 6 months; 4 monthly IV infusions)

      Approximately 5-9 days later, the study product will be transported to the investigative site
      where the initial treatment will be delivered to the study participant in an outpatient
      setting which is equipped for continuous monitoring of vital signs and oxygen saturation.
      Participants will subsequently be monitored for a minimum of 1 hour and discharged from the
      clinic once judged by the study investigator to be clinically stable.

      Treatment and follow-up assessments will take place over a 12-month period (11 study visits
      in total). Once the 12-month trial data collection is completed, the trial will convert to a
      registry with the goal of collecting long-term safety information through annual telephone
      contacts for 10 years. Participants will be permitted to enroll in other clinical trials
      during the registry period.
    
  