
    
      The focus of this study is to use Structured Treatment Interruption (STI) as an approach to
      auto-immunization. The STI management schema is based on current understanding of HIV-1 viral
      dynamics, pharmacology of available antiretroviral medications, and HIV-specific host
      responses. This is a Phase II trial to provide preliminary data on the feasibility and
      possible efficacy of using STI to enhance immune-based control of HIV-1 replication. A steady
      state HIV-1 viral load determined from historical tests prior to initiating highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART) will be compared to the steady state viral load post-STI.
      HIV-1 specific CD4 and CD8 cell responses will be measured before and after the period of STI
      management and HIV-1 specific CD8 cell maturational phenotype will be assessed and correlated
      with ability to control viral replication.

      Adolescents and young adults who have either had sustained viral suppression on HAART for at
      least 2 years or who have had sustained viral suppression from 3 to 6 months will be eligible
      for this study. Participants will have 12 weeks of HAART followed by 2 to 4 weeks of
      treatment interruption. Participants will undergo three rounds of this regimen. After the
      third STI, participants will have an additional 12 weeks of HAART and then stop therapy.
      Participants will be monitored off HAART for up to 20 weeks. During this time, if there is
      evidence of HIV progression (two consecutive viral loads exceeding 10,000 copies/ml; two
      consecutive CD4 cell counts under 350 cells/microL; two consecutive CD4 percentages less than
      15%; or two consecutive CD4 cell counts less than 50% of baseline), standard continuous
      antiretroviral therapy will be reinstituted. Plasma HIV RNA will be tested monthly during
      therapy and weekly while subjects are off treatment. Immunologic studies are monthly
      throughout the study. Participants will be involved in the study for approximately 2 years.
    
  