
    
      Autoimmune diseases are characterized by a loss of tolerance of the immune system for
      self-antigens. One of the feature of autoimmune diseases is the infiltration of lymphoid
      cells in the tissues damaged by the disease (i.e. kidney in systemic lupus erythematous or
      brain in multiple sclerosis). However, the origins and properties of the immune cells
      infiltrating these target tissues are largely unknown.

      Studies in mouse models have shown that the composition of the gut microbiota can modify the
      susceptibility to autoimmune diseases. These studies demonstrated that the microbiota
      composition can alter the pathogenic properties of T cells in the gut but also in the target
      tissues. For instance, in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model, the
      composition of the gut microbiota has been shown to modulate the susceptibility to the
      disease and the properties of the pathogenic CD4 T cells in the gut but also in the central
      nervous system. In human an alteration in the composition of the gut microbiota is observed
      in numerous autoimmune diseases, including Sjogren's syndrome, suggesting that perturbation
      of the gut microbiota might be linked to the pathogenicity of immune cells in the target
      organs. However, the mechanisms by which the microbiota impacts the pathogenicity of immune
      cells in the target organs is unknown. It is proposed that gut immune cells directly exposed
      to the microbiota compounds could migrate to the target organs and participate to the buildup
      of tissue damages. This hypothesis is supported by studies in mouse models showing the
      migration of gut CD4 T cells in the inflamed kidney (glomerulonephritis model) or in the
      systemic lymphoid organs (rheumatoid arthritis model). The preliminary data support this
      hypothesis as the investigators have shown that gut-derived CD4 T cells display pathogenic
      properties in human autoimmune diseases. To determine whether and how the gut-derived immune
      cells are involved in the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease, the investigators propose to
      study the origin and properties of immune cells infiltrated in target tissues in autoimmune
      diseases.

      Sjogren's syndrome is a systemic autoimmune disease in which exocrine gland in particular
      lacrimal and salivary glands are affected. One of the hallmark of the disease is the
      infiltration of lymphoid cells in the exocrine glands of the patients. Indeed, the presence
      of lymphoid infiltrate in the minor labial salivary gland of the patients is one of the most
      important diagnostic tool for Sjogren's syndrome. The investigation of lymphoid infiltrates
      requires to perform a biopsy of the labial salivary gland. The investigators propose here to
      take advantage of this minimally invasive procedure to study the properties of the lymphoid
      cells present in the minor salivary glands of Sjogren's patients.

      The study will recruit 200 patients followed in Bordeaux University Hospital in which a
      salivary gland biopsy is performed for a clinical suspicion of Sjogren's syndrome. Blood and
      a biopsy of the minor salivary gland of the lip will be collected during a scheduled visit to
      study the properties of infiltrated immune cells. Clinical and biological disease activity,
      treatment and outcomes will be studied in correlation with the properties of infiltrated
      immune cells. No extra visit will be needed and the biopsy of the minor salivary gland of the
      lip and the blood samples will be collected at the same times as those collected for clinical
      purposes.
    
  