
    
      Dialectical Behavioral Therapy as a treatment for IPV victims. Integrating the literature on
      efficacious cognitive behavioral treatments for disorders such as anxiety, depression, and
      other emotion regulation difficulties, Linehan developed the framework for DBT.1 In addition
      to these traditional CBT change-oriented techniques, which may leave clients feeling blamed
      for their problems or situation, Linehan incorporated radical acceptance. Radical acceptance
      emphasizes that self-compassion and acceptance (i.e. accepting how things really are rather
      than how they 'should' be) are necessary for making meaningful changes. When operating from a
      DBT framework the therapist's goal is to balance and synthesize acceptance and
      change-oriented strategies. Individuals who have experienced IPV often struggle to accept
      their situation (e.g. "But I love him," or "he said he will never do it again… although he
      said that before") and often receive blame from others for their situation (e.g. "Why
      wouldn't you just leave?"). Treating victims of IPV using a DBT framework allows victims to
      learn skills to change their situation in a non-judgmental and validating environment.

      In addition to providing victims with a validating environment, DBT aims to foster emotion
      regulation, enhance interpersonal effectiveness, improve self-validation, and increase
      distress tolerance. Mindfulness (i.e. present-moment awareness, acceptance, and participation
      without judgment) is core to these skills and to DBT. 2 Overview of the DBT for IPV Treatment
      Protocol. The DBT for IPV protocol is delivered in a group setting led by two co-therapists.
      Handouts adapted from the DBT Skills Training: Handouts and Worksheets are provided to
      clients in session, and homework is provided to help with the retention of the content.3 The
      DBT for IPV protocol can be broken down into five overarching themes or concepts:
      mindfulness, emotion regulation, distress tolerance, interpersonal effectiveness, and
      validation. These concepts form the foundation of the original 12-week closed model, the open
      group model and the intensive two-day group.4-6 The open group focuses on one module per
      session, where as the closed group and the two-day group start by introducing the
      intervention's two foundational topics: mindfulness and behavioral chains. Each module covers
      several concepts that link back to these two topics.

      These five modules were designed to address the psychological sequelae frequently experienced
      by victims of IPV, as well as to address the underlying mechanisms driving psychological
      distress among victims of IPV. In addition to reducing revictimization by addressing mental
      health problems, the DBT for IPV treatment paradigm provides clients with skills (i.e.
      interpersonal effectiveness and validation) to improve their relationships and reduce the
      occurrence of violence in their relationships.

      Treatment adjuncts. While DBT has demonstrated success in treating a multiple psychological
      issues, such as suicidal ideation, substance abuse, anger, emotional dysregulation and
      distress tolerance, it is a costly and time-intensive intervention.7-11 However, research has
      shown that treatment adjuncts, such as apps and websites, enhance treatment outcomes for a
      various psychological disorders.12 Technology disseminated interventions have been shown to
      effectively reduce symptoms of depression, PTSD and anxiety.13 In their review of mobile apps
      for the treatment of mental disorder, Ameringen and colleagues (2017) noted that employing
      technology-based interventions might reduce the need for in-person appointments with
      clinicians, particularly for clients who encounter geographical, time, or financial
      barriers.13 Further they concluded that apps improve treatment engagement with clinicians and
      provide opportunities for clinicians to reinforce skills and concepts they taught their
      clients in session.13 In addition to using treatment adjuncts to enhance treatment outcomes
      above and beyond treatment as usual, therapists can use treatment adjuncts such as video
      intervention adjuncts (VIAs), which deliver intervention content via multimedia, as a means
      of reducing therapist burden.

      Research Design and Rationale The objective of this study is to conduct a randomized control
      trial (RCT) examining the implementation of VIAs, developed for the purpose of enhancing
      skills generalization, acquisition, and (ultimately) treatment outcomes for DBT for IPV
      skills group members. Stratified randomization (controlling for those who are court mandated
      to treatment) will be used assigned participants to the experimental condition (the two-day
      skills group + the VIAs) or a control condition (the two-day skills group only). The primary
      outcomes are as follows: 1) investigate whether exposure to the VIA enhances treatment gains
      above and beyond treatment as usual; 2) assess participant acceptability of the VIAs; and 3)
      determine if participants in the experimental VIA condition will report a higher frequency of
      using the skills over the follow-up period than those in the control condition. Following the
      guidelines for developing and researching behavioral therapies, a Stage One Pilot Trial will
      be conducted, focusing on feasibility, participant acceptability, and treatment outcome.14
      Participants. Following the Onken, Carroll, Shoham, Cuthbert, and Riddle (2014) guidelines
      for conducting clinical research, a Stage One Pilot Trial will be conducted.15 Stage 1-A is
      modification or refinement of an existing intervention, and Stage 1-B is feasibility and
      pilot testing. In this study, the existing intervention is the DBT for IPV skills workshop
      and the modification is the addition of the VIAs. Because Stage One trials recommend 15-30
      subjects per group, the study will require a sample N of 81 (assuming an attrition rate of
      35% as reported in Lee and Fruzzetti's 2017 study) to meet the goal N of 60.

      Screening and recruitment. Participants will include those who seek services through the
      THRIVE Center. Community recruitment efforts will include advertising and contacting
      connections at local community agencies and resource centers for victims of IPV (e.g.
      temporary protection order offices, Reno Police Department, District Attorney offices, etc.).
      Individuals interested in receiving treatment will complete intake measures prior to
      beginning treatment to establish a baseline, at a one-month follow-up, and three-month
      follow-up.

      Intervention. The DBT for IPV skills protocol consists of five major interconnected topics:
      mindfulness, emotion regulation, distress tolerance, validation, and interpersonal
      effectiveness. The two-day skills group will be conducted on weekends to increase the
      likelihood that participants will be able to attend. The skills group will be scheduled from
      9am-4pm with a one-hour lunch break (lunch will be provided).

      Experimental condition. Participants assigned to the experimental condition will receive a
      text or email message approximately every two days with a link to a VIA hosted on the online
      research platform Qualtrics. Each VIA reviews one of the core skills that was taught as part
      of the two-day skills group. Participants will be asked questions regarding whether the VIA
      helped them better understand the concept/skill, whether they enjoyed the VIA, and three
      questions about the content (to serve as a manipulation check). A correct repose to two of
      the three manipulation check questions will qualify the individual as having completed that
      VIA.

      Control Condition. Participants assigned to the control condition will receive the two-day
      skills group without the VIAs.
    
  