
    
      Rationale: Patients with univentricular hearts are currently palliated with a sequence of
      operations known as the Fontan procedure. This results in an un-physiologic circulation with
      poor long-term survival. On the other hand there is a small, selected subgroup of patients
      with univentricular hearts of the double inlet left ventricle (DILV) type that survives up to
      old age without ever having undergone any Fontan procedure. Considering the relatively bleak
      data on long-term survival of DILV patients palliated with the Fontan procedure, it is highly
      relevant to investigate and determine factors that allow for a selection of unoperated
      patients to live to a comparatively high age without apparent major complaints. This might
      have an impact on how (and if, at all) certain univentricular patients will be selected for
      operation in the future. For some, a different surgical procedure, or even therapeutic
      nihilism might be a more viable alternative. The investigators hypothesize that favourable
      intracardiac streaming plays a role in making the unpalliated patients viable: certain
      intracardiac anatomical characteristics allow for favourable flow patterns, resulting in
      higher systemic oxygen saturations than expected by mixing pulmonary and systemic venous
      returns.

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to describe the intracardiac anatomy and
      hemodynamics of DILV patients without Fontan circulation using 4D MRI. Furthermore, the
      functional status and quality of life of these patients will be assessed and compared to a
      matched cohort of Fontan patients.

      Study design: This will be an observational, cross-sectional study. The investigators aim to
      include all DILV patients without Fontan circulation known at the congenital heart disease
      referral centers in the Netherlands and Flanders. The Dutch patients will undergo one 4D MRI,
      a physical examination, cardiopulmonary exercise testing and have a blood sample taken at the
      University Medical Center Utrecht. The patients from the Flemish referral centers will
      undergo the same protocol at the University Medical Center Leuven. Furthermore, patients over
      the age of 18 will be asked to fill out a quality of life questionnaire.

      Study population: Included will be patients over the age of 12 with the diagnosis double
      inlet left ventricle, which have not undergone the Fontan trajectory. For the 4D MRI,
      patients with an MRI non-compatible pacemaker in situ will be excluded.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: This is primarily an explorative study aiming to describe
      the anatomy of unpalliated DILV hearts of patients without Fontan palliation. With 4D MRI,
      the hearts will be grouped according to the angular relationship of the two lines connecting
      the atrioventricular and the ventriculo-arterial valves. This angle can be divided into three
      categories: 1) parallel (i.e. 0°), 2) perpendicular (i.e. 90°) or 3) an in-between variant.
      Accordingly, flow patterns, ranging from linear to turbulent will be measured and correlated
      to the anatomical variants.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The burden and risks associated with participation in this study are minimal.
      Patients need to visit the site of investigation only once, and the tests done at the visit
      (i.e. 4D MR imaging, exercise and pulmonary function testing and blood sample) are part of
      standard medical care and as such pose negligible risk on the patients. The quality of life
      survey is not part of standard medical care and might be confrontational on a psychological
      level. It is, however, a widely used and scientifically approved survey, which aims to keep
      this burden very low. Due to the extremely low prevalence of the condition to be studied, it
      is of great importance to include every single patient, including children under the age of
      18. Excluding children from this study would further decrease the sample size to a
      significantly smaller number, making it difficult to draw conclusions.
    
  