
    
      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) produces changes in feelings and thoughts. It
      appears to have a unique pharmacological profile distinct from psychostimulants and classical
      hallucinogenic (psychedelic) compounds. Its unique properties have led to interest in using
      it in combination with psychotherapy. So far, studies in healthy volunteers have examined the
      effects of MDMA in a laboratory setting rather than a psychotherapeutic setting.

      This study is a Phase 1 study for up to a hundred people, The information gathered during
      this study may help us better understand the psychological effects produced by MDMA and how
      those effects can more effectively be used within a therapeutic context, as with people with
      PTSD. Participants will be healthy volunteers who have completed a program training them in
      conducting MDMA-assisted psychotherapy. In this randomized, double blind study, subjects will
      receive placebo and MDMA during two sessions scheduled at least two days apart in a
      psychotherapy setting. Mood, self-reported interpersonal closeness, psychological symptoms,
      blood pressure, heart rate and body temperature will be measured, and personality will be
      measured prior to the first therapy-like session and two months after the second session.

      The study will follow a cross-over design, meaning that all participants will receive both
      MDMA and placebo, with order of session randomly assigned. Study participants will have a
      preparatory session prior to each experimental session and an integrative session after each
      session. The researchers will contact them via telephone one and two months after the second
      experimental session. By comparing changes in mood, feelings of emotional closeness to the
      self and others and psychological symptoms after placebo and after MDMA, the investigators
      hope to learn something about the effects of MDMA on mood, subjective experience and the way
      we think and feel about others.
    
  