
    
      Research Question:

      What is the acceptability and effects of a six-month self-management program compared to
      usual home care services for older adults with multimorbidity and their family and friend
      caregivers?

      Methods:

      The design is a pragmatic, mixed-methods; randomized controlled trial with individuals newly
      referred to and using home care services. The intervention is a 6-month self-management
      program for older adults with multimorbidity. It will be provided by an interprofessional
      team of home care providers and will consist of three components: (1) intensive case
      management to facilitate access to services across the care continuum, provide psychosocial
      support and advocacy, and coordinate home care; (2) a minimum of two in-home visits by the
      Community Care Access Centre (CCAC) Case Manager, two visits by the Registered Nurse (RN),
      three visits by the Physiotherapist (PT) or Occupational Therapist (OT), and six visits by a
      Personal Support Worker (PSW) over 6 months in addition to usual home care services. The
      in-home visit schedule and team composition will be tailored to client needs and will be
      determined in collaboration with the home care providers. The interprofessional (IP) team
      will conduct comprehensive screening and assessments for chronic conditions, utilize
      strengths-based practice to encourage self-management and foster behavioural change, provide
      education for multimorbidity, medication review and management, in-home exercise, and
      caregiver support; and (3) monthly interprofessional team case conferences to develop an IP
      evidence-based, patient-centred care plan.

      Outcomes will be assessed at baseline and 6 months. Summary descriptive measures will be
      reported for all variables. Analysis of covariance will be used to compare study groups,
      while adjusting for baseline measurements and potential confounding variables. Subgroup
      analyses will be conducted based on sex/gender and region.

      Expected Outcomes:

      It is expected that older adults receiving the intervention will show greater improvements in
      health-related quality of life compared to usual home care services. These improvements will
      be achieved at no additional cost, from a societal perspective.
    
  