
    
      Screening tests for Hereditary Non-Polyposis Colorectal Cancer (HNPCC) [also called Lynch
      Syndrome], are among the few available validated genetic tests that have been recommended as
      an evidence-based practice that can save lives. However, more than half of patients who meet
      well-established and accepted screening criteria do not receive screening. This is a critical
      failure for patients and for the health-care delivery system because HNPCC mutation carriers
      are at exceptionally high risk for colorectal and other HNPCC-related cancers, and because
      clinical strategies can prevent future cancers, or provide early detection, for individuals
      affected with HNPCC and their relatives. HNPCC testing is also cost-effective compared to
      treating individuals with a diagnosis of colorectal cancer (CRC).

      To address this shortfall in practice, our proposed research mobilizes the resources of an
      integrated health-delivery system with extensive electronic clinical data to implement and
      evaluate a new strategy to maximize screening of CRC patients for HPNCC. The Evaluation of
      Genomic Applications in Practice and Prevention (EGAPP) working group recommended that all
      newly diagnosed CRC patients be screened for HPNCC, but was not able to recommend a
      best-strategy to accomplish this aim. Therefore, using the Practical Robust Implementation
      and Sustainability Model (PRISM), developed by one of our co-investigators, to guide the
      analyses, the investigators will:

      Aim #1: Conduct a randomized controlled trial to determine the effectiveness of a universal
      laboratory test-based HNPCC screening program compared to the current practice of physician
      referral and self-referral.

      Aim #2: Elucidate patient, provider, and system factors important to success of
      implementation.

      Aim #3: (revised and approved during year 1): To create, refine, and disseminate an
      implementation guide for HNPCC screening by combining the results from Aims 1-2 and the
      perspectives from informant interviews of key staff at future diverse
      dissemination-implementation sites: Case Western Reserve University, Oregon Health & Sciences
      University, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Kaiser Permanente
      Georgia, Kaiser Permanente Hawaii, and Safety Net West Clinics. Addition to Aim 3: We will
      contribute materials to the LSSN website for dissemination of implementation materials.

      This study aims to evaluate implementation of a novel HNPCC screening program and assess, for
      all stakeholders, facilitators and barriers to program implementation and success. Results
      from this study will help achieve the Healthy People 2020 objective of reducing CRC
      mortality. It will add to the growing literature in the increasingly important area of
      translating research findings into real-world practice, a subject of the NIH Roadmap. Many of
      the findings will be useful in other clinical areas and will be broadly applicable to other
      health care organizations aiming to improve access to genetic tests for cancers.
    
  