
    
      The first aim will be to monitor the evolution of the following parameters in CRPS patients:

        -  Quality of life

        -  Symptoms and signs of CRPS

        -  Severity of CRPS

        -  Working status

        -  Pain

        -  Disability

        -  Anxiety and depression

        -  Kinesiophobia

        -  Catastrophism

        -  Activity patterns with chronic pain during the two years follow-up. Every parameter will
           be evaluated with a questionnaire that allows assigning scores to each patient.

      Additionally sociodemographic data will be collected to characterize the patients (age,
      gender, marital status, educational level). The health status, treatment and medication of
      the patients will also be recorded with a medical follow-up during the two years.

      The aim is to know if the following parameters and their evolution:

        -  Sociodemographic factors,

        -  Pain,

        -  Disability,

        -  Anxiety and depression,

        -  Kinesiophobia,

        -  Catastrophism,

        -  Activity patterns with chronic pain

      are associated with the recovery, which is evaluated with

        -  Quality of life,

        -  Severity of CRPS,

        -  And working status.

      Potential associations between the different parameters will be tested (Pearson's correlation
      coefficient).

      The second aim will be to assess, in blood samples, the expression levels of specific
      molecules (miRNAs and a selection of cytokines) in patients diagnosed with acute CRPS.
      Comparison with healthy controls will be performed at the first measurement time (T0) . In a
      second time, miRNAs and cytokines profiles will be compared between acute and chronic (CRPS
      still diagnosed 6 months after the first diagnosis) CRPS patients. The measured proteins will
      include: C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF), interleukin-2 [IL-2], IL-6,
      IL-8, IL-10, CD40 ligand (pro- and anti-inflammatory proteins associated with pain), gene
      related peptide (CGRP), bradykinins and substance P.

      The screening, recruitment and enrolment of the patients will be done by the referring
      physician in daily clinical practice, during the consultation.

      The physician will explain to each participant the nature of the study, its purpose, the
      procedures involved, the expected duration, the potential risks and benefits and any
      discomfort it may entail. Each participant will be informed that the participation in the
      study is voluntary and that he/she may withdraw from the study at any time and that
      withdrawal of consent will not affect his/her subsequent medical assistance and treatment.

      All participants for the study will be provided with a participant information sheet,a
      consent form describing the study and providing sufficient information for participant to
      make an informed decision about their participation in the study and a prepaid envelope. Each
      patient may decide separately to participate in a) longitudinal follow-up questionnaires, b)
      blood tests or c) both parts of the study (questionnaire and blood samples). The delay for
      reflection will be 24 h. Once this period has expired, if the patient agrees to participate
      in the study, he or she is asked to return the consent form in the prepaid envelope. If he or
      she has not been send back after one week, the physician will call the patient by phone to
      make sure that it is not an omission.

      The patient information sheet and the consent form are submitted to the Ethic comitee to be
      reviewed and approved. The formal consent of a participant, using the approved consent form,
      must be obtained before the participant is submitted to any study procedure.

      The participant should read and consider the statement before signing and dating the informed
      consent form, and should be given a copy of the signed document. If the patient sent back the
      informed consent, a next appointment will be scheduled at the CRR where he or she will be
      asked to submit the signed consent form. The consent form must also be signed and dated by
      the investigator (or his designee) and it will be retained as part of the study records.

      The total duration of the project is planned over a six years period (2019-2024). The study
      will be proposed to every CRPS ambulatory patient in the CRR (2019-2022), inclusion period).
      The study will also be proposed to the patients during the last two years (2023-2024) but
      only partially, since that last questionnaires will be sent in December 2024.

      The CRPS patients are monitored on a regular and long-term basis at the CRR. The physician
      see them very regularly at the beginning (about once a month) and then the visits space a
      little out. Thus, our study fits into routine procedure and should not imply additional
      visits.

      At the first visit at the clinic, the physician will proposed the study to the patient. Upon
      acceptance, the patient will be included into the study. It consists in five measurement
      times:

        -  T0: During the days following the first visit to the clinic

        -  T1: Follow up visit 3 months later

        -  T2: Follow up visit 6 months later

        -  T3: Follow up visit 12 months later

        -  T4: Follow up visit 24 months later
    
  