
    
      Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is the fourth-most common mental disorder. The World
      Health Organization (WHO) estimated OCD to be among the top 10 causes of years lived with
      illness related disability by 2020. Various psychological, social, genetic and biochemical
      factors are presumed to be involved in the etiology of OCD. Researches so far have indicated
      that free radical induced injuries are involved in the pathology of OCD. A well-known source
      of antioxidant is Vitamin C, which is easily available, cheap and more powerful regarding
      antioxidant effects compared to many other natural sources of vitamin C. Until now little
      study has been performed to observe the effect of vitamin C administration concurrent to the
      Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) in the treatment of OCD. Therefore the
      present study has been designed to assess the effects of vitamin C along with SSRIs upon OCD
      patients. The study would be a prospective type of interventional study to be conducted in
      the Department of Pharmacology and Department of Psychiatry, BSMMU, from September 2017 to
      February 2019. A total of 90 OCD patients will be selected according to inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. The patients will be divided randomly into 2 groups: group A and group B.
      Group A would consist of 45 patients who will receive only SSRIs orally daily and group B
      would consist of 45 patients who will receive vitamin C, 500 mg BID orally daily along with
      SSRIs for 8 weeks. Comparison between the two groups will be performed through biochemical
      parameters of oxidative stress markers such as serum malondialdehyde (MDA), serum reduced
      glutathione (GSH) and serum vitamin C levels at baseline (before vitamin C administration)
      and 8 weeks after intervention by vitamin C. Along with the biochemical parameters,
      Yale-Brown score of obsessive-compulsive disorders (Y-OCD) would also be assessed by
      Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS).Data would be analyzed by Scientific Package
      for Social Science(SPSS) and represented by tables and figures as applicable. Significance
      level would be set at 0.05, 0.01 and 0.001. Patient's data will be recorded in a
      predetermined data sheet. Patients will be informed about the study in easy language and then
      informed consent will be taken. This study has no potential risk to the patients. Hence, this
      study would be the first to examine the efficacy of vitamin C as an adjunct to SSRIs in the
      treatment of OCD.
    
  