
    
      Hypertension incidence and overweight or obesity related, constitute a worrying public health
      problem nowadays. Evidence indicates that, despite the existence of several factors involved
      in their etiology, diet and physical activity play a particularly important role in the
      treatment and prevention of obesity and associated disorders. However, interventions for the
      treatment of obesity encounter some environmental and personal barriers, specifically
      problems or deficits in motivation. These barriers sometimes make it difficult to implement
      intervention strategies. In this sense, there is an important agreement about the need to
      generate alternatives and strategies which promote intrinsic motivation, self-regulation and
      self-efficacy as fundamental variables which have a direct relationship with the adherence
      and success of obesity treatments. To achieve this, Information and Communication
      Technologies (ICTs) are a very promising alternative, as they can provide personalised
      feedback and can be flexibly adapted to each user. In addition, ICTs also present other
      important advantages, especially their excellent cost-benefit ratio, and the possibility of
      increasing the efficiency of the interventions, since they allow to reach a greater number of
      users at a lower cost.

      Therefore, this study aims to analyze the effects of a 3 months duration self-applied online
      program, composed of 9 modules focused on promoting healthy lifestyle habits (healthy eating
      and increased physical activity), on obese or overweight adults with hypertension.
      Participants will be recruited from a hypertension unit of a public hospital. These patients
      will be randomized allocated into two interventional groups: experimental group will receive
      audiovisual instructions from their hypertension specialist doctor, and the control group
      from a doctor outside the patient. Assessment will include: body composition (BMI), blood
      pressure, and eating behaviour.
    
  