
    
      VA Cooperative Studies Program #2016 is a double-blind four-arm adaptive clinical trial to
      compare the efficacy of trazodone hydrochloride, eszopiclone, and gabapentin to placebo, as
      adjunctive therapies in the treatment of insomnia symptoms among Veterans with military
      related PTSD, as measured by statistically significant difference in change from baseline in
      Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) total score at Week 12.

      Participants will be approximately 1224 male and female Veterans with PTSD and moderate
      levels of insomnia as measured on the ISI. Veterans who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be randomized within each site to receive trazodone hydrochloride, eszopiclone,
      gabapentin or placebo. Permuted blocks randomization will be used within each participating
      site. A mid-point interim analysis will be conducted wherein active treatment arms meeting
      futility early stopping criteria will be dropped. If all active treatment arms are dropped at
      the interim analysis, the study is stopped at that time. Otherwise, the study will continue
      and the remaining sample size will be allocated to the remaining study arms with equal
      randomization probabilities. Study drug dose will be increased using a flexible dose
      titration schedule over a period of up to 3 weeks and continued for up to 12 weeks.

      The Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) is the primary outcome for this study. The Clinician
      Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-V (CAPS-5) will be the primary secondary outcome measuring
      change in PTSD symptoms. Other secondary outcomes that measure PTSD and sleep include the
      PTSD Checklist (PCL-5) and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index Scale-Addendum for PTSD (PSQI-A).
      Other secondary outcomes include brief questionnaire secondary measures of comorbid
      depression (PHQ-9), anxiety (GAD-7), quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF), treatment satisfaction
      questionnaire for medication (TSQM-9), anger and aggression (DAR-5), smoking and alcohol
      consumption (Timeline Follow-Back, or TLFB), clinical global change (CGI-S), resource
      utilization (an abbreviated subset of the Service Utilization and Resources Form, or SURF),
      Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS), optional wearable device (Actiwatch Spectrum
      Plus by Philips) to measure actigraphy.

      This study is designed to serve as a well-powered "screen" for efficacious medications for
      the treatment of PTSD-related insomnia from among the medications already widely prescribed
      for this purpose within VA. Thus, this study is powered to detect significant differences
      between trazodone, eszopiclone, and gabapentin versus placebo. The investigators have powered
      the study to detect a small effect size, recognizing that the effect size of s-zopiclone is
      larger ( 0.5) in a small short-term pilot study in PTSD but that the effect size of
      s-zopiclone declines over time in a well-powered study of primary insomnia, stabilizing at 12
      weeks of treatment at a level that is sustained over subsequent months of treatment.
      Presuming that the widespread prescription rates of these three medications for PTSD patients
      suggests that they have some efficacy for PTSD-related insomnia, the investigators would
      expect that the effect size for the comparisons among the active medications would be very
      small. Therefore, the study is not powered to detect differences among the active
      medications. The investigators have chosen the ISI as the primary outcome for several
      reasons: (a) it has excellent psychometric properties, (b) it is feasible (in terms of
      subject burden and cost) to administer the ISI at multiple timepoints during the 12-week
      trial, (c) according to the insomnia experts who provided input into the study design it has
      displaced sleep diary-related measures as the primary outcome in clinical trials for sleep,
      and d) it has been accepted by the FDA as the primary outcome measure in registration trials.

      Based on the literature, an effect size of 0.35 in the primary endpoint (ISI) is plausible
      and clinically meaningful. The investigators estimated the overall participant dropout rate
      is between 10% to 15%. With a conservative estimate drop-out rate of 15%, the total sample
      size will be 1224. From the previous CSP PTSD trials, the investigators anticipate each
      participating site can randomize on average 1.25 participants per month, or 15 patients per
      site per year. With 3 years of recruitment, the investigators would need 28 sites to reach
      sample 1224. The investigators plan to start the study with 32 sites to allow dropping of
      non-performing sites.

      VA bears a unique responsibility for addressing the limited efficacy of current
      evidence-based pharmacotherapy practices for PTSD. Since 2001, there have been only two
      FDA-approved medications for PTSD, both serotonin reuptake inhibiting antidepressants (SRIs),
      and SRIs have limited efficacy for military-related PTSD. This "efficacy gap" results in
      widespread polypharmacy for PTSD in VA, such that Veterans with antidepressant-resistant
      symptoms are treated, on average, with more than three psychotropic medications that present
      risks without clear benefit. In particular, SRI-resistant insomnia in military-related PTSD
      is a significant problem for VA, with 88% of these patients reporting clinically significant
      sleep impairment. In PTSD, sleep disturbances contribute importantly to impairments in
      quality of life, reduced social and vocational function, suicide risk, and poorer health.
      Effective treatment of persisting insomnia in PTSD is a sufficiently serious unmet need that
      the 2017 VA/DoD Clinical Practice Guideline for the Management of Posttraumatic Stress
      Disorder, called for "studies of non-benzodiazepine sedative/hypnotics." The purpose of the
      study is address this gap through testing the efficacy of three non-benzodiazepine hypnotics
      in comparison to placebo, representing the three medications or medication classes that are
      most commonly prescribed to Veterans with PTSD on an off-label basis and have yet to be
      tested in a definitive clinical trial. A novel aspect of this study is its implementation of
      an adaptive design in which arms would be dropped for evidence of futility based on
      pre-specified criteria at a designated interim analysis, intended to increase the efficiency
      of the trial and thereby improve the feasibility of its ambitious aim. The VA Cooperative
      Studies Program is uniquely suited to conduct this study.
    
  