
    
      The detaited information about this trial is described below

        1. Quality assurance: The research proposal is reviewed by an Independent Research Panel.
           If the proposal is approved, access to the study data is provided in a secure data
           sharing environment after receipt of a signed Data Sharing Agreement.

        2. Data check: Researchers must submit a proposal to conduct a scientifically relevant
           analysis of the study data.

        3. Source data verification: Medical records, electronic case report forms, and imaging
           would be processed by certified neurologists.

        4. Data included:

           4.1 Baseline Variables: NIHSS and mRS scores before ischemic stroke 4.2 In-hospital
           Variables: 4.2.1 Main symptoms（1=facial paralysis 2=limb weakness 3=limb numbness
           4=facial numbness 5=lalopathy 6=ataxia 7=dysphagia 8=bulbar paralysis 9=dizziness
           10=nausea and vomit 11=vision disorder 12=confusion 13=headache 14=unconsciousness
           15=others） NIHSS and mRS scores after admission 4.2.2 Brain CT and ASPECT scores 4.2.3
           DWI 4.2.4 CTA, MRA, DSA, carotid artery ultrasound andTCD to evaluate the stenosis
           degree of large vessels 4.2.5 HRMR to evaluate the changes of the plaque of intracranial
           stenosis 4.2.6 Blood routine tests 4.2.7 HbALc and FBG 4.2.8 LDL HDL ApoA1 and ApoB
           4.2.9 Cardiac TnI and NT-proBNP 4.2.10 Proteomic analysis of fresh plasma 4.2.11
           Histopathological tissues and transcriptomics of CEA

        5. Standard Operating Procedures 5.1 Patient recruitment: From March 1, 2021 to December
           31, 2026, 1000 patients with ischemic stroke due to large-artery atherosclerosis who are
           admitted to the Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Tongji Hospital are going to
           be recruited 5.2 Data collection: Detailed clinical data in emergency room and
           in-hospital will be obtained from the medical record reviews, and the National
           Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score will be
           done by certified neurologists to assess the severity of the disease in acute stage and
           clinical outcome during the follow-up. All cases would undergo routine blood tests,
           brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cerebral vascular examination, such as TCD,
           CTA, HRMR or DSA.

           5.3 Data management, The research data is reviewed by an Independent Research Panel.

           5.4 Data analysis: Biostatisticians from the Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital,
           Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology will conduct
           statistical analysis

        6. Sample size assessment: About 1000 cases.

        7. Plan for missing data: The number of lost cases will be treated as the deleted value and
           the lost rate will be indicated. Complete sample intentionality analysis and
           intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis would be performed on the end points. During the
           analysis, if there is a statistical difference in the results, the number of
           participants lost in the exposed group will be deleted, and the number of participants
           lost to in the non-exposed group will be added. If there is still a statistical
           difference in the results, the loss of follow-up will not have an impact on the analysis
           results of this group.

        8. Statistical analysis: All statistical data would be analyzed by the SPSS Software 24.0
           version. Continuous variables would be reported as median (range, minimum-maximum),
           which would be compared by Mann-Whitney test, and categorical data would be represented
           as percentages and frequencies, which would be compared by the two-tailed Fisher's exact
           test or one-way ANOVA. P<0.05 would be considered statistically significant.
    
  