
    
      The objective was to assess and compare the effects of an individualized multicomponent
      exercise program and an individualized and progressive walking intervention on LTNH
      residents´ physical and cognitive performance, habitual physical activity, psycho-affective
      status and quality of life.

      Design: single-blind randomized controlled trial. 81 men and women were randomly assigned to
      a multicomponent (MG) or a walking (WG) group after baseline measurements. Participants in
      the MG underwent a twice a week individualised and progressive multicomponent exercise
      program composed of strength and balance exercises. The walking group was also individualised
      and walked progressively to up to 20 minutes per day for the 3-month intervention.

      The primary outcome was the score on the Short Physical Performance Battery (lower limb
      strength (time needed to perform five chair stands), static balance (standing with feet
      together, semi-tandem and tandem positions) and usual gait speed (4m), assessed at baseline
      and after the intervention. Secondary outcomes included other relevant physical performance
      tests (Senior Fitness Test, the Berg Balance Scale, handgrip strength, usual gait speed (4m)
      the instrumented Timed Up and Go test), habitual physical activity (using accelerometers
      during 7 days), cognitive performance (Montreal Cognitive Assessment test and the Rey
      Auditory Verbal Learning Test), psycho-affective status (Anxiety and Depression Goldberg
      Scale, and loneliness using the Jong Gierveld loneliness scale) and quality of life (the
      Quality of Life Alzheimer´s disease scale). Also frailty and the number of falls and deaths
      will be registered.

      Descriptive statistics were computed and baseline (between group differences) and time
      effects (within group differences) were checked using Student´s-t test (quantitative
      variables) or Chi square test (qualitative variables). Intervention effects between groups
      were assessed by 2-way analysis of variance for repeated measures (group by time
      interactions). Partial η2 and Cohen´s d was calculated. All the analysis performed under the
      intention-to-treat principle and significance was set at p < 0.05.
    
  