
    
      Phase 1 - The purpose of this part of the research study is to conduct individual interviews
      and focus groups (group discussions) to learn more about the things or behaviors that help
      men to stay healthy and the decision making process for prostate cancer screening. We will
      discuss men's general health concerns, knowledge, beliefs, and concerns regarding prostate
      cancer and screening for prostate cancer. We will use the results from this study to develop
      a decision aid to help first-degree relatives of prostate cancer patients make informed
      decisions about whether to undergo testing or not to undergo testing for prostate cancer. The
      new decision aid will include a digital videodisc (DVD) and an accompanying booklet. We hope
      to learn from you the needs and concerns of first-degree relatives, what information to
      include in the decision aid, what language to use, and the best way to present this
      information.

      Phase 2 - The purpose of this part of the research study is to test the usefulness and
      acceptability of a new decision aid we developed specifically for first-degree relatives
      (FDRs) of prostate cancer patients. We will compare the new decision aid to another widely
      available decision aid that was not developed specifically for first-degree relatives. The
      goal is to see if the new decision aid will change knowledge (about prostate cancer and
      screening) and increase satisfaction with decision making (intention or decision made). If we
      find some evidence that the new decision aid is relevant (useful) and acceptable, we will
      then do a larger study with several hundred men to determine more definitively whether the
      new decision aid is better than already existing general decision materials and for which men
      it works best.

      Because the correct decision (whether to undergo screening or not to undergo screening) is
      not known at this time, the goal of decision aids is to present both (in a balanced manner)
      the potential harms and benefits of screening. Therefore, this study focuses on the informed
      decision making (knowledge and satisfaction with decision).
    
  