
    
      The medical and socioeconomic impact of subacute and chronic shoulder pain is high, resulting
      in 12 million visits to physicians and over $7 billion in direct costs in the United States.
      The most common cause is subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS), which accounts for 30% of
      all shoulder pain. Approximately 35% of patients who present with subacromial impingement
      syndrome (SIS) are refractory to conservative management. For patients who have failed
      conservative management, there are no established treatments to reduce the pain. The
      long-term goal is to develop a therapeutic intervention to reduce pain related to subacromial
      impingement syndrome(SIS). A pilot trial of 3-week percutaneous peripheral nerve stimulation
      (PNS) for participants with chronic shoulder pain due to subacromial impingement syndrome
      (SIS) that was refractory to conservative treatment that showed 60% of participants had
      successful treatment of pain that lasted at least 3 months. Thus, the primary objective of
      this 2 site randomized control trial (RCT) is to confirm the findings of this preliminary
      trial and determine the efficacy of peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS) for chronic
      subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS). The secondary objectives of this multisite randomized
      control trial (RCT) is to explore mechanisms of peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS) for the
      treatment of subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS), and to determine which characteristics
      can predict successful treatment with peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS). In order to
      accomplish these objectives, this trial is a multi-site, placebo controlled, double-blinded
      randomized control trial (RCT) to compare the efficacy of peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS)
      to sham peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS). Measures of pain, pain interference with
      activities of daily living (ADLs), capacity for activities of daily living (ADLs), Quality of
      life (QoL), and measures of central sensitization (pain thresholds, secondary hyperalgesia,
      and temporal summation) will be measured. Participants will be followed for a total of 24
      weeks after treatment has concluded.
    
  