
    
      Introduction: The most important cause of death in patients with cirrhosis is the development
      of Acute-on-Chronic Liver Failure (ACLF), a syndrome recently redefined with high mortality.
      The only effective treatment for ACLF is liver transplantation. However, available organs are
      limited. Other treatments, such as artificial liver support systems, do not improve survival.
      ACLF is characterized by increased systemic inflammatory state together with impaired liver
      regeneration what leads to multiorgan failure. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy is an
      attractive strategy for ACLF owing to the immunomodulatory and regenerative properties of
      these cells. Aim: To investigate the effects of allogeneic bone marrow MSCs transplantation
      on liver and other organ functions and systemic inflammation in patients with ACLF. Altruist
      bone marrow donors will be the source of MSCs. Design and methodology: randomized,
      double-blind phase I placebo-controlled trial aimed at comparing placebo (solution without
      cells) and MSCs (4 doses of 2 x 106/kg administered on days 1, 4, 11 and 18). Thirty
      patients, 15 per group will be included. ACLF will be defined by the CLIF SOFA score and
      patients stratified according to severity. Outcomes evaluated will be: 1) Organ function
      (CLIF SOFA and CLIF-C ACLF score); 2) Liver (Child-Pugh and MELD scores,serum bile acids,
      ammonia and lactate levels), circulatory (systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics, renin,
      noradrenalin) and endothelial function (nitric oxide, von Willebrand factor); 3 Inflammatory
      response (serum cytokine panel and transcriptomic analysis of monocytes and polymorphonuclear
      cells from peripheral blood); 4) Survival at 28 days, 3 and 12 months; and 5) Safety.
      Expected results: Therapy with MSCs could have beneficial effects on the evolution of
      patients with ACLF (modulation of inflammatory response and improvement of liver and
      extra-hepatic organ function) what could translate into an improvement on short-term
      survival.
    
  