
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy of LeGoo™ as compared to a
      traditional vessel loop. LeGoo is a device that is intended to be used during surgical
      procedures to temporarily occlude blood vessels while forming an anastomosis. LeGoo™ will be
      evaluated in subjects undergoing off-pump coronary artery by-pass (OPCAB) surgery. This is a
      prospective, randomized trial with a 30-day follow-up period. Half of the eligible patients
      will be randomized to the experimental group (LeGoo™); and the other half to the control
      group (standard vessel loops).

      LeGoo™ is polymer-based device which is comprised of a non-toxic and biocompatible gel that
      exists as a liquid at low temperatures and rapidly transitions to a solid at body
      temperature, forming a plug that can occlude blood vessels. LeGoo™ is injected into a blood
      vessel that is intended to be occluded, where it stays in a "plug" form for several minutes
      allowing the surgeon to work in a bloodless field. The gel dissolves with time
      (spontaneously) or can be reversed back to liquid instantly by cooling the site with ice or
      irrigating with cold saline. Once dissolved below a minimum concentration, the polymer can
      never re-solidify.

      The primary research hypothesis is that surgeons will obtain a bloodless surgical field and
      achieve satisfactory hemostasis in a larger proportion of anastomoses using LeGoo™ than using
      a conventional temporary hemostasis technique.

      Satisfactory hemostasis is defined by the surgeon who will quantitate his/her observation
      about the quality of the surgical field using the following scoring system:

        1. - Excellent hemostasis (no bleeding)

        2. - Minimal bleeding (bleeding does not interfere with suturing)

        3. - Modest bleeding (required intermittent use of another device to control bleeding at
           the site of the anastomosis)

        4. - Copious bleeding (required continuous use of another device)

      "Excellent hemostasis" and "minimal bleeding" are considered "satisfactory hemostasis."
      Satisfactory hemostasis will constitute a treatment success for the purpose of evaluating the
      primary efficacy of LeGoo. The primary endpoint is the proportion of anastomoses in which
      satisfactory hemostasis is achieved.
    
  