
    
      Introduction: Obtaining the reliability of an evaluative instrument is of paramount
      importance for its applicability in the field of clinical physiotherapy and in the sports
      field, providing consistent and real measures. Shoulder proprioception assessments have
      started to appear on the scientific scene in recent years and several tools, methods and
      protocols are being studied. However, the lack of standardization of protocols and
      application in different populations produces inconsistencies in the findings, thus hindering
      the use of these models. Thus, standardizing the application of the test and investigating a
      population different from what appears in the scientific scenario in relation to sports, such
      as swimming athletes, seems to be relevant and would contribute to the use of scientific
      evaluative models in the clinical environment. Objectives: To evaluate the intra- and
      inter-rater reliability of a test of active shoulder proprioception with a laser pointer in
      swimming athletes and to describe the profile of the proprioception measures characterizing
      the sample according to the specialty within the sport and the category of the athletes.
      Methods: Study of intra- and inter-rater reliability of the shoulder proprioception test with
      a laser pointer, composed of 48 young male and female swimming athletes, aged between 12 and
      20 years. It will be carried out in three stages: (1) Familiarization, (2) Test and (3)
      Retest, all stages will take place on the same day, and stages 2 and 3 will be performed by
      two different evaluators. To characterize the sample, descriptive statistics will be used by
      means of central tendency and variability, for all variables collected. Relative reliability
      will be tested by the Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC), with a 95% confidence
      interval. The ICC will be interpreted as values <0.5 indicate low reliability, between 0.5
      and 0.75, moderate reliability, between 0.75 and 0.9, good reliability and values> 0.90
      excellent reliability. And the absolute reliability will be verified by means of the standard
      error of the measurement (EPM), by values of minimum detectable change (MMD), and the
      coefficient of variation (CV).
    
  