
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, double-blind controlled trial.

      All Patients undergoing front foot surgery with metacarpal osteotomy will be screened for
      inclusion in the protocol. All patients without exclusion criteria will be included in the
      study.

      All patients will receive 30cc mixure of Ropivacaine 0,375% in perineural injection and
      surgery will be performed under regional anesthesia only. If needed, a sedation with
      midazolam (1mg) will be performed.

      The patients will be randomized over 2 groups:

        -  "Perineural group":

             -  1cc (4mg) of dexamethasone will be administrated in perineural injection

             -  2.5cc of isotonic saline solution will be administrated in systemic injection

        -  "Systemic group":

             -  1cc of isotonic saline will be administrated in perineural injection

             -  2.5cc (10mg) of dexamethasone will be administrated in systemic injection

      For both groups perineural injection will be performed at the ankle and the following nerves
      will be targeted: the tibial nerve, saphenous nerve, the deep fibular nerve, the superficial
      fibular nerve and the sural nerve.

      Post-operative analgesia will be reached with paracetamol (1gr each 6 hours) and Ketoprofen
      (100mg each 12 hours).

      After surgery, patients will be asked to write down the time to the first opioids request
      during the first 48 hours, maximal pain during the first 48H using a visual analog scale,
      occurrence of nausea or vomiting, overall satisfaction regarding pain relief management and
      any significant side effects during the first 7 days.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine if perineural dexamethasone is associated
      with a longer analgesic duration than systemic route in combination with regional anesthesia
      (Ropivacaine 0.375%) for front foot surgery.

      The primary end-point will be time to the first opioids request during the first 48 hours.
    
  