
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder characterized by intermittent hypoxia and
      sleep fragmentation. OSA is associated with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, metabolic
      dysregulation, and neurocognitive dysfunction, which may bring worse prognosis. Continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the standard treatment of OSA while the oral appliance and
      surgery are the alternative treatments. The differences of craniofacial features among races
      contributed to the race-specific presentations of OSA. Up to date, only limited studies
      investigated the long-term prognosis of OSA and most of them recruited Caucasians and African
      Americans. Moreover, most studies didn't address the impact of treatment other than CPAP on
      the long-term prognosis. .

      National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD) in Taiwan enrolled 99% of whole Taiwan's
      population and has longer period of 10 years for follow-up, which is suitable for
      investigation of long-term prognosis and predictors in OSA. However, due to limited
      parameters for diagnosis and treatment, the results could be biased in such secondary
      database research. Center of Sleep Disorder in National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH)
      established from 2006 has 2,600 sleep studies annually. Therefore, database and cohort from
      sleep center could offer the validations of the prognosis and predictors determined from
      NHIRD. In addition, the impact of all three treatment modalities, namely CPAP, oral
      appliance, and surgery, on long-term prognosis could be studied in the prospective way.

      Therefore, in this project, we aimed to achieve three goals (1) To explore long-term
      prognosis and identify the predictors in Taiwanese OSA patients with NHIRD, where the
      prediction mode of prognosis was established (2). To validate the prediction model derived
      from NHIRD with the database of NTUH sleep center (3) To determine the effects of different
      treatments on long-term prognosis with prospective following NTUH sleep center cohort.
    
  