
    
      Provoked venous thromboembolism (VTE) is traditionally considered a transient acute disorder
      requiring a limited duration of anticoagulant therapy. Patients who suffer deep vein
      thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) following major surgery, major trauma, or periods
      of immobility are generally treated with time-limited anticoagulation for 3 months. However,
      provoked VTE patients have recently been recognized as a heterogeneous population comprised
      of those with transient provoking and persistent provoking risk factors (1). Common risk
      factors in provoked VTE such as obesity, immobility, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease,
      heart failure, chronic lung disease, chronic kidney disease, and inflammatory disorders
      frequently contribute to an enduring rather than transient risk. Furthermore, epidemiological
      studies (8,9) and the randomized clinical trial EINSTEIN CHOICE (3) suggest that VTE is best
      characterized as a chronic disorder with periodic relapses. A landmark Danish National
      Registry analysis demonstrated that patients who suffer provoked or unprovoked VTE have an
      increased risk of recurrence over the ensuing 30 years and that recurrent PE causes increased
      mortality (10). While the rate of VTE recurrence ranges 30-50% over 10 years for unprovoked
      VTE (also termed idiopathic; unprovoked implies that an immediate trigger for the VTE cannot
      be identified), recurrent events occur in about 20% of patients over 10 years after a
      provoked event (provoked VTE is defined as post-operative, post-major trauma,
      post-hospitalization, or related to pregnancy, hormonal contraception/replacement therapy, or
      immobility) (11-13). Based on these data, provoked VTE patients represent a population
      vulnerable to VTE recurrence, especially at the transition of care from the initial (acute)
      treatment phase to the chronic treatment phase, at which point anticoagulation is
      discontinued in most of these patients.

      The EINSTEIN CHOICE trial recently evaluated the safety and efficacy of regimens of full- or
      lower-intensity anticoagulant therapy versus low-dose aspirin for secondary prevention of VTE
      after an initial provoked or unprovoked event (2). The EINSTEIN CHOICE Investigators randomly
      assigned 3396 patients with VTE to receive either once-daily rivaroxaban (at doses of 20 mg
      or 10 mg) or 100 mg of aspirin. Prior to enrollment in EINSTEIN CHOICE, all study patients
      completed 6 to 12 months of anticoagulation therapy, and their providers were in equipoise
      regarding the need for extended anticoagulation. Approximately 60% of patients in EINSTEIN
      CHOICE had suffered provoked VTE. Symptomatic recurrent VTE occurred in 17 of 1107 patients
      (1.5%) receiving 20 mg of rivaroxaban and in 13 of 1127 patients (1.2%) receiving 10 mg of
      rivaroxaban, and in 50 of 1131 patients (4.4%) receiving low-dose aspirin (hazard ratio for
      20 mg of rivaroxaban vs. aspirin, 0.34; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.20 to 0.59; hazard
      ratio for 10 mg of rivaroxaban vs. aspirin, 0.26; 95% CI, 0.14 to 0.47; P<0.001 for both
      comparisons). Rates of major bleeding were similar (0.5% in the group receiving 20 mg of
      rivaroxaban, 0.4% in the group receiving 10 mg of rivaroxaban, and 0.3% in the low-dose
      aspirin group) (2).

      Data from 4,553 patients in EINSTEIN CHOICE and the EINSTEIN VTE Continued Treatment Study
      demonstrate that provoked VTE patients with persistent provoking factors have a reduction in
      recurrence with extended duration anticoagulation compared with low-dose aspirin or placebo
      (1.5% vs. 4.9%) (2,3). Common persistent provoking factors included immobility, obesity,
      heart failure, and chronic inflammatory disorders, such as Crohn's Disease and rheumatoid
      arthritis. Despite being highly prevalent, persistent provoking factors are rarely considered
      when stopping anticoagulation in patients with provoked VTE who have completed the typical 3-
      to 6-month duration of therapy. The 2016 American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP)
      Guidelines on Antithrombotic Therapy for VTE do not distinguish between transient and
      persistent provoking risk factors and recommend limited-duration anticoagulation for provoked
      events (4).

      However, an emerging opinion is that optimal duration of anticoagulation in provoked VTE
      patients should be determined based on data from the extended duration rivaroxaban trials
      (5). Such a strategy breaks from the tradition of dichotomizing VTE as provoked or
      unprovoked. Rather, persisting risk factors such as heart failure, obesity, family history of
      VTE, acquired or hereditary thrombophilia, and immobilization are incorporated into the
      decision-making process for pathways focused on secondary prevention.

      A suitable long-term strategy for secondary prevention has been recommended in evidence-based
      clinical practice guidelines for patients with unprovoked VTE (4). Extended-duration
      anticoagulation with warfarin or the direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) is validated and
      recommended for prevention of recurrent unprovoked VTE in patients with a low-risk of
      bleeding (6). However, current evidence-based clinical practice guidelines are inadequate for
      secondary prevention in patients with provoked VTE based on several extended-duration
      anticoagulation trials that included patients with provoked and unprovoked VTE. In a
      randomized controlled trial of rivaroxaban for extended-duration secondary prevention in
      patients with either provoked (26%) or unprovoked (74%) DVT, recurrent VTE occurred in 8
      patients (1.3%) in the rivaroxaban group compared with 42 patients (7.1%) in the placebo
      group (hazard ratio, 0.18; 95% CI, 0.09 to 0.39; P<0.001, relative risk reduction, 82%) (3).

      In a landmark extension trial of patients with unprovoked VTE, the AMPLIFY-EXT trial compared
      two doses of apixaban (2.5 mg and 5 mg, twice daily) with placebo in 2486 patients with VTE
      who had completed 6 to 12 months of anticoagulation therapy and for whom there was clinical
      equipoise regarding the need for extended-duration anticoagulant therapy for secondary
      prevention (7). Symptomatic recurrent VTE or death from VTE occurred in 73 of the 829
      patients (8.8%) who were receiving placebo versus 14 of the 840 patients (1.7%) who were
      receiving 2.5 mg of apixaban and 14 of the 813 patients (1.7%) who were receiving 5 mg of
      apixaban (p<0.001 for both comparisons). In Kaplan-Meier analysis, the apixaban 2.5 mg twice
      daily regimen demonstrated a major and clinically-relevant nonmajor bleeding rate similar to
      that of placebo. While approximately 9% of the patients in the AMPLIFY-EXT trial had
      transient or reversible risk factors for VTE, the provoked VTE population only accounted for
      approximately 200 patients and precluded a well-powered analysis. Furthermore, the intent of
      the AMPLIFY-EXT trial was to study unprovoked VTE (7). Finally, the HI-PRO trial is
      evaluating a more complex aspect of VTE secondary prevention. Rather than using the simple
      dichotomized view of VTE as provoked or unprovoked, HI-PRO is focusing on how the risk of
      recurrence in patients with persisting provoking factors may be modulated by low-dose
      apixaban. The foundation of this question is based on the current direction in which the
      field of VTE is moving (5) and supported by the more pathophysiologically-sound ISTH
      classification of risk factors (1).

      Apixaban 2.5 mg twice daily may have additional advantages for extended-duration secondary
      prevention of VTE compared with rivaroxaban 10 mg daily (which has U.S. FDA approval for
      extended-duration therapy). Apixaban is a more pharmacokinetically rational regimen, given
      the half-life of these two DOACs. In trials of stroke prevention of atrial fibrillation,
      apixaban demonstrated a relatively lower frequency of gastrointestinal bleeding compared with
      warfarin (14-17). Apixaban has fewer off-target side effects than rivaroxaban, which can
      cause severe headache (necessitating urgent head CT) and severe rash.

      Based on the emerging evidence that provoked VTE patients may require extended-duration
      anticoagulation for secondary prevention, the apixaban 2.5 mg twice daily dose could be a
      critical addition to our armamentarium in those at high risk for recurrence at the transition
      of care from the acute to the chronic treatment phase. However, this hypothesis needs to be
      tested in a clinical trial. The proposed study is a single-center, randomized controlled
      trial conducted at Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) to evaluate the feasibility of low-dose
      apixaban (2.5 mg twice daily) in a study population exclusively comprised of provoked VTE
      patients with persistently provoking risk factors for VTE.

      The study has the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim #1: To compare the 12-month rate of recurrent symptomatic VTE in patients with
      provoked VTE and at least one persistent provoking factor who are randomized to either
      apixaban (2.5 mg orally twice daily) as monotherapy or placebo after completing at least 3
      months of therapeutic anticoagulation and who have a low risk of bleeding.

      Hypothesis #1: Compared with placebo, oral apixaban (2.5 mg twice daily) will reduce the
      12-month rate of symptomatic VTE in patients with provoked VTE and at least one persistent
      provoking factor who have completed at least 3 months of therapeutic anticoagulation and who
      have a low risk of bleeding.

      Specific Aim #2: To compare the 12-month rate of ISTH major bleeding in patients with
      provoked VTE and at least one persistent provoking factor who are randomized to either
      apixaban (2.5 mg orally twice daily) as monotherapy or placebo after completing at least 3
      months of therapeutic anticoagulation and who have a low risk of bleeding.

      Hypothesis #2: Compared with placebo, oral apixaban (2.5 mg twice daily) will be associated
      with a similar rate of ISTH major bleeding at 12 months in patients with provoked VTE and at
      least one persistent provoking factor who are randomized to either apixaban (2.5 mg orally
      twice daily) as monotherapy or placebo after completing at least 3 months of therapeutic
      anticoagulation and who have a low risk of bleeding.

      Study Design

      600-patient U.S.-based, single-center, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study
      of apixaban 2.5 mg orally twice daily for extended prevention of recurrence after provoked
      VTE in patients with at least one persistent provoking factor who have completed at least 3
      months of standard therapeutic anticoagulation and who have a low risk of bleeding.
    
  