
    
      Relationship between mother and child starts to develop during pregnancy and continues after
      birth. The basis to it consists of mental images of self and spouse and observations of the
      baby via ultrasound examinations and sensations of the baby's movements. Drug abuse,
      depression, very young or old age, weak social network, mother's own negative experiences
      from childhood's relationships or fear of birth may weaken the normal development of
      maternal-fetal attachment. Gestational weeks between 24-32 are crucial in the point of
      maternal-fetal bonding. Preterm birth interrupts the development of the attachment. Studies
      have approved that parents' psychiatric morbidity predisposes the offspring to developmental
      and psychological problems. It's known that parents' depression predisposes their children to
      behavioral- and emotional disorders.

      Prenatal depression leads to postnatal depression after birth in about 10 % of pregnant
      women. Depressive symptoms can reflect to expectancy and to emotions towards the unborn child
      and affect the quality of the early interaction between mother and baby. Mothers' depressive
      symptoms have link to pregnancy complications and to preterm birth. Anxiety and depression
      during the third trimester increases the risk to preterm birth. Anxiety during pregnancy has
      a connection to pre-eclampsia. The problems in maternal- fetal relationship originate from
      pregnancy and that's why timing treatment pregnancy is important. Pregnancy is opportune time
      to treat mothers' physical and psychic problems because the worry about the fetus motivates.

      Gestational ultrasound has shown to strengthen the bonding towards the fetus in every
      trimester, to diminish mothers' anxiety, to improve mothers attachment to the fetus and to
      guide mother towards healthier lifestyle. Psychologic intervention combined with gestational
      ultrasound examination has detected to strengthen the maternal-fetal interaction in
      depressive mothers. Mental images awaken emotional bond to the unborn child. It is possible
      to prevent the disturbance of the process of forming mental images and to decrease the
      negative impact of gestational stress with gestational ultrasound examination. Interactive
      ultrasound examination has not explored before in pregnant women with risk to preterm birth,
      depressive and other mental symptoms. By awakening and strengthening mother's mental images
      of fetus decreases anxiety and other psychic symptoms.

      The aim of the study is to develop a documented treatment model in specialist medical care to
      pregnant women who suffer from mental disorders in order to strengthen the early bonding via
      interactive ultrasound examination. The aim of the study is to find out if the interactive
      ultrasound examination improves interaction between mother and baby and does it improve
      baby's prognosis. To find out does the interactive ultrasound improve gestational bonding to
      fetus. To find out does the interactive ultrasound examination diminish mother's depressive
      and anguish symptoms. To find out the cost co efficiency in health care visits.

      Pilot study was carried out with pregnant women who are hospitalized because of risk to
      preterm birth. 4D-ultrasound is done once and psychologist's interview after the examination.
      The aim of the pilot study was to map mothers' experiences of interactive ultrasound
      examination and to map their needs to psychological support in addition to interactive
      ultrasound examination before the actual randomized trial.

      The research frame is controlled randomized trial. The sample size is 60 to both ultrasound
      intervention and to control group. The examinees are recruited from maternity clinics in
      Turku and surrounding cities. The main inclusion criteria are 10-14 points from
      EPDS-questionaire (Edinburgh pre/postnatal depression scale). EPDS is widely used
      questionaire in Finnish prenatal care in screening mental symptoms. Other inclusion criteria
      are singleton pregnancy, age over 18 years, fluent ability to speak Finnish and BMI under 35.
      Exclusion criteria are severe mental symptoms such as suicidality or psychotic symptoms.
      Depressive medication is not exclusive to this trial. All the participants will undergo
      psychologist's interview (WMCI, Working Model of The Child Interview) twice, the first
      interview will take place before randomization in gestational weeks 25 and the second on week
      32. Examinees that end up in ultrasound intervention group will receive 2-3 4D-ultrasound
      examinations between gestational weeks 25-32. The focus of the 4D-ultrasound examination is
      to follow the fetus inside the womb and work on the mental images related to pregnancy and to
      the baby. The purpose is to hear the mother's thoughts and experiences about the fetus during
      the ultrasound examination. Doctor, who is familiar with gestational ultrasound examinations,
      tells under the examination what is seen and what the fetus does. It is possible to fetus'
      face and view its expressions with 4D-ultrasound. All the participants will answer to few
      questionairies: MAAS (Maternal Antenatal Attachment Scale),MPAS (Maternal Postnatal
      Attachment Scale), PRAQ-R2 (Pregnancy Related Anxiety Questionaire Revised) and SCL-90
      (Symptoms checklist). Information regarding pregnancy and birth will be collected from
      medical records. The quality of mother-infant interaction will be observed 4 months
      postpartum with videotaped Parent-Child Early Relational Assessment- method.

      Ethical committee of hospital district of southwest Finland has given approval to this study.
    
  