
    
      The cortical metric is a single numeric measurement that is calculated using a
      multi-parametric mathematical approach from a series of measurements of the speed, intensity,
      diameter, and distance between two vibrations with which a person reacts to and can
      distinguish vibrations from small brushes that touch the top side of fingers on the left hand
      under multiple conditions designed to elicit cortical adaptation The cortical metric is based
      on the neurobiological principle that the nerves in the fingertips project to adjacent groups
      of neurons that work together to continuously optimize perceptions of touch under varying
      conditions. Such perceptual optimization reflects the shifting excitatory and inhibitory
      actions of individual neurons. We hypothesize that the brain's processing of vibration is
      similar to its processing of other kinds of information. We also hypothesize that in people
      with ASD adjacent groups of neurons work together less well to process information.

      Specific Aim 1: Obtain evidence regarding the ability of the "cortical metric" to distinguish
      between 8-12 year-olds with typical development and with high functioning autism spectrum
      disorders (ASDs).

      Hypothesis 1: The cortical metric of children with ASD will differ from that of age matched,
      typically developing children. This difference will be consistent with lower than normal
      local functional connectivity.

      Specific Aim 2: Validate the test-retest reliability of the cortical metric by examining its
      stability of over an average of 3 weeks with no intervening interventions in both groups of
      children.

      Hypothesis 2: Test-retest reliability will be highly correlated in both groups of children.

      Specific Aim 3: Obtain preliminary proof of mechanism data that the cortical metric assesses
      the excitatory: inhibitory balance of intra-cortical connections by examining the effect of
      acute exposure to dextromethorphan (DXM), which transiently blocks one type of excitatory
      neurotransmission

      Hypothesis 3: DXM will alter the cortical metric consistent with reduced adaptation.

      The completion of these aims will be essential to design a larger federally funded trial to
      validate the cortical metric as an outcome measure in a more heterogeneous pediatric ASD
      sample. Specifically, we will aim to demonstrate that 1) the cortical metric differs between
      children with ASD and with normal development, 2) that the cortical metric has minimal
      variability over time in the absence of fno major changes in brain function, and 3) that the
      cortical metric changes in response to a specific, temporary reduction in excitatory
      stimulation caused by a single DXM dose.

      A larger grant could focus on determining how sensitive and clinically relevant changes in
      the cortical metric are.

      If we are not able to demonstrate the potential for the cortical metric to be changed by
      agents that reduce excitatory stimulation acutely or if the variability of the cortical
      metric over 3 weeks is too great, no further examination of the cortical metric as an outcome
      measure in ASD trials would be pursued. If there are not differences in the cortical metric
      of children with and without ASD, we would be less interested in further examining the
      cortical metric.
    
  