
    
      Device-detected sub-clinical atrial fibrillation (SCAF) is a new disorder that has been
      recognized since the availability of implantable devices capable of long term continuous
      heart rhythm monitoring. It is characterized by one or more runs of rapid atrial arrhythmia
      detected by the device without symptoms and without any clinical atrial fibrillation (AF)
      detected by the usual methods, (i.e. electrocardiogram, Holter monitor, etc.). In the ASSERT
      trial, SCAF was detected by a pacemaker or implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in
      nearly 40% of patients during 2 and a half years of follow up. The presence of SCAF increased
      stroke risk by 2.5-fold (1). The risk of stroke or systemic embolism among patients with SCAF
      and a CHADS2 score ≥ 4 was 2.75% per year. Oral anticoagulation is effective and safe for
      stroke prevention in patients with clinical atrial fibrillation, but it is unknown if the
      same risk benefit ratio exists for anticoagulation therapy in patients with SCAF (2;3). SCAF
      differs from clinical AF in being of shorter duration, being asymptomatic, and often have a
      more regular rhythm in the right atrium where it is typically detected. Data ASSERT suggest
      that the increase in stroke risk with SCAF may be less than the increase with clinical AF.
      Therefore opinion leaders have written that the role of oral anticoagulation for the
      treatment of SCAF is uncertain and that randomized trials of anticoagulation are needed
      (4;5). Recent surveys of pacemaker clinic practice indicate that only 25% of patients with
      SCAF are treated with oral anticoagulation (6;7). Thus there is clinical equipoise for a
      trial of oral anticoagulation compared to aspirin in higher risk patients with SCAF.

      Apixaban is a Factor Xa inhibitor that is an effective and safe anticoagulant. It has been
      shown to have an excellent risk benefit profile for stroke prevention in clinical AF (14,
      15). It is highly suitable to test if oral anticoagulation therapy will reduce the risk of
      stroke or systemic embolism in SCAF.

      Patients will be randomized double-blind to receive apixaban or aspirin. Apixaban dose will
      be 5 mg twice daily (2.5 mg twice daily if 2 or more of: age > 80, weight ≤ 60 kg or serum
      creatinine ≥ 133 mmol/L). Those assigned to aspirin will receive a dose of 81 mg daily. The
      study will be event driven and will continue until 248 patients have experienced a primary
      outcome event.
    
  