
    
      This is a Phase II Placebo Controlled, Multicenter Study that will involve up to 114 patients
      with Palmar-Plantar Erythrodysesthesia Syndrome (PPES) secondary to capecitabine therapy.
      Eligible patients will be enrolled into Part I or Part II of the study.

      The first part of the study (Part I) is designed

        -  to demonstrate the safety of ATH008 cream 1%, 3% and 8% and ATH008 cream placebo,

        -  to determine the plasmatic levels of the active ingredient and its metabolite after
           repeated doses of ATH008 cream 1%, 3% and 8%, and

        -  to determine the grade of PPES at Day 1 and Day 21 of ATH008 cream treatment Part I will
           have four different arms; patients will receive one of the three different doses of drug
           product (ATH008 cream 1%, ATH008 cream 3% or ATH008 cream 8%) or placebo (ATH008 cream
           placebo) in repeated doses (twice daily) during a period of 21 days.

      Patients will continue to be assessed for safety and pharmacokinetics of active ingredient
      and its metabolite (Pre-dose, Day 1 and Day 21). Results of Part I will determine the most
      appropriate and beneficial dose for the second part of the study.

      The second part of the study (Part II) is aimed at demonstrating the safety and efficacy of
      ATH008 cream in reducing the number of patients presenting PPES grade 2/3 secondary to
      capecitabine therapy following a four times daily application.

      Part II will have three different arms; patients will receive ATH008 cream 3%, 8% or placebo
      in repeated doses (four times per day) since appearance of PPES grade 1 until appearance of
      grade 2-3 or a maximum of 4 cycles. Patients will continue to be assessed for safety. The
      clinical signs will be reported by iconographic register of lesions and pain will be
      evaluated using a pain scale. Patient will fill a questionnaire reporting QoL.
    
  