
    
      Pegylated interferon in combination with ribavirin is the current standard treatment of
      chronic hepatitis C virus infection, but is expensive and has several adverse effects. To
      modify this standard treatment by optimizing its therapeutic effect and decreasing its
      adverse events are important.

      Recent studies have identified a close link between metabolic profiles, insulin resistance
      and HCV infection. Chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients with higher pretreatment HOMA-IR
      (insulin resistance) index have poor therapeutic response than the ones with lower HOMA-IR
      index. Thus, it is reasonable to increase the therapeutic response of CHC patients by
      lowering insulin resistance. Several pilot studies in western world have been conducted to
      evaluate this concept by adding oral hypoglycemic agents into pegylated interferon plus
      ribavirin treatment, and have found beneficial effects of oral hypoglycemic agents on CHC
      genotype 1 infected patients. Whether this concept still holds true in Taiwanese people
      remains unknown.

      To evaluate the effect of oral hypoglycemic agents on CHC genotype 1 infected Taiwanese
      patients, we design this study and evaluate the virologic, biochemical and histological
      responses of CHC patients receiving pegylated interferon plus ribavirin treatment, and hope
      to identify similar beneficial effects of oral hypoglycemic agents in CHC Taiwanese patients.

      We plan to enroll about 80 chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 infected patients from the clinics
      into this study. All patients should have informed consent, not receive any interferon-based
      therapy or anti-viral medication, abstinence from alcohol beverage for more than 6 months and
      conformed to the regulations of Bureau of National Health Insurance, Taiwan. All patients
      will be randomly assigned into 4 different treatment arms. The patients assigned into the
      first 3 arms will receive one kind of the following oral hypoglycemic agents, such as
      Acarbose, Metformin, or Pioglitazone for 12 weeks (including 4 weeks of run-in period and 8
      weeks of combination treatment with pegylated interferon alfa plus ribavirin). From week 13,
      all the patients of the first 3 arms will receive pegylated interferon alfa plus ribavirin
      for 40 weeks. The last arm is the control group; all the patients in the last arm will
      receive standard pegylated interferon alfa plus ribavirin treatment for 48 weeks. During the
      trial and 24 weeks after the end of treatment, the serum HCV RNA levels, clinical and
      biochemical data will be evaluated to determine the therapeutic response and adverse events
      of the patients.
    
  