
    
      Incidence of Ovarian Cancer

      Ovarian cancer is the first mortality rate of gynecologic malignancies with an overall 5-year
      survival rate of only 20-30%. It became a more and more important disease in recent years and
      the incidence of ovarian cancer also increased in recent years in Taiwan. The lack of
      symptoms, difficulties in early diagnosis, insufficient accurate tumor markers, and lack of
      information about ovarian tumor biology contribute to the poor prognosis in ovarian cancer
      patients. The prognostic parameters for ovarian carcinomas are tumor stage, histologic
      subtype, degree of malignancy, and residual tumor after surgical treatment. However, these
      factors present an incomplete picture of the tumor biology of ovarian cancer and are
      frequently interrelated. Thus, the identification of new biologic factors predictive of
      individual disease course and prognosis would be extremely useful. From the above-mentioned
      data, ovarian cancer is indeed a disease that should be respected, however, there was very
      little research work focusing on it in Taiwan.

      Treatment of ovarian cancer

      Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) and extraovarian Müllerian carcinoma are similar pathologic
      entities that share a preference for peritoneal cavity involvement. The spread pattern of
      these tumors presents a challenge and unique opportunities for immunotherapy. Patients with
      EOC who have stage I disease (localized to ovaries) after optimal surgical staging, have a
      5-year survival rate of 90%, with no significant change at 10 years. In contrast, patients
      with spreading beyond the ovaries have median survival rates that decrease to < 10% for
      patients with bulky residual disease after surgery and treatment with platinum-based
      combination chemotherapy. A randomized trial of first-line chemotherapy in patients with EOC
      with residual masses larger than 1 cm after initial surgery, showed a median survival period
      of 38 months for cisplatin/paclitaxel, significantly greater than 24 months for the
      cisplatin/cytoxan treatment arm. In an interim analysis of an equivalency trial, survival
      after carboplatin/paclitaxel was not worse than cisplatin/paclitaxel. Even though early
      diagnosis is an important goal of ongoing clinical research efforts, it is unclear whether
      advanced EOC starts as a multicentric process involving the ovaries and the peritoneal
      surface. It is now established that hereditary factors contribute to the development of EOC.
      Germline BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations account for approximately 10% of all EOC. In a woman with
      a BRCA 1 or 2 mutation, lifetime risk for ovarian cancer ranges from 16%-44%. With the
      commercial availability of genetic testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2, more women are being
      identified as being at high risk for ovarian cancer. There are no clear guidelines on cancer
      prevention for these individuals. Although prophylactic oophorectomy is a reasonable option
      for women who have completed childbearing, these women are still at risk for developing
      peritoneal cancer. Clearly, other options for prevention are needed.

      Immunotherapy for ovarian cancer

      In developing effective immune-based strategies for EOC, there should be a distinction
      between preventative and therapeutic approaches. It is anticipated that immunoprevention
      (immunoprophylaxis) will be developed for women who are at an increased risk for the
      development of EOC. In contrast, immunotherapy would be used as an adjuvant to surgery or in
      combination with chemotherapy or other biologics as chemoimmunotherapy or
      biochemoimmunotherapy. Patients with undetectable disease after being restaged after
      chemotherapy could be considered for immunotherapy with the presumption that a majority does
      in fact have micrometastases. Development of effective immune-based concepts for prevention
      or treatment of EOC will require an understanding of tumor-immunology principles, mechanisms
      of action of the expanding array of immune modulating molecules, identification and
      characterization of tumor antigens, and determination of the microenvironment factors that
      could impact on the different immune-effector mechanisms. The clinical researcher has been
      provided with many immune directed agents, but progress on their integration into standard
      therapies has been somewhat slow.

      Folate receptor

      The folate receptor (FR), a 38 kDa membrane glycoprotein, is represented by a homologous
      family of glycoproteins, two of which (FR-a and FR-b) are attached to the cell surface by a
      glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchor; the third isoform (FR-) and its truncated version
      (FR-9) are constitutively secreted because of a lack of an efficient signal for
      glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol modification. FR-a is expressed in some normal epithelial cells
      and is elevated in certain carcinomas, whereas FR-b is a myeloid differentiation marker and
      is elevated in some nonepithelial malignancies. FR-9 is expressed in hematopoietic tissues.
      At present, FR is a major focus as a tumor target for multiple experimental approaches in
      cancer therapy. One novel approach uses bifunctional antibodies to target T cells to the FR
      on the surface of ovarian carcinoma cells. Selective growth inhibition of the tumor cells was
      obtained by this approach. The chimeric antibodies, which bind to both FR and either CD3 or
      CD28, produced impressive results in a xenogeneic model and in patients with advanced ovarian
      cancer. Similarly, a chimeric molecule consisting of a single-chain, Fv of anti-FR antibody
      and interleukin 2 was effective in inhibiting tumor growth in vivo. Alternatively, folic acid
      conjugates of single chain anti-T-cell receptor antibody could mobilize T-cell response
      against FR-rich tumors. Taking advantage of the nondestructive nature of FR-mediated
      internalization of folate-coupled macromolecules, cytotoxins such as momordin, Pseudomonas
      exotoxin, and maytansinoids were shown to produce selective killing of FR-rich cells.
      Furthermore, the toxicity of such conjugates was dependent upon receptor density on the cell
      surface. Folate-conjugated radiopharmaceuticals also appear to offer a means of tumor
      imaging/radiation therapy. Folate-coated liposomes were shown to selectively target FR-rich
      tumor cells, and selective killing of the malignant cells was obtained by encapsulating
      doxorubicin in the liposomes. By a similar strategy, it was possible to deliver antisense
      oligonucleotides against the epidermal growth factor receptor to FR-rich tumor cells.
      Furthermore, selective targeting of an adenoviral vector to FR-rich tumor cells has been
      achieved in the presence of an antibody to ablate the endogenous viral tropism. Finally,
      several studies have shown that FR, when expressed at high levels, could offer the preferred
      uptake route of novel classes of antifolate drugs that target glycineamide ribonucleotide
      formyltransferase and thymidylate synthase. A soluble form of FR has been detected in the
      serum and ascites of patients with ovarian cancer. The FR has been reported to be selectively
      overexpressed in 90% of non-mucinous ovarian carcinomas and in some other malignant tissues.
      The receptor has only been detected in a few other normal cell types, but not in normal
      ovarian surface epithelium. It seems that FR could be a potential target antigen for the
      immunotherapy of ovarian cancer.

      Epitopes of folate receptor for human haplotype

      The incidence of HLA-A2 haplotype is over 50% in the Western countries. The incidence of
      HLA-A2 haplotype is around 30% in Taiwan. The specific epitopes of the folate receptor in the
      HLA-A2 haplotype have been identified. They are E39 (FR, 191-199) EIWTHSTKV and E75 (FR,
      245-253) LLSLALMLL, respectively. It seems that folate receptors could be a target antigen
      for the immunotherapy of ovarian cancer.

      Our research team has focused on the development of a cancer vaccine and immunotherapy for
      several years. Our laboratory facilities have also been set up to evaluate the human
      immunologic assays for human papilloma virus type 16 E7 antigen by the grant supported from
      National Taiwan University Hospital. It is very important to set up various folate
      receptor-specific immunologic assays of human beings to evaluate the effect of cancer vaccine
      or immunotherapy for ovarian cancer in future clinical trials. So we would like to provide
      this proposal to address the development of folate receptor-specific immunologic assays in
      human beings. There are several aims in this project:

        1. to develop and utilize assays to measure CTLs to folate receptors and,

        2. to evaluate the folate receptor-specific immunologic responses between normal controls
           and ovarian cancer patients.
    
  