
    
      Children Interstitial lung disease (chILD) is a heterogeneous group of rare respiratory
      disorders of known and unknown etiologies that are mostly chronic and associated with high
      morbidity and mortality. ILD are characterized by inflammatory and fibrotic changes of the
      lung parenchyma structure that typically result in the presence of diffuse infiltrates on
      lung imaging, and abnormal pulmonary function tests with evidence of a restrictive
      ventilatory defect and/or impaired gas exchange.

      Genetic factors are important contributors to chILD. Genetic variations have been mainly
      described in genes encoding (or interacting with) the surfactant proteins (SP): SP-C (SFTPC)
      and the ATP-binding cassette-family A-member 3 (ABCA3) (ABCA3), and less frequently in the
      genes encoding NKX homeobox 2 (NKX2)-1 (NKX2-1), SP-B (SFTPB), SP-A (SFTPA) and other genes.

      To date, the therapeutic managements of such chILD remain limited and are mainly based of the
      use of corticosteroids, however, their efficacy is highly variable. An alternative approach
      to treatment was originally described by Tooley who reported a good response to treatment
      with chloroquine in a girl with ILD, and several case reports have shown a positive response
      to hydroxychloroquine(HCQ) alone or in combination with systemic steroids of the children
      with ILD.

      The exact mechanism of action of HCQ is unknown, but is probably due to its anti-inflammatory
      properties, HCQ have lysosomal activities such as diminished vesicle fusion, diminished
      exocytosis, decreased digestive efficiency of phagolysosomes and reversible "lysosomal
      storage disease. This may be the mechanism by which HCQ tend to help in chILD, especially in
      those cases related to surfactant protein deficiency. SP-B and SP-C are synthesized in the
      endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of alveolar type II cells as large precursor proteins, are cleaved
      by proteolytic enzymes and transported through Golgi apparatus to multivesicular bodies that
      fuse with lamellar bodies. In chILD related to SP-C gene mutations, there is misfolding of
      proSP-C that accumulates within ER and Golgi apparatus in alveolar type II cells, resulting
      in cellular injury and apoptosis. Treatment with HCQ may interfere with this accumulation of
      pro-surfactant proteins within alveolar cells.

      The investigators propose to study the efficacy and safety of the therapy with HCQ for
      children with chILD suffered with genetic mutations, and its long-term effects. Through this
      study the investigators hope to confirm the benefits of HCQ in the treatment of this rare
      disease.
    
  