
    
      Objective: The objective of this study is to demonstrate the effectiveness and safety of
      VF001-DP as an adjunct to standard care (SC) in the treatment of chronic venous leg ulcers
      (VLUs) compared to Placebo with SC over the course of the 12-week Treatment Phase.

      Design: This study is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      dose-response study designed to evaluate VF-001-DP as an adjunct to SC, versus Placebo and SC
      in the treatment of chronic VLUs. The SC therapy for VLUs is a moisture retentive ulcer
      dressing and multi-layer compression therapy. Mepitel® and Coban2® have been chosen to be
      used as SC in this trial.

      The study will have three (3) phases: Screening (2 weeks), Treatment Phase (12 weeks) and
      Follow-Up (12 weeks).

      Only patients whose study ulcer does not exhibit more than 30% change (increase or decrease)
      in ulcer size post-debridement between Screening Phase Visit (S1) and Treatment Phase Visit
      (T1) and who continue to meet eligibility criteria at T1 will be randomized to receive either
      the Active Treatment group (VF001-DP low or high dose plus SC) or the Control Treatment group
      (Placebo plus SC) in a ratio of 1:1:1.

      Treatment: Eligible patients will be assigned to one of the following treatment groups:

        -  Placebo and SC

        -  VF001-DP (14 micrograms per treatment) and SC (low dose [LD])

        -  VF001-DP (140 micrograms per treatment) and SC (high dose [HD]).

      The investigational product (IP), i.e., VF001-DP and placebo, will be supplied in 1 mL
      syringes each containing 0.5 mL of either VF001-DP or Placebo.

      The IP contains parts of normal vitronectin and Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-I) combined
      in a single protein (vitronectin, amino acids 1-64 of the human sequence and IGF-I amino
      acids 1-70 of the human sequence), 14 μg or 140 μg protein in 0.5 mL of Phosphate Buffered
      Saline, pH 7.2. VF001-DP is manufactured utilizing an expression vector system in yeast to
      Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and is not made with and does not include any products of
      human or animal origin.

      Number of Patients: It is planned to recruit 168 patients (56 per treatment group) at 26
      centres in USA for this study.
    
  