
    
      This is an open-label, single center, intra-patient safety and comparison study of Lymphoseek
      (Technetium Tc 99m Tilmanocept) and vital blue dye for the detection of lymph nodes in
      patients with endometrial cancer that are undergoing a lymph node dissection as part of their
      standard medical care.

      The day before surgery, patients will have their tumor injected with 50 µg Lymphoseek
      radiolabeled with 75 megabecquerel (MBq) Tc 99m. Vital signs will be monitored for thirty
      minutes and then patients will undergo a whole body scan and single photon emission computed
      tomography/ x-ray computed tomography (SPECT/CT) one to two hours after Lymphoseek injection.

      Fourteen to twenty hours after injection of Lymphoseek, patients will have a physical exam
      and clinical laboratory tests assessed prior to undergoing surgery. Sentinel lymph node
      identification begins with injection of Vital Blue Dye. Surgical access will be made to the
      lymphatic basins where nodes are expected to be. Sentinel lymph nodes will be identified by a
      hand-held gamma counter and/or blue appearance. The threshold criterion for positive "hot"
      nodes based on radioactivity is a count greater than the quantity of 3 square roots of the
      mean background count (i.e., standard deviation) added to the mean background count (referred
      to as the "3σ rule"). Once a lymph node has been identified, in vivo counts should be taken
      prior to excision. In vivo counts will consist of a set of three 1-second counts over the
      lymph node. A positive finding (i.e., localization) is a designated "hot" node (described
      above). Any lymph node count not meeting this threshold criterion will be considered a
      negative (non-localized) finding. To confirm the in vivo procedure, a set of three 1-second
      counts will be recorded for the excised lymph nodes. The count of the ex vivo lymph nodes
      will be compared to the room background counts, and the threshold criterion used to determine
      a positive finding for the in vivo nodes will be applied to the ex vivo specimens.

      A thorough evaluation of the remaining lymphatic basin will be complete when all selected
      node counts are negative by use of the threshold criterion. The surgeon will continue with
      visualization and palpation according to local practice to ensure that no grossly positive
      lymph nodes remain at the site of resection. After identifying the sentinel lymph nodes,
      standard lymph node dissection will be performed. All removed lymph nodes are sent to
      pathology for further evaluation. All removed lymph nodes will be sent to pathology and will
      be confirmed for radioactive status (due to Lymphoseek) and blue appearance (due to vital
      blue dye. The pathological evaluation of lymph node(s) will include serial sectioning with
      H&E staining as well as immuno-histochemistry (IHC) stain according to institutional
      practice.

      Patients will return for a routine post-operative follow-up visit 7-14 days after surgery for
      assessment of adverse events.

      The primary objective is safety of Lymphoseek as measured by the incidence of adverse events,
      changes in laboratory values, vital signs and physical exam findings, and the radiation
      absorbed dose. Secondary evaluations include (1) the number of lymph nodes detected as "hot"
      by preoperative imaging (whole body scan and SPECT/CT) and intraoperative gamma detection,
      and (2) the rate of concordance between Lymphoseek and Vital Blue Dye in the in vivo
      detection of excised lymph nodes.
    
  