
    
      Colorectal cancer is the 2nd most common cause of cancer death in the UK where survival rates
      are among the lowest in Europe. If diagnosed early survival may exceed 90%.

      The proposed breath test is a non-invasive investigation that can detect the presence of
      volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in breath and their relative abundance in disease states
      including colorectal cancer. This test has potential to be used in a primary care setting to
      identify patients at high risk of colorectal cancer, supporting earlier referral for
      definitive investigation. A negative test may provide reassurance to patients and prevent
      unnecessary tests in this group. The test could also have an application for colorectal
      cancer screening.

      In this study the investigators will determine the diagnostic accuracy of an exhaled breath
      test for the detection of colorectal adenocarcinoma and colonic polyps. To determine the
      accuracy of the breath test a multicentre cross-sectional study will be conducted to analyse
      single breath samples from patients attending hospital for planned colonoscopy or elective
      resection of histologically confirmed colorectal cancer. The target for the study is 1463
      patients.

      Breath collection will be conducted using a previously validated method. Samples of breath
      (500ml) collected using a CE-marked handheld ReCIVA sampling device (Owlstone Medical Ltd.,
      Cambridge, UK) during a period of tidal breathing (approximately 5minutes) will be absorbed
      onto thermal desorption tubes (Markes International, Llantrisant, UK). All patients will have
      received bowel preparation and will be fasted for a minimum of 6 hours prior to the breath
      sample. Breath samples collected within thermal desorption tubes will be transferred to a
      central laboratory for analysis by gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and proton
      transfer reaction time of flight mass spectrometry (PTR-ToF-MS). Raw data files will be
      extracted and analysed in accordance with established protocols. Quality assurance measures
      will be formally assessed at each stage of sample handling.
    
  