
    
      Treatment response biomarkers in TRD have been and will remain an active area of research.
      Interventional treatments in psychiatry, e.g. ECT, TMS, racemic ketamine infusions and
      intranasal esketamine insufflations, offer exciting opportunities for biomarker discovery due
      their procedural nature (obviating concerns for treatment non-adherence in non-supervised
      settings), more rapid-onset, and larger effect sizes than typically seen with traditional
      antidepressant medications or evidence-based psychotherapies. Although no well-replicated TRD
      biomarkers have been approved for standard clinical use, several potential biomarkers have
      been investigated across multiple modalities, i.e. neuroimaging(1,2), autonomic
      function(3,4), genetics(5-7), electroencephalography (EEG) (8,9), and computational analysis
      of behavior or speech(10). These studies have promising early results but often insufficient
      predictive power at the subject-level. The investigators anticipate that combinatorial,
      multimodal biomarkers will enhance predictive power and, as a result, improve treatment
      personalization in major depression.

      The University of Iowa Interventional Psychiatry Service Patient Registry systematically
      collects data from TRD patients undergoing procedural treatment(s) for major depression.
      First, the investigators seek to replicate and/or extend discoveries from prior
      investigations, e.g. TMS-induced autonomic changes as positive predictors of antidepressant
      efficacy. The investigators will also compare and contrast differences, not only in response
      to a given therapy, but also how individual subjects respond across different treatment
      modalities, e.g. how does functional connectivity in the brain change in response to an
      effective course of TMS as opposed to ECT? Such findings could inform the future development
      of clinical guidelines; this is especially critical as some of these treatment modalities
      have only recently been approved for TRD by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, e.g.
      intermittent theta burst stimulation (iTBS) and intranasal esketamine insufflation.

      Next, a longitudinal database may also be valuable for future biomarker discovery and/or
      replication in independent samples, i.e. an epigenetic signature of antidepressant treatment
      response to an interventional modality identified by another research group. Similarly, this
      patient registry could be valuable for collaborative research with other institutions
      administering interventional treatments in psychiatry.
    
  