
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility of implementing a home-based,
      personalized bright light intervention, and to estimate the effects of bright light on 4
      common long-term or late effects of cancer (sleep disturbance, fatigue, depression, cognitive
      dysfunction) and on quality of life in post-treatment survivors of breast cancer. The three
      specific aims include:

      Aim #1: To assess the feasibility of implementing a home-based, personalized bright light
      intervention and the proposed data collection plan in post-treatment survivors of breast
      cancer.

      Aim #2: To estimate the effects of the personalized bright light intervention on sleep
      disturbance, fatigue, depression, cognitive dysfunction, and quality of life in survivors of
      breast cancer.

      Aim #3: To estimate the effects of a personalized bright light intervention on circadian
      rhythms in survivors of breast cancer.

      The participants of this randomized, controlled pilot study will be randomized to either
      30-minute blue-green light therapy at 12,000 lux or dim red light control at 5 lux. Light
      will be self-administered using a light visor cap at home for 14 consecutive days. Tailored
      to the individual's circadian pattern, light will be delivered either within 30 minutes of
      waking in the morning or between 1900-2000 hours in the evening. The nocturnal sleep patterns
      will be monitored by all-night in-lab polysomnography; sleep quality, fatigue, depression,
      and quality of life will be self-reported; cognition will be objectively assessed before and
      after the intervention. Circadian rhythm will be indexed by nocturnal core body temperature
      before and after the intervention. Feasibility will be determined by the proportion of
      contacted, recruited, and retained subjects, and completeness of the data collected.
      Subjective feedback and burden will be assessed at study exit.
    
  