
    
      Currently, there is no approved medical treatment for preservation of the body's ability to
      produce insulin in patients with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus (T1DM), and the progression of the
      disease can have devastating consequences. Inadequate blood glucose control results in many
      long term complications including kidney disease, blindness, amputation and nerve damage. In
      spite of the advances in insulin therapy and subsequent glucose control, patients are
      required to infuse insulin subcutaneously daily throughout their lives, monitor their diet
      and blood sugar levels, and deal with life-long uncertainties. The investigational therapy
      under study in this trial, regulatory T cells (Tregs), offers the hope of stabilizing
      diabetes. Tregs are a specialized subset of T cells that function to control the immune
      response. Pre-clinical studies in non-obese diabetic mice have demonstrated that adoptive
      transfer of Tregs can slow diabetes progression and, in some cases, reverse new onset
      diabetes. The primary objective of this study is to assess the safety of a single intravenous
      infusion of Tregs in patients with T1DM. The study will also assess the effect of Tregs on
      insulin-producing beta cell function as well as other outcomes related to diabetes
      management. Researchers will isolate Tregs from the patient's own blood using specific T cell
      surface markers (CD4, CD25, and CD127). This subset of cells is then expanded in the
      laboratory by co-stimulating with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 immobilized on magnetic beads, and
      with the use of growth medium containing human serum and IL-2. Following the 14-day
      expansion, anti-CD3/anti-CD28 beads will be removed and the Tregs will be concentrated and
      consolidated. The cells will then be resuspended in sterile infusion solution at the required
      concentration and infused back into the patient through a standard peripheral intravenous
      line. Subjects will be observed overnight in the clinical research center for any possible
      side effects following the infusion. A total of 14 subjects will be enrolled. The study will
      involve 4 dosing cohorts with 3 or 4 adults in each cohort. Each cohort will receive
      increasing amounts of Tregs. Subjects will be followed over five years to assess safety of
      the Treg therapy.
    
  