
    
      These studies will examine the feasibility of using various biochemical assays in blood,
      and/or cerebrospinal fluid, genetic testing, cognitive status assessments, and lifestyle
      questionnaires to aid in the ante-mortem diagnosis of Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative
      diseases.

      Subjects have 2 options for participation. They may solely participate in the main study or
      the main study and the longitudinal substudy. The main study includes a single visit at which
      demographic and medical information will be recorded, brief cognitive testing, and blood
      and/or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)(optional) specimens will be collected for the research
      assays. Genetic testing will take place. No clinical laboratory testing will be done and no
      results will be communicated to subjects.

      During the Longitudinal substudy, each subject will be asked to participate in ongoing
      longitudinal study visits at which demographic and medical information will be recorded,
      cognitive testing and lifestyle questionnaire collection will occur, and blood and/or
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens will be collected for the research assays. I

      If one is eligible and agrees to participate in the longitudinal sub-study, they will be
      asked to come into the clinic for an Initial Study Visit, and then return every year or every
      other year, depending on which group they fit into (Cognitively Normal (CN), Mild Cognitive
      Impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's Disease (AD), other neurodegenerative disease) for ongoing
      Follow-Up Clinic Visits.

      CN participants will come into the clinic every other year, with telephone checks occurring
      on alternating years, until the study ends.

      MCI, AD, and other participants with a diagnosis of any other neurodegenerative disease will
      come into the clinic every year until the study ends.

      Those in the Cognitively Normal group, will also partake in a short Telephone Visit on the
      year that they do not come into the clinic. This phone call will be done only to
      assess/update your medical history and medications.

      Genetic testing will take place. No clinical laboratory testing will be done and no results
      will be communicated to subjects. Those who are deemed to be cognitively normal, assessed by
      cognitive status instruments, will be asked to return to the clinic for ongoing study visits
      every other year, with telephone visits on the off year. Those who have a diagnosis of MCI,
      AD, or any other neurodegenerative disease will be asked to return to the clinic yearly for
      their longitudinal follow-up study visits.

      For both the main and longitudinal sub-study, specimens will be banked for future use and can
      be provided to other researchers at Georgetown University, other institutions or commercial
      enterprise in a de-identified manner through a formal request system. For all investigators,
      not affiliated with the Memory Disorders Program, a formal request will be submitted to the
      PI for review. If the request is approved, requested specimens and/or data from the study
      will be sent in a de-identified manner to ensure date security and privacy. The reason for
      the option of data sharing is to enhance exploration of different lines of analysis, and
      assist emerging investigators with access to a database with robust data and specimen
      collections.
    
  