
    
      Rationale: For gastric cancer patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis palliative systemic
      chemotherapy is the standard treatment in the Netherlands. There are no potentially curative
      treatment options. Peritoneal carcinomatosis, in contrast to lymphatic and haematogenous
      dissemination, should be regarded as locoregional extension of disease. Administering
      chemotherapeutic drugs directly into the peritoneal cavity has an advantage over systemic
      chemotherapy since high concentrations of cytotoxic drugs can be delivered directly into the
      peritoneal cavity with little systemic toxicity. The combination of intraperitoneally
      administered chemotherapy with cytoreductive surgery and a radical gastrectomy has shown
      promising results in gastric cancer patients in Asia. As with other gastric cancer issues,
      the results obtained in Asian patients cannot be extrapolated directly to Western patients.

      Objective: The primary aim of this study is to compare the overall survival between gastric
      cancer patients with limited peritoneal carcinomatosis and/ or tumour positive peritoneal
      cytology treated with gastrectomy, cytoreductive surgery and HIPEC and those treated with the
      current standard treatment, i.e. palliative systemic chemotherapy.

      Study design : This is a multicentre randomised controlled two-armed phase III trial.
      Patients will be randomised (1:1) between palliative systemic chemotherapy only (standard
      treatment) and gastrectomy combined with cytoreductive surgery and HIPEC (experimental
      treatment).

      Study population: Gastric cancer patients are eligible for inclusion if (1) the primary
      cT3-cT4 gastric tumour including regional lymph nodes is considered to be resectable, (2)
      limited peritoneal carcinomatosis (<7) and/ or tumour positive cytology is confirmed by
      laparoscopy or laparotomy, and (3) systemic chemotherapy (prior to inclusion) was without
      disease progression.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The study sample size (106 patients) is calculated from the
      hypothesis that the median overall survival of the patients treated according to protocol in
      the experimental arm is 12 months, as compared to a median overall survival of 4 months in
      the standard arm and 3 months in the group of patients in the experimental arm with more than
      limited peritoneal carcinomatosa at laparotomy (no HIPEC performed). Statistical analysis
      will be done according to the intention-to-treat principle.
    
  