
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility (i.e., risk of treatment-related mortality during the first 6
           months after transplantation) of administering reduced-intensity allogeneic
           hematopoietic stem cell transplantation to patients with hematologic cancer or other
           diseases.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate (partial and complete response), 6- and 12-month
           probabilities of response, and time to progression in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the risk of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine other toxicities of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall survival and disease-free survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the impact of iron status on overall and disease-free survival.

        -  Determine the influence of quality of life (at time of transplantation) on overall
           survival.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Preparative regimen: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days
           -7 to -3. Patients also receive busulfan IV over 2 hours every 6 hours on days -4 and -3
           or melphalan IV over 2 hours on day -3.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients with matched related donors
           receive oral tacrolimus twice daily on days -1 to 90 followed by a taper until day 180.
           Patients also receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 6. Patients with matched
           unrelated and 9/10 matched related donors receive oral tacrolimus twice daily on days -1
           to 180 followed by a taper; methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11; and oral
           mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days -2 to 60 followed by a taper. All patients
           also receive antithymocyte globulin IV over 4 to 6 hours once a day on days -4 to -1.

        -  Allogeneic stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem
           cell transplantation or bone marrow transplantation on day 0. Patients receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Lymphocyte infusion: Patients with progressive or stable disease while off
           immunosuppression and no active GVHD may receive up to 3 donor lymphocyte infusions from
           the original donor at 8-week intervals beginning on day 180 or 210 .

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then
      every 6 months for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  