
    
      From weaning to age 12 months the clinical data, the adherence to the dietary protocol and
      the amount of intervention baby-food ingested will be checked every month. Following
      investigations will be performed at the time of recruitment, at time of weaning and at 12,
      18, 24, 30,36, 42, 48, 54 and 60 months by taking a sample of blood (maximum 4 ml) from
      infants (a) quick test for IgA anti-tTG abs determination (few drops); (b) conventional ELISA
      for serum IgA and IgG anti-tTG determination (0.4 ml);(c) serum zonulin determination (0.1
      ml); (e) serum sample for T1D-related autoantibodies (0.25 ml); (f) serum sample to be
      stocked in the sera bank (0.25 ml); (g) whole blood sample in EDTA for validation of the
      quick tests (0.5 ml). All the sera samples will be frozen, stored at -20 °C and sent (boxed
      in dry ice) in blocks to the centre responsible for the determinations every 2 months. Cases
      positive for the quick-test for anti-tTG the serum sample will be frozen and immediately
      shipped for confirmatory determination.

      If infants develop symptoms during the intervention period (6 to 12 months) the group to
      which infant belongs will be decoded. Infants belonging to group A (on a gluten-containing
      diet) presenting symptoms suggestive of CD will undergo a complete diagnostic work-up for CD.
      These events will be reported in a form. After age 1 year, infants developing symptoms
      suggestive of active CD (chronic diarrhea, failure to thrive, etc) in-between the scheduled
      visits will undergo a supplementary serological investigation. A small intestinal biopsy will
      be recommended in cases showing either serum anti-tTG abs higher than the cut-off or IgG-AGA
      higher than cut-off in infants with selective IgA deficiency. (Standard medical care and not
      part of research).

      The evolution of the composition of the intestinal microbiota will be evaluated in both
      groups at 7d, 30d, 4-6 months (prior to weaning), 12,18,24,30,36, 42, 48, 54 and 60 months.
      The bacterial composition of stool will also be analyzed in a sub-sample of children
      developing active CD and in non-CD controls. All patients who develop CD will continue in the
      study.

      Definitions:

      Active CD: Children showing positive serology and signs of immune-mediated damage of the
      small intestinal mucosa on biopsy (ranging from isolated increase of intraepithelial
      lymphocytes to villous atrophy with crypt hypertrophy.)

      CD serological autoimmunity positive: Children positive for IgA anti-tTG abs on two
      consecutive occasions.

      Disruption of the small intestinal barrier: Children with an increased ratio of serum
      lactulose/mannitol with or without increased levels of serum zonulin.
    
  