
    
      Background:

        -  Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL) can mediate the regression of bulky metastatic
           melanoma when administered to the autologous patient along with high-dose aldesleukin
           (IL-2) following a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting chemotherapy preparative regimen.

        -  Although this adoptive cell therapy (ACT) has been shown capable of mediating objective
           clinical responses in patients with metastatic melanoma, including patients who have
           previously been treated with aldesleukin or chemotherapy, the treatment is only
           available in the Surgery Branch, National Cancer Institute (NCI) and in just one or two
           other institutions in the United States.

        -  Despite our reports of the objective regressions in patients receiving adoptive cell
           therapy (ACT), doubts have been raised concerning the possible influence of patient
           selection bias that may have accounted for the increase in survival using ACT compared
           to historical controls.

        -  ACT is a cumbersome and labor intensive procedure which has discouraged many from
           applying it. We have recently developed simplifications in the technique for generating
           TIL that are also capable of mediating objective responses.

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of ACT we are now proposing a prospective randomized trial to
           compare this form of therapy with standard available treatment for patients with
           metastatic melanoma.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine, in a prospective randomized trial, the response rate and progression free
           survival of patients with metastatic melanoma receiving either ACT or standard high-dose
           aldesleukin treatment.

        -  Survival rate will be evaluated as a secondary endpoint.

        -  To determine the toxicity of these two treatment regimens.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are 18 years of age or older must have:

        -  Evaluable metastatic melanoma;

        -  No prior treatment with high-dose aldesleukin (greater than or equal to 600,000 IU IL-2
           q8h or the equivalent)

        -  No contraindications to high-dose aldesleukin administration;

        -  No concurrent major medical illnesses or any form of immunodeficiency;

        -  Lesions of at least 2cm in diameter that can be surgically removed with minimal
           morbidity.

      Design:

        -  Prior to amendment D, patients with metastatic melanoma lesions that can be resected
           with minimal morbidity will be prospectively randomized to receive either ACT using CD8+
           young TIL (arm 2) and aldesleukin (arm 1) following a non-myeloablative chemotherapy
           preparative regimen, or will receive standard high-dose aldesleukin therapy.

        -  With the approval of amendment D, arm 1 and 2 will be closed, and two new arms will be
           opened. Patients with metastatic melanoma lesions that can be resected with minimal
           morbidity will be prospectively randomized to receive either ACT using young TIL (arm 4)
           and aldesleukin (arm 3) following a non-myeloablative chemotherapy preparative regimen,
           or will receive standard high-dose aldesleukin therapy.

        -  Response rate and time to progression will be evaluated for all patients on an
           intent-to-treat basis.

        -  Patients may crossover to the other treatment arm after progressive disease is
           documented by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, if still
           eligible.
    
  