
    
      Methodolgy

      During the preoperative visit, the techniques will be explained to patients including
      benefits and complications.

      1) Pre-operative assessment:

      A) Medical history:

        1. Medical disorders as hypertension, diabetes, heart, chest, liver or kidney diseases.

        2. Past history of operations, hospitalization or blood transfusion.

        3. Past anesthetic history with impact on previous airway problems during previous
           surgeries, hypersensitivity to anesthetic medications, any previous post-operative
           complications that could be attributed to anesthesia.

        4. Family history for specific anesthetic problems like malignant hyperthermia.

      B) Physical examination:

        1. General examination, & vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate and
           temperature) in bed the night before operation

        2. Heart, chest and abdominal examinations

      C) Anesthetic assessment:

        1. Examination of the limbs for prediction of difficult cannulation.

        2. Airway assessment including:

             1. Thyromental distance

             2. Mallampatti score

             3. Neck and tempro-mandibular joint mobility

             4. Assessing the absence of deformities in the mandible, face, tongue, palate, teeth
                and neck that may interfere with airway management

      D) Laboratory investigations:

        -  Complete blood count

        -  Prothrombin time and partial tissue thromboplastic time

        -  Kidney function test (s, creatinine & urea), Liver function test (ALT, AST, albumin and
           bilirubin) & Random blood sugar.

        -  Serum Cortisol and IL6 level before starting drug infusion.

           2) Demographic data: The patient's age, sex, ASA status, and duration of surgery will be
           recorded.

           3) Technique:

             1. Patients will be fasting for 6 - 8 hours.

             2. All patients will receive oral midazolam (7.5 mg), and oral ranitidine (150mg)
                administered 90 min before arrival in the operating room with a sip of water.

             3. All patients will receive a pre-induction normal saline 10 ml/kg body weight over
                10-15 minutes. Subsequently, intravenous fluid administration will be done
                according to the need of each patient.

             4. All operations will start between 08.30 am and 09.30 am, to minimize variations in
                cortisol level.

             5. All patients will receive the drug of study 10 min before induction of anesthesia
                till the start of wound closure in the form of:

                Group (D) Dexmedetomidine 1 mcg/kg over 10 min followed by 0.4 mcg/kg/hr. till the
                end of wound closure.

                Group (L) Lidocaine prepared in a syringe with the same volume of Dexmedetomidine
                to assure blinding given as 1mg/kg over 10 min followed by 1mg/kg/hr.

             6. Doses will be calculated, diluted in 50 ml of normal saline and given intravenously
                by a syringe pump over 10 minutes initially and then over 1hr till the start of
                wound closure.

             7. All drugs of the study will be prepared by an independent anesthesiologist who will
                not share in the study and then selected and given by another one blinded for the
                content of each syringe.

             8. Airway devices, anesthesia machine, ventilator, flowmeters and monitors will be
                checked promptly.

             9. Another wide-bore I.V cannula will be inserted in case of blood transfusion.

            10. Monitoring equipment's (Datex-Ohmeda™) will be attached to the patient including
                3-leads ECG, non-invasive arterial blood pressure, pulse oximetery and capnograph
                after tracheal intubation.

            11. The depth of anesthesia will be monitored with Entropy device. The Entropy
                electrodes will be placed on the forehead and on the lateral angle of orbit and
                connected to (Datex-Ohmeda™) by a special. The target Entropy range will be 40-60
                for surgical anesthesia.

            12. Induction of anesthesia will be performed by Propofol 2 mg/kg followed by
                cis-atracurium 0.15 mg/kg and fentanyl 1 mcg/kg given intravenously after
                pre-oxygenation with 100% oxygen for at least 3 minutes.

            13. Patients will be manually ventilated with 100% oxygen till intubation after 2 min
                and with Entropy value of 60 to 40 by Macintosh laryngoscope and appropriate size
                endotracheal tube.

            14. Maintenance of anesthesia will be carried out by isoflurane varying its end tidal
                concentration to keep Entropy in the range of 55 to 40 with Air:Oxygen mixture 0.3
                fraction of oxygen and flow rate of 2 liter in completely closed circuit.

            15. Cis-atracurium 0.03 mg/kg guided by neuromuscular monitor Train of Four (TOF) will
                be used for muscle relaxation.

            16. Hemodynamics (mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate) will be maintained
                within 25 % of baseline measures.

            17. Any increase of MAP or HR more than 25% of baseline measures on two consecutive
                readings within 2-3 min will be managed by I.V bolus of fentanyl 0.5 mcg/kg and any
                decrease of MAP or HR less than 25 % on two consecutive readings within 2-3 min
                will be managed by I.V bolus of ephedrine 5 mg or atropine 0.5 mg respectively.

            18. The infusion of study medication will be discontinued if the hypotension persisted
                > 5 min after these interventions upon return of the MAP or HR to within 25% of the
                baseline value, the study medication infusion will be resumed at 50% of the initial
                infusion rate and then gradually increased to the initial infusion rate.

            19. The infusion of study medication will be discontinued at the start of wound
                closure. Upon completion of wound closure, isoflurane will be discontinued and the
                inspired oxygen flow rate will be increased to 5 L/min and residual neuromuscular
                block will be reversed with neostigmine, 0.05 mg/kg IV, and atropine 0.25 mg/kg,
                IV. The trachea will be extubated when the patient is fully awake. Transfer to the
                recovery room will be done when the patient scored 7 and above using the modified
                Aldrete scoring system.

            20. On emergence from anesthesia and immediately in post anesthesia care unit,
                analgesic regimen, consisting of intravenous patient-controlled morphine analgesia
                (bolus 1mg, 10-min lockout, maximum dose 5 mg / h), will be used in all groups.

            21. The whole technique and anesthetic procedures will be performed by the same
                anesthesiologist to avoid as much as possible the inter-individual skill
                variations.
    
  