
    
      WalkMORE is a single-center randomized controlled trial. The investigators will enroll up to
      800 ambulatory patients admitted to the Internal Medicine unit (located on the 4th floor of
      University Hospital) who are >18 years of age and are anticipated to require a >48 hour
      hospital admission. A maximum of 6 patients will be assigned to each treatment arm at any
      given time. The investigators will recruit patients into the WalkMORE program over a 2 year
      period. The research coordinator (RC) will screen patients admitted to the Internal Medicine
      unit in the preceding 24-hour period to identify patients who fulfill the eligibility
      criteria. Patients will be randomized via REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture), a
      secure, centralized web-based randomization module to:

        1. Standard of care; or

        2. WalkMORE Ambulation program + Standard of care. Patients will ambulate with a trained
           WalkMORE Volunteer two times per day; once in the morning (0900-1200 hrs) and once in
           the afternoon (1300-1600 hrs), Monday- Friday, until hospital discharge. Patients
           randomized to the WalkMORE intervention will be assessed daily by the RC to ensure
           patients remain fit for independent ambulation. The duration of each walking session
           will be determined daily by the RC and the medical team.

      After obtaining written informed consent from eligible patients the RC will randomize
      patients, collect demographics and hospital admission details from patients' hospital charts
      and perform the Barthel Index and complete the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) for all
      patients. The Barthel Index (BI) measures the extent to which patients can function
      independently and has mobility in their activities of daily living (ADL). The Charlson
      Comorbidity Index categorizes and scores the comorbidities of patients. The CCI can be used
      to predict short term and long-term outcomes such as function, hospital length of stay and
      mortality rates. The CCI will be completed using information gathered from patients' hospital
      chart.with all patients.

      All patients will be assigned a scientific pedometer on the day of randomization. The modus
      Health StepWatch™ is an activity monitor worn on the ankle via a velcro strap. It is a small,
      lightweight device that will count and record patients' steps throughout hospital stay,
      ending at hospital discharge. Research personnel will be responsible for fitting the
      StepWatch monitor to patients' ankle. The device is smaller than a deck of cards (7.5 x 5.0 x
      2.0 cm) and weighs 38 grams.

      Frailty and de-conditioning will be measured on Study Day 3. Frailty will be assessed using
      the Jamar Hand Dynamometer. Patients are instructed to squeeze the handle of the instrument
      with their maximum force for three seconds; the peak-hold (in kilograms) is recorded on the
      instrument. Three successive peak-hold measurements will be recorded. The device measures 10
      x 20 x 33cm and weighs 1.3 kg. Deconditioning will be measured using the Timed Up and Go
      (TUG) test, patients will be asked to stand up from a chair, walk three metres, turn around,
      and walk back to the chair and sit.

      After hospital discharge the RC will follow up with patients for 2 brief telephone
      interviews. On the third day after discharge, Patient Satisfaction surveys will be conducted
      by the RC to assess patient satisfaction with their hospital experience and with the WalkMORE
      program. On day 30 after randomization, the RC will contact patients to conduct a brief
      interview consisting of: a health status survey (EQ-5D), a functional status assessment
      (Barthel Index) and to collect data regarding clinical outcomes (ER visits,
      re-hospitalizations, and falls). Each telephone interview is expected to last approximately
      10 minutes.
    
  