
    
      As improved MTCT prevention interventions reduce the number of HIV-infected infants in the
      antepartum and peripartum periods, interventions to improve HIV-free survival among
      HIV-uninfected infants are needed. Morbidity and mortality are increased among HIV-uninfected
      infants born to HIV-infected mothers, and reduced infant survival among HIV-exposed infants
      may lead to as many deaths as HIV infection itself. In Botswana, the use of formula feeding
      or shorter breastfeeding may worsen the problem of early infant mortality among HIV-exposed
      infants.

      The study will enroll pregnant or postpartum HIV-1-infected women, and their HIV-uninfected
      infants in Botswana. At 2-4 weeks of age, live HIV-uninfected infants will be randomized to
      receive either double-blinded cotrimoxazole (CTX) or placebo from 2-4 weeks through 15
      months. In addition, breastfeeding (BF) infants will be randomized to BF until either 6 or 12
      months of age. Children will be followed prospectively until 18 months of age. The primary
      endpoint will be survival at 18 months comparing all infants in the CTX vs. placebo arms, and
      by randomized duration of BF among those BF at randomization. Secondary endpoints will
      evaluate survival and morbidity/mortality at 12 and 15 months; HIV-free survival to 18
      months; and the safety of CTX prophylaxis. Secondary observational objectives include
      comparing MTCT and mortality by initial feeding method (formula feeding or any BF > 1 month),
      and an analysis of maternal characteristics as predictors for initial feeding choice and
      HIV-free survival. All women and infants will receive standard antenatal and peripartum
      prophylaxis from the Botswana government for MTCT prevention (PMTCT), and will choose a
      feeding method with counseling. Breastfeeding infants will receive infant nevirapine (NVP)
      prophylaxis or will be protected from MTCT by the use of maternal HAART.
    
  