
    
      High blood pressure can be caused by many factors, including stress, anxiety, diabetes,
      kidney disease, or obesity. In many people, there is no identifiable cause for their high
      blood pressure; this is known as essential hypertension (EH). Increasingly, children are
      being diagnosed with high blood pressure, which may lead to an increased risk of developing
      EH as adults. Therefore, the need exists for an effective blood pressure reduction program
      targeted toward youth. Research has shown that improving people's abilities to manage stress
      and anger reduces their risk of developing high blood pressure and heart disease. The
      Williams LifeSkills (WLS) workshop is a program that teaches people to cope with stressful
      situations. It has been shown to improve heart health, including blood pressure levels, in
      adults with cardiovascular disease. However, the effect of stress and anger management
      programs on blood pressure levels in youth has not been widely studied. Study researchers
      have developed and preliminarily tested a school-based anger and stress management WLS
      program. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of the school-based WLS program at
      reducing blood pressure and anger levels in high school students. If successful, this program
      could be implemented in schools across the country.

      This study will enroll high school students. Participants will be randomly assigned to either
      a 12 lesson WLS program or a control group. Participants in the control group will attend
      regular high school classes. Participants in the WLS program will attend 12 sessions that
      will focus on coping skills to help manage stress and anger levels. At baseline, the end of
      the 12 lesson program, and follow-up visits 3 and 6 months later, participants will complete
      questionnaires on anger levels; life skills; hostility; stress; self-esteem; and attitudes
      toward school, teachers, and parents. They will also wear a blood pressure monitor for a
      24-hour period.
    
  