
    
      The goal of this study is to inform the sustainable implementation of cervical cancer
      screening services in low-resource areas of Senegal naïve to cancer screening programs by

        1. investigating the access barriers and determinants of initial uptake and

        2. developing and adapting a peer education health promotion intervention to diverse and
           dynamic contexts to achieve sustained utilization.

      Framework: Implementation Science is the study of how proven technical solutions are
      applicable to real world settings. The investigators will study how the implementation of
      VIA, as a proven intervention, can be optimized and how the screening service can best "fit"
      into the local context. Established complementary frameworks will guide our study. The
      investigators will apply

        1. the Patient-Centered Access Framework to assess the demand-side barriers and
           facilitators of uptake in aim 1,

        2. the Integrated Theory of Health Behavior Change to evaluate how a peer education program
           facilitates self-management behavior of women in aim 2, and

        3. the Dynamic Sustainability Framework to evaluate the initial uptake and sustained
           utilization of the health service in aim 3.

      The investigators seek to understand the dynamic nature of the influential factors within the
      local context and the process by which the investigators can facilitate responsive
      adaptations to the intervention in order to reduce barriers, maximize early uptake, and
      sustain utilization.

      Overview of Study Data Collection: To achieve all aims, the investigators will conduct a
      cluster-randomized stepped wedge study across three representative clusters (each containing
      a district center and two rural sites) in the Kedougou region. For each aim the investigators
      will collect data at baseline and at 6-month intervals in each cluster (data collection
      intervals coincide with the initiation of the intervention in a new cluster). In aim 1, the
      investigators will develop (through a participatory approach), pilot, and conduct surveys of
      eligible clients and household questionnaires as well as focus groups (FG) (women ages 30-44
      and 45-59) and in-depth interviews of men (ages 30-59). For aim 2, the investigators will
      describe the development, piloting, implementation, and adaptation of an aim 1-informed
      context-specific multi-level peer education curriculum across clusters through the stepped
      wedge approach in the Kedougou region. The investigators will collect quantitative program
      reach data and qualitative process evaluation data at each time period. These data will be
      used to adapt the intervention over time. To achieve aim 3, the investigators will collect
      aggregated health service level utilization data and individual surveys.
    
  