
    
      The primary aim of this multi-site, multi-clinician randomized controlled trial is to
      determine if Memory and Attention Adaptation Training (MAAT), a cognitive-behavioral therapy
      (CBT) intervention, can improve self-reported and objectively measured cognitive functioning
      in breast cancer survivors who previously received chemotherapy. Breast cancer survivors
      (Stage I-III) who were treated with chemotherapy 1-5 years prior to enrollment and who have
      subjective cognitive complaints may be eligible for this study. After eligibility is
      confirmed, participants will complete baseline assessments of subjective and objective memory
      and attention functioning as well as behavioral rating scales, and will be randomized to MAAT
      or Supportive Therapy (ST; to control for therapist time and attention) for 8 weeks. Both
      treatments (MAAT and ST) will be delivered through videoconferencing using mobile
      (smartphone, laptop or other electronic device) in order to reduce survivor travel or time
      away from work or family. Data collection methods will include telephone- and
      web-administered measures of subjective and objective cognitive function, as well as various
      behavioral ratings. Outcome assessments will be conducted post-treatment and at 6-month
      follow-up. It is hypothesized that MAAT participants will have significantly improved scores
      of self-reported cognitive impairments and objective neurocognitive test scores (on verbal
      memory and processing speed) at post-treatment and 6-month follow-up compared to participants
      randomized to ST. In addition, willing and eligible participants will be asked to complete a
      functional MRI working memory task at baseline and post-treatment, to examine whether those
      who receive MAAT show greater increase in brain network activation than those who receive ST.
      This may advance understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying improvement of objective
      and self-reported cognitive function after chemotherapy. The sample size (n=100/group) will
      allow for a 10-15% drop out-rate and still provide 80% power to detect group differences
      using two (Group: MAAT vs. ST) by 3 (time: baseline, posttreatment, 6-month follow-up) ANCOVA
      at alpha=0.05. Potential baseline differences between MAAT and ST groups on primary outcome
      variables or other factors that may affect cognition (e.g., anxiety, fatigue or depression)
      will be evaluated as potential covariates, although such differences due to randomization are
      not anticipated.
    
  