
    
      Hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP) is a granulomatous lung disorder triggered by exposure to
      one of a multitude of organic antigens. Incidence rates of HP vary by geography, season and
      population studied but it is estimated to be the third most common interstitial lung disease
      with an estimated prevalence rate in the USA of 420-3000/100,0002. HP accounts for at least
      7.5% of ILD related lung transplant. Exposure to an antigen in a susceptible host induces an
      inflammatory response with the subsequent formation of poorly formed granulomas that impact
      gas exchange which clinically manifests as shortness of breath, hypoxia and radiographic
      changes. HP can present acutely, subacutely or chronically depending on the duration of
      symptoms and radiographic changes. Radiographic manifestations of HP include ground-glass
      changes, centrilobular nodules, air trapping known as mosaic pattern, fibrosis, emphysema, or
      more frequently a combination of these. The cornerstone of management is identification and
      avoidance of the inciting agent which is effective if accomplished early in the disease
      process.

      Although detection and avoidance of possible triggers can attenuate or reverse the disease, a
      significant number of patients continue to have active and/or progressive disease requiring
      chronic immunosuppressive therapy. Standard of care for IS therapy is corticosteroids and
      azathioprine but this is based on clinical experience and not based on randomized clinical
      trials(ref). The efficacy of this regimen is not known and patients develop persistent or
      progressive disease in spite of aggressive therapy leading to end stage lung disease
      necessitating lung transplantation or ending with death. To date, there are no randomized
      trials for immunosuppressive therapies and no reports of the use of biological agents in HP.
      The lack of studies is partially due to the lack of a thorough understanding of the immune
      response in HP especially in patient based studies that focus at the site of disease
      activity, the lungs.

      The immunological response and pathways leading to this response have not been fully
      investigated especially in humans. The Th17 pathway has been implicated in disease
      pathogenesis and T-regulatory cell dysfunction has been described although studies in humans
      are limited. Recent work in sarcoidosis, a granulomatous lung disease, has shown that Th17.1
      cells play a potential important role in granuloma immunopathogenesis. Through an R01
      mechanism, the investigators are currently investigating the role of T-cell skewing and
      associated gene expression in sarcoidosis that is associated with progressive disease vs
      stable disease and the investigators are investigating its impact on disease course.

      This gap in knowledge in HP has limited the choice and study of immunomodulatory agents in HP
      and especially biological agents in the treatment of persistent and progressive disease. To
      narrow this knowledge gap, the investigators propose conducting a study to investigate the
      lung CD4+ T-cell immunophenotype and CD4+ T-cell gene expression in HP to enhance the
      investigators' understanding of the immune response in HP and the pathways involved in the
      immune response which would enable the investigators to further pursue guided therapeutic
      trials in subacute and chronic HP.
    
  