
    
      A new delayed release, faster-disintegrating, lower dose oral formulation of 6 mercaptopurine
      for targeted delivery to the ileum (the most commonly effected area of Crohns Disease (CD)
      bowel involvement), was developed and shown to be effective in the three efficacy parameters
      evaluated in a small group of Crohns Disease patients. Twelve weeks of daily treatment with
      once-nightly dosing of 40 mg local 6MP resulted in: (1) inducing clinical remission (CDAI
      scores below 150 as early as weeks 2 and 4), (2) effecting local mucosal healing (as
      evidenced by lowered CDEIS scores and descriptive conolonoscopy reports) and (3) reducing
      systemic immunological scores (lowered IFN-gamma Elispot levels).

      The current study is being undertaken to confirm, via pharmacokinetic profiles (Cmax, AUC and
      Tmax), the underlying premises of the above-noted clinical feasibility study. This PK study
      is being conducted to establish that (1) The delayed release test formulation delivers drug
      distally to the lower intestine and (2) The delayed release test formulation has the
      potential for reduced systemic toxicity. The first aspect will be established by comparing
      the Tmax of the delayed release test formulation vs. oral Purinethol, while the second aspect
      will be established by comparing the Cmax and AUC of the 40 mg test dose vs. standard 100 mg
      Purinethol. It is anticipated that the delayed release test formulation will exhibit a later
      Tmax and reduced Cmax and AUC as compared to reference Purinethol.

      Additionally, immunology testing to measure the effect of the new 6MP formulation on
      immunological FACS analysis will be performed on peripheral blood lymphocytes at 0, 12 and 24
      hours post-dosing of each formualtion. Lymphocytes will be tested for surface marker
      expression (ex: CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25, NKT, etc.), with anticipated results a greater lowering
      of immune parameters after even 1 dose of 40 mg delayed release test drug, as compared to 100
      mg Purinethol.
    
  