
    
      Objectives: 1) to compare the reinforcing efficacy of nicotine versus denicotinized
      cigarettes using a forced choice and an operant response procedure, 2) to compare the effects
      of smoking cues versus neutral cues on craving, mood, and autonomic responsivity, and 3) to
      explore potential associations between several genetic polymorphisms and the phenotypic
      measures of nicotine reinforcement and smoking-cue reactivity.

      Study population: 175 adult smokers (35 for pilot study I, 60 for pilot stufy II and 80 for
      main study).

      Design: Placebo-controlled, within-subjects design. Pilot studies will entail 1-2 sessions.
      Main study will entail one baseline/adaptation session and 5-10 experimental sessions.

      Outcome Measures:

      Behavioral Measures

      During forced-choice sessions, primary measure is the percentage of nicotine cigarette puffs
      chosen and taken during choice trials. During operant response sessions, primary measures
      include breakpoint (final ratio completed), total number of responses, and number of
      cigarette puffs earned and taken. During cue-reactivity sessions, primary measures include
      craving, mood, and autonomic responsivity (heart rate, blood pressure, skin conductance, and
      skin temperature).

      Genetic Measures

      The following genetic polymorphisms will be assayed: 1) C/T rs2023239 variant of the CB1R
      gene, 2) the Ser/Gly rs6280 variant of DRD3 gene, and 3) variants of the CYP2A6 gene.

      Secondary Measures

      Secondary study measures include baseline smoking history, FTND, TCQ-SF, mood form, CO, and
      urinary cotinine and 3-hydroxycotinine. The ratio of 3-hydroxycotinine/cotinine is a
      phenotypic biomarker of the rate of nicotine metabolism, which has been shown to be
      associated with CYP2A6 genotype, level of nicotine dependence, various smoking behaviors, and
      treatment outcome.
    
  