
    
      Objective: To evaluate pexacerfont, an orally available, brain-penetrant selective CRF1
      antagonist, for its ability to modulate food craving and consumption in chronic unsuccessful
      dieters.

      Study population: We will collect evaluable data from up to 90 restrained eaters (individuals
      who indicate a history of chronic yo-yo dieting by scoring 15 or higher on the Dietary
      Restraint Scale). To ensure that all participants have some degree of preoccupation with
      food, an additional inclusion criterion will be endorsement of the Restraint Scale item Do
      you give too much time and thought to food? Apart from their preoccupation with food,
      participants will be healthy. They can be either normal-weight or overweight (Body Mass Index
      (BMI) > 22kg/m2); this will be stratified across dose groups.

      Frank eating disorders will be exclusionary.

      Design: This will be a randomized, double-blind, between-groups study with two groups.

      Participants will be stabilized on either pexacerfont or placebo for 28 days (300 mg/day
      loading dose for 7 days, followed by 100 mg/day maintenance dose for 21 days). On day 15,
      they will undergo a math-test stressor and have stress-induced food consumption and craving
      assessed in a bogus taste test and on visual-analog scales. During three subsequent visits
      between days 16 and 28, they will be exposed to three personalized imagery-induction
      scripts-one stress-related, one food-related, and one neutral/relaxing. Food craving and food
      consumption will be assessed on those visits as well.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome measure is stress-induced eating after the math-test
      stressor. Other outcome measures will include spontaneous food consumption after the other
      stressors, subjective ratings of stress, mood, and food craving, autonomic responses
      (galvanic skin response (GSR), heart rate, and blood pressure), and endocrine responses
      (salivary cortisol, salivary alpha-amylase, and serum cortisol).
    
  