
    
      The investigators know from previous studies that the level of inflammation in the blood is
      high after haemorrhagic stroke and want to investigate whether blocking this inflammation can
      improve outcomes. The only current treatments for haemorrhagic stroke are aimed at
      significantly reducing the blood pressure and reversing the action of any anticoagulants
      (e.g. warfarin) where necessary. Surgery to remove the blood clot is not an option for all
      participants and the benefits of this are not clear.

      The investigators research group has extensively investigated the use of a well-established
      anti-inflammatory drug, Kineret® in trials with participants who have suffered a stroke or
      brain haemorrhage. Kineret® is similar to a naturally-produced protein called interleukin-1
      receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) and is already licensed to treat patients with rheumatoid
      arthritis. The investigators have evidence from these previous studies that Kineret® reduced
      levels of inflammation in the blood after ischaemic stroke (caused by a blockage in an
      artery). In another trial, the investigators collected samples of the haematoma blot clot
      removed during surgery in 47 participants who had suffered a haemorrhagic stroke. These
      participants were taking part in a trial of 'keyhole' surgery as a treatment for haemorrhagic
      stroke. The investigators found that higher levels of naturally occurring IL-1Ra in and
      around the haematoma blood clot is linked to less brain swelling a few days later. This
      suggests that Kineret® may reduce swelling in the brain after haemorrhagic stroke. However,
      in order to develop Kineret® as a treatment for haemorrhagic stroke, the investigators need
      to know if it reduces levels of inflammation present in the blood and if it reduces swelling
      in the brain.

      The investigators also want to investigate whether blocking inflammation can improve outcomes
      following ICH. If the results of this trial show promise, it could support the decision to
      run a much larger trial to establish whether lowering inflammation improves recovery after
      haemorrhagic stroke.

      Patients admitted to a neurosurgical centre within 8 hours of intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH)
      on brain imaging will be considered for study participation. Potential participants will be
      identified by the clinical team and will be referred to the research teams at the sites
      following usual and established pathways. These pathways may include potential participants
      being identified by; (i) Screening the acute referral databases/medical records, (ii)
      Attendance at ward round and, (iii) Referral by Accident and Emergency team. All members of
      the research teams at the sites have an existing working relationship with the clinical teams
      and are employed by the research site (hospital Trust). This procedure is employed at sites
      in order to identify potential participants for all acute and hyper acute research studies.

      Capacity to consent may be an issue within this patient group. An appropriately trained
      member of the research team will carry out a formal assessment of capacity, where
      appropriate. Where it is not possible to obtain consent from the patient due to lack of
      capacity, the investigators will seek consent from their personal legal representative. If
      the patient lacks capacity to consent to participation and no personal legal representative
      exists, the decision to include the patient will be made by a senior member of the clinical
      team who is independent of the research team (professional legal representative).

      In the event that a patient has the capacity to consent to participation, but is unable to
      complete and sign the relevant consent form due to physical difficulties resulting from their
      clinical condition or pre-existing physical impairments (e.g. visual difficulties or limb
      weaknesses), witnessed, verbal consent will be obtained. The patient will be asked to orally
      confirm their willingness to participate in each stage of the trial to the professional legal
      representative (most likely a member of the clinical team independent of the research group)
      who will then be asked to confirm this consent in writing. In the event that the physical
      difficulties resolve during the patient's inclusion in the trial, a further consent form will
      be completed.

      Where initial consent is obtained from the patient's personal legal representative or the
      professional legal representative, the capacity of the patient to consent will be reassessed
      before each research assessment/intervention. If the patient regains capacity, they will be
      given information about the trial and asked to confirm willingness to continue trial
      participation by signing a consent form. Where initial consent is given by the patient, it
      will be made clear that they will remain in the trial should capacity be lost unless the
      decision to withdraw them is made by their representative, the research team, or by their
      clinical team.

      Consent to trial participation will include sharing of personal contact data with the trial
      centre in order to conduct follow up assessment and the optional consent to storage of blood
      samples for use in other ethically-approved research.

      Following consent, the research nurse will conduct an initial 'baseline' assessment. This
      will be written in the medical notes and also in an individual research file (Case Report
      Form). This first assessment will record details of how well the patient was at the time of
      inclusion in the trial as well as how well they were in the 3 months before stroke. The
      assessment will also record information such as age, sex and ethnicity and past medical
      history (including recent infections, previous stroke, risk factors, medications and
      vaccinations). A physical examination will record measurements of temperature, heart rate and
      blood pressure. A similar assessment will be repeated on each of the following 4 days after
      symptom-onset. The final assessment will be completed the morning after the final injection
      has been given. After this assessment the research team will ask the patient to verbally
      reconfirm consent that contact details can be passed to the coordinating centre (Chief
      Investigator's Team at University of Manchester) In addition to the baseline assessment, a
      research blood sample will be obtained to measure levels of inflammation at baseline. This
      blood sample will be up to 10ml (2 teaspoons) and will be taken from existing venous lines
      (where possible) to minimise discomfort for the participant.

      After obtaining the baseline blood samples and baseline assessments, the participant will be
      randomised to treatment arm or placebo. The system will generate a unique participant
      identification number which will be used on all documentation from this point to identify
      subsequent samples, for communications and for data collection purposes. First dose of trial
      medication must be delivered within 8 hours of ICH and as soon as possible after
      randomisation.

      Participants will receive 6 injections of identical doses of Trial Drug (Kineret® or placebo)
      over 3 days after ICH. However, only half the participants will receive Kineret® and the
      other half will receive placebo (dummy drug). The investigators will measure and compare
      levels of inflammation in the blood of both groups of participants before and after treatment
      with Trial Drug to assess if inflammation is lower in those who receive Kineret® compared to
      those given placebo. The investigators will also assess all brain imaging performed on trial
      participants in both treatment groups during their in-patient stay to see if there are
      differences in the number showing signs of further bleeding and brain swelling. If the
      results of this trial show promise, it could support the decision to run a much larger trial
      to establish whether lowering inflammation improves recovery after ICH.

      At approximately 3 days after randomisation, the patient will undergo a repeat CT brain scan
      as part of the research trial. This scan is the same type as the one performed at admission.
      Although this scan is being performed as part of the research trial, the results will also be
      available to the doctors looking after the patient and may assist them in deciding on
      specific treatments. This scan will take approximately 10 minutes to perform but the
      participant may be away from the ward or department for up to 45 minutes. The scan will be
      used by the researchers who will compare it to brain imaging performed on admission to
      hospital.

      In addition to the CT scan, participants may also be asked to undergo a Magnetic Resonance
      (MR) brain scan between 2-4 days from the onset of the stroke symptoms. This is optional and
      is dependent on availability of hospital scan appointments. Members of the research team at
      the recruiting hospital will record everything that happens to the patient during their
      in-patient stay. At 30 days after randomisation, participants will be followed up to further
      check their well-being. If the patient is still in hospital on this date, this assessment may
      be performed face-to-face by a member of the research team. However, if the participant has
      been discharged home or returned to their local hospital, the researcher will perform this
      assessment by telephone with the participant or their relative/friend if they are not able or
      their local healthcare provider. It is expected that this assessment will take around 45
      minutes.

      The participant will be contacted again by telephone at approximately 90 days (3 months) by a
      member of the research team at the trial coordinating centre in Manchester. This assessment
      will assess the participant's recovery after ICH and will include questions about their mood,
      level of fatigue and quality of life. It is expected that this assessment will take around 45
      minutes. If for any reason, the participant is unable to complete this assessment, a member
      of their family may answer the questions on their behalf.

      This will complete the patient's participation in the trial. With the participant's
      permission, the researchers at the recruiting hospital will contact the participant's family
      doctor (GP), Consultant and any other Health Care Professional involved in their care to let
      them know of the patient's participation in the trial.
    
  