
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the complete and overall response rate of neoadjuvant docetaxel, cisplatin,
           fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium in previously untreated patients with local
           regionally advanced head and neck cancer.

        -  To evaluate the feasibility of a multimodality treatment approach with the goal of
           reducing long-term sequelae.

        -  To evaluate prospectively, the impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, concurrent
           chemoradiotherapy, and organ preservation surgery on overall survival, time to
           progression, and pattern of disease recurrence in these patients.

        -  To evaluate prospectively, biochemical correlates of response and prognosis, including
           markers such as thymidylate synthetase, ribonucleotide reductase, and ERCC1 (measured by
           quantitative PCR), p53 (evaluated by IHC), and HPV status and apoptosis (TUNEL assay).

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate treatment-associated morbidity with the use of a quality of life assessment
           tool.

        -  To compare the results of diagnostic salivary cytology with those of histopathology at
           initial diagnosis as well as follow-up in head and neck cancer patients.

        -  To evaluate the tolerability of combined chemoradiotherapy using gemcitabine and
           cisplatin after definitive surgery for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive neoadjuvant induction chemotherapy comprising docetaxel IV over 1
      hour on day 1 and cisplatin IV, leucovorin IV, and fluorouracil IV over 24 hours on days 1-4.
      Induction chemotherapy repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with partial response at the primary site may undergo radical or functional
      resection of the primary tumor within 3 weeks of completion of neoadjuvant therapy.

      Beginning within 4 weeks of completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients with persistent
      disease or complete response after chemotherapy at the primary or neck then undergo
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 7 weeks and receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30
      minutes and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of each week of radiotherapy in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete the FACT-H&N quality of life questionnaire at baseline and at completion of
      neoadjuvant therapy.

      Tissue biopsies are collected at baseline, periodically during therapy, at surgery, and after
      radiotherapy. Tissue is examined for gene and protein expression.
    
  