
    
      Despite the fact that laparoscopic hernia repair has been shown to reduce postoperative pain
      compared to open hernia repair, up to 5% of patients suffer from persistent discomfort.
      During that operation the mesh is either fixed using a stapler or tissue adhesive glue. With
      the current study we compare postoperative pain between patients undergoing laparoscopic
      inguinal hernia repair with either mesh fixation using a stapler or tissue adhesive. The use
      of von Frey monofilaments allows to describe pain with a high sensitivity.

      To perform a prospective randomized trial comparing pain after inguinal hernia repair using
      either fixation with stapler or histoacryl.

      The standard TAPP procedure is performed under general anesthesia. Patients receive a single
      shot antibiotic prophylaxis, using Amoxicillin/Clavulanic Acids. Operations are performed by
      resident surgeons under supervision, consultants or senior consultants. After hernial sac
      dissection and retraction, preperitoneal fat is removed bluntly and Cooper's ligament is
      identified. A Vypro II 速 (Ethicon 速) prosthetic mesh, 10x15 cm, is placed and fixed depending
      on randomization with either 5 mm Protack TM (Autosuture TM) or Glubran 速 2 (G.E.M.,
      Viareggio, Italy). Randomization is performed in permutated block of 20 using sealed
      envelopes. Where tissue glue is used, meshs are additionally fixed caudally and
      laterocaudally. Peritoneal closure over the mesh is performed using resorptive sutures.
      Glubran 速 2 is a cyanoacrylate tissue adhesive. Follow up assessment: The use of analgesics
      in the postoperative period is standardized using paracetamol and morphine derivates.
      Following discharge patients are liberated of physical restrictions. Patient follow-up will
      be performed after 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months postoperatively. Patients are advised to mention
      pain in the operated groin area. In addition the Visual Analogue Scale is used to evaluate
      pain intensity.Statistical comparison is done using Mann-Whitney Test and Chi square Test
      (significance p < 0,05).
    
  