
    
      Background:

      The World Health Organization (WHO) has defined osteoporosis as a level of bone mineral
      density (BMD), calculated with DXA (Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry) technique, 2.5 standard
      deviations (SD) or more below the average mean value of young healthy women (T-score ≤ -2.5)
      (Kanis et al., 2013).

      Although the WHO reports that there is indirect evidence supporting screening programs in
      women aged 65 or older, current Italian national guidelines do not recommend
      population-screening programs for osteoporosis (SIOMMMS 2015). As a consequence, a
      significant part of Italian osteoporotic patients that may develop a fracture is left
      undetected and untreated. Although it is recommended to assess risk of osteoporotic fractures
      with the WHO FRAX tool in all women ≥65 years and men ≥75 years and refer for DXA
      accordingly, it is not clear how well this tool has been adopted by general practitioners
      (GPs) in Italy.

      Considering the high percentage of people attending regular dental visits (> 22 million
      according to ISTAT 2013) and the fact that panoramic radiographs of the jawbones are a common
      procedure that is performed during routine dental check-ups or before several dental
      treatments, it could be of great clinical value if dentists could opportunistically use
      panoramic X-rays to identify patients at a high risk of osteoporosis.

      In the past years, specific quantitative and qualitative indices/parameters, which can be
      calculated on dental panoramic radiographs, have been proposed as tools to detect
      osteoporosis, with different levels of accuracy.

      Amongst the quantitative indices, the most adopted ones are the mandibular cortical width
      (MCW) and the panoramic mandibular index (PMI). The MCW represents the width of the
      mandibular cortex and it is measured in the mental foramen region, along a line passing
      through the middle of the mental foramen and perpendicular to the tangent to the lower border
      of the mandible. The PMI represents the ratio between the mandibular cortical width at mental
      foramen region and the distance from the lower border to the inferior edge of the mental
      foramen.

      Amongst the qualitative indices, the Klemetti index (KI) is by far the most applied one. KI
      qualitatively classifies the mandibular cortex distally to the mental foramen in the
      following categories: C1, when the endosteal margin is even and sharp; C2, when the endosteal
      margin presents lacunar resorption or cortical residues on one or both sides; and C3, when
      the cortical layer is clearly porous, with heavy endosteal cortical residues. A recent
      systematic review and meta-analysis from our group showed that the presence of any kind of
      cortical porosity (C2+C3) is associated to a sensitivity and specificity in detecting
      osteoporosis of 80.6% and 64.3%, respectively. The advantage of using this index, compared to
      other available indices, is that it is straightforward and relatively easy to measure and it
      does not require specific softwares.

      It is clear that the panoramic indices cannot replace the diagnosis of osteoporosis by BMD
      measurement with DXA scan. However, whenever a panoramic radiograph is available, they might
      be opportunistically used to detect previously undiagnosed osteoporotic patients and refer
      them to a specialist before they develop a fracture.

      While several studies support the use of panoramic indices, they have never been tested in an
      Italian University Hospital setting and in a study adequately powered and controlled for
      confounding variables.

      Study description:

      This is cross-sectional observational study aiming to recruit a cohort of 124 consecutive
      post-menopausal women. The only study visit will take place at the "Centro Universitario di
      Odontoiatria, Dipartimento di Medicina e Chirurgia, Università di Parma".

      All post-menopausal women ≥ 65 years old attending the Centro Universitario di Odontoiatria
      in the new patients' or follow-ups' clinics will be approached to check for the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria and their willingness to take part in the study. Furthermore,
      doctors (general practitioners or osteoporosis specialists) will be contacted and will be
      kindly asked to inform their patient that had done a DXA scan within the past 12 months about
      the study. Potentially eligible patients will be booked an appointment at the "Centro
      Universitario di Odontoiatria, Dipartimento di Medicina e Chirurgia, Università di Parma" to
      check for inclusion/exclusion criteria and for the recruitment. As part of the study, they
      will receive a full-mouth examination of the hard and soft tissues and an OPG at no cost.

      Only 1 study visit will be performed.

      Visit 1 (Data collection)

        -  Signing of informed consent;

        -  Recording of any concomitant medication;

        -  Confirmation of participant eligibility in relation to the inclusion/exclusion criteria;

        -  Examination of hard and soft tissues;

        -  Full-mouth six-points periodontal chart, with recording of probing pocket depth (PPD),
           recession (REC), furcation involvement and mobility.

        -  Dental panoramic radiograph (OPG) if not performed at the Centro Universitario di
           Odontoiatria within the previous 12 months

      Photos of the teeth may be taken to facilitate case documentation. Subjects will not be
      identifiable.
    
  