
    
      Sickle cell disease is an inherited hematological disorder where the shape of red blood cells
      (RBC) is altered into a sickle-like cells resulting in red blood cell destruction and
      therefore anemia and other complications. It's a widely spread condition in African American
      population as well as the Southern and Eastern Provinces of Arabian Peninsula.

      Acute painful episodes are a very common complication of the disease process, mainly thought
      to be a result of tissue ischemia due to occlusion of the microcirculation with clusters of
      sickled RBC(1). This usually involves long bones or spine but can involve other areas. Acute
      painful crises can also be precipitated by cold exposure, dehydration, infection, hypoxia,
      acidosis, hypercarbia, or in some cases it is not related to a specific trigger. This
      condition puts the patient in severe pain requiring multiple Emergency Department (ED) visits
      and sometimes admission to the hospital. Currently the mainstay of therapy for acute painful
      crises is hydration and IV analgesia (2). This makes pain control challenging for the
      emergency physician as management of acute painful crises requires multiple doses of
      intravenous (IV) opioids. A retrospective study of 19 patients and 57 visits showed that
      accumulative dose of IV morphine ranged between 4 milligram (mg) and 26.7 (0.05-0.5 mg/kg)
      during 70% of the visits. 50% of the patients were admitted after less than 3 hours of ED
      treatment, 28% of the discharged patients returned to the ED within 3 days (3). Also, as
      other chronic pain patients, sickle cell disease patients develop opioid induced hyperalgesia
      (OIH) leading to activation of N- methyl D Aspartate receptors (NMDA) (1).

      The use of ketamine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, may have the potential to
      modulate the OIH through impaired sensitization of spinal neurons to nociceptive stimuli and
      may, therefore, impede development of and blunt neuropathic pain. Extensive search of
      literature databases showed few published reports and retrospective studies including few
      patients which have addressed the use of low-dose ketamine in the management of acute painful
      crises in sickle cell disease (SCD) (4-6). A retrospective study (5) included 5 children and
      adolescents received a low-dose ketamine infusion for the treatment of sickle cell-related
      pain demonstrated reduced pain scores in 40% of patients and significant reduction in opioid
      utilization in only 20% of patients. However, that report was retrospective in nature,
      non-powered, and included few patients. A recent Canadian retrospective study including 9
      adult and adolescent patients demonstrated statistically significant reduced cumulative
      morphine consumption (146±16.5 mg/day vs. 112.±12.2 mg/day) and pain scores after adding
      intravenous ketamine in patients with painful sickle cell crises (7). Similarly, another
      American investigators reported decreased opioid consumption with infusing low-dose ketamine
      as an adjuvant analgesic in 30 patients presented with sickle cell disease with
      vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC), that study was retrospective (2). Moreover, in year 2017, a
      prospective, randomized, double dummy trial was done comparing the adverse effects and
      analgesic efficacy of low-dose ketamine for acute pain in the ED either by single intravenous
      push or short infusion. This study shows that low-dose ketamine administered as short
      infusion is related with a significantly lower rates of feeling of unreality and sedation
      with no difference in analgesic efficacy in comparison to intravenous push (8)

      To the best of investigator's knowledge, there is no large, prospective, comparative,
      controlled clinical trial investigated in the addition of low-dose ketamine in shortening the
      ER stays and improving the quality of analgesia in patients with VOC.

      Sample Size

      A data obtained from a pilot study included 10 patients who received either morphine or
      ketamine showed that the mean and SD of pain visual analogue score (VAS) at 1-hour following
      administering the study drug among patients presented with sickle-cell VOC were (Morphine 6.5
      ± 3.41565, Ketamine: 1.6667 ± 1.52753).

      An a priori power analysis indicated that a sample size of 220 patients is sufficiently large
      to detect a mean difference in the pain VAS of 1.5 that would have a clinical importance,
      with a type-I error of 0.05 and a power of 90%. Additional patients (20%) will be added for a
      final sample size of 264 patients to compensate for those dropping out during the study.

      Interim Analysis

      An independent safety committee will perform three interim analyses on information time 25%
      (55 patients), 50% (110 patients) and 75% (165 patients). Data evaluation at each interim
      analysis will be based on the alpha spending function concept, according to Lan and DeMets,
      and will employ O'Brien-Fleming Z-test boundaries, which are very conservative early in the
      trial. For the first interim analysis the efficacy stopping rule would require an extremely
      low P value (P< 0.000015). For the second interim analysis P< 0.003 will be taken as efficacy
      stopping rule. For the third interim analysis P< 0.02 will be taken as efficacy stopping
      rule. Investigators will be kept blind to the interim analysis results.
    
  