
    
      This trial is a multi-center, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled parallel group
      study to measure the efficacy and safety of a new nicotine replacement therapy for smoking
      cessation in a naturalistic environment. Subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio (active
      to placebo). It is anticipated that data from about 450 in the active treatment group at Week
      12 will be required for the safety analysis. In order to obtain that number of subjects,
      approximately 1500 subjects will need to be enrolled into the Use phase of the study, 1000 in
      the active arm and 500 in the placebo arm.

      Based on the directions for use on the Drug Facts label, the study will include six weeks of
      full study drug treatment and then six weeks of progressive tapering drug treatment (Weeks
      1-12). There will be a 14-week post-use follow up period.

      This trial will be conducted in three sequential phases: Enrollment (baseline), Use and
      Post-use Follow-up. The Enrollment Phase will be conducted in approximately 20 pharmacies in
      nine diverse geographical areas in the continental United States. Subjects who qualify to
      participate in the study will be given three units of investigational product, a subject
      diary for tracking investigational product use and a medical problems worksheet to assist in
      the collection of AE information. Subjects will also be given a small hand counter and will
      be encouraged to use it to help keep track of the number of doses they use each day. Subjects
      will also be given a card with contact information for the pharmacy and study nurses. Where
      needed, the subject can also speak with the study physician.

      During the Use Phase, the collection of data related to efficacy will be accomplished during
      four return visits to the pharmacy (at weeks 2, 4, 6 and 12). Self-reported abstinence will
      be verified by carbon monoxide (CO) measurements obtained at each pharmacy visit. Subjects
      will be given a subject use diary at each follow-up and re-supply visit and completed diaries
      will be collected each time the subject returns to the pharmacy. Subjects can return to the
      pharmacy for additional supplies at any time during their participation. Empty units will be
      returned during these visits.

      Safety data will be collected during four telephone interviews, conducted by trained nurse
      interviewers, at weeks 2, 4, 6 and 12. If a subject reports an adverse event during a visit
      (return visit or resupply visit), this information will be immediately forwarded to the nurse
      interviewers for follow-up. Subjects may also initiate a call to the study nurses themselves
      to discuss health problems. All AE information collected will be reviewed by a physician as
      the adverse events are collected. A standardized visual mouth examination will be conducted
      by trained dentists at the enrollment visit and at the Week 12 return visit.

      During the Post-use Follow-up period, self-reported efficacy and safety data will be
      collected during two telephone interviews initiated by trained nurse interviewers (at weeks
      16 and 26). Subjects reporting abstinence since the last visit or abstinence for the prior
      seven days during these two interviews will be asked to return to the pharmacy to verify
      abstinence with an exhaled CO measurement. An additional telephone interview will be
      conducted between Week-12 and Week-16, by trained nurse interviewers, who will administer the
      End of Treatment questions to those subjects who have reported the following product use
      behavior that are inconsistent with the directions on the Drug Facts label: Use of more than
      64 doses in a 24-hour period at least one time or use of more than 4 doses per hour at least
      one time based on the diary or their self report.
    
  