
    
      Participants will be individually randomised using randomisation service on a 1:1 allocation
      ratio to either group. There will be 4 groups, with differences in the consultation design
      and online support available.

      Participant assessments consists of questionnaires and physical tasks completed during two
      visits at the university facilities. During the second visit, a one-hour consultation with a
      health care professional will take place to develop a twelve-week action plan to promote a
      healthier lifestyle.

      Frailty status will be defined from the Fried frailty phenotype criteria. Exercise status
      will be based on current physical activity levels and the Short Physical Performance Battery
      score derived from the chair-stands, gait speed and balance assessments.

      Participants in the experimental group will receive the assessment, and the consultation will
      aim to promote to empower them, plus access to the online support platform, termed 'FACET'.

      Participants in the empowerment groups are provided with a structured booklet prior to the
      consultation to help the participant actively contribute to their own intervention programme,
      whereas in the other groups,the professional will lead the consultation.

      Participants in the online support groups are provided with FACET, which will provide a diary
      of recommended activities to do, assessments to complete, as well as information about
      healthy lifestyles, diet and physical activity recommendations. Details on the recommended
      exercises and diet will be provided (including demonstrations and examples, also sourced from
      reputable websites) via FACET and will enable the participant to engage with them. The
      exercises require no special equipment and can be performed without professional supervision.
      Participants will be able to monitor themselves regularly and progress or amend
      recommendations to tailor their needs. Progress will also be monitored by the initial
      assessors and these can also amend the recommendations based on participant feedback. In
      short, FACET enables the participants in these groups to engage with their own intervention,
      amend it and set their own priorities, goals and targets, emphasising prudent health care
      principles.

      Participants in all groups are followed up after 12 weeks. Assessments will be completed
      face-to-face at the facilities, or at home, dependent upon the participant's needs.
    
  