
    
      Study Population: Subjects enrolled into this study will undergo elective laparoscopic
      colectomy wherein dissection and transection of the (inferior mesenteric artery) IMA is
      indicated.

      Primary Variable: Incidence of hemostasis at the IMA Secondary Endpoint: Incidence of
      hemostasis at the inferior mesenteric vain (IMV).

      Definition: Hemostasis of the IMA and IMV is a dichotomous variable (i.e. yes or no). "Yes"
      is defined as a single activation of the Advanced Hemostasis Mode to transect and seal the
      IMA and IMV.

      Additional exploratory endpoints include:

      The percentage of subjects requiring additional measures to obtain hemostasis on the IMA
      and/or IMV, if identified:

        -  Number of Harmonic touch ups - frequency of Harmonic reapplications required due to
           oozing or bleeding at initial transection of named vessels

        -  Use of other energy devices (tissue sealers, cautery devices) - Graded as yes or no; if
           "yes", the type, transection time (using stopwatch), time of application (24 hour clock)

        -  Use of hemostatic products (e.g. hemoclips, staples, sutures, fibrin sealants) - Graded
           as yes or no; if "yes", the type and name of product, number/volume, and time of
           application (24 hour clock)

      Summary of the use of additional treatment after first pass hemostasis has already been
      achieved at the IMA and IMV. Graded as yes or no; if "yes", the type, number/volume, time of
      application (24 hour clock) and rationale for use.

      Adverse events attributed to the study device or procedure will be collected from time of
      surgery to Visit 4 (Approximately 4 weeks after study surgery or as per standard of care
      (SOC)).

      Sample size: No formal sample size determination is required for this study. Approximately 40
      subjects from the United States and the European Union are planned to be enrolled into this
      study.

      Global indication for use of the The Harmonic ACE®+7, 5mm Diameter Shears with Advanced
      Hemostasis:

      Indicated for soft tissue incisions when bleeding control and minimal thermal injury are
      desired. The instruments can be used as an adjunct to or substitute for electrosurgery,
      lasers and steel scalpels in general, plastic, pediatric, gynecologic, urologic, thoracic,
      exposure to orthopedic structures (such as spine and joint space), sealing and transection of
      lymphatic vessels, and other open and endoscopic procedures. The instruments allow for the
      coagulation of vessels up to and including 7mm in diameter, using the Advanced Hemostasis
      function.
    
  