
    
      Rationale: Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is a commonly performed surgery in patients with
      end-stage osteoarthritis (OA) of the hip. Although it is known as a successful procedure,
      (recurrent) dislocation after THA is a major problem and results in a deterioration in
      quality of life. Dislocation after THA is the number one cause of early revision surgery.

      Dual-Mobility (DM) acetabular cups should provide more stability and biomechanically reduce
      the risk of (early) dislocation. Potential disadvantages of DM cups are increased liner wear,
      psoas impingement and loosening. This might result in more revision surgery at mid- and
      longer-term follow-up for the cemented cups. If the cemented fixation technique improves,
      this might diminish the disadvantages of more revisions due to loosening in cemented cups.
      High quality evidence guiding the best technique for cemented fixation is however lacking.
      The risk of implant loosening might be reduced by increasing the amount of cement used for
      cup fixation. It is currently unknown whether size of the implant, and thereby the amount of
      cement, affects stability and survival. To fill this gap in knowledge, this study will
      compare cup migration, as an indicator for loosening, in a new dual mobility cup (BiMobile,
      Waldemar Link GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg, Germany), using a larger or smaller cup size (and
      thereby different amounts of cement: approximately 2mm or 4mm cement mantle). These results
      will also be compared with the Avantage cup (ZimmerBiomet), which is yet considered as a
      standard dual mobility cup in the Netherlands. Migration will be measured with Rontgen
      Stereophotogrammetry Analysis (RSA), which is currently the gold standard for measuring early
      migration and predicting long term survival.

      Objective: The main objective of this study is to compare the (early) migration of the
      cemented BiMobile cup at two year post-surgery between two different cup sizes after standard
      optimal reaming, and consequently adjusting the cement mantle into circa 2 or 4 mm, in
      patients with a primary cemented THA. Additionally, the results of the BiMobile cup will be
      compared to the Avantage cup, which is placed with a standard cup size, resulting in a cement
      mantle of approximately 2 mm.

      Study design: A prospective single centre blinded randomised controlled trial.

      Study population: At the outpatient clinic of OLVG, all patients who meet the criteria to
      undergo a cemented THA will be screened for the in- and exclusion criteria.

      Intervention:

      Group A: 25 patients will receive a cemented THA with a BiMobile dual mobility cup, in a
      standard size after optimal reaming, resulting in a cement mantle of approximately 2mm.

      Group B: 25 patients will receive a cemented THA with a BiMobile dual mobility cup, in one
      size smaller than standard after optimal reaming, resulting in a cement mantle of
      approximately 4mm.

      Group C: 25 patients will receive a cemented THA with an Avantage dual mobility cup, in a
      standard size after optimal reaming, resulting in a cement mantle of approximately 2mm.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Migration of the acetabular cup at two year postoperative, measured with RSA. RSA x-rays will
      be collected at discharge, 6 weeks, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years after surgery.
    
  