
    
      1. Identify a cohort of individuals with known dystonia-related gene mutations, and
           individuals with idiopathic but presumed-genetic dystonia. Some of these individuals may
           receive botulinum toxin injections to treat their dystonia per standard of care; in
           these patients, investigators will image before and after injections to assess for
           imaging correlates of treatment response.

        2. Analyze DNA samples from both the dystonia and healthy individual cohorts to detect the
           presence of mutations and/or polymorphisms in genes associated with dystonia

        3. Collect systematic clinical information, including Tsui Torticollis, Burke-Fahn-Marsden,
           Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS), Voice Disability Index,
           Unified Myoclonus Rating Scale, Beck Depression Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory and
           Spielberg Trait Anxiety scales. Scales will be tailored to the type of dystonia, as
           determined by the clinician referring into the study (i.e., torticollis scales will only
           be performed on patients with cervical dystonia).

        4. Use functional MRI (fMRI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), and structural MRI to a)
           analyze brain activity and structure pre- and post-botulinum toxin injections, b)
           determine how different stages of movement (execution, preparation, sequencing)
           influence dystonia and the underlying neural mechanisms, c) identify structural
           abnormalities shared between clinical sub-types of dystonia. As new MR imaging methods
           are introduced that may improve the investigators ability to identify or distinguish
           these abnormalities, the investigator will incorporate these novel sequences into the
           imaging protocol.

        5. Correlate brain activity and structural data with ratings of dystonia severity, location
           of dystonia, genetic status, and response to treatment (medications and/or botulinum
           toxin injections).

        6. Correlate polymorphism data with dystonia severity, response to botulinum toxin,
           depression/anxiety severity, and brain activity/structure.
    
  