
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is one of the most common disorders seen by primary
      care providers and gastroenterologists in the United States and Europe. GERD is more than
      just heartburn, which is only one of several complaints. Patients can also suffer from
      regurgitation, nausea, sore throat, cough, hiccups, chest pain, sleep disturbance, etc.
      Individuals with the typical GERD symptoms (heartburn and/or acid regurgitation) constitute a
      diverse group. The detailed characterization of the different symptoms and their
      associations, but also their link with clinical or epidemiologic factors (age, body mass
      index [BMI], history of GERD, comorbidities, etc.), would help the physician to better
      individualize patient profiles and to adapt GERD management, enabling a better therapeutic
      response. In many studies the relationship between obesity and GERD has been looked at.
      However, the results of these studies are sometimes contradictory. The connection between
      obesity and elevated risk of GERD symptoms has been reported, although study results were
      sometimes contradictory (that is some of the studies showed that patients who were overweight
      did develop GERD symptoms more often than patients who had a normal weight; other studies did
      not show such a relationship). The purpose of this study is to update the data concerning
      adult patients suffering from GERD in European countries, as well as to explore the
      association between BMI and GERD symptoms, by determining the relative risks in patients
      belonging to different categories of BMI.This observational study will enroll patients who
      present at least 1 typical symptom of GERD (e.g., heartburn and/or regurgitation (the return
      of gastric content from the stomach to the mouth or throat)) in the week before inclusion in
      this study. The aim is to collect information about the symptom characteristics during one
      visit. During this visit, general information (age, weight, height,BMI), information about
      the medical history (including smoking and drinking habits, and drug use), information about
      any other diseases and lifestyle habits and detailed information about GERD (such as when it
      was fist diagnosed, how long the symptoms are present and when they occur, how they are
      treated) will be collected. A physical examination will be performed, consisting of a weight
      and height measurement, calculation of the body mass index (BMI), and a measurement of the
      waist. During the visit, the next steps for the GERD therapy (including changes in life style
      habits) will be discussed and this information will also be collected.
    
  