
    
      This observational study is inspired by the short-term insulin resistance and hyperglycemia
      that have been demonstrated in post-operative patients in response to tissue injury by Van
      den Berghe et al 2001. This short-term insulin resistance and hyperglycemia have also been
      observed in acutely ill patients (Van den Berghe et al 2006). The underlying mechanism for
      why acute ill patients have short-term insulin resistance is still unclear, but it is
      believed that the basic mechanism is increased glucose regeneration and gluconeogenesis,
      which is the consequence of stress metabolism. Hyperglycemia can occur as a result of insulin
      resistance and is associated with an increased risk of multiple complications, which is why
      it is important to detect and treat (Van den Berghe et al 2001). This also means that the
      more insulin-resistant the patient has been prior to the acute condition, the greater the
      risk of elevated blood glucose concentrations. PRS Review Comments identify apparent errors,
      deficiencies, or inconsistencies in the submitted information. Any comments provided should
      not be considered comprehensive. Advisory comments noted in a previous version of a study
      record may apply to subsequent versions, even if not repeated. It is the responsibility of
      the data provider to ensure that the record is consistent with the ClinicalTrials.gov Review
      Criteria.

      The aim of the study is to clarify the degree of insulin resistance in medical patients who
      are not diagnosed with diabetes. Further it will be clarified how long these patients remain
      insulin resistant after discharge.

      The acute medical patients diagnosed with sepsis or septic shock will be observed during
      hospitalization and after discharge. Sepsis is defined as life-threatening organ dysfunction
      caused by dysregulated host response to infection. Because the entire body is affected by an
      infection, it is expected that this group of patients have a high level of stress metabolism,
      insulin resistance and increased gluconeogenesis. The hypothesis is that acute medical
      patients diagnosed with sepsis or septic shock have a level of insulin resistance (days to
      weeks) and thus an increased risk of hyperglycemia. Insulin resistance is expected to
      decrease as the patient's condition improves.

      The hypothesis is:

      Patients with elevated infection levels (CRP and leukocyte count) who are simultaneously
      diagnosed with sepsis, has peripheral insulin resistance due to stress metabolism.

      The pancreas will try to compensate for the peripheral insulin resistance by increasing its
      secretion of insulin to the bloodstream. C-peptide is excreted in equimolar amounts to
      insulin, thereby C-peptide becomes an expression of peripheral insulin resistance.

      It is assumed that the insulin resistance gradually decreases after discharge and further as
      the patient's condition improves (CRP and leukocyte counts).

      The study design is a prospective follow-up study. The difference in C-peptide will be
      observed over a time period of 28 days as an expression of the participant's insulin
      secretion. Futher, the participants' blood glucose will also be observed continuously to find
      the correlation between the degree of insulin resistance and glucose concentration. In
      addition, measure the correlation between the degree of infection and the increase in
      C-peptide concentration.

      The primary endpoint is the change in C-peptide (the difference between the maximum
      concentration and the concentration after 28 days).

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  The area under the curve for blood glucose level measured over 28 days.

        -  Correlation of infection level (CRP/leukocyte count) and increase in C-peptide
           concentration (dose-response).

        -  Correlation between infection rate and insulin resistance.

      Patients admitted to the hospital with sepsis or septic shock can be recruited. Patients will
      be followed for 28 days from admission. The patients will be applied to a continuous flash
      glucose monitor (FGM) on the first day. Follow-up will be performed by blood sampling of
      C-peptide, leukocyte count, and CRP. HbA1c will also be measured for the exclusion of
      diabetes. Blood sampling will be taken both during hospitalization and after discharge.
      C-peptide will be measured every second day during hospitalization and leukocyte count and
      CRP will be measured every day during hospitalization. Reading of FGM will be performed on
      the 14. and on the 28. day where blood sampling of C-peptide, leukocyte count, and CRP also
      will be measured.
    
  