
    
      The study was conducted at a specialist National Health Service (NHS) mental health service
      for refugees, asylum seekers and forced migrants suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress
      Disorder (PTSD). Four participants were enrolled in the study. This was initially intended to
      be a larger study (n=15) but recruitment stopped due to the COVID-19 pandemic and advice from
      the trust R&D and NHS service manager that face-to-face appointments should no longer go
      ahead at the NHS clinical recruitment site. The trust R&D advised that only participants who
      had started the intervention should continue and only if done remotely. An amendment was
      approved for remote delivery of the intervention. Two of the four participants who gave
      informed consent continued to participate in the study. They met with a researcher remotely
      via video technology. The other two participants instead continued to receive standard care
      by the NHS service but did not continue with the research study. This study was a pilot.

      The study had a multiple baseline case-series design (AB), with a randomised duration of
      baseline length up to three weeks. At the start of the baseline phase, participants created,
      with the help of the researcher, a list of their most frequent and distressing intrusive
      memories of trauma. Each intrusive memory was given a label (for example; a letter, colour or
      symbol) so that the frequency of each intrusive memory could be monitored in a pen and paper
      diary. The frequency of specific intrusive memories the person experienced after they had
      received the intervention will be compared to the frequency of specific intrusive memories
      they had during the baseline phase. For each specific intrusion, the period prior to that
      intrusion being targeted in an intervention session was the baseline phase (A); therefore,
      the baseline phase included the minimum baseline duration (lasting up to three weeks) plus
      the additional weeks in which the specific intrusion remained untargeted by the intervention.
      The post intervention phase (B) was the time after the specific intrusion was targeted. Some
      intrusive memories on the list were not targeted by the intervention but were monitored
      (through the intrusion diary) throughout the duration of the study for comparison.

      This study was a follow-up to a study conducted in Sweden with refugees. ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT03760601. The research is extending the previous research to refugees and
      asylum seekers with a diagnosis of PTSD, accessing a secondary care mental health service and
      living in the United Kingdom (UK).
    
  