
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the median time to disease progression in patients with newly diagnosed
           unresectable glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), recurrent GBM, or recurrent anaplastic
           astrocytoma treated with interstitial iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody TNT-1/B.

        -  Determine the median survival time of these patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the safety of this regimen in terms of neurotoxicity, renal, hepatic,
           hematologic, and biochemical profiles in these patients.

        -  Confirm the maximum tolerated dose of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Optimize the drug delivery of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess the response of these patients in terms of MRI measured gadolinium enhanced tumor
           volume and gadolinium enhanced tumor area at 8 and 12 weeks following the last dose of
           study drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo stereotactic implantation of 2 interstitial catheters into the tumor bed.
      One day later, patients receive iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody TNT-1/B interstitially over
      approximately 24 hours. At selected centers, up to 3 additional groups of 3 patients each
      will receive study drug up to 48 hours. Catheters are removed 1 day after completion of the
      infusion. A gadolinium enhanced MRI is performed during week 8. Patients with partial
      response, minimal response, or stable disease repeat the above treatments during week 9.
      Patients with complete response, progressive disease, or unacceptable toxicity receive no
      additional treatment.

      Patients are followed every month until disease progression. All patients regardless of
      disease progression or retreatment are followed at 36 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients (20 patients with newly diagnosed unresectable
      glioblastoma multiforme [GBM]; 20 patients with recurrent GBM; and 20 patients with recurrent
      anaplastic astrocytoma) will be accrued for this study.
    
  