
    
      In 2012, the Kids University for Cooking Foundation BV has developed a nutrition education
      programme called 'Kokkerelli Learning Street'. This innovative programme aims to teach
      primary school students aged 8-12 years (study years 5-8) where food comes from, how it is
      processed, and how it can be used for the preparation of a healthy meal. The theoretical
      foundation of the Learning Street is based on the EnRG framework, which states that behaviour
      is influenced both by conscious and unconscious processes. These processes can (in)directly
      be influenced by environmental factors. In addition, several behavioural and personal factors
      are thought to moderate the causal path.

      The Kokkerelli Learning Street is offered to primary school children in the region of Venlo,
      the Netherlands. It involves education based on concepts of the Self-Determination Theory,
      active learning, and imagineering (e.g., self-experience in an interactive environment,
      rather than conventional education). The present study will investigate the effects of the
      Kokkerelli Learning Street on several determinants of children's fruit and vegetable intake.
      Based on the EnRG framework, other literature and the aims of the Learning Street, five
      relevant determinants are selected: (i) knowledge; (ii) taste preferences; (iii) intention;
      (iv) skills; and (v) attitude.

      Using child-reported questionnaires, the present study aims to answer the following key
      questions:

      What are the short-term and longer-term effects of the Kokkerelli Learning Street on
      children's:

        -  Knowledge regarding fruit and vegetable consumption?

        -  Intentions regarding fruit and vegetable consumption?

        -  Attitude regarding fruit and vegetable consumption?

        -  Liking of fruit and vegetables?

        -  Skills regarding fruit and vegetable preparation?

        -  Fruit and vegetable intake?
    
  