
    
      This is a Phase II, randomized, observer-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-site trial of the
      FDA licensed rMenB+OMV NZ vaccine, Bexsero. The targeted study population is men and women
      18-50 years of age who are disproportionately vulnerable to N. gonorrhoeae infection.
      Approximately 2,200 participants are expected to be enrolled to achieve at least 202
      evaluable participants. Data will be collected in an observer-blind manner. Study product
      recipients and study staff responsible for the evaluation of any study endpoint will be
      unaware of whether Bexsero or placebo were administered. Participants who consent to
      screening will have baseline clinical information collected at Visit 0, Screening (Day -14
      [Window -45 to -7]). This information will consist of medical history, concomitant
      medications, physical exam, sexual history, and clinical and laboratory findings.
      Participants will undergo a physical exam and have blood drawn to establish baseline
      laboratory values for safety assessment. Urine or a vaginal swab, and a rectal swab will be
      collected for Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (NAAT) for gonorrhea and chlamydia. A
      pharyngeal swab will be collected for NAAT testing of gonorrhea. At the enrollment visit,
      Visit 1, participants who test negative for gonorrhea and who otherwise qualify will be
      enrolled and randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive the initial intramuscular (IM) dose of
      study product. A phone call, Visit 2, will be held approximately 30 days after the initial
      study product dose was received and will be conducted with all participants to assess for
      safety events in the interim. At Visit 3, the participant will receive the second dose of
      study product. Visit 4 will be held 1 month after second dose. At 3-month intervals, through
      the final study follow-up visit, participants will have clinic study visits, Visit 5 thru
      Visit 8. The duration of the study for participants who are enrolled and randomized will be
      approximately 16 months. For those not enrolled, participation could end at their Visit 0,
      Screening; post Visit 0, Screening based on NAAT test results; or Visit 1, Enrollment. Study
      participation is expected to be completed in approximately 36 months. The primary objective
      of the study is to demonstrate efficacy of Bexsero in prevention of urogenital and/or
      anorectal gonococcal infection. The secondary objectives are to estimate efficacy of Bexsero
      in prevention of overall gonococcal infection and by anatomical site (urogenital, anorectal
      or pharyngeal) and to assess safety of Bexsero.
    
  