
    
      Study plan:

      The hypothesis is that there is no difference in the amount of pain the patients will
      experience after VATS for pulmonary neoplasms.

      Study design and setting:

      The project is designed as a prospectively, double blinded, randomized, placebo controlled
      study comparing pain in two groups of patients.

      Both groups of patients will:

        -  Have a epidural catheter placed.

        -  Receive a basis level of analgesics consisting of paracetamol and a nonsteroidal anti-
           inflammatory drug combined with a nerveblock placed intercostally during surgery.

        -  Have access to i.v. opioids as needed for any experienced pain after surgery.

      One group of patients will be given local anaesthetics through the epidural catheter
      supplemented with placebo medication orally while the other group will receive saline in the
      epidural catheter supplemented with opioids orally.

      Data collection:

      Data will, during hospitalization, be collected in the operating theatre, in the
      postoperative care unit and in the surgical ward. Six months after surgery a questionnaire
      will be send to the patients to do follow-up regarding residual sequelae after surgery and
      placement of epidural catheter. Further follow-up with questionnaire has been planned for
      subsequent years.

      As a secondary objective, in fifty-six of the patients from The SEAVATS Study, blood samples
      will be gathered during surgery and one hour and 24 hours after surgery, and compared with
      pre-operative levels.

      These blood samples will be analysed for immune cells (NK-cells, levels and activity) and
      cytokines (IL-6, IL-10, IL-12 and IFN-gamma) as indicators of immunological response to
      surgery.

      Research ethics:

      The project has obtained ethics approval from The Regional Scientific Ethical Committees for
      Southern Denmark and acceptance to perform clinical research has been granted by The Danish
      Health and Medicines Authority. Consent to data collection has been provided by The Danish
      Data Protection Agency. Before entering the project, consent will be obtained from all
      patients. Rigorous data security will be maintained for five years and afterwards all data
      will be deleted. The Study is registered with The European Union Drug Regulating Authorities
      Clinical Trials Database (EudraCT) with EudraCT number 2014-000760-18 and is monitored by The
      Good Clinical Practice unit for Southern Denmark.
    
  