
    
      Schizophrenia (SZ) extracts a heavy personal and public health cost, primarily because there
      is no effective treatment. Though many drugs are currently available, the majority provide
      only partial relief for psychotic phenomena and none guarantee more than modest relief for
      'negative symptoms' or for cognitive impairments. The Investigators must search for
      additional effective and safe medications. Recently, big data analytic strategies have
      yielded numerous 'repurposed' drugs, i.e., drugs with new indications that are already
      licensed for other uses. These strategies utilize massive data bases of known drug effects to
      find candidates that could predictably counteract known pathogenic effects of the disorder in
      question. Repurposed drugs are appealing not only because they have already been marketed and
      have known side effect profiles, but also because they have increased prior probability of
      efficacy. Still, careful randomized controlled trials (RCTs) are necessary for the new
      indications. The investigators have designed a systematic search for repurposed drugs likely
      to be beneficial for patients with SZ. Our novel search strategy began with the construction
      of a comprehensive protein-protein interaction network (PPI) for SZ using a validated method.
      Next, The Investigators searched public data bases for drugs that have predicted effects on
      multiple proteins in the SZ PPI network, but opposite to those observed in patients with SZ.
      The initial list was pruned using predetermined criteria, leaving 7 drugs of which
      cromoglycate (CGY) had the best negative correlation score. Reassuringly, three other drugs
      with lower scores in our list have already been tested for SZ. CGY is a safe and highly
      effective mast cell inhibitor that has been licensed for over 25 years for prophylaxis of
      asthma and allergies; it is also used to treat systemic mastocytosis and ulcerative colitis.
      Independent of our research, CGY is also predicted to stabilize the blood brain barrier
      (BBB), which can be disrupted in patients with SZ. Animal studies and favorable Log P
      estimates assure that CGY can cross the BBB. CGY has few reported side effects, despite its
      extensive use. Thus, multiple factors motivate our RCT. The Investigators propose a double
      blind adjunctive RCT for SZ using CGY. To maximize therapeutic benefits while minimizing risk
      and discomfort, The Investigators will enroll outpatients with SZ who meet criteria for
      residual positive symptoms after adequate trials of standard antipsychotic drug (APD) therapy
      (N=100, total). The Investigators will prefer patients in the early course of their illness.
      CGY or placebo will be added to prescribed medications for 4 weeks utilizing the Sequential
      Parallel Comparison Design to maximize power. The primary outcome will be improvement in
      positive symptoms as determined by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) positive
      symptom subscale. Secondary outcomes include total symptoms (PANSS total score), negative
      symptoms (PANSS negative symptom scale scores), cognition (Penn Computerized Neurocognitive
      Battery), and social function. Serum CGY levels will be monitored. The Investigators have
      proven experience with RCTs and the large number of patients are our clinical service ensures
      that recruitment targets will be fulfilled.
    
  