
    
      Background: Back pain is a common health problem and a substantial burden on affected
      individuals, their families and society. In fact, it is the single leading cause of
      disability worldwide. Unfortunately, the pathological mechanisms behind back pain are not
      well understood, hindering the development of well-targeted, effective prevention and
      treatment approaches. The anatomical structures referred to as the functional spinal units,
      each composed of an intervertebral disc, its two adjacent vertebrae, and other associated
      osteoligamentous structures, have been studied for several decades with limited success in
      identifying the source of the pain. The intervertebral disc has received the most attention,
      and while disc degeneration or pathology is associated with the clinical conditions of disc
      herniation and radiculopathy, as well as spinal stenosis, the role of the disc in common back
      pain is uncertain. More recently, the vertebral endplate has attracted attention as a
      possible contributor to back pain problems.

      The vertebral endplate is a thin interface structure between the intervertebral disc and the
      cancellous bone of the adjacent vertebral body. Unlike the disc, the bony vertebral endplate
      is highly vascularized and has a plentiful neural supply, and structural defects or lesions
      in the endplate are relatively common in cadaveric samples and on clinical imaging. However,
      there is a wide range of prevalence rates from 9% to 75% for structural endplate defects
      across studies and conflicting findings on the association of structural endplate defects
      with back pain. Also, there is a lack of consistency in the use of terms and definitions for
      endplate defects, which limits the ability to effectively communicate findings, interpret and
      compare study results, and build a coherent body of knowledge on the causes and consequences
      of endplate defects.

      Furthermore, the absence of clear definitions or descriptions for endplate defects
      represented by various terms is problematic for measurement reliability, which is seldom
      reported in studies of endplate defects. A morphologic description has been found to be more
      important in establishing the reliability of a standardized MRI nomenclature than the
      experience of the reader. However, a recent review identified few measurement methods with
      detailed classification and definition of structural endplate phenotypes. Among them were
      methods presented by Feng's and Brayda-Bruno's team. Both measurement methods stem from a
      previous study on endplate defect phenotypes observed in a cadaveric sample. Good to
      excellent intra- and inter-rater reliability was reported for each classification system in a
      single MRI study, but neither has been validated.

      Clinical CT is one of the most common imaging modalities used for the spine and its use is
      expected to increase with advancements in clinical CT technology, such as the low tube
      potential and iterative reconstruction that decreases scan time and radiation dose while
      optimizing image quality. Yet, with CT, as with MRI, the varied measurement methods used to
      document the appearance of endplate defects on clinical imaging in the scientific literature,
      and the absence of validation of such methods leaves uncertainty about what the observations
      on imaging actually represent. It is also unclear how sensitive clinical imaging is in
      picking up different types and sizes of defects (e.g. diagnostic accuracy). Micro-CT has been
      used as a reference standard in human studies and for the characterization of morphological
      features of endplate defects in cadaveric samples. Micro-CT measurement is accurate,
      consistent and reproducible, and has the advantage of providing shape and texture information
      for an object within a single measurement.

      Our study will address the reliability and diagnostic test validity of structural endplate
      defect assessments of clinical CT. Such information is critical for establishing meaningful
      standards for the evaluation and interpretation of endplate defects on imaging, as well as
      for studies of their etiology and clinical consequences.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES This study seeks to evaluate and compare the reliability and validity of two
      methods to identify and characterize structural endplate defects on clinical imaging.

      The specific objectives are to:

        1. Determine the inter-rater reliability of endplate defect determinations on clinical CT
           scans.

        2. Determine the diagnostic accuracy of assessments of clinical CT-scans for identifying
           endplate defects, using micro-CT as the reference standard.

      MATERIALS & METHODS This is a reliability and validity study of vertebral endplate defects on
      clinical CT (index test) using micro-CT as the reference standard in 19 human cadavers.

      Materials Source: This study comprises cadavers of 9 men and 10 women with a median age of 82
      years (range 62-91) from the Anatomy lab and Western University's whole-body donation program
      maintained by the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Schulich School of Medicine and
      Dentistry. We will use a sample of 19 harvested T7-S1 spines from embalmed (fixed) cadavers.
      Embalming consisted of arterial distribution of embalming fluid, containing a mixture of
      ethanol, phenol, and formalin (Wessel & Associates: Troy, MI, USA), 24- to 48- hours
      post-mortem).

      Donor information: Only the anonymized cadaver ID number, cause of death, age, and sex of the
      donor were available from Western's donation program.

      Spine imaging Clinical CT was acquired (scanned at 1.25mm x 1.25mm on a standard algorithm
      and then reformatted into an axial, coronal and sagittal series at 3mm x 2mm) on all fully
      intact cadavers prior to the onset of this study by the Schulich School of Medicine &
      Dentistry at the University of Western Ontario, in accordance with the Anatomy Act of Ontario
      and guidelines of Western's Committee for Cadaveric Use in Research.

      Micro-CT (µCT) of all cadaveric specimens was performed at Robarts Research Institute at a
      peak voltage of 80 kVp and a tube current of 50 mA. The X-ray projections were reconstructed
      into a single three-dimensional volume with isotropic voxel spacing of 154 µm. In preparation
      for µCT the lower thoracic and lumbar spine (T7 through S1) was removed from each cadaver.
      The ribs were dissected 1-2 cm lateral to the costovertebral joints and the soft tissue
      associated with the spine was preserved and remained intact during micro-CT.

      Assessment of endplate defects Assessment of clinical CT scans: Three raters will
      independently assess the sagittal images of the clinical CT for endplate defect presence,
      phenotype classification, and defect size and location, blinded to all prior assessments.
      Endplate defect measurement methods by Brayda-Bruno's and Feng's teams will be strictly used.
      First, measurement according to Brayda-Bruno will be used to assess the 19 clinical CTs of
      the spines. Two weeks after the Brayda-Bruno assessment, evaluations according to Feng will
      be performed on sagittal images to determine the type and location of the defects, as well as
      to measure the anteroposterior and transverse diameter of the defects and endplates. Across
      all measurements, endplates will be labelled with reference to the disc. All endplate defect
      measurements will be observed from the immediate normal slice before the defect to the first
      normal slice after the defect. Feng's initial measurement protocol used only sagittal MR
      images to estimate the transverse diameter by dividing the number of images with endplate
      defects by the total number of sagittal images containing the endplate. However, due to the
      large number of sagittal images in CT compared to MRI, the current study will use the
      transitional distance covered by the defects in relation to the image to determine the
      transverse diameter. Artefact including osteophytes will be excluded when taking an endplate
      measurement. Each rater will assess the images in the same order (Brayda-Bruno's followed by
      Feng's measurements). All measurements will be taken in millimetres rounded up to the nearest
      decimal point. All assessments will be entered into a pilot-tested excel data entry form.
      After all assessments, a panellist with the three raters will discuss each rating for a
      consensus on the single index test that will be compared to the reference standard.

      Raters, training, and Consensus The clinical-CT scans will be assessed independently by two
      radiologists with experience in musculoskeletal imaging and a physical therapist, a Ph.D.
      student studying endplate defects. A master's student in Clinical Anatomy has assessed and
      documented endplate defects on micro-CT, the reference standard.

      To ensure a consistent understanding of the nomenclature in each classification system, an
      evaluation manual consisting of measurement descriptions and figures was prepared based on
      the published articles introducing each of the classification systems. For the purpose of
      training and to identify practical issues in the evaluation process; four joint training
      sessions were organized for the raters to evaluate training sets of clinical CT images and
      discuss practical issues. Each rater independently rated three clinical CT images (66
      endplates). Results were collected and analyzed, conflicting domains were noted, discussed
      and clarified during meetings. All the raters indicated satisfaction with the understanding
      and ability to use each measurement method.

      Statistical Analysis Data will be imported into Stata/IC 14 (Stata Corp LP) for statistical
      analysis. Inter-rater reliability among the three raters (objective 1) of the clinical CT
      measurements will be determined using Cohen's kappa statistic for categorical variables
      (presence or absence of defect and the type of the defect) or Intraclass Correlation
      Coefficients (ICC) for continuous variables (e.g., anteroposterior and transverse
      diameters.). ICC and Kappa values will be interpreted as poor (< 0.40), fair (0.41-0.60),
      good (0.61-0.80), and excellent (0.81-1.0). Discrepancies will then be reviewed and resolved
      through consensus. For objective 2, for each endplate level, a 2x2 table will be used to
      calculate percent agreement in detecting endplate defects between the clinical CT and
      micro-CT.
    
  