
    
      The method of placement under fluoroscopic control (FX) is considered as the reference
      technique. This is often criticized for disadvantages such as costs, logistical problems and
      relative ionizing radiation. Despite this, it is still advised by 75% of PICC providers.

      Appeared about ten years ago, a per procedural guiding technique with intracavitary ECG
      tracking (ECG-EM) presents a better technical success (precision and specificity) than the
      blind technique, but there is still a lack in comparing this technique to the FX technique.

      This prospective randomized controlled study is designed to compare the PICC insertion using
      ECG-EM guidance to fluoroscopic (FX) guidance in order to define whether a replacement of the
      FX technique by ECG-EM is appropriate in terms of the final catheter tip position of the PICC
      as well as length of the outgoing catheter at the entry point.

      All included patients gave their written consent and the study is approved by EC.

      Participation is open to all adults referred to the radiology department of the CHUV for
      insertion of a PICC (monocentric).

      Recruited patients will be randomly assigned to one of the two arms (FX or ECG-EM).

      For both procedures patient position and preparation (MSB, maximal sterile barrier) are
      standardized and are similar.

      FX method consists on a puncture of an arm vein, under the ultrasound control and local
      anesthesia. Through the point of puncture, a long wire is then introduced and directed to the
      level of the target zone located in the superior vena cava under fluoroscopy control. The
      length of the guide inside the vessel is then measured to adjust the length of the PICC
      necessary for its optimal positioning.

      For ECG-EM insertion technique, the vein puncture is done in similar conditions to the FX
      method. The length of the PICC is estimated prior to its insertion using morphological
      landmarks. The placement of the PICC is done using SHERLOCK 3CG™ Diamond Tip Confirmation
      System (TCS) (CE marked device; C. R. Bard, Inc.).

      At the end of procedure, a chest x-ray is performed to assess the PICC position. Possible
      per-procedural complications are documented.

      After intervention, the patient is transferred back to the ward or sent home in stable
      conditions.
    
  