
    
      Venous leg ulcers (VLUs) are wounds which are often chronic and difficult to heal. VLUs
      affect between 1 and 3.2 people per 1000; they cause pain, reduced mobility and impact
      negatively on patients' quality of life (QoL). Standard treatment for patients with VLUs is
      the application of strong, sustained compression with bandages or stockings. This
      pragmatically-designed study aims to determine whether the use of a device called MIST used
      in combination with standard treatments can improve healing of VLUs compared to UK standard
      practice. It will also show whether the MIST regimen improves participants' QoL and reduces
      the incidence of infection.

      The MIST ultrasound system is a non-contact device which delivers low-frequency ultrasound
      through a gentle saline mist directed at a patient's wound. Patients (over 18 years old) will
      be invited to take part in this study if they have had a VLU for 6 weeks or more, which
      measures between 5 and 100 cm^2, and is not infected. Participants with diabetes must show
      good blood glucose control, and those with underlying chronic disorders which may affect
      wound healing will be excluded.

      All study participants will receive four weeks of standard treatment once a week at a single
      clinic at the Wound Healing Research Unit (WHRU), University Hospital of Wales. Patients
      whose wounds reduce by more than 40% during this time will be withdrawn from the study.
      Remaining patients will be randomly allocated to either the active group or the control group
      to receive a further eight weeks of treatment. Participants in the active group will receive
      treatment with the MIST device three times a week, as well as standard care (change of
      compression bandage and dressings) three times a week. The control group will receive UK
      standard care (which is dressing and compression bandage change at least once a week). The
      participants' ulcers will be measured and photographed once a week, and the wound
      characteristics will be assessed. Changes in participants' health related QoL will be
      assessed using a questionnaire at the beginning and end of the trial. Wound recurrence rates
      90 days after the end of the treatment will be assessed by telephoning patients.
    
  