
    
      38 patients American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) class I or II aged 2-8 years
      undergoing tonsillectomy surgery were randomized to either the patient's head in the neutral
      position or 30 degree rotated lateral position. All patients were preoxygenated using 100%
      oxygen with a normal tidal volumen for 3 min. The circuit was primed with sevoflurane 8% at a
      fresh gas flow of 8 Litre/min （L/min） for 1 min. Anaesthesia was induced with inhaled
      sevoflurane up to 5% in oxygen via facemask with fresh gas flow at 6 L/min.After loss of
      consciousness, the inspired concentration of sevoflurane was maintained 10-12min a
      predetermined end-tidal concentration. A single experienced anaesthetist in the use of
      endotracheal devices inserted the devices according to the manufacturer's recommendations.
      Neuromuscular blocking agents and other intravenous anesthetics were not given. One nurse,
      who was blinded to the anaesthetic concentration, classified responses by the patient to
      tracheal intubation as either "movement" or "not movement". Assesment was made for jaw
      relaxation and graded with intubation score. The sum of intubation scores >4 was defined as a
      failure of insertion. The end-tidal (ET) sevoflurane concentration used for each patient was
      determined using the Dixon's up-and-down method. The ratio of the end-tidal to predetermined
      end-tidal concentrations was maintained at 0.95-1.0 for at least 10 minutes to establish
      equilibration before device insertion was attempted. The first patient received a 5.0%
      sevoflurane concentration and the step size of increase/decrease was 0.5%. If the
      endotracheal device insertion was successful, sevoflurane concentration for the next patient
      was decrease by 0.5%. If not, sevoflurane concentration was increased by the same amount for
      the next patient. For their comfort, patients experiencing movement received a 2 mg/kg bolus
      dose of propofol,fentanyl 2.0ug/kg and rocuronium 0.6mg/kg.If the endotracheal device
      insertion was successful,fentanyl 2.0ug/kg and rocuronium 0.6mg/kg was also administered.
    
  