
    
      Clinical Phase: III

      Trial Design: Multi-site, individually randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial
      of weekly azithromycin for 12 months

      Trial Participants: Children aged 6-16 years living with HIV and with diagnosis of chronic
      lung disease. Another 200 children living with HIV but with no chronic lung disease in a
      comparison arm.

      Planned Sample Size: 400 cases and 100 in the comparison arm

      Treatment duration: 12 months

      Follow up duration: 18 months

      Planned Trial Period: June 2016-September 2019

      Objectives:

        -  Primary trial outcome: To investigate whether adjuvant treatment with azithromycin
           results in improvement in lung function in HIV-infected children with chronic lung
           disease, who are stable on antiretroviral therapy.

        -  Secondary trial outcomes:

      .To investigate the intervention effect on mortality,exacerbations of lung disease, quality
      of life and morbidity..

      .To investigate adverse events related to azithromycin treatment. .-Laboratory sub-studies
      .To determine the effect of azithromycin therapy on antimicrobial resistance in bacteria
      colonizing the respiratory tract.

      .To investigate the diversity and composition of the respiratory microbiome in HIV-infected
      children with CLD.

      .To investigate the diversity and composition of the gut microbiome in HIV-infected children
      with CLD.

      .To investigate the effect of azithromycin on biomarkers of systemic inflammation in
      HIV-infected children with CLD.

      .-Cardiac sub-study: .Describe the cardiac symptoms and echocardiograph findings of
      HIV-infected children with chronic lung disease.

      .To investigate whether adjuvant treatment with azithromycin results in improvement in
      right-sided cardiac function and/or pulmonary hypertension in HIV-infected children with
      chronic lung disease.

      Investigational Medicinal Product(s): Azithromycin and placebo.

      Formulation:Tablets 250 mg

      Dose: According to weight bands (30 mg/kg/week):

        -  10-20 kg: 250 mg

        -  20-29 kg: 500 mg

        -  30-39 kg: 750 mg

        -  40-49 kg: 1250 mg

      Route of Administration:Oral
    
  