
    
      The purpose of this trial is to elucidate whether the PARP inhibition approach with
      niraparib, or the combination of niraparib and TSR-042, provides clinical benefit in patients
      with recurrent endometrial cancer.

      The trial is designed as a multicenter, open-label, phase II study of niraparib in
      monotherapy or in combination with anti-PD1 inhibitor TSR-042 in recurrent endometrial
      cancer. Patients must have received prior platinum based chemotherapy.

      The study will initially enroll patients with recurrent endometrial cancer to the niraparib
      monotherapy cohort not selected according to the PTEN status (cohort I).

      Once the initial assessment with niraparib monotherapy is completed (inclusion of 22
      evaluable patients),Additional 22 patients will be enrolled in the combination arm with
      niraparib and TSR-042 (cohort II).

      Eligible participants will take niraparib capsules or tablets by mouth 300/200 mg, once a
      day, every day of every 21 day cycle.Participant will receive TSR-042 500 mg( intravenously)
      on the first day of each cycle for cycle 1 to 4. Followed by 1000 mg every 2 cycle for every
      6 weeks for maximum of 2 yrs.

      While receiving the study treatment, participants will be asked to visit the study site on
      Days 1, 8, 15 of Cycle 1.Cycle 2 onward Days 1 and 15 and future cycles for safety tests and
      procedures. If, at any time, participants develop (or is suspected to have developed)
      MDS/AML, a mandatory bone marrow aspirate/biopsy will be done for testing to confirm
      diagnosis.

      When participants are taken off the study treatment permanently, they will be asked to return
      to the study site for an End of Study Treatment visit to have tests and procedures done for
      safety purposes.

      Participants who are taken off the study treatment for any reason other than disease
      progression will continue to have radiological assessments every 8 weeks until disease
      progression. Participants will continue to be followed up for side effects weekly in the
      first 4 weeks, then monthly until resolution.
    
  