
    
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging(MRI) has become the gold standard of evaluation of lumbar spinal
      stenosis (LSS. LSS is defined as the narrowing of the spinal canal. Thus far, there has been
      no formal grading system in literature. Physicians, particularly radiologists, in their
      interpretations, currently describe the degree of stenosis at each level as normal, mild,
      moderate or severe. Unfortunately, there is no consensus on criteria of these definitions.
      Treatments and surgical plans are based primarily on this information. Consequently, the
      reliability and accuracy of this information is critical in terms of optimizing outcomes.

      In this study 50-100 MRI studies of patients diagnosed with symptomatic lumbar spinal
      stenosis will be collected, de-identified, and assigned a study identification number for
      tracking purposes. Three "raters" from Upstate and three "rater" from outside the
      institution, that have experience reviewing MRI's will be asked to review the MRI's and
      classify the LSS at all lumbar levels as normal, mild, moderate or severe in the central
      canal, lateral recesses and the neuroforamen. The raters will not have any information about
      the patients. The MRI's will then be given a new identification number, and the patient's
      self-assessment questionnaires (which are also de-identified and given the study id number)
      will be given to the raters, for a second review. The raters will have the patients gender,
      age and outcomes scores from Short form 36, Visual Analog Scale, Oswestry Disability Index
      and Zurich Claudication Questionnaires. The raters will classify the MRI, as normal, mild,
      moderate or severe using the outcomes and information supplied.

      The data from both ratings will be compiled and compared to assess the reliability of the
      radiologically established anatomical stenosis when compared with the subjects outcome
      scores.

      This study is for current patients in Upstate Orthopedics office.
    
  