
    
      Noninvasive neurostimulation techniques include Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and
      Cathodal Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS). Of these, tDCS is uniquely suited to
      mass distribution and treatment, even at home, as it is lightweight, portable, inexpensive
      and has a favorable safety profile. In tDCS, a low intensity (1-2 mA) unidirectional
      electrical current is applied to the scalp to influence underlying cortical excitability.
      Some small preliminary studies suggest that cathodal tDCS may suppress epileptic seizures.
      However, a well-powered randomized-controlled trial demonstrating convincing proof of
      efficacy has not been conducted. This study is intended to test whether tDCS reduces seizures
      in patients with intractable focal neocortical epilepsy. The hypothesis is that repeated
      daily sessions of cathodal tDCS will lead to a clinically significant decrease in seizures in
      this population. Successful completion of this pilot study will be an essential first step
      toward a larger placebo-controlled trial with the goal of establishing cathodal tDCS as a
      novel, non-invasive and inexpensive treatment for drug-resistant seizures, and will provide
      the critical data needed for an application to obtain FDA approval for the use of tDCS in the
      treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy.

      tDCS is a painless method for focal brain stimulation. tDCS is based on decades-old
      observations that neuronal firing is modulated by low amplitude electrical direct current
      (DC). Specifically, when applied to the cerebral cortex, cathodal DC inhibits neuronal
      firing. The mechanisms by which cathodal DC reduces neuronal firing likely relate to
      hyper-polarization of the soma membrane which occurs when the apical dendrites neuron are
      oriented toward the cathode in a constant electric field. The practical application of tDCS
      is simple: low amplitude DC is administered via scalp electrodes such that the cerebral
      cortex is exposed to cathodal DC beneath one of the electrodes, and the return (anodal)
      electrodes can be placed anywhere else on the body, or in more complex arrangements to
      minimize currents at any one site. tDCS methods have also recently been adapted to rats for
      work with disease models showing success with seizure suppression. Numerous of tDCS studies
      have demonstrated the technique to be well tolerated and safe. Direct electrical current
      stimulation is presently FDA-approved for extracranial use, and FDA applications for tDCS for
      management of mood disorder and chronic pain are in progress.

      tDCS units are also inexpensive and light-weight. The electrical supply can be derived from
      conventional 9-volt batteries. The scalp electrodes can be fastened in seconds. tDCS can be
      combined easily with other therapies, such as those that may be required for resuscitation of
      an acutely-injured patient. tDCS is presently under investigation as a treatment for
      epilepsy, where excess cortical excitability is a prominent feature of the disease process,
      and where neuronal inhibition may be beneficial. Thus for epilepsy, tDCS may offer a
      practical non-pharmacologic therapy for the large minority, approximately 35%, of patients
      whose seizure cannot be controlled by medication.

      The tDCS stimulator used in this clinical study is the STARSTIM device (Neuroelectrics, Inc).
      STARSTIM is capable of recording EEG before, during and after tDCS stimulation, and will not
      only allow for a detailed understanding of the tDCS-induced effect on neural activity, but
      may eventually serve as a guidance to fine-tune the stimulation parameters and improve the
      tDCS protocol based on the developmental, behavioral, dynamical, and disease state through
      closed-loop systems.

      Starstim device is remotely controlled using NIC software that stands for Neuroelectrics
      Instrument Controller (NIC). This application will allow physicians to configure the study
      protocol with all the defined parameters. The provided version of software will only enable
      to apply tDCS protocols to the subjects in the study.
    
  