
    
      Prediabetes is a common state in which blood glucose levels are elevated, but are not
      elevated high enough to be considered Type 2 Diabetes (T2D). The worldwide prevalence of
      prediabetes is high and rapidly increasing. People with prediabetes are at increased risk for
      developing a variety of chronic diseases. Most notably, prediabetes nearly always precedes
      diagnosis of T2D, a poorly-controlled disease adversely affecting 14% of adults in the United
      States. T2D is responsible for increased risk of heart disease, stroke, blindness and other
      vision problems, kidney disease, amputations and death. Prediabetes often progresses to T2D
      relatively quickly, as pancreatic beta-cell dysfunction perpetuates. There are currently
      limited pharmacological options available for safely reducing the burden of prediabetes.
      Furthermore, these pharmacological options often carry potentially deleterious side effects.
      Low-risk alternatives are needed where lifestyle modifications, such as increased physical
      activity and weight loss, have failed.

      Herbal dietary supplements have shown promise in safely managing impaired glycemic control in
      prediabetic adults in many clinical studies. A wide variety of herbs have been previously
      studied for these purposes, including cinnamon, fenugreek, banaba, curcumin, and a variety of
      combination products. Of these, most have demonstrated improved management of glycemic
      control, particularly with regard to reducing fasting blood glucose and postprandial glucose,
      HbA1c, fasting insulin levels, HOMA-Insulin Resistance, and increasing HOMA-β cell function
      among prediabetic adult populations. Many herbs have also demonstrated benefit in the
      management of glycemic control in clinical trials among T2D populations. These herbs include
      berberine, ginseng, gymnema, banaba, cinnamon, fenugreek, and kudzu, all of which are present
      in GlucoSupreme™ Herbal.

      The research team hypothesizes that GlucoSupreme™ Herbal will demonstrate superior
      improvements in markers of glycemic control than placebo over twelve weeks of daily
      supplementation among a sample of healthy adults. The research team aims to conduct a
      randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded clinical trial to evaluate this hypothesis
      among a diverse sample of 40 prediabetic adults, and will implement a 1:1 study allocation
      ratio. This study will utilize an adaptive sample size re-estimation (SSR) approach where
      participant enrollment may be extended beyond the originally planned sample size if interim
      effect size is smaller than anticipated, but still promising, thereby preserving study power;
      this will be determined by examination of available unblinded endpoint data by an independent
      statistician after 30 subjects are enrolled.
    
  