
    
      This project will take place over a 3 year period and will consist of 10 6-week theatre
      interventions (5 for girls 8-12 and 5 for girls 13-18). The first two (pilot) interventions
      (one for each age group) are scheduled to take place in Spring of 2020. From Fall 2020
      through Spring 2022 we will implement one intervention per age group each fall and one per
      age group each spring.

      The theatre intervention is an Asante Theatre production that involves reading a script,
      being assigned a role, rehearsing, participating in discussions about the script that will
      contribute to script development/editing to personalize it, and eventually performing the
      play in front of a community audience. The play is free and open to the public and at the end
      of the performance participants will participate in a 'talk back' during which audience
      members can ask questions about the process. The talk back is moderated by the PI, and
      participants are not required to respond to questions but can speak up if/when they feel
      comfortable doing so. Theatre interventions are led by Asante theatre personnel and evaluated
      by the PI and occupational therapy graduate students. Evaluations take place after the PI
      obtains parental/guardian informed consent, the week after the intervention, 6 weeks follow
      up, and 6 months follow up. Evaluation sessions are conducted individually with each girl who
      signs up to participate, using data collection tools described below and attached in the
      'notes/attachment' section, and will take no longer than 60 minutes. Adult audience members
      at performances are also participants of this study if they consent by checking "Yes" or "No"
      on the Audience Survey and responding to questions. The audience survey is described briefly
      below and attached in the notes/attachments section.

      For 4 weeks leading up to each intervention, we will recruit by posting flyers throughout the
      Boys & Girls Club of Indianapolis (BGCI) where the interventions are to take place (we will
      implement at 5 different clubs throughout the city). We will also circulate flyers through
      BGCI social media and listservs, and send flyers home to parents. Girls who want to
      participate can let BGCI staff members know and BGCI staff will provide that girl's
      parent/guardian with an informed consent document to review and sign with the PI's contact
      information on it in case the parent/guardian has questions. The PI will call parents to
      ensure understanding and answer questions. She will also review the document to obtain assent
      from girls who want to participate and have their parents' signed consent forms.
    
  