
    
      Unlike fully developed teeth, the root canal treatment of young permanent teeth is
      particularly complex and difficult due to its large apical opening, short root length and
      thin canal wall. In modern endodontics, vital pulp therapy (VPT), a biological based
      procedures designed to restore functional pulp-dentin complex and promote continued root
      development, has been considered as an alternative treatment modality. Mineral Trioxide
      Aggregate (MTA) has been recommended for uses in VPT with preliminary studies, showing
      promising results. However, lack of high level of evidence trials, inconsistent treatment
      protocols and follow-up periods, heterogeneous selection criteria, result VPT unreliable and
      difficult to reach a consensus on the efficacy of MTA. Therefore, we propose this
      retrospective cohort study with two specific aims. The first aim focuses on the treatment
      outcome of different VPT protocols in young permanent tooth. The second aim is to determine
      if MTA is a suitable material in VPT and related factors potentially influencing prognosis.
      Subjects for the study will be identified from patients who received VPT at the Department of
      Dentistry in the National Taiwan University Hospital from 1999 to 2014 and have returned for
      tooth follow up at least one year after treatment. Treatment outcomes will be judged by
      analyzing clinical and radiographic data, which will be evaluated by 3 independent dentists.
      The radiographs will be evaluated using a geometrical imaging program-NIH Image J, to
      calculate the percentage increase in root length and width. Statistical analysis will be
      applied using the SPSS program to assess the treatment's success rates at the various
      follow-up periods. The differences will be statistically analyzed performing chi-square test,
      Fisher exact test, and t-test, using a statistical significance at p<0.05.
    
  