
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of Low level laser therapy (LLLT) on
      stability and displacement of orthodontic miniscrew implants with mediate and immediate force
      application. They will be assessed 48 miniscrew implants placed in patients in orthodontic
      treatment at the postgraduate clinical in Orthodontics, at School of Dentistry of Ribeirão
      Preto, University of São Paulo. They will be randomly divided into 4 groups: 1- LLLT and
      immediate force application; 2- LLLT and force application 4 weeks after implantation; 3-
      immediate force application without LLLT and 4- force application 4 weeks after implantation
      without LLLT. Orthodontic force of 150 gF will be applied for 3 months. A low power laser
      device Therapy XT with a wavelength of 660 nm and output of 100 mW immediately after
      implantation (energy density: 4J/cm2), and 808 nm with 100 mW (energy density: 8J/cm2), every
      48 hours for two weeks in the following applications will be used. The stability will be
      assessed using Resonance Frequency Analysis (RFA) at three times: the implantation day (T1),
      one month (T2) and after 3 months of force application (T3). Stability measures will be
      evaluated in Implant Stability Quotient (ISQ). To assess the amount of miniscrew implant
      displacement, it will be used Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) at the beginning (CT1) and
      final of the application of orthodontic force (CT2). Three-dimensional models will be created
      in specific programs and superimpositions of CT1 and CT2 will be used to measure the distance
      in millimeters between inicial and final position. The evaluation will be carried out in
      three points: head of miniscrew implant (point C), thread (point R) and apex of miniscrew
      implant (point A). The results will be statistically analyzed according to nature of the data
      and the significance level to be adopted will be 5%.
    
  