
    
      BACKGROUND Survival prognosis in haematological malignancies has improved considerably,
      however the frequency and impact of the most prevalent and debilitating symptoms - cancer
      related fatigue (CRF) - has not improved. Up to 40% of cancer patients has daily difficulties
      due to CRF and fatigue and weakness is affecting 2/3 of patients. In contrast to everyday
      fatigue CRF is defined as an unusual and persistent sense of tiredness, weakness, or even
      exhaustion that is not relieved by rest or sleep and leads to decreased physical or mental
      capacity.

      Haematological cancer is often associated with fatigue due to both anemia and constitutional
      symptoms. Myeloablative chemotherapeutic regimens and stem cell transplantations are unique
      for haematological cancer treatment and these very potent regimens may result in CRF even
      after several years. CRF among haematological cancer patients is associated with reduced
      adherence to physicians recommendations [11] and permanent withdrawal from labor market.
      Patients express that their single most prevalent and severe problem is "dealing with feeling
      tired", exceeding the proportion who expresses problems "in dealing with not feeling sure
      that the cancer has gone" or "being told they had cancer".

      An increasing emphasis has been given to rehabilitation in cancer patients and individualized
      exercise programs; however, these will only be feasible among a minority of haematological
      cancer patients. In recent years, studies using methylphenidate (MTP) in the treatment of CRF
      in solid cancer have been conducted, some of which have found improvements in fatigue with
      MTP and without significant adverse effects. These studies show that MTP may be beneficial in
      management of CRF. However, patients in concurrent chemotherapy were unlikely to benefit.

      STUDY RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVE Patients with haematological malignancies have a severe unmet
      need in dealing with CRF and hardly any patients with haematological malignancies have been
      included in previous intervention studies. MTP treatment has been found to be safe in this
      setting . The current study aims at studying whether MTP can be used for management of CRF in
      patients with haematological cancer in order to improve also functional capacity and quality
      of life (QoL). Many of the patients in the current study will have no other treatment options
      to improve their fatigue, QoL, and functional capacity.

      STUDY END-POINTS The primary end point it patient reported fatigue after six weeks of MTP
      treatment measured by the FACIT-F scale. A good clinical response is defined as a 25%
      reduction in fatigue from baseline score. Secondary end-points are changes in hours awake, in
      time spend at work, being social, house work / gardening, being outside, participating in
      exercise, in muscle strength and endurance, in QoL, and in number of blood transfusions.

      STUDY POPULATION AND DESIGN The study population comprises 150 patients with haematological
      malignancies who are not in current chemotherapy. The patients will be included from seven
      haematological out-patient clinics in Denmark. The haematological out-patient clinics have a
      large group of chronic severely fatigued haematological cancer patients that will be
      approached for inclusion in the trial. Power calculations, and assumptions behind as well as
      a detailed list of inclusion and exclusion criteria are available from full study protocol.

      Patients will be randomized (1:1) to MTP or placebo treatment for 6 weeks. After this time
      points patients treated with MTP will after one week wash-out cross over to placebo treatment
      and vice versa (Figure). The rationale for the crossover design is that the study includes a
      variety of different haematological malignancies with different symptomatology, course,
      management and different degree of bone-marrow failure. When using patients as their own
      controls the effects of these factors are accounted for. Treatment will be blinded to the
      patient, treating investigators, staff, sponsor, and study secretariat. Patients will be
      randomized to start either MTP or matching placebo twice daily. The dosage will start at 5 mg
      twice daily at 8 am and 1 pm or matching placebo and can be titrated to a maximum of 20mg
      twice daily or matching placebo. From day 1 in week 8 treatments will be crossed over from
      either MTP to placebo or vice versa (Figure).

      FATIGUE AND QUALITY OF LIFE ASSESSMENT TOOLS The fatigue assessment scale - FACIT-F - has
      been widely used in studies of cancer related fatigue and a FACIT-F score change both as a
      covariate and as the main outcome measure in interventional studies. In line with us previous
      clinical trials used a single VAS-fatigue assessment for inclusion prior to treatment. The
      visual analogous scale is 100 mm long and ranges from 0 = "not tired" to 10 = "worst possible
      tiredness". The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QoL
      questionnaires are among the most widely used tools for assessing physical and psychosocial
      symptoms in cancer patients. The EORTC-QLQ-C15-PAL was developed for the palliative setting
      [24]. Permission to include the fatigue and QoL scales has been granted to the trial.

      EFFICACY EVALUATION Efficacy of MTP treatment will be evaluated using FACIT-F,
      EORTC-QLQ-C15-Pal, VAS-F as well as patients' perception on their energy and diaries on
      activities. The study is powered to show a 4.25 point reduction in the FACIT-F scale
      (corresponding to an estimated 25% reduction from baseline) that has been suggested as a
      minimal important difference in studies of CRF. Assessments of functional capacity (muscle
      strength and endurance) as well as patients' actual daily chores are also included in this
      evaluation.
    
  