
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the most prevalent musculoskeletal diseases worldwide. In
      Denmark, it is estimated that approximately 900.000 people, or 1 out of 5 residents are
      suffering from OA in one or more joints. The annual socio-economic costs (treatment and loss
      of labour) as a direct consequence of OA in Denmark are estimated to 11.5 billion "Danish
      kroner" (DKK).

      Osteoarthritis of the knee is the most frequently reported and disabling OA subgroup and is
      mainly reported in middle-aged adults (≥40 years) with an increasing prevalence with
      increasing age. Knee osteoarthritis is associated with knee pain, loss of lower limb muscle
      strength, activity limitations and reduced quality of life. Moreover, pain sensitization,
      i.e. increased responsiveness of nociceptive neurons, is another mechanism involved in pain
      and disability in knee-OA and may contribute to the frequently reported disparities between
      pain symptoms and radiographic signs of structural damage.

      The current non-surgical treatment recommendations in Denmark as well as internationally
      include offering one or more of: Patient education, dietary advice, weight loss counselling
      and exercise. Exercise has proven to be a potent stimulus to improve function, and general
      quality of life in people with knee-OA. Moreover, exercise has been shown to reduce pain
      sensitization in knee-OA subjects with clinical signs of sensitization. However, there is
      still a paucity of information on the exact exercise mode for greatest beneficial effects in
      the knee-OA population.

      Reduced lower limb muscle strength has repeatedly been suggested as one of the main working
      mechanisms behind knee-OA symptoms and quadriceps muscle strength is even suggested as a
      potential mediating factor in future knee joint space narrowing and longitudinal worsening of
      knee-joint pain. A recent systematic review revealed upper leg muscle strength along with
      joint proprioception to be two of the most potent mediating factors in symptomatic knee-OA.

      In a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design, this study seeks to investigate potential
      added benefits of supplementing NEMEX and education with focused knee extensor strength
      training in patients with knee-OA. 90 patients deemed ineligible for knee replacement surgery
      will be recruited from the ambulatory setting at Naestved Hospital. By random allocation,
      patients will be recruited to either 12 weeks (twice weekly) of NEMEX and education + focused
      knee extensor strength training (intervention group) or 12 weeks (twice weekly) of NEMEX and
      education only (control group).

      The main outcome is the change in KOOS-ADL from baseline to 12-week follow-up. Other outcomes
      include the remaining KOOS subscales, self-reported pain, health status, physical activity
      and patient satisfaction, knee extensor muscle power and knee extensor maximal contractile
      strength, pain sensitization, MRI assessed thigh muscle quality and physical function.
    
  