
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the impact of a CD-ROM-based intervention in improving communication behaviors
           between oncologists and patients with stage IV cancer.

        -  Compare the quality of audio-recorded conversations between oncologists and patients
           with advanced cancer with best practices described in the literature, with particular
           attention to communication behaviors that promote patient disclosure of concerns, use of
           emotion handling skills, recognition of empathic opportunities, and the conveying of
           prognostic information and compare.

        -  Develop an intervention to improve oncologists' communication skills in these areas
           using an interactive CD-ROM based on the oncologists' own recorded discussions with
           patients.

        -  Determine the feasibility of this intervention and, using a randomized, controlled
           design, measure its effectiveness for changing physician communication behaviors and
           relevant patient outcomes including reduced distress and increased satisfaction.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, 3-part, multicenter study.

        -  Part 1 (baseline): Patients undergo an audio-recorded outpatient encounter with their
           oncologist to see how oncologists elicit patients' concerns and respond to emotional
           content. Within 1 week later, patients undergo a 10-minute interview by telephone.

        -  Part 2 (intervention): Oncologists are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

             -  Arm I (intervention): Oncologists receive a personalized, user-friendly CD-ROM that
                contains their coded conversations, packaged with related educational material to
                be used for 3 months.

             -  Arm II (control): Oncologists do not receive a CD-ROM or any other educational
                material support.

        -  Part 3 (post-intervention): Three months later, oncologists in both arms are reassessed
           by recording another 400 clinic visits between the same oncologists and a new group of
           patients to measure the intervention impact.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 800 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  