
    
      The study population will consist of moderately preterm newborns, attended by SUS, admitted
      to the NICU of HBL or HC UFPE. From randomized samples with preterm infants born in the HBL
      or HC, and are admitted to the NICU, will be obtained two groups, one for positioning in
      hammock (experimental group) and the other in incubator containment nest "U" ( group
      control). The sample will consist of 30 premature babies, 15 in each group. The allocation of
      the PN is made in two blocks, using the site randomization.com, so that the block 1
      corresponds to the group with hammock and positioning block 2, the group subjected to the
      usual positioning in the incubator, which at the study site it is "containment nest in U".
      The recruitment of premature will be conducted by researcher 1, which will identify premature
      the NICU potentially eligible for the study, invite the parents or guardians to sign the
      consent form and clear, and then make the screening (inclusion) of the truly eligible babies
      after filling in a checklist of eligibility criteria, always registering why exclude the
      other. Then, the PN will be wrapped in a sheet and carried by the investigator 1 to the
      support area of neonatal sector, located within the NICU, and where they will be placed on
      the counter, a mattress (incubator) and electromyography to carry out the assessments. Since
      each premature will be submitted to reviews of protocol only when alert according to the
      state 4 or 5 (warning with little activity and alert to activity) of the Brazelton scale,
      evaluations will be carried out between meals, avoiding the baby stay angry or sleepy. This
      procedure will be followed regardless of the position that the baby will be submitted later.
      In the event, the evaluation will be interrupted, and the baby will be taken back to the
      incubator, receiving the assistance that is required, and will be excluded from the study.
      The electromyographic and clinical evaluations will be conducted by researcher 1, preventing
      the masking at this stage. The results obtained in the evaluations (global posture, gathering
      maneuvers arm and popliteal angle, via video recording, and the electromyographic signal)
      will be analyzed by researchers 2 and 3, blind research. The EMG will be made via a portable
      electromyography surface mark with four channels, which will be connected to a laptop, and
      double electrode surface, specially developed for use in EMG, disposable, adhesive gel Ag
      conductor / AgCl, intended for clinical and research use. According to SENIAM recommendations
      (EMG Surface European consortium for the Non-Invasive Assessment of Muscles), the pads will
      be fixed between the motor point and the tendon of the flexor muscles: rectus abdominis,
      biceps and hamstrings, and the electrode reference on the left lateral malleolus. Three
      channels will be used to record the electrical activity unilateral (right of all PN) and
      simultaneously in the three above-mentioned places, so that the spontaneous muscle activity
      baby is captured under the same conditions. The PTN will be submitted for evaluation by
      surface EMG while simultaneously performed the clinical evaluation of tone with the
      neurological test Dubowitz. It will only be applied to size of that test by referring to the
      tone match the focus of this research, and only the chosen sub-items that do not require much
      manipulation premature. These sub-items refer to the observation of global postural baby
      standard (which observe the legs and the upper to the trunk in the supine position), the arms
      collection operation (in which it analyzes the by rapid extension muscle strength elbow, and
      elbow flexion speed and angle he takes after three seconds long maintained the elbow), and
      popliteal angle (baby knee is positioned over the abdomen and exercises to gentle pressure
      with the index finger behind the ankle in order to increase the popliteal angle, the maximum
      angle observing obtained. Test up one leg at a time). Thus, after placement of the
      electrodes, it will initially be observed and recorded the signal picked up by EMG of the
      rectus abdominis muscles, biceps and hamstrings for 30 seconds, representing the muscle tone
      baby home. Simultaneously to this first record in the EMG, the researcher will make the
      clinical evaluation of the tone by observing the posture of premature standard. Then, still
      using the EMG in association with the Dubowitz Test, evaluation of the maneuvers of the
      popliteal angle and gathering arms are made that lead to be performed 30 seconds each.
      Similarly, in parallel to this clinical evaluation of tone, will be made in the records EMG
      muscle activity of the biceps and hamstrings related to muscle resistance to stretching
      caused the Dubowitz test. All evaluations of muscle activity (EMG and clinical) will be
      recorded on video using a digital camera Sony® brand (model 1000 Cyber Shot 7.2 Mega Pixels),
      attached to a tripod positioned in order to capture the image of the entire PN body, so
      researchers can analyze 2 and 3 evaluation results, but also so that we can resolve any doubt
      about the future evaluations. After the evaluations, the researcher first position the PN in
      hammock or incubator containment nest "U", according to the randomization envelope content to
      it corresonding. The hammock was made of knitted fabric (100% cotton) for improved tactile
      comfort and prevent allergic reactions in the baby, and its dimensions follow the
      determinations that are in the process of patenting requested by Roberta Tenorio and Roberta
      Bione the National Institute of Industrial Property (INPI) in 2014, with number 19140000184
      protocol and order number BR 20 2014 017 809 6. In the control group, the position will
      follow the routine procedure of HBL and HC, which is the use of containment nests "U" , made
      with rolled sheet placed on the mattress of the incubator and covered by another sheet. To
      identify if there was adaptation of premature positioning, physiological parameters (RR, HR
      and SaO2) and motor behavior (approach reactions and Withdrawal) shall be observed and
      recorded 5 minutes before the positioning in the hammock or incubators containment nest "U"
      immediately following (1 minute), after 5minutes and 10 minutes. The behavioral state of the
      newborn will be given by the presence or absence of specific movements welfare indicators
      (Approach reactions - hands to her mouth / face, holding hands, gripping motion, curling up
      on itself); and specific movements of stress indicators (Withdrawal reactions - aircraft
      wing, greeting, removal of the fingers, sitting in the air, arching). If the baby does not
      display any of these reactions at predefined times, the comfort will be checked only by
      physiological indicators. HR and SaO2 will be obtained by the pulse oximeter, and the FR will
      be obtained by the number of breaths per minute count made by the researcher 1. In order to
      detect any complications during the positioning, continuous monitoring of physiological
      parameters will be baby both by the researcher as one by the nursing staff of the NICU as
      routine neonatal sector. If there apnea situations, desaturation or no adjustment to the
      positioning in the hammock, the baby will be removed from this position and use the hammock
      will be discontinued, but should be placed in an incubator with containment nest "U" (routine
      neonatal HBL sector and HC), excluding the study of preterm infants and considering it as
      sample loss. The first stage assessment will be before the positioning, being named T0. At
      the end of about 8 positioning daylight hours, babies are taken from the hammock, being
      positioned according to routine neonatal sector (in containment nest "U" in the incubator)
      for the nighttime. All of the protocol tone evaluations will also be repeated the next day,
      24 hours after the beginning of the positioning, both for the group that was placed in the
      hammock in the group that was placed in the incubator containment nest "U". This second
      assessment will be called T1. Again, after about 8 hours of daytime position, the baby will
      be removed from the hammock or position "U" for the nighttime. The final evaluation will take
      place the next morning, approximately 48 hours after the start of positioning hammock or
      containment nest, a time called T2. Also, all revaluations will be filmed for any questions
      that may arise.
    
  