
    
      The study design is a within-subjects, single-blinded, randomized control trial. Participants
      will be randomzied to inspire 100% oxygen through their nose utilizing a demand-driven (DD)
      gas delivery method and a free-flow (FF) gas delivery method for 2 minutes each in a
      simulated dental setting.

      The study will take place at the University of Toronto's Faculty of Dentistry Children's
      Clinic. Participants will be positioned supine in the dental chair. A child size, rubber bite
      block will be inserted with an attached capnography device to measure end-tidal carbon
      dioxide at the mouth. A double-mask nasal hood with disposable insert will be placed on the
      participant's nose. The participant will be instructed to breathe through their mouth for 1
      minute. Baseline respiratory rate and presence/absence of end tidal carbon dioxide at the
      mouth will be obtained through the capnograph and recorded. The presence of carbon dioxide at
      baseline during mouth breathing will confirm that the capnograph is able to measure end-tidal
      carbon dioxide at the mouth.

      The researcher will then open the envelope with the randomization plan for the participant
      and will indicate whether they will receive the FF or DD gas delivery method first. The gas
      delivery device will be attached to the nasal hood, and set to either DD or FF gas delivery
      method. Once the device is connected, the participant will be instructed to breathe through
      their nose for 2 minutes. During this time, respiratory rate, presence/absence of end tidal
      carbon dioxide at the mouth, and oxygen flow rate per minute will be observed and recorded.
      The absence of end-tidal carbon dioxide at the mouth during this testing phase will provide a
      verifiable measure that patients are breathing through their nose. After 2 minutes, the flow
      will be stopped and the bite block removed. The participant will be instructed to breathe
      through their mouth. The participant will then complete the VAS on comfort of breathing
      through their nose during the first gas flow delivery method. The bite block will then be
      reinserted, and the flow resumed using the second gas flow delivery method for 2 minutes.
      During this time, respiratory rate, presence/absence of end tidal carbon dioxide at the
      mouth, and oxygen flow rate per minute will be observed and recorded. After 2 minutes, the
      gas flow will once again be stopped and the bite block removed. The participant will be
      instructed to complete the VAS on comfort of breathing through their nose. The nasal hood
      will be removed. The participant will be debriefed to the order of gas flow received (DD or
      FF first) and the participant will then be dismissed.
    
  