
    
      Global investments in controlling malaria have led to some exciting reductions in the burden
      of malaria. In some areas, malaria-related deaths have dropped by more than 90%. As malaria
      transmission declines, a greater fraction of pediatric fevers are from other causes. However,
      these fevers continue to be treated as malaria, often despite the availability of diagnostic
      testing. In a typical rural health facility in Kenya, more than 90% of febrile patients are
      prescribed an antimalarial when no diagnostic tests are available. Even when microscopy or
      rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are available, between 50-80% of patients with a negative test
      are nonetheless prescribed antimalarials. Inappropriately treated fevers in children can lead
      to serious consequences for the patient and can accelerate the spread of drug resistance. In
      addition to the risk to patients, overuse of antimalarials also puts a financial strain on
      the government health system. Although there is considerable incentive for governments to
      reduce drug costs and wastage, the financial pressure is not experienced at the appropriate
      levels of decision-making.

      This project aims to test an innovative, sustainable financial incentive designed to reduce
      the number of non-malarial fevers that are treated inappropriately with antimalarial drugs.
      The study team will test a financial incentive targeted at the health facility to determine
      if it improves adherence to diagnostic results and clinical protocols. Eighteen rural health
      facilities in Western Kenya will be enrolled and randomly allocated to one of two arms. The
      study team will compare the effectiveness of clinical and technical training in diagnosis of
      malaria alone (Arm 1) to training plus financial incentives linked to prescription practices
      (Arm 2) in improving diagnosis and treatment of malaria and non-malaria fevers. The practice
      of prescribing antimalarials to patients with a negative diagnostic will be compared between
      facilities with and without the incentive structure. Secondary outcomes will include
      sensitivity and specificity of routine microscopy at health centers, use of alternative
      treatments for slide negative fevers, and frequency of stock-outs of antimalarial drugs.

      This project will tackle an important implementation research problem. It seeks to test
      solutions to the problem of poor adherence to evidence-based clinical guidelines for malaria
      treatment, and thereby reduce inappropriate antimalarial drug use and drug wastage. This
      project will be conducted in collaboration with Kenya's Division of Malaria Control and
      avenues to roll-out the intervention, if successful, will be actively explored.
    
  