
    
      The study will consist of four phases, each involving the completion of several self-report
      metrics following video exposure or the lack thereof. The investigators expect 30-40 patients
      to progress through a quadriphasic design.

      Phase 1:

      Upon understanding and signing an informed consent form, participants will complete a short
      demographics questionnaire that will enquire into their age, education level, and gender, but
      will not include specific identifying information such as name, initials, email, or home
      address.

      Next, participants will be asked to complete a survey containing both the Tuckman Condensed
      Procrastination Scale (TCPS) and the Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS). The data that are
      gathered from the ASRS will be used as a core inclusion-exclusion metric.

      Finally, participants will be briefed on the video access system and then given their unique
      login credentials, which allow the investigators to track individual usage metrics. The
      investigators will then explain that for the next ten days the participant will have
      unlimited access to a single, randomly assigned experimental video (with participants split
      between one of two videos) adding that at the third and seventh days the participant will
      receive-pending consent-a friendly email reminder of their ability to access the video. Any
      questions will be addressed at this point.

      All in, the time required to complete Phase 1 for a single participant will be 30-45 minutes.

      Phase 2:

      After ten days have elapsed, the participant will be sent an online survey link containing
      the TCPS, ASRS, and a Video Review Survey. The email will also explain how video access over
      the upcoming ten days will be restricted-as Phase 3 of the study commences-but that they need
      not worry as full-access will be reinstated following completion of the study. With that,
      participants will be reminded of the investigator's contact information and left to continue
      using the learned strategies for the upcoming ten days.

      Phase 3:

      Following the ten day washout period, participants will be sent another online survey link
      containing the TCPS and ASRS. The email will also contain access to the second of the two
      videos, along with a re-explanation of how the investigators hope they use it. From here,
      another ten-day exposure period will begin.

      Phase 4:

      After completing the second ten-day exposure period (totalling one month's time), the
      participant will be asked to answer a final Future Video Survey. Once the survey has been
      answered, the participant will have finished the study and will be thanked for their time. A
      contact address and number will be included in the email in the case of any unresolved
      question, and a link will be provided to reinstate participant video access.
    
  