
    
      Traumatic events contribute to the genesis of disorders such as post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD) and depression, and memories of the event can cause ongoing distress.
      Short-term episodic memories are encoded by the hippocampus and gradually become consolidated
      through reciprocal connections with the cortex, resulting in long-term memories being stored
      in a distributed network throughout the cerebral cortex. There are no effective treatments
      currently for specifically targeting traumatic memories and reducing the distress they cause.

      ECT is the most effective treatment for improving mood in patients with depression and there
      is new evidence emerging that suggests ECT can also improve PTSD symptoms independently of
      co-morbid depression. In addition, the main side-effect of ECT is memory loss, specifically
      for autobiographical details surrounding the course of ECT, but not typically affecting
      long-term episodic memory, nor procedural memories. Memories stored in the hippocampus are
      vulnerable to disruption by ECT because they rely on synaptic changes that are mediated by
      relatively unstable modifications in AMPA receptor and metabotropic glutamate receptor
      density. The investigators propose to exploit this feature of ECT, which normally is
      considered an undesirable side-effect of treatment, in an attempt to selectively reduce
      traumatic memories and the distress associated with them.

      The investigators propose to recruit patients referred for ECT for treatment-resistant
      depression, who also have traumatic memories that are causing distress. These patients will
      be asked to write two narratives, one of the traumatic memory, and the other of a trivial,
      non-traumatic remote event. Patients will then be asked to listen to an audio recording of
      either the traumatic memory or the neutral memory (control group) immediately before their
      ECT sessions. The severity of the traumatic memory related symptoms will be assessed before
      and after the course of ECT using the Modified PTSD Symptom Scale (MPSS-SR) and the Clinician
      Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-5 (CAPS-5). Data will be analyzed by comparing the change in
      overall MPSS-SR scores and CAPS-5 scores pre- and post-ECT between the experimental and
      control groups. Physiological data will also be collected at each ECT session during the time
      the participant is listening to the audio recordings. Heart rate and skin conductance will be
      measured prior to and during listening of the traumatic or non-traumatic memory, in order to
      determine if there is a change associated with a stress response, and whether this response
      normalizes in association with reduction of PTSD symptoms with treatment.
    
  