
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or a dose up to 240 mg/day, whichever is
      lower, of ricolinostat (ACY-1215) in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients
      with unresectable or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma. (Cohort I)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Characterize the safety profile of ACY-1215 in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin
      in patients with unresectable or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma. (Both cohorts) II. Determine
      the single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetic (PK) of ACY-1215 in combination with
      gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with unresectable or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma.
      (Both cohorts) III. To evaluate tumor response to treatment with ACY-1215 in combination with
      gemcitabine and cisplatin (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1
      criteria). (Both cohorts) IV. To assess progression-free and overall survival of patients
      treated with ACY-1215 in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin. (Both cohorts)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Both blood and tissue samples will be obtained at baseline and post-treatment cycle 2 for
      future biomarker development, analysis, and potential blood based molecular/genomic
      profiling. (Both cohorts) II. Studies on Tissue pre-cycle 1 and post-cycle 2 of therapy will
      include: phospho extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK)1/2; hedgehog-signaling pathways
      (Gli transcription factors); BIM; histones acetylation; acetylation alpha (a)-tubulin;
      histone deacetylase (HDAC)6 levels; autophagy markers heat shock protein (HSP)90/70;
      hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF1)alpha; beclin; microtubule-associated proteins 1A/1B light
      chain 3 (LC3); Ras homolog gene family member B (RhoB).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ricolinostat.

      Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) followed by gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on
      days 1 and 8, and ricolinostat orally (PO) on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 1
      year.
    
  