
    
      Bilateral breast reduction and bilateral breast augmentation are both routine plastic surgery
      procedures commonly performed on an outpatient basis. While patient satisfaction following
      these procedures is high, postoperative pain management can be challenging, resulting in
      decreased patient satisfaction, delayed recovery including delayed return to work and daily
      activities, increased opioid pain medication requirements and occasionally unplanned hospital
      admissions, surgical complications, and increased cost of care [Davis].

      PVB is a common procedure used for analgesia in breast surgery in combination with multimodal
      perioperative pain regimens, though its use has not been formally studied in a prospective
      fashion. Our Division recently retrospectively studied the use of PVB in breast reduction,
      finding that postoperative pain scores and rates of PONV were decreased with the use of PVB.
      To date, no prospective, randomized, blinded study has been performed to evaluate the
      efficacy of PVB on perioperative pain management in this patient population. Multiple studies
      performed in patients undergoing post-mastectomy breast reconstruction have demonstrated the
      safety and efficacy of PVB as an adjunctive pain control modality. In a prospective study
      evaluating patients undergoing post-mastectomy autologous breast reconstruction, Parikh and
      colleagues found that patients who received PVB had significant improvement in postoperative
      pain, shorter time to oral-only opioid usage and decreased length of hospital stay compared
      to patients who received standard postoperative pain control [Parikh]. A meta-analysis
      conducted by Schnabel and colleagues studied 15 randomized controlled trials evaluating PVB
      in addition to general anesthesia for patients undergoing breast surgery found significant
      decrease in postoperative pain scores with low risk ratio for adverse events [Schnabel].

      The concept of "enhanced recovery" or "fast track" surgery was borne out of several
      prospective studies in the gastrointestinal surgery literature, and has been shown in
      multiple types of operations and across specialties to be beneficial for patients as well as
      economically advantageous [Anderson, Bonde, Adamina]. The concept of using an integrative,
      multimodal, multidisciplinary approach for minimizing the physiologic stress response in
      attempt to improve recovery after surgery was first described in 1997 [Kehlet]. Throughout
      the past several years there has been increasing focus on applying such principles to breast
      surgery, though to date the literature has focused on operations primarily performed for
      breast cancer, including mastectomy and breast reconstruction [Arsalani, Bonde]. The goal of
      "enhanced recovery after surgery" (or "ERAS") protocols is to identify and employ a set of
      pre-, peri- and postoperative strategies to improve patient outcomes and the recovery process
      after surgery. Such interventions have the goal of minimizing perioperative physiologic
      stressors (e.g. pain, fatigue, anxiety, nausea and vomiting) that can lead to morbidity.
      Categories related to "enhanced recovery after breast surgery" (ERABS) include standardized
      preadmission counseling, preoperative fasting, preanesthetic anxiolytics, anesthetic
      protocols, intraoperative warming, pain control, prevention of nausea and vomiting,
      mobilization, and postdischarge support [Arsalani].

      Thus, the overarching goal of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of PVB alone,
      as well as in conjunction with a global set of perioperative enhanced recovery strategies in
      elective breast surgery. We hypothesize that the use of such strategies will improve the
      patient experience of breast reduction and augmentation beyond the current standard of care.

      We are conducting this study because, to our knowledge, no previous study has prospectively
      evaluated the use of PVB (with or without additional ERAS strategies) in groups comprised
      only of patients undergoing non-oncologic breast surgery. We hypothesize that the use of PVB
      in breast reduction and breast augmentation may be as beneficial as it has been shown to be
      in patients undergoing lumpectomy or mastectomy and subsequent reconstruction. In addition,
      no other study, to our knowledge, has prospectively studied enhanced recovery strategies
      (with PVB) in elective breast surgery (including reduction and augmentation). Due to the
      physical and psychosocial differences in patients undergoing elective breast surgery
      (compared to oncologic breast surgery), we wish to study elective breast surgery to better
      understand the effects of ERABS strategies on postoperative pain, nausea, and overall patient
      recovery.

      There are four serial aims of this study. The overarching goal of the study is to
      prospectively assess the use of PVB as an adjunct for postoperative pain control both alone
      and in the setting of related ERABS strategies in elective breast surgery (both breast
      reduction and breast augmentation, two of the most common non-oncologic breast operations
      performed in an ambulatory setting). The methodologies used to assess postoperative pain, the
      set of collective ERABS strategies, the potential risks and benefits of study participation,
      and the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be the same in the groups studying breast reduction
      and those studying breast augmentation. As both operations are performed on a regular basis
      in the PI's practice, we feel it essential to evaluate both operations.

      Following completion of all 4 groups, we will be able to assess the impact of PVB alone as
      well as the impact of ERABS strategies in both breast reduction and breast augmentation. We
      hope that this will help inform clinical conversations with patients and also guide clinical
      decision-making with respect to postoperative pain management and overall optimization of
      recovery in elective breast surgery. We feel it important that the four distinct groups be
      included under the single protocol.

      The primary aim in all four groups in this study is to evaluate postoperative pain scores in
      patients receiving either paravertebral block or ERABS strategies compared to patients who do
      not receive these interventions. Additional outcomes include use of analgesic and antiemetic
      medication, development of PONV, time to discharge, patients' assessment of quality of
      recovery as determined by a validated survey and overall patient satisfaction.

      Group 1: To prospectively determine the effect of PVB on perioperative pain and postoperative
      recovery following breast reduction. We will use patient-reported pain assessments (including
      a numeric rating scale) to evaluate our primary endpoint (pain scores on postoperative day 1
      (POD1)) as well as additional outcome measures of pain scores in recovery and at 1 week
      post-surgery. To determine the effect of PVB on secondary endpoints of this study, we will
      calculate analgesic and antiemetic medication use, compare average time (minutes) spent in
      the PACU, average time (minutes) spent in Phase 2, total time (minutes) between the end of
      the operation and discharge to home, and evaluate the occurrence of unplanned hospital
      admission, PONV, overall satisfaction, patients' assessment of quality of recovery as
      determined by a validated survey [Gornall, Myles], and complications. This data will be
      obtained through review of medical records, surveys, and postoperative diaries.

      Patients electing to undergo breast reduction will be invited to participate in the study at
      their preoperative visit. All patients choosing to take part in the study will be consented
      prior to their procedure. The study participants will be randomized to one of two arms within
      each Group using block randomization. Details of the allocated group will be written on a
      piece of paper and placed inside sealed, opaque, and sequentially numbered, envelopes. Block
      randomization will be performed using a computer-generated number list and an Excel
      spreadsheet template. Block randomization will ensure equal numbers of subjects in each
      group. Either the anesthesiologist or the surgical team will open the envelope when the
      patient presents to UW Transformations Surgery Center the day of surgery. The subject will be
      randomized to receive either (a) standard postoperative nausea and pain control as well as a
      sham superficial injection of normal saline or (b) PVB in addition to standard postoperative
      nausea and pain control. PVB and sham superficial injections of normal saline will be
      performed by a trained anesthesiology provider and will be performed in the routine manner.
      Surgery will take place in the usual fashion and participants will receive standard of care
      for pain and nausea control.

      Following surgery, patients will be assessed for postoperative pain, nausea and vomiting.
      Assessment for postoperative pain will consist of a validated pain score survey administered
      prior to transfer to phase II postoperatively, on POD1, and at their one-week postoperative
      visit. Participants will also be asked to record, using a postoperative diary/log, when they
      take postoperative analgesics and antiemetics, which medications are taken, and quantity of
      medication taken. This will also be reviewed both in the medical record and upon discussion
      with the participant at the postoperative visits. Assessment of the time spent in the
      recovery room, time spent in Phase 2 of recovery, and time to discharge from the hospital
      (total time between the end of surgery to discharge from hospital), will be obtained via
      review of the medical record. At the first postoperative visit, participants will undergo a
      routine interview that includes discussion of their pain control, analgesic and antiemetic
      use, recovery process, and overall satisfaction. The medical record will be reviewed for any
      unplanned postoperative hospital readmissions related to the surgery.

      Group 2: To prospectively determine the effect of PVB on perioperative pain and postoperative
      recovery following breast augmentation. We will use patient-reported pain assessments
      (including a numeric rating scale) to evaluate our primary endpoint (pain scores on
      postoperative day 1 (POD1)) as well as additional outcome measures of pain scores in recovery
      and at 1 week post-surgery. To determine the effect of PVB on secondary endpoints of this
      study, we will calculate analgesic and antiemetic medication use, compare average time
      (minutes) spent in the PACU, average time (minutes) spent in Phase 2, total time (minutes)
      between the end of the operation and discharge to home, and evaluate the occurrence of
      unplanned hospital admission, PONV, overall satisfaction, patients' assessment of quality of
      recovery as determined by a validated survey, and complications. This data will be obtained
      through review of medical records, surveys, and postoperative diaries.

      The procedures will be the same as those described for Group 1, except patients will be
      undergoing planned breast augmentation.

      Groups 3 and 4: To prospectively compare the standard of care for ambulatory breast surgery
      to "fast track" (also known as "enhanced recovery") strategies for breast surgery by
      assessing pain scores, pain medication and antiemetic use, development of nausea/vomiting,
      time to discharge, and patient satisfaction.

      For the third serial Group in the study, patients electing to undergo breast reduction
      surgery will be invited to participate in the study at their preoperative visit. For the
      fourth Group in the study, all procedures will be the same as described in this section, but
      the patients will be undergoing breast augmentation surgery (not breast reduction). All
      patients choosing to take part in the study will be consented prior to their procedure. The
      study participants will be randomized, using block randomization, a computer-generated
      randomization template, and sealed, numbered, and opaque envelopes, to either receive (a)
      perioperative pain, nausea, and recovery strategies as part of our Enhanced Recovery after
      Breast Surgery (ERABS) protocol, or (b) perioperative instructions, anesthesia and
      medications as per our institution's current standard of care for elective breast reduction
      or breast augmentation.

      We will use validated pain assessments to evaluate our primary endpoint (pain scores on
      postoperative day 1 (POD1)) as well as additional outcome measures of pain scores in recovery
      and at 1 week post-surgery. To determine the effect of PVB on secondary endpoints of this
      study, we will calculate analgesic and antiemetic medication use, compare average time
      (minutes) spent in the PACU, average time (minutes) spent in Phase 2, total time (minutes)
      between the end of the operation and discharge to home, and evaluate the occurrence of
      unplanned hospital admission, occurrence of PONV, assessment of recovery, overall
      satisfaction, and complications. This data will be obtained through review of medical
      records, questionnaires, and postoperative diaries.
    
  