
    
      Specific Aims and Hypothesis:

      The proposed research aims to examine the effects of a Smart Care Model (SCM) on the health
      outcomes of older patients recovering from hip-fracture surgery (hip-fractured older
      patients) and on their caregivers' caregiving burden. The SCM entails real-time activity
      monitoring and feedback using smart clothing with sensors embedded in a computer network.

      The proposed study has the following specific aims.

        1. To pretest, finalize and evaluate the protocol for the SCM.

        2. To evaluate the effectiveness of usual care and the SCM for hip-fractured elders in a
           randomized control trial. Effects of the two care models will be evaluated by comparing
           the trajectories of selected outcome variables: patients' clinical outcomes, self-care
           ability, subsequent falls, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), adherence, and
           service utilization as well as family caregivers' preparedness, perceived balance
           between competing needs, depressive symptoms, and HRQoL.

           During the first year after hospital discharge, hip-fractured elderly patients who
           receive the SCM will 2-1. Have better clinical outcomes, self-care ability, adherence
           and HRQoL and fewer subsequent falls than those who receive usual care.

           2-2. Have more outpatient visits and fewer hospital readmissions and emergency
           department visits than those who receive usual care.

           2-3. Family caregivers of hip-fractured patients receiving the SCM will have better
           preparedness, perceived balance between competing needs, and HRQoL as well as fewer
           depressive symptoms than caregivers of patients receiving usual care.

        3. If the effectiveness of the SCM is established, its cost-effectiveness will be analyzed
           from the perspectives of the health care system and society. The "incremental
           cost-effectiveness ratio" will be calculated to show the incremental costs for an
           additional quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of elderly hip-fractured patients receiving
           the SCM.

        4. To qualitatively explore the experiences of receiving the SCM for older hip-fractured
           persons and their family caregivers with in-depth interviews. The qualitative and
           quantitative components of the proposed study will be integrated to finalize the typical
           protocol, context and cases for implementing the SCM for older hip-fractured persons.

      Basic Design:

      Mixed methods,a concurrent embedded strategy in which quantitative and qualitative data are
      collected at the same time, with the quantitative component being predominant and the
      qualitative component collected from a sample subset , will be implemented. For the
      quantitative component, a randomized experimental design will be used to examine the
      effectiveness of the Smart Care Model (SCM) over a 5-year period. For the qualitative
      component, we will concurrently collect and compare qualitative data from a sample subset of
      patients and family caregivers who receive the SCM and those who receive usual care.Finally,
      the qualitative and quantitative data will be merged to provide comprehensive evidence and
      finalize protocols and typical cases for the SCM for hip-fractured older persons. The
      mixed-method approach has the advantages of confirming findings, validating and deepening
      understanding of the effects of care models, and broadening insights into the different
      issues underlying care models.

      Intervention Models Participants in this trial will receive two care models: usual care and
      the Smart Care Model (SCM). The SCM will have two components: fall risk monitoring with an
      alarm, and activity-level monitoring with feedback. These SCM components are designed to
      enhance caregiver competence, decrease patient risk for subsequent falls, and improve
      postoperative recovery for hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment. We have
      integrated the technology of remote monitoring with smart clothing into continuous
      rehabilitation and discharge planning, along with geriatric consultation. We will compare the
      effects of the SCM and usual care in this trial.

      Participants Subjects will be recruited from the trauma wards of CGMH at Linkou and New
      Taipei Tucheng hospital.For the quantitative component, the sample size was estimated based
      on our interest in longitudinal changes in outcome variables. We plan to obtain at least 126
      participants (63 for each group). Since fewer than 20% of cases were lost in our previous
      study, we estimated that 158 participants (79 in each group) would be adequate for the
      proposed study.

      For the qualitative component, a subset sample of participants and family caregivers who
      received the SCM will be interviewed one-on-one to explore their experiences of receiving the
      SCM and compared with a subset of participants who received routine care. Ten patients and
      their family caregivers from the experimental group and 10 from the control group will be
      recruited.

      Procedure As shown in Figure 5, potential subjects will be recruited by research assistants
      who will screen patient lists from the emergency department and hospital admissions twice a
      day to avoid losing potential cases. For patients who meet the study criteria, their primary
      physicians will be informed, and these potential subjects and their family caregivers will be
      invited to participate in this study. Elderly patients and their family caregivers who agree
      to participate will then be randomly assigned to the intervention or control group.

      Randomization to groups will follow a randomization table created by our university
      statistician. The project manager will create sequentially numbered sealed envelopes
      containing group assignment. Each consenting patient and their family caregiver will receive
      the envelope in the order in which they are enrolled. The project manager will have access to
      the spreadsheet that indicates the randomization order, but not the research nurses who
      assess outcomes. After randomization, patients and their family caregivers in the
      experimental group will receive the SCM, and those in the control group will receive usual
      care. Patients and families will not be aware of their group enrollment and will be masked to
      the care model they receive. Research nurses who collect data will be independent of those
      who deliver the interventions. For the experimental group, the geriatric nurse will install
      sensors with the engineer during the home-environment assessment before hospital discharge
      and will spend around 60 minutes to help caregivers and patients use the smart clothing at
      home. Then a registered nurse will visit participants' homes once a week for 1 month after
      discharge, then once each month to help solve problems in using the smart-care system,
      download data, along with in-home rehabilitation. Each visit will take 30 to 60 minutes.

      Patients and caregivers in both groups will be assessed 8 times longitudinally, each time
      around 30 minutes. The first assessment will be within 24 hours after hospital admission in
      the emergency department, and the second assessment will be in the wards after surgery and
      before discharge. The third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth assessments will be
      made 1, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after discharge, respectively. Families will keep weekly
      diaries to record rehabilitation and cost information. The incentive for diary recording will
      be enhanced by providing rewards. Qualitative data on experiences of using the SCM will be
      collected through 20-minute face-to-face interviews with a subset of at least 10 SCM-group
      and 10 routine-care patients and their family caregivers. They will be told that the
      interview questions have no right or wrong answers.

      Data Analysis Quantitative Data Quantitative data will be analyzed under an
      intention-to-treat principle. This analysis will test three hypotheses about participants who
      receive the SCM vs. those who receive usual care. Hypothesis 2-1: elderly hip-fractured
      patients who receive the SCM will have better clinical outcomes, self-care ability, adherence
      and HRQoL and fewer subsequent falls; hypothesis 2-2: elderly hip-fractured patients who
      receive the SCM will have more outpatient visits and fewer hospital readmissions and
      emergency department visits; and hypothesis 2- 3: family caregivers of those who receive the
      SCM will have better preparedness, perceived balance between competing needs, and HRQoL, as
      well as fewer depressive symptoms than caregivers of those who receive usual care.

      Changes in continuous outcome variables will be analyzed by hierarchical linear models (HLM),
      with usual care (control group) as the reference category. For binary outcome variables, a
      series of multilevel multinomial logit models will be estimated using usual care as the
      reference category. When we evaluate non-linear changes with time, the possibility of
      multicollinearity will be minimized by centering time at 3 and 6 months after discharge since
      the most rapid improvement in recovery occurs during the first 6 months. Finally, attrition
      will be accounted for by two dummy variables, one identifying subjects who died during the
      1-year follow-up period, and the other identifying those who dropped out for other reasons.
      In addition, family caregiver characteristics (gender, age, education background and
      relationship with the hip-fractured person) will be compared between the experimental and
      control groups. Characteristics that differed significantly will be controlled in the HLM
      data analysis.

      For specific aim 3, the "incremental cost-effectiveness ratio" will be calculated to
      demonstrate the incremental cost for an additional QALY of elderly hip-fractured patients
      receiving the SCM. Additionally, the robustness of the study results will be tested using
      multi-way sensitivity analysis.

      Qualitative Data Transcripts and field notes will be coded line by line, with data collection
      and analysis concurrent. Data analysis will use three types of codes: descriptive,
      interpretative, and pattern. Descriptive codes imply little interpretation.Interpretive codes
      analyze or infer meaning from participants' words. Pattern codes are more inferential and
      explanatory. Data will be analyzed both within and across cases. Data analysis and collection
      will be discussed periodically among the research team. Memos will be written concurrently
      with data collection, coding and categorizing to record researchers' thoughts during data
      collection and analysis.
    
  