
    
      -  Selection of the patients who meet the inclusion and non inclusion criteria.

        -  Detailed explanations about the study to the patients.

        -  Signature of the informed consent by the patients.

        -  Randomisation of the patients by drawing lots into two groups; group AB who will receive
           treatment A during 14 days (period 1) then treatment B during 14 days (period 2) and
           group BA who will receive treatment B during 14 days (period 1) then treatment A during
           14 days (period 2).

        -  Each patient will receive a daily follow-up sheet, a quality of life questionnaire, a
           glucometer with test strips and the treatment in different bottles for each period of
           the study.

        -  The daily follow-up sheet concerns habits during Ramadan (eating, sleeping), the
           occurrence of complications and blood glucose monitoring. Daily blood glucose monitoring
           is requested at midday, before dinner and if a malaise occurs. A detailed questionnaire
           on abnormal symptoms that might occur during fasting have to be fulfilled for each
           malaise.

        -  Quality of life will be evaluated using AddiQol questionnaire translated in Tunisian
           dialect. Patients have to complete the questionnaire before the fasting month and at the
           end of each period of treatment.

        -  Treatment is presented in the form of capsules with the same colour and size. Patients
           have to take one capsule at dinner and one capsule at pre-dawn meal. Patients will
           receive either hydrocortisone 15mg at pre-dawn meal and 5mg at dinner (sunset)
           (treatment A) or prednisolone 5mg at pre-dawn meal and a placebo (starch) at dinner
           (treatment B).

        -  During the study, patients will be in regular phone contact with a responsible of the
           study for any information or problem.

        -  At the end of the study, the completed follow-up sheets and questionnaires will be
           picked up.
    
  