
    
      This is a controlled intervention trial with three groups of staff recruited from 15 nursing
      homes in the city of Oslo. The intervention will be carried out over 10 months. Randomization
      will be done at institutional level. Before randomization all patients in the participating
      nursing homes should be screened for dementia. This will be done by interviewing the
      registered nurses in the nursing homes using the Clinical dementia rating scale (CDR),
      Neuropsychiatric inventory (NPI-Q), Cornell scale for depression in dementia (CSDD). In
      addition information from the records will be used. Diagnosis of dementia will be made
      according to ICD-10 criteria, using a diagnostic algorithm that is evaluated in an ongoing
      nursing home study.

      The nursing homes will be randomized in tree groups. Group A - Applying the VIPS- framework
      to develop Person Centred Care (PCC) and milieu therapy. The staff will be introduced to the
      model for applying the VIPS-framework to promote PCC in the daily care. A manual including
      films with information and examples will be distributed to all staff. Two auxiliary nurses
      are appointed as resource persons (RP) from each ward and one registered nurse (RN) from each
      nursing home will be trained as coach. The RPs and the leading registered nurse (RN) will
      plan and lead weekly consensus meetings with the staff in the ward using the VIPS-framework
      in discussions of concrete care situations. The researches will receive monthly written
      standard reports on attendance and contents of the consensus meetings from the RPs and can be
      contacted for support when necessary.

      Group B - using Dementia Care Mapping (DCM) developing Person Centred Care and milieu therapy
      All staff and leaders in the nursing home will be introduced to the DCM- process in a
      presentation of the method and person centred care as a value base for DCM. A group of 3-5
      staff members from each nursing home will be trained as DCM basic users. Dementia Care
      Mappings (4-6 hours) will be made in each unit in the nursing homes and feed-back (1, 5
      hours) will be given to the staff within a week after the mapping. Based on the findings and
      the reflections in the feed-back session, action plans on how to develop care to selected
      patients and/or to the group of patients, will be created in the units. The project leader
      will be responsible for the introduction, mapping and feed-back sessions and give the
      necessary supervision to create action plans. The leaders and staff in the nursing home units
      will be responsible for the implementation of the changes to develop practice.The DCM-process
      will be repeated after 6-8 months

      Group C (control group) - traditional education Lectures made as 5 DVD films lasting for 30
      minutes, will be given to the nursing home staff on three themes: types of dementia, legal
      aspects of use of restraints and challenging behavior

      The staff in group A and B will receive the same lectures as the staff in the control group.

      Effect will be measured on patient and staff level, and measurements will be done at baseline
      and after 10 months of intervention. Data will be collected by research assistants, who will
      not take part in the three different intervention programs and not be employed by the nursing
      homes that are included in the study.
    
  