
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is an inherited blood disorder that affects over 100,000 Americans,
      an underserved population with low life expectancy and risk for significant and
      life-threatening medical complications (e.g., stroke). Adults with SCD are overwhelmingly
      members of socially disadvantaged groups, increasing their risk for disparities in care.
      Annual health expenditure for individuals with SCD in the United States is about $1.5
      billion, primarily from multiple emergency room visits (230,000 visits/year) for management
      of acute complications. Use of disease-specific knowledge has emerged as a powerful tool to
      decrease health care utilization. Significant evidence has described how to increase
      disease-specific knowledge using educational materials, including online educational programs
      in individuals managing chronic diseases, including SCD. Patient knowledge and use of
      disease-specific information like evidence-based clinical guidelines has the potential to
      decrease health care utilization. In 2014, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
      (NHLBI) published guidelines for evidence-based management of SCD for health care providers.
      However, to date, no national strategy has been developed to make these guidelines
      patient-centered, accessible, and actionable for adults with SCD. Federal Meaningful Use
      regulations have recommended using health-related technologies to improve patient access to
      their health information to promote patient engagement. Yet, many adults with SCD are not yet
      fully engaged in use of health technologies because they are unsure of the best format (e.g.,
      mobile or web-based), leading to a health care technology gap. Mobile health applications
      (apps) that include patient-centered care guidelines could engage and activate this
      population given the high use of mobile technologies, potentially closing this health
      technology gap and improving health outcomes.

      Evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the refined iManage in a pilot study with
      adults with SCD. The investigators will recruit 50 adults from the population of 250 adults
      with SCD at the Vanderbilt Meharry Sickle Cell Disease Center of Excellence and the ohio
      state university comprehensive sickle cell center for a 6-month pilot study to evaluate
      usability, acceptance, and usage. At the end of the study, the investigators will conduct
      interviews with a subset of participants to gain an in-depth understanding of usage patterns
      and how to sustain engagement to promote ongoing app use.

      Evaluate the efficacy of the refined iManage app on SCD-specific knowledge. The investigators
      will test the hypothesis that the refined iManage will increase SCD-specific knowledge by
      measuring SCD-specific knowledge at the start and end of the 6-month pilot study. the
      investigators will conduct exploratory analyses of secondary outcomes including patient
      activation, adherence to guidelines, missed days of school/work, and self-efficacy.
    
  