
    
      Aim: The main objective of the IMPAACT study is to describe the histological findings of PsA
      Achilles enthesitis, and to a) Characterize and b) Quantify the immune-competent cell
      presence in tendon specimens obtained from the mid-portion and entheseal site of the Achilles
      tendon from PsA patients with enthesitis using immunohistochemistry and a stereological
      technique for the quantification. And secondly, to compare these observations with a) Those
      in healthy Achilles tendons, and b) Those in mono-symptomatic, non-PsA, chronic Achilles
      tendinopathy. Secondly, to examine whether one or more of the immune-competent cell types in
      the PsA tendons are associated with 3-months remission rate of Achilles tendon pain, or with
      baseline a) Ultrasonic findings of the Achilles tendon; b) PsA disease activity; c) Tendon
      protein analyses; d) Risk factors of cardiovascular disease; e) Blood biomarkers of systemic
      inflammation; and f) Fecal microbiota composition.

      Methods: This study (IMPAACT) is a prospective, cohort study including 30 PsA patients
      (fulfilling the the Classification Criteria for Psoriatic Arthritis (CASPAR criteria)) with
      pain at the Achilles tendon insertion. At baseline, all participants will be examined
      clinically regarding overall PsA disease activity (Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI skin
      score), the Research Consortium of Canada (SPARCC) Enthesitis score, swollen/tender joint
      count) and asked to fill out a questionnaire consisting of the validated Scandinavian
      (Danish) version of the Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment of Achilles tendons (VISA-A)
      in addition to a study-composed questionnaire comprising general questions regarding patient
      characteristics. An ultrasonic examination of the Achilles tendons will be performed before
      ultrasound guided Achilles tendon specimens will be obtained from the most painful Achilles
      tendon. Tendon samples will be evaluated immunohistochemically by quantifying the presence of
      macrophages (CD68-KP1+), T-lymphocytes (CD3+), B-lymphocytes (CD20+), natural killer cells
      (CD56+), neutrophils (granzyme-B+), mast cells and inflammatory markers using a stereological
      technique. Also, a protein analysis of the tendon tissue will be conducted. Venous blood will
      be analysed for levels of systemic inflammatory markers, as well as screened for
      cardiovascular risk factors including dyslipidaemia, and diabetes. After the baseline
      examination, all participants will be treated and monitored in accordance with the Danish
      national guideline recommendations for PsA patients. A 3-months follow-up examination will be
      performed to determine the remission status of the Achilles tendon pain. Data will be
      analysed using the STATA statistical package (version 12; StataCorp LP).

      Conclusion: PsA is a painful and debilitating inflammatory disease. The current treatment
      remains suboptimal. We hope to provide new insight into the cellular mechanisms underlying
      PsA tendon and enthesis pathologies.
    
  