
    
      There is no universally accepted strategy to promote recovery of motor function after chronic
      stroke, the main cause of long-term disability among adults. It is desirable to develop
      strategies to improve motor function in stroke patients. Recently a study in stroke patients
      demonstrated that transcranial direct current cortical stimulation (tDCS) in association with
      motor training leads to improvements of performance and motor learning. Similarly,
      somatosensory stimulation (peripheral nerve stimulation, PNS) of the paretic hand in stroke
      patients results in improvement of performance and motor learning (Celnik, unpublished data).

      Objective:

      The purpose of this protocol is to apply tDCS to the motor cortex of the affected hemisphere
      (tDCS affected) in combination with PNS of the paretic hand of patients with chronic stroke,
      to test the hypothesis that combined tDCS affected with PNS will lead to more prominent
      improvement in motor performance of functional relevant tasks in the paretic hand relative to
      either intervention alone.

      Furthermore, recent studies have demonstrated that the unaffected hemisphere exerts
      abnormally high inhibitory influence over the affected hemisphere. This abnormality might
      adversely influence motor recovery. Therefore a further purpose of the study is to apply tDCS
      to the unaffected hemisphere (tDCS unaffected) to test the hypothesis that down regulation of
      activity in the intact hemisphere, in combination with PNS of the affected hemisphere, will
      elicit more prominent improvement in functional relevant tasks than either intervention
      alone.

      Study population:

      We plan to study patients with chronic strokes and healthy age, gender and hand dominance
      matched volunteers.

      Design:

      To test the hypothesis each subject will participate in 13 sessions in a double blind design.
      The order that patients and controls will receive the interventions will be randomized.

      Outcome measures:

      Primary outcome measure will be the total time to complete functional relevant tasks of the
      hand, Jebsen-Tailor-Test (JTT). Secondary outcomes are tapping speed with one finger; simple
      reaction times (SRT); pinch force; and number of correct keyboard piano sequences played in
      30sec with the paretic hand. To better understand the mechanisms underlying the proposed
      behavioral gains, we will use transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to identify
      corticomotor excitability changes.
    
  