
    
      Quality assurance plan: Paper copies of all registry data is securely stored at the site of
      data collection. Registry data is first de-identified and then stored in an encrypted Master
      data excel sheet that only research staff have access to.

      Data Checks and Source Data Verification: Data is monitored closely and re-assessed
      frequently by multiple members of the research team to ensure the accuracy of the Master data
      excel sheet. Registry data will be compared to paper registry copies and patient medical
      records to ensure accuracy and completeness.

      Standard Operating Procedures:

      All patients currently being seen by Dr. Hutnik (~6000) will have their charts reviewed.
      Personal information will be recorded to allow research staff to contact eligible
      participants. Clinical information recorded includes: diagnosis, intraocular pressure (IOP)
      at baseline, IOP at subsequent follow up visits with medication use, medication history,
      surgical and laser intervention history, visual acuity at baseline and follow-up visits, and
      visual field mean deviation. Patients fulfilling the inclusion and having none of the
      exclusion criteria are contacted via telephone by the research staff to invite them to
      participate in the trial. If they are interested, participants are met with in-person and
      provided with an information package including a form of consent. Research staff provide
      detailed description of this study's protocol, risks, and benefits for the patient prior to
      obtaining informed consent. Patients are also provided with the research teams' contact
      information should they have any questions or concerns. As part of the information package,
      participants receive notice that should they experience worrisome signs and symptoms, they
      should contact their ophthalmologist's office immediately. Following enrolment, participants
      are given an enveloped that randomizes them two either the control group (continues their eye
      drop medications) or experimental group (temporarily discontinues eye drop medications). In
      order to eliminate measurement bias, this allocation is concealed to research staff until
      completion of the trial. Participants' IOP is measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry at
      day of allocation (Day 0) and subsequently 7, 21, and 42 days after. In addition, should
      their IOP increase back to baseline levels prior to their final day of pressure measurement,
      participants are asked to restart their eye drops and are closely followed to ensure their
      IOPs return back to their pre-study values. Paper copies of participant signed consent and
      information form are stored in the research database. Once the assessment is complete, all
      participants will be debriefed on the nature of the study and potential findings. At the end
      of trial, participants will resume standard therapy according to Canadian Ophthalmology
      Society (COS) 2009 Glaucoma Guidelines.

      Power analysis using a General Linear Multivariate Model for Power and Sample Size (GLIMMPSE)
      found that a total patient N value of 87 (154 eyes) was sufficient power for our study

      Missing Data: All missing data is documented in the Master data record and will be reported.
      Participants with missing baseline (pre-treatment) IOP values are excluded from the study.
      Within-study missing IOP values are accounted for in statistical analysis.

      Statistical analysis: Statistical analysis is performed on R. Data is analyzed using a linear
      mixed effects model fit by restricted maximum likelihood (REML) t-tests with Satterthwaite
      approximations to compare mean intraocular pressure between control and washout groups at day
      0, 7, 21, and 42.
    
  