
    
      This will be a 9-week, open-label, single-arm, pilot investigation for Type 2 Diabetes (T2D)
      patients with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). The study includes a screening visit, a 1-week
      washout phase (or 30-day washout phase for serotonergic agents), and an 8-week flexible dose
      phase that includes the baseline and post-treatment follow-up visits. A minimum of N=70
      participants will be enrolled in the treatment.

      At the screening visit, the study will be explained and the informed consent process will
      take place. Patients who sign the IRB-approved consent form will undergo a psychiatric
      interview. The diagnosis of MDD will be established in this examination using the psychiatric
      interview and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) by the study PI.

      Eligible participants will be instructed how to taper the antidepressant they have been
      taking (if relevant) over the course of the one-week (or 30-days for serotonergic agents).

      After these tapers, all participants will return for a baseline visit where they will be
      re-assessed to ensure persistent depressive symptoms. If patients continue to score ≥18 on
      the HAM-D, they will complete the psychosocial questionnaires; patients scoring below <18 on
      the HAM-D at this visit will be terminated from the study and offered conventional, standard
      of care treatment within LUMC Department of Psychiatry. Once participants are given the
      psychosocial questionnaires as part of the baseline visit, a blood draw will be conducted by
      the Study Nurse/Coordinator, and MRI scans will be completed.

      At the end of the baseline session, participants will receive Vortioxetine for the remaining
      8-week flexible dosing period (i.e., 10 mg to 20 mg dosing). In the instance a patient is
      unable to tolerate either 10 mg to 20 mg of Vortioextine (as reported in the medication
      packet insert), the patient will be allowed to reduce their dosage to 5 mg, which will be
      done in consultation with the PI and sub-investigator.

      Following the 8-week intervention, participants will be scheduled for the post visit, which
      will include the following: another clinical interview and HAM-D conducted by the PI,
      completion of post visit-related psychosocial questionnaires, a second blood draw conducted
      by the Study Nurse/Coordinator, and then post visit-MRI scans will be completed. Should any
      patients continue to score >18 on the HAM-D at study conclusion, resources and referrals will
      be provided for further psychological/psychiatric interventions, as needed.
    
  