
    
      Liver cirrhosis or portal hypertension is frequently associated with congestive splenomegaly
      resulting in hypersplenism.

      Hypersplenism can be defined as anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, or a combination of
      these resulting from excessive, splenic sequestration or pooling of blood cells, usually
      associated with clinical splenomegaly and always ameliorated by splenectomy.

      Partial splenic embolization (PSE), which was first performed by Spigos et al in 1979, has
      been considered first-line therapy for hypersplenism in many institutions, and has been
      proposed as an effective alternative to splenectomy for improving peripheral blood cell
      counts. However, PSE is associated with many complications, including intermittent fever,
      abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, post-embolization syndrome, splenic abscess, splenic
      rupture, pneumonia, refractory ascites, pleural effusion and gastrointestinal bleeding. To
      ensure a sustained and long-term increase in platelet and leucocytic counts, the splenic
      infarction rate needs to be greater than 50%. Thus, severe complications can ensue.

      Thermal ablation methods using different energy sources, such as radiofrequency (RF),
      microwave (MW), or laser, were developed rapidly as minimally invasive techniques for the
      eradication of local tumor tissue within solid organs. There have been reports of the use of
      radiofrequency to ablate normal spleen, splenic injury, and splenomegaly.

      Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) had comparable efficacy and a better safety than PSE in the
      treatment of hypersplenism in patients with post hepatitis c cirrhosis.

      MW ablation performed either laparoscopically or percutaneously is a safe, effective, and
      minimally invasive technique for the management of hypersplenism in patients with liver
      cirrhosis. It may significantly increase platelet count and white blood cells (WBC) count and
      improve hepatic blood supply with fewer complications. Ablating more than 40% of the splenic
      parenchyma may yield better long term results. This method may provide a new and promising
      minimally invasive alternative for treating hypersplenism.

      The aim of this study is to compare microwave thermal coagulation and partial splenic
      embolization in the management of hypersplenism in patients with cirrhosis.

      This study will be conducted on 40 patients with liver cirrhosis associated with splenomegaly
      and hypersplenism. The study will be done at the National Hepatology and Tropical Medicine
      Research Institute.

      All patients will be subjected to thorough history taking, full clinical, lab,
      ultrasound/doppler, and upper endoscopic examination. Diagnosis has been based on peripheral
      blood count and confirmed with bone marrow examination.

      Preoperative antibiotics will be given and correction of bleeding tendency with plasma and
      platelet transfusion will be done as required to get a prothrombin concentration more than
      65% and platelet count more than 100,000.
    
  