
    
      The study is a randomized placebo controlled multicentric Phase III trial. The duration of
      the trial for each subject is expected to be 6 months. The duration for each individual
      subject includes 7 days study treatment and 6 months follow-up time. Recruitment of subjects
      will start in April 2020.

      Adult male and female patients with positive COVID-19 diagnosis and fulfilling the below
      outlined inclusion criteria will be enrolled into the study. Trial population will consist of
      both genders.

      Name of IMP: Hydroxychloroquine sulfate (HCQ); Quensyl. All consenting adult patients having
      confirmed COVID-19 will be recruited and randomly and blindly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to
      either IMP or placebo. Each patient will be given a first dose of 800 mg IMP or the
      equivalent number of placebo capsules (4 capsules) at the day of inclusion (Day 1). From the
      2nd day on, each patient will get 600 mg or the equivalent number if placebo capsules (3
      capsules) once a day until day 7 (6 more does of 600 mg). The patient will be given the daily
      dose of IMP at once for a total of 7 days.

      Patients will be monitored on a daily basis until the endpoint (2 measurements of viral load
      below 100 copies at least 24 hours apart) is reached. During admission visits will be
      performed by the attending physician or study-nurse, after discharge visits will be performed
      by qualified and trained study-personnel. Daily procedures will include a pharyngeal swab for
      qPCR diagnostics (until primary endpoint is reached) and symptom assessment by questionnaire
      and clinical examination. Blood draw for assessment of full blood count, routine clinical
      chemistry and assessment of markers of inflammation, and immune response will be performed on
      days 1, 2, 4, 7, 14, 30 and last follow up. ECG and measurement of cardiac enzymes will be
      performed on a weekly basis or if clinically indicated to identify new onset arrhythmias.

      The efficacy will be assessed by the daily throat swaps and directly followed measurement of
      SARS-CoV-2-specific RNA copy number until the result of this test will be below the level of
      detection during at least 2 consecutive visits (24h apart).

      Safety will be assessed daily by the study physician until the endpoint is reached and at all
      subsequent scheduled visits and contacts as well as at any unscheduled visit.
    
  