
    
      Status EPILEPTICUS (SE) is a major medical emergency. The incidence per 100,000 population
      has been estimated at 9.9 episodes in Europe and 41 episodes in the US. The overall morbidity
      and mortality associated with convulsive SE (CSE) is 60% at three months. The alteration of
      functional prognosis of these patients is more conventionally attributed to the cause than to
      CSE itself. Longer seizure duration, progression to refractory status EPILEPTICUS and
      presence of cerebral insult are strong factors independently associated with a poor
      functional outcome. These three factors offer may be amenable to improvement and hope for
      preventive strategies. Current guidelines recommend the use of anticonvulsant treatment whose
      goal is prompt cessation of clinical and electrical seizures. None of these treatments has
      demonstrated NEUROPROTECTICE property. Therapeutic moderate hypothermia (between 32 and 34 °
      C) showed interest in neuroprotection of post anoxic coma patients after a cardiovascular
      arrest on ventricular fibrillation by reducing morbidity and mortality in about 20% without
      major side effects. This technique has been used successfully in various pathologies such as
      stroke or traumatic brain injury. Pathophysiological mechanisms involved in epileptogenesis
      and neurotoxicity induced by persistence of seizures can be blocked by therapeutic
      hypothermia. Recent work on experimental models of SE demonstrated neuroprotective and
      anticonvulsant interest of therapeutic hypothermia. Therapeutic hypothermia has also been
      successfully used in some cases of particularly refractory CSE. Its early use in patients
      with SE would have a double interest: neuroprotective and anticonvulsant. There is currently
      no published studies or ongoing to determine the interest of its early use in patients with
      CSE.

      Thus, the current study AIMAS at evaluating the effectiveness of the implementation of a
      procedure of moderate hypothermia therapy, between 32 ° and 34 ° C for 24 hours, to reduce
      morbidity and mortality at 3 months (+ / - 1 week) in mechanically ventilated ICU patients
      with convulsive status EPILEPTICUS.
    
  