
    
      Every year, approximately 795,000 people suffer a new or recurrent stroke in the United
      States, meaning that every 40 seconds someone has a stroke. In the United States, stroke is
      the third most frequent cause of death and the leading cause of lasting hemiparesis and adult
      disability. Since the prevalence of stroke increases with age, and since the world population
      is aging, the incidence of stroke is expected to rise in the coming years. This will become a
      significant societal burden since the care of stroke survivors is costly, to the individual
      and to society.

      Post-stroke upper extremity (UE) impairment usually implies initial weakness, with subsequent
      diminished dexterity and limitation or incapacity for reaching, transport and grasping
      movements since the onset. Survivors may regain partial or, less often, complete muscle
      strength in the affected UE during the recovery process. However, a persistent degree of
      weakness and evolution to secondary complications as spasticity (characterized by increased
      flexor hypertonia), shoulder pain and contractures is frequent. These additional issues are
      associated with greater impairment, worse function and lower health-related quality of life.
      Treatment interventions for hemiparesis after stroke usually include stretching,
      strengthening of antagonist muscles, splinting, oral medications, and focal injections
      (phenol or botulinum toxin) and intrathecal baclofen. However, the amount, intensity and
      length of therapies still need further investigation. Despite adequate traditional treatment,
      a high number of patients are still permanently limited as a consequence of stroke. Based on
      motor learning theories, recent studies have demonstrated that intensive, repetitive,
      task-oriented therapies can help the paretic extremity "relearn" how to perform movements
      that were lost after brain damage.

      ROBOTIC-ASSISTED UPPER-LIMB TRAINING WITH ARMEO®

      Current evidence has shown that rehabilitation without specific training will not result in
      measurable outcomes. Factors such as intensity and specificity of motor training are
      important to achieve recovery of motor function, especially in the chronic phase of the
      stroke. There is robust evidence that highly-repetitive movement rehabilitation could improve
      motor and functional ability, based on its role in motor learning processes.Robotic devices
      have become a very important area of research because of their capacity to achieve
      high-intensity and specificity therapies.

      In this proposed project, we plan to use the Armeo robotic system to deliver motor training
      therapy. The Armeo system is an adjustable arm orthosis that has received FDA 510k exemption.
      It passively counterbalances the weight of the arm, thereby reducing the effort required by
      the paretic arm to overcome gravity. The device is able to augment feedback through a virtual
      environment (i.e. computer games). The tasks presented in the virtual environment are
      designed to achieve functional movements, i.e. the subject has to perform tasks such as
      reaching for objects as part of the game. Gravity compensation, which can reduce the level of
      difficulty of performing an activity, facilitates active arm movement, especially when it
      involves training in grasping and reaching. By using the Armeo system, we hope to achieve
      repetitive training of reach, grasp, and release in an engaging environment that can be
      adapted to individual capabilities. We also expect to enable stroke survivors whose motor
      weakness may have excluded them from performing repetitive therapy tasks to participate in
      this study.

      LEVODOPA Several agents have widely proved their influence on neuronal plasticity. Among
      these agents, pharmacological drugs increasing the availability of Central Nervous System
      (CNS) neurotransmitters (dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, acetylcholine and hista mine)
      have shown the ability to modulate excitability in cortical neurons and exert a subsequent
      facilitator effect in neuroplasticity. In this regard, several studies have been conducted in
      the past two decades investigating, among other agents, the effects of amphetamines,
      selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, donepezil, psychostimulants as methylphenidate and
      dopaminergic agents. Levodopa (LD) is a desirable drug to evaluate because of its safe action
      profile. This oral medication is a precursor of dopamine (DA) that is actively transported
      across the blood-brain barrier and is converted to DA in the CNS and peripheral tissues.
      Approximately 95% of LD is converted to DA, stimulating dopaminergic neurotransmission, and
      the remaining 5% is converted to norepinephrine and affects adrenergic neurotransmission. DA
      plays a role in the formation of motor memories and thereby facilitates neuroplasticity,
      through the strengthening (long term potentiation, LTP) or weakening (long term depression,
      LTD) of the neuronal synapses, thereby generating neuroplasticity. DA has an inverted U-shape
      concentration curve effect to facilitate LTP. In previous studies doses of 100mg generated a
      facilitator effect, and 25 mg and 200 mg exerted an inhibitor effect on human cortex. This
      pharmacological agent has shown promising results in the treatment of stroke by enhancing
      functional motor recovery in the sub-acute and chronic period, in combination with intensive
      physical therapy, without reported significant side effects. In the acute and sub-acute
      phases, LD was demonstrated to improve functional motor skills that were maintained at three
      weeks follow up. LD also showed an additional benefit on the activities of daily living and
      in the severity of the stroke. In the chronic period, a single dose of LD combined with
      physical therapy for five weeks enhanced the formation of training-dependent elementary motor
      memory while improving UE dexterity.

      COMBINING LEVODOPA/CARBIDOPA WITH THE ARMEO SYSTEM

      It is our hypothesis that the intake of levodopa/carbidopa LD/CD in combination with
      intensive robotic-assisted therapy will provide better outcomes in functional recovery tests
      than the same training alone. We also hypothesize that these improvements could be correlated
      with changes in motor cortex excitability. Current strategies to improve motor recovery after
      stroke focus on neuroplasticity and neuromodulation. There is growing interest in the
      combination of therapies and strategies to enhance plasticity and thereby functional recovery
      through the rehabilitation process. It is frequently hypothesized that the combination of
      drug therapy and physical rehabilitation could provide better outcomes by enhancing
      neuroplasticity phenomenon

      We propose a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of LD/CD in combination with
      repetitive upper-extremity functional task-oriented and robotic-aided training.
    
  