
    
      The National Institutes of Mental Health (NIMH) has recently identified that a major
      limitation to the understanding of neuropsychiatric disorders and the development of
      treatments for these conditions has been the inability to identify key dimensions of
      observable behavior that are central to these disorders and linked to underlying neurobiology
      by measurable biomarkers. This project is intended to address this problem by establishing
      that pupillary measures of norepinephrine (NE) neuronal activity are biomarkers of fear
      dimension of observable behavior, alterations of which are believed to be core features of
      neuropsychiatric conditions such as anxiety disorders. The investigators will establish this
      biomarker-clinical dimension link by comparing pupillary indices in humans to a carbon
      dioxide (CO2) fear provocation test, as well as in these subjects undergoing transcranial
      Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) prior to and after CO2 administration.

      Participants will be recruited in Dr. Krystal's laboratory at Duke University which has
      proven infrastructure for clinical trials. The study team plans to enroll a total of 240
      subjects healthy volunteers (age range: 21-65 years) in order to complete 100. This takes
      into account the expected rate of failure to: have a pupillary response in the auditory
      oddball task (AOT) (25%); have a sufficient fear response to CO2 challenge (50% - relevant
      for last 10 R21 and all R33 subjects); and to meet other screening criteria.

      R21 Phase: First 30 Subjects will undergo two sessions separated by 1 week in which a
      promising electrode configuration (three promising configuration will each be tested in a
      cohort of 10 subjects) will be used with tDCS stimulation at increasing electrical dosage
      during which pupillometry will be carried out to determine the auditory oddball test (AOT)
      response. A maximum of 5 total tDCS dosages and sham will be tested. Last 10 Subjects. These
      subjects will take part in a double-blind, controlled, randomized, cross-over study over 3
      sessions. At session 1 subjects will undergo electrical dose titration with the tDCS
      electrode configuration resulting from the 3 rounds of optimization using the same procedure
      as in the first 30 subjects to determine the lowest well-tolerated dose that suppresses the
      AOT pupil response, except that a maximum of 5 tDCS dosages will be tested at this session.
      At the third and fourth sessions (1 week apart) subjects will receive dose-optimized tDCS and
      the control treatment with order randomized along with 7.5% CO2 (to evoke an LC response) for
      20 minutes. The 7.5% CO2 will be delivered to us pre-mixed provided by Airgas. At these
      sessions, the VAS-A and State Trait Anxiety-Inventory (STA-I) will be administered 5 minutes
      prior to and just after the 20 minute session and Visual Analog Scale-Anxiety (VAS-A) will
      also be obtained at 5, 10, 15, and 20 minute points of the CO2 inhalation. tDCS will be
      administered during the last 5 minutes of the 20 minute CO2 inhalation period. Subjects will
      be monitored for an hour post-session for safety and will undergo study physician assessment
      to determine suitability to leave. Following the 2nd treatment session participation will end
      except that subjects will be called the next day to assess for adverse effects and
      appropriate care will be given if found. R33 Phase: 60 subjects will participate in a
      double-blind, randomized, controlled, parallel-group trial. They will be randomized to either
      active or control treatment and at the first post-screening visit they will undergo
      electrical dose titration as described above for the treatment they are randomized to. For
      all titrations, during the 5 minutes between tDCS treatments an unblinded member of the study
      team not having contact with the subjects will compute their AOT pupil response and convey to
      the tDCS treatment physician whether to continue or stop titration. Subjects randomized to
      the control treatment will undergo a sham titration where the stop level will be randomly
      selected from the distribution of titration outcomes occurring in the R21 phase. Subjects
      will then return in 1 week and undergo optimal dose tDCS or control treatment for a single
      treatment session as described in the prior paragraph. Primary outcome will be the VAS-A
      "fearful" rating obtained at the end of tDCS/CO2 inhalation. AOT pupil response will be
      obtained every 10 minutes after the end of the tDCS/CO2 inhalation period to map the duration
      of persistent effects on LC. At the end of this session participation will end except that
      subjects will be called the next day to assess for adverse effects and care given if
      necessary. Preliminary data from the R21 phase will be used to provide justification for the
      larger R33 study, and prior to commencing the R33 investigation phase that an addendum to the
      Institutional Review Board (IRB) protocol with approval will be obtained.

      Pupillometry Procedure. The team will employ fully mobile SensoMotoric Instruments (SMI)
      Eye-tracking Glasses to carry out pupillometry. Pupil diameter will be recorded continuously
      from the each eye at a sampling rate of 60 Hz via glasses on the subject's face. The
      investigators will capture pupil size at baseline and in response to the AOT and
      administration of 7.5% CO2. Data will be segmented into epochs from 0 to 12 s relative to the
      acquisition onset of each stimuli or experimental condition. An average pupil diameter
      measure will then be calculated for the corresponding volume by taking the mean across the
      remaining non-artifactual samples in that epoch. For 7.5% CO2 response the pupil diameter
      will be averaged over 1 minute periods while subjects are staring at a dark screen in a dark
      room. This will be computed at baseline, and at 5, 10, 15, and 20 minutes after the start of
      CO2 inhalation and 5 minutes and 30 minutes postinhalation.

      Administration of 7.5% CO2. Inhalation of 7.5% CO2 for 20 min will be carried out. Subjects
      will be instructed to avoid alcohol for 36 hours and caffeine for 12 hour prior to testing
      and to eat a light lunch at least one hour prior to testing. A urine pregnancy test will be
      administered to women of childbearing potential on both days of gas exposure with a negative
      result needed in order to continue in study participation. Gas will be delivered via a
      nasal-oral face mask connected via tubing to a 500 L reservoir bag filled with 7.5% CO2/21%
      Oxygen (O2) 71.5% Nitrogen (N2). Subjects will receive air through the mask in the 10 min
      prior to CO2 administration during which baseline measures will be obtained.

      Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) will be administered with a multichannel
      direct current stimulation device that can be programmed so that the operator doesn't know
      the combination of electrodes being used for stimulation, and, thereby allow double-blinding.
      The active tDCS electrode configuration to be used will be determined with the 3 round
      iterative procedure described above; based on electric field modeling and personalized
      electrical dose titration to find the lowest dose that is well-tolerated and engages the
      target in terms of inhibiting the AOT pupillary response. Electrical dosage will be
      personalized for each subject by titrating dosage (gradually increasing) until the dosage is
      found that is both well-tolerated (no more than mild discomfort on a 5-point Likert scale)
      and suppresses the AOT pupillary response. If the 5-point Likert tolerability rating is
      greater than "mild discomfort" or if maximum amperage is reached without effect on AOT then
      subject participation will terminate.
    
  