
    
      Infertility is an unexpected and stressful life with emotional, social and sexual
      repercussions. Women undergoing assisted reproductive techniques (ART) exhibit high anxiety
      and/or depression scores during the pre-treatment period, during the course of treatment and
      during the 2 weeks waiting-time for the pregnancy test.

      The impact of psychological distress on ART outcomes is debated. Several studies report a
      negative impact of stress on pregnancy rates after IVF whereas two meta-analyses report
      inconclusive results regarding the association between emotional distress and pregnancy
      outcomes after ART.

      The success rates of ART, which are highly dependent on the woman's age, are low in women in
      their late reproductive years with the need of several ART treatments to achieve pregnancy.
      Moreover, ART is often the last resort treatment in couples that have undergone infertility
      investigations and other first-line treatments such as surgery, ovulation induction and/or
      stimulation with intra-uterine insemination. Couple need resilience in order to undergo
      repeated treatments. Psychological distress therefore has an impact on cumulative pregnancy
      rates over several ART treatments because of premature treatment discontinuation. Depressive
      symptoms at baseline have been shown to predict treatment "dropout" after only one cycle.

      Preliminary evidence suggests that mind-body interventions, including mindfulness-based
      interventions and yoga, may be effective in reducing mental health difficulties such as
      anxiety and depression in infertile women undergoing treatments.

      The aim of the investigators was to develop a psychological self-help tool using modern
      technological means in line with the recent Femtech (female technology) developments. The
      hypothesis was that an online meditation tool would be more accessible and easier to
      integrate into a busy schedule than standard programs that require weekly attendance.

      In 2017, the investigators created collaboration between experts in reproductive medicine,
      experts in mindfulness and a start-up that offers an online platform for meditation programs.
      The investigators developed an online program of 15 meditations specifically dedicated to
      infertile women. These meditations help women explore certain themes such as "inner
      resources", "social interactions", "letting go of beliefs" etc. This program has been
      available online since December 2017 and has been used by several thousand women.

      The hypothesis behind the study is that "mindfulness-based interventions" can be delivered
      successfully through modern technologies with a significant impact on psychological outcomes
      and well-being. Femtech self-help online tools are used by thousands of women on a daily
      basis but studies are lacking on their efficacy.

      The aim is to conduct a randomized controlled trial on the effect of a mindfulness-based
      intervention using the online meditation program versus standard care without intervention on
      psychological outcomes in infertile women undergoing ART treatments.

      Women in the intervention group will receive an introduction to the concept and philosophy of
      mindfulness meditation through an online video and an exercise book. They will receive an
      access code to the application and will have access to short guided meditations both general
      and specific to their infertility. They will be instructed to follow the "découverte"
      (discovery) program of 8 meditations of 10 minutes and then the program "désir de
      parentalité" (wish to become a parent) of 15 meditations of 13 minutes each. Patients will be
      given access to all other meditations programs on the application and instructed to meditate
      with the program for at least 10-15 minutes on a daily basis using the e-tool for 1 month.
      The practice of meditation will be monitored by the number of connections to the applications
      and the time spent on the exercises. Women in the control group will have the standard care
      of the centre. The investigators will measure the effectiveness of the intervention on
      anxiety (State trait anxiety index, STAI), depression (Beck depression inventory, BDI),
      quality of life during ART treatments (Fertility quality of life tool, Fertiqol) and
      mindfulness aspects (Five facet mindfulness questionnaire, FFMQ). The investigators will also
      measure the impact of the intervention on biological stress measured by hair cortisol
      concentration. Finally, the investigators will assess the impact on the chances of pregnancy
      and on treatment discontinuation after 1 month.
    
  