
    
      This study aims to evaluate the feasibility of delivering a tailored exercise intervention to
      manage fatigue in people with progressive forms of MS. To do this, a randomised controlled
      trial design will be used to assess the feasibility of delivering a tailored exercise
      intervention to manage fatigue in people with progressive forms of MS in comparison to a
      standard (untailored) exercise group and usual care control group.

      This study aims to recruit up to 45 people with progressive MS who are experiencing
      moderate-severe levels of fatigue from MS clinics and outpatient physiotherapy services
      within NHS Forth Valley. Participants will be randomly allocated to receive either the
      tailored exercise programme, the standard exercise programme, or their usual care. All
      outcome measures will be recorded at baseline and post-intervention.

      Both exercise programmes will require participants to attend Falkirk Community Hospital twice
      a week for 8 weeks - therefore, participants will receive 16 exercise sessions in total. All
      exercise sessions will be supervised by a physiotherapist and they will provide participants
      with any support that is required. The standard exercise programme involves aerobic-based
      interval training delivered on a bicycle ergometer. Each exercise session will be 30 minutes
      in duration, and will be broken down into a 3 minute warm-up, 24 minutes of interval
      training, and a 3 minute cool-down. During the interval training component, participants will
      be asked to perform 6 intervals that require them to exercise at a moderate intensity (>70%
      heart rate reserve) for 2 minutes followed by 2 minutes of recovery.

      The tailored exercise programme is similar to the standard exercise programme - participants
      will still be required to attend Falkirk Community Hospital twice a week for 8 weeks, and
      they will perform the same type and duration of exercise as the standard exercise programme.
      However in order to tailor exercise to fatigue, participants will be asked to rate their
      current levels of fatigue before exercising - this rating will then be compared to the
      baseline score. If the participant's fatigue is worse, they will be offered the option of
      performing a lower intensity of exercise for that specific session (>50% heart rate reserve).
      In addition, participants will also be asked to monitor their fatigue in a symptom diary for
      2 days following each exercise session. If fatigue is worsened by exercise and remains
      elevated for 2 days after 2 consecutive exercise sessions, then they will also be offered the
      option of performing the lower intensity exercise prescription.

      Participants in the usual care control group will continue to receive their standard care
      independent of this study. Participants will also receive an information booklet about
      fatigue that is freely available from the UK MS Society. This booklet provides general
      information about MS-related fatigue, strategies to self-monitor and self-manage symptoms,
      and directs them to contact health professionals involved in their care for support if
      required.
    
  