
    
      The worldwide prevalence of type 2 diabetes has increased by more than two-fold over the past
      three decades, with ~60% of diabetics in the world currently living in Asian countries. Type
      2 diabetes occurs at a younger age and at lower body mass index (BMI < 22 kg/m2) in Asians as
      compared other ethnic groups. Among the various evidence based approaches to diabetes
      prevention, diet plays one of the most important roles. In particular, food based
      interventions are beginning to emerge as superior strategies in the prevention of type 2
      diabetes compared to nutrient based approaches. It is important of course to align food based
      interventions to the cultural and region specific aspects of food choice and eating behavior
      if such lifestyle pattern is to be implemented in a given population. To this effect, the
      investigators will investigate the effects of a multiple food components in combination on
      metabolic health outcomes, within an Asian dietary context. This proposed study will be
      undertaken in prediabetics who are at greater life-time risk of developing type 2 diabetes
      than their normoglycemic counterparts.

      Based on the current evidence, the investigators will design a food based intervention
      consisting of a diet rich in legumes, low GI starches (such as rice, noodles),healthier
      vegetable oil blends (such as rice bran, peanut, sesame seed and sunflower oils) as well as
      certain herbs and spices. As part of this study, each volunteer will be provided with 2 of
      their 3 meals per day, consisting of the above mentioned foods, for a period of 16 weeks. The
      control group will also be provided 2 meals per day, matched for the total calorie contents.
      The total calorie content of each provided meal will be approximately 500 kcal for males and
      400 kcal for females. The difference in the calorie contents between the genders will be made
      up by using prepacked snacks. There will also be further differences in the snack types
      between the two intervention (treatment vs control) groups. While the treatment group will
      consist of healthier snacks such as seeds and wholemeal crackers, the control group snack
      ingredients will be made from refined flour biscuits etc. The remaining foods (free choice)
      during the day will be monitored regularly by the study dietitian to ensure a small calorie
      deficit that should lead to an approximately 5% weight loss in both intervention and control
      groups. Therefore, while it is expected that even the control group will achieve some
      metabolic health benefits during this 16 week dietary intervention (indirectly due to weight
      loss), the investigators anticipate that the treatment group will attain greater benefits as
      compared to the control group, due to the differences in their food constituents. The effects
      of dietary interventions on metabolic health will be assessed at every 4-8 week intervals.
      The primary outcome measures will include several markers of glucose homeostasis (including
      HbA1c, fasting glucose, fasting insulin and a 2-hr oral glucose tolerance test [OGTT]). The
      secondary outcomes will include blood lipid profile, fructosamine, adiponectin, markers of
      oxidative stress and chronic inflammation.
    
  