
    
      Families and caregivers of children enrolled in the IAN Research between the age 5-8 and with
      an established diagnosis of autism will be invited to participate in the study by e-mail. All
      of these families have previously given consent to be contacted about research opportunities.
      Families who respond to the e-mail recruitment letter will undergo a brief screening process
      to determine if the child has any exclusion criteria and to ensure the child is age 5-8, has
      an autism spectrum disorder, and has elevated baseline levels of hyperactivity. Families will
      undergo an on-line informed consent process including assent of the child. All participants
      will be given an opportunity to speak with a study team member should they have any questions
      about the study or the informed consent process. Participants will sign the informed consent
      using an electronic signature, a process that has been used previously in the IAN network and
      approved by the John's Hopkins Institutional Review Board (IRB). Families meeting all
      eligibility criteria will be randomly assigned and mailed the study medication (omega-3 or
      placebo) which will be administered to children by the parents twice daily for six weeks.
      Both the study medication and the matching placebo are an orange-flavored pudding that is
      specifically designed to be palatable for young children. Assessment of child hyperactivity,
      social functioning, and overall disease severity will be measured at baseline, three and six
      weeks by the parents, who will complete on-line standard questionnaires; ABC, Social
      Responsiveness Scale (SRS), clinical Global Impressions Scale (CGI).

      Side effects will be assessed every week by e-mail, and any report of a side effect will
      immediately be followed-up with telephone contact from the PI. Although omega-3 fatty acids
      are extremely safe in the prescribed doses, the PI or another study physician will still be
      on call 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week to speak to participants about possible adverse events
      or new medical problems (all enrolled families are provided with this 24-hour emergency phone
      contact information).

      As part of the weekly e-mail reminder, parents will also be asked to log the medication that
      was provided to their children each day of the previous week to measure medication adherence.
    
  