
    
      With combination antiretroviral therapy, HIV/AIDS has been transformed from a progressive,
      usually fatal infection to a manageable chronic condition. Yet, HIV associated neurocognitive
      disorders (HAND) pose a significant clinical problem, even among patients with controlled HIV
      viremia. There is evidence of accelerated vascular aging and other vascular disorders in
      HIV-infected (HIV+) people, and studies suggest an association between vascular disorders and
      unfavorable neurocognitive outcomes. Thus, one possible contributing factor to the high rates
      of HANDs and depression could be vascular dysfunction, similar to vascular depression and
      vascular dementia that occur in elderly non-HIV+ individuals. One commonly used diagnostic
      marker of vasculopathy is thickening of the vessel wall. Multiple studies have already
      established the correlation between vessel wall thickening and vascular disease
      manifestations. This prospective observational study aims to examine the relationships
      between neurocognitive and depression outcomes and vessel wall thickness as a marker of
      vascular disease in HIV+ adults. We will be using neuropsychological testing, brain imaging,
      blood biomarkers, and state-of-the-art high-resolution MR imaging of the carotid vessel
      walls. HIV infected patients (n=40) and HIV-negative controls (n=40) will be recruited.
      Participants who consent to longitudinal follow-up will be followed for two years with
      clinical evaluations every 6 months and repeat imaging studies at 12 and 24 months. Cross
      sectional data analysis will compare markers of vascular and neurocognitive disorders between
      HIV-infected and HIV-negative participants. The longitudinal data analysis will assess and
      compare the temporal progression of vascular disease (imaging and blood biomarker findings)
      in relation to changes in neurocognitive and depression scores in both groups.
    
  