
    
      Is "the idle mind the devil's playground?" It depends on where the wandering mind goes. If it
      is busy reflecting on recent activity, consolidating recent material into long term memories,
      and envisioning the future, then these thought patterns may be highly adaptive, allowing us
      to learn from the past and plan for the future. But when the mind turns to the dark side and
      rumination takes over, these thought patterns are maladaptive. Rumination involves recursive
      negative thinking focused on causes and consequences rather than solutions. It cuts across
      diagnostic boundaries: it is both a cause and consequence of major depressive disorder (MDD)
      and is related to hallucinations and delusions in schizophrenia (SZ). It affects cognitive
      and emotional responses, yet it can be treated with mindfulness-based therapies.

      Mindfulness-meditation is a type of behavioral therapy that focuses on cultivating present
      focused attention, is a stress-reduction intervention that targets rumination, and improves
      many medical and psychiatric conditions: Trait mindfulness is associated with less distress
      from auditory hallucinations and fewer residual depressive symptoms. It is the practice of
      attending to present moment experiences and allowing emotions and thoughts to come and go
      without judgment, thereby avoiding a downward spiral into rumination.

      Compared to simple mind wandering, a brief mindfulness induction recruits an attention
      network including parietal and prefrontal structures while mind wandering only recruits the
      default mode network (DMN) Based on data from the last funding period, the investigators know
      that activation of the DMN affects both basic sensory and semantic processing in SZ. The
      investigators propose to extend this by focusing specifically on rumination and adding
      patients with depression. The investigators ask how rumination affects basic sensory,
      cognitive and emotional responses, and if mindfulness can rescue these functions, across
      diagnoses and the wellness spectrum.

      The investigators will acquire simultaneous EEG and fMRI data from Veterans with depression
      and schizophrenia and mentally healthy Veterans to assess early sensory responses, context
      updating, and responses to emotional images. Understanding how rumination affects engagement
      with the environment is the first step towards assessing its far-reaching cognitive and
      emotional costs, which cut across traditional diagnostic boundaries. Understanding how
      mindfulness restores information processing will increase our understanding of how, and for
      whom, it works.

      The investigators predict rumination inductions will prevent the brain from fully processing
      a spectrum of external events, and mindfulness inductions will restore these abilities. The
      investigators predict trait rumination and mindfulness will modulate the effects in all
      groups, with exaggerated effects in those with depression or schizophrenia. The outcome
      variables will be EEG-based event related potentials (ERPs) and fMRI, and their integration.
      Symptom severity, trait rumination, and trait mindfulness will be considered in the analyses.

      Aim 1: Simple effects of rumination inductions on fMRI connectivity. The investigators will
      compare the effects of rumination and mindfulness inductions on the connectivity between DMN
      and rumination-sensitive brain regions. Compared to mindfulness inductions, the investigators
      predict rumination will increase this connectivity, with greater effects in depressed and
      schizophrenia patients than in healthy controls.

      Aim 2: Carry-over effects of mindfulness inductions on ERPs and fMRI and their integration.
      The investigators predict the effects of 30-second mindfulness inductions will persist into
      the subsequent visual oddball task, thereby augmenting sensory, attention, and emotional ERP
      components and fMRI activation in sensory, cognitive and emotional networks, compared to
      rumination inductions. The investigators will explore the covariance between fMRI and ERP
      data fusion methods as they have done previously.

      Aim 3: Effects of trait rumination and mindfulness. The investigators will assess the
      relationship between neural data and trait rumination, mindfulness, and symptom severity in
      all groups.
    
  