
    
      Participants will come to the lab for 3 sessions, one for familiarization and two for
      testing.

      Familiarization - At this time, anthropometric measurements including height, weight, BMI
      (body mass index) and body composition will be determined. Participants will be familiarized
      with the interpolated twitch technique and performing a maximal voluntary contraction of the
      quadriceps muscle. Next, Participant's 10 repetition maximum squat weight will be established
      by starting at a participant selected weight and gradually increasing until only 10 squat
      repetitions can be completed. A VO2max (maximum oxygen consumption) test will be performed on
      a cycle ergometer using standard methods.

      On testing sessions 1 and 2 the following neuromuscular and performance measures will be
      evaluated:

        1. Quadriceps muscle voluntary activation will be assessed using the interpolated twitch
           technique and doublet twitch technique. Participants will be seated and instructed to
           perform three 5 second maximal voluntary isometric contractions at least 1 minute apart
           - participant's ankle will be restrained by a padded cuff attached to a load cell.

           For the second maximal isometric contraction at 3 seconds into the contraction, a square
           wave superimposed stimulus will be delivered for 1 milliseconds to the femoral nerve
           from a monopolar touch-proof cathode electrode secured in the femoral triangle. 2, 7 and
           12 seconds after the contraction a resting twitch will be delivered for comparison of
           muscle force.

           For the third maximal isometric contraction, at 3 seconds into the contraction, two 1
           millisecond square wave superimposed stimuli at 100 Hz will be delivered 10 milliseconds
           apart. 2 seconds after the contraction the same stimulus will be applied. At 7 seconds
           after, two stimuli will be delivered 100 milliseconds at 10 Hz apart and 12 seconds
           after a single stimulus will be delivered.

           The percutaneous electrical stimulation will be delivered from a Biopac stimulator
           (BSLSTMA, Biopac Systems, Santa Barbara, California) with a maximum voltage of 400 V.
           During familiarization, participants will receive several submaximal stimulations for
           acclimatization before the current intensity is gradually increased until peak twitch
           torque and muscle action potential amplitude is reached. A stimulus of 1.2 times the
           current required to elicit peak twitch torque and action potential amplitude will be
           used to ensure maximal activation. The interpolated twitch technique will be used to
           examine the difference in muscle activation during maximal contraction and a
           superimposed stimulation. Voluntary activation will be calculated using the formula:

           Voluntary activation (%) = (1- superimposed twitch / twitch evoked at rest) x 100

           Surface self-adhesive silver chloride electrodes will be placed over the belly of the
           vastus lateralis, vastus medialis and biceps femoris muscles to measure muscle
           electrical activity (electromyography) during maximal voluntary contractions as
           previously described.

        2. Vertical jump - Quadriceps power will be assessed using the vertical jump test on a
           force plate (AMTI, Watertown, Massachusetts, USA). Participants will complete two
           attempts to jump as high as possible from crouched and two attempts using the counter
           jump technique (participants can start from standing, bend the knees and then jump).

        3. Push-up - Upper body strength endurance will be examined by having the participant
           complete as many push-ups as possible in one-minute. Participants will be given
           one-minute rest before being asked to complete as many push-ups as possible in a minute.
           A piece of soft foam will be attached to the floor to provide participants feedback as
           to how low the must go when performing each push-up.

        4. 10RM (10 repetition maximum) squat - After completing an optional 2 to 4 repetitions of
           75% of the their 10RM weight as determined during baseline data collection, participants
           will complete as many repetitions as possible.

        5. Wingate test - Participants will be fitted to a cycle ergometer (Excalibur Sport V2.0,
           Lode, Groningen, The Netherlands). They will then cycle against a fixed resistance of
           0.075kg / kg body mass for 30 seconds using their maximum effort. Verbal encouragement
           will be provided to the participant to help produce their maximum effort.

        6. Cycling time trial - Participants will complete a 10km time trial on a cycle ergometer
           (Excalibur Sport V2.0, Lode, Groningen, The Netherlands). Participants' inspired and
           expired gasses will be measured using a metabolic cart (Cortex, Leipzig, Germany). Gas
           variables and cycling power output will be measured using the supplied software. This
           change in protocol does not alter the risk to participants as their level of
           conditioning is quite high and similar levels of exertion would be required in their
           daily training.

      Supplementation - In between sessions 1 and 2, there is a 21 day break for which participants
      will be computer randomized to either the omega-3 supplementation or an olive oil placebo.
      Participants will take a 2.5 mL serving of seal oil (2500 mg n-3, 255 mg DHA (docosahexaenoic
      acid ) and 187.5 mg EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) with 500 IU vitamin D3 and 1000 IU vitamin A)
      (Auum Inc., Timmons, On) or 2.5 mL olive oil (Bertolli, Mississauga, Ont) with 500 IU vitamin
      D and 1000 IU vitamin A added twice daily with breakfast and dinner.

      All supplementation amounts are within the amounts specified by Health Canada Guidelines.

      Session 2 - After the 21 day supplementation period, participants will return to the lab for
      a second evaluatory session using identical protocols to session 1.
    
  