
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the efficacy of a single intravesical instillation of gemcitabine hydrochloride
           vs placebo immediately after transurethral resection of the bladder tumor (TURBT) in
           preventing recurrence at 2 years in patients with grade 1 or 2 superficial transitional
           cell cancer of the bladder.

      Secondary

        -  Compare whether a single instillation of intravesical gemcitabine hydrochloride can
           improve the time to progression to muscle invasive disease vs placebo in these patients.

        -  Compare the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare whether treatment with post-TURBT intravesical instillation of gemcitabine vs
           placebo results in reduced long-term morbidity in patients, as defined by requirement
           for fewer TURBTs, courses of traditional intravesical therapies, and surveillance
           cystoscopies over 4 years.

      Tertiary

        -  Assess whether performing a combination of molecular and/or cytologic diagnostic marker
           tests, including NMP-22 Bladder Chek and BTA Stat every 3 months, can predict recurrence
           as accurately as cystoscopy alone in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to disease status (first occurrence vs recurrent disease) and number of tumor sites
      (1 vs ≥ 2). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      All patients undergo transurethral resection of the bladder tumor. Within 3 hours, patients
      receive intravesical therapy according to their randomized arm.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive intravesical gemcitabine hydrochloride over 1 hour.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive intravesical placebo over 1 hour. Urine is collected at
           baseline and then every 3 months for 2 years for research studies including the NMP-22
           Bladder Chek and BTA Stat test.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 340 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  