
    
      Aortic stenosis (AS) is common valvular disorder, affecting 2% to 4% of adults older than 65
      years. It is gradually but constantly progressive disease whit a long asymptomatic phase, but
      once symptoms develop, the prognosis is poor.

      Currently, treatment strategy is focused mainly to watchful monitoring and judicious timing
      of aortic valve replacement (AVR). However, not all patients are proper candidate of
      corrective surgery and the needs of development of medical treatment are increasing. Various
      mechanisms have been suggested in progression of AS and recent observational studies
      suggested not only mechanical stress of "wear and tear" but also active inflammatory process
      likewise atherosclerosis may contribute the progression of AS. Through clinical descriptive
      studies, atherosclerotic risk factors, such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia,
      obesity, smoking, and metabolic syndrome have been known to facilitate the progression of AS.

      The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is activated at an early stage of AS, promoting
      developemtnt of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), myocardial fibrosis, and diastolic
      dysfunction. Lipid lowering therapy and RAS blockade have emerged potential medical treatment
      to slow the progression of AS, however, many clinical trials did not show consistent
      beneficial effect of statins.8-10 RAS blockers are perceived as being relative
      contraindication due to concerns about increasing pressure gradient. However, patients with
      AS tolerate RAS blocker well on initiation and the use of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)
      inhibitors appears to confer long term survival benefit on patients considered to have a
      contraindication including AS.Pressure overload of LV, activation of RAS, and subsequent
      adverse LV remodeling, myocardial fibrosis, and LV dysfunction may potential therapeutic
      target to retard the progression of AS and to improve exercise capacity, and even long-term
      outcomes. RAS blocker including ACEI or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) have been known
      to improve exercise capacity and long term outcome in patient with hypertension, congestive
      heart failure, or myocardial infarction.

      We hypothesized that fimasartan, a new generation ARBs, would improve exercise capacity and
      decrease the rate of progression of AS by modifying hemodynamic factors and reducing adverse
      LV remodeling favorably in patients with asymptomatic moderate to severe AS.

      Prospective, double-blinded, randomized clinical trial with enrollment of normotensive or
      hypertensive patients of age 20 to 75 who require echocardiography for a clinical indication,
      which typically consists of known aortic stenosis or presence of cardiac murmur. Moderate to
      severe aortic stenosis will be defined as a continuous wave Doppler determined peak aortic
      valve jet velocity of 3.0 - 4.5 m/s or mean pressure gradient of 25 - 49 mmHg, or aortic
      valve area of 0.76 - 1.5 cm2. Patients meeting inclusion criteria without any exclusion
      criteria will be randomized 1:1 to angiotensin receptor blocker, Fimasartan, or placebo.
      After 1-year enrollment period, all patients will be followed for 1 year. Cardiopulmonary
      exercise test will be performed at baseline enrollment period, and at the end of follow-up.
      Echocardiographic evaluation will be performed at regular interval of baseline and 6 months
      interval until the end of study.
    
  