
    
      During endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS), epinephrine local injection and controlled hypotension
      is essential in order to increase the visibility in the operative field and reduce the risk.

      Epinephrine local injection and controlled hypotensive anesthesia is commonly used in several
      surgical interventions using different techniques. However, choosing the ideal agent is still
      a controversial topic.

      In the current study, the effects and safety of remifentanil, which is an μ opioid receptor
      agonist and dexmedetomidine, an α-2 agonist; when used before epinephrine local injection for
      controlled hypotension in ESS, are compared.

      After obtaining Institutional Review Board approval and written informed consent, 40 patients
      is enrolling in this study.

      Participants is divided by two groups randomly as the Dexmedetomidine group and the
      Remifentanil group.

      A correctly sized facemask and 100 % oxygen was used for pre-oxygenation. General anesthesia
      was induced with iv Propofol 1.5-2 mg kg-1. Endotracheal intubation was performed with the
      aid of iv Rocuronium 0.6 kg-1. Ventilation was controlled with 50% air in oxygen to maintain
      end-tidal carbon dioxide pressure at 30-36 mmHg. Desflurane was used for maintenance.

      Before epinephrine injection, In group Remifentanil, Participants received 1 mcg kg-1 iv
      loading dose of remifentanil over a period of 60 seconds. Later, an infusion was started at
      the rate of 0.2-0.4 mcg kg-1 h-1. The infusion rate was adjusted according to the
      Participants response, to achieve a mean arterial pressure between 60 and 75 mmHg. In group
      Dexmedetomidine, patients received a 1 mcg kg-1 loading dosage of dexmedetomidine within 10
      min and later, infusion was started at the rate of 0.4-0.8 mcg kg-1min-1. The infusions began
      before tracheal intubation in both groups. Standard dose epinephrine local infiltration was
      administered to the nasal passages by the surgeon.

      Systolic Arterial Pressure,Diastolic Arterial Pressure,Mean arterial blood pressure, Heart
      Rate were recorded every 5min, from the beginning of anesthesia and every 1min, from the
      epinephrine local injection. Perioperative hypotension and bradycardia were defined as mean
      arterial blood pressure < 50 mmHg or 50 beat/min respectively. Ephedine was administered
      intravenously for the treatment of hypotension. Atropine 0.5 mg was administered
      intravenously for the treatment of bradycardia.

      All infusions were stopped 5 min before the end of surgery. After surgery, the surgeon
      evaluated the dryness of the surgical area. Recovery time was recorded in the postoperative
      period. An investigators employing the Modified Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation
      Scale assessed recovery.
    
  