
    
      In prostate cancer patients undergoing robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (RARP), the
      current European Association of Urology (EAU) prostate cancer guidelines recommend bilateral
      pelvic lymph node dissection (BPLND) for those with an estimated risk of occult nodal
      metastases exceeding 5%.(1) In a systematic review of 66 studies involving 275, 269 patients,
      lymphadenectomy can identify node positive patients who may benefit from adjuvant treatment
      (2).

      BPLND in general is a well-tolerated procedure. However, when complications do occur,
      significant morbidity results. The benefits of BPLND must be carefully weighed against its
      potential complications. The most common complication of BPLND is lymphocoele formation.
      Lymphatic vessels have no muscular layer as opposed to blood vessels. Transection of a blood
      vessel will lead to vasoconstriction and eventual cessation of bleeding. This is not the case
      with lymphatic vessels, and transection will lead to prolonged lymphorrhoea. The incidence of
      lymphocoele varies from series to series, ranging from 0.8% to 33%, depending on the extent
      of lymphadenectomy, surgical technique, operative approach, and the diagnostic approach
      (3,4). The most common symptoms are pelvic pain, abdominal distension, lower extremity or
      scrotal oedema, lower urinary tract symptom, frank bladder outlet obstruction, sepsis and
      even anastomotic disruption. Prolonged lymphorrhoea lengthens hospital stay, places the
      patient at risk for nosocomial infection and has significant cost implications for the
      healthcare system.

      Hemopatch is a haemostatic pad consisting of a collagen sheet derived from bovine dermis with
      an NHS-PEG (pentaerythritol polyethylene glycol ether tetra-succinimidyl glutarate) coated
      active surface. These two components act together to provide effective tissue adherence,
      sealing and haemostasis (5). Upon tissue contact, NHS-PEG molecules on the active surface
      form covalent bonds with tissue proteins. Cross-linking NHS-PEG and proteins forms a hydrogel
      which acts as an effective tissue seal. Older generation NHS-PEG products in the form of
      solutions of flowable sealants are quickly washed away by blood or other leaking body fluids,
      rendering them ineffective in the presence of active bleeding or fluid leakage. Hemopatch is
      a novel NHSPEG delivery vehicle designed to overcome this limitation. Due to the open pore
      structure of the collagen, excess tissue fluids are readily absorbed and direct contact of
      NHS-PEG to tissue surface can be achieved. The collagen pad is optimized to be soft, thin,
      pliable, and has a high liquid absorption capacity. The pad is resorbed and replaced by host
      tissue in six to eight weeks with little tissue reaction.

      The investigators hypothesise that the application of Hemopatch to raw lymphatic tissue can
      prevent lymphorrhoea through its unique combination of tissue adherence, sealing and fluid
      absorption. This can potentially prevent lymphatic leak, reduce drain output and facilitate
      earlier discharge.
    
  