
    
      Definition: Extended description of the protocol, including more technical information (as
      compared to the Brief Summary), if desired. Do not include the entire protocol; do not
      duplicate information recorded in other data elements, such as Eligibility Criteria or
      outcome measures.

      Limit: 32,000 characters.

      Background and Significance: Strong evidence supports testing for the high risk human
      papillomavirus (HPV) infection, the etiology agent of cervical cancer, in routine cervical
      cancer screening. In 2014, the FDA approved the first test for primary HPV screening. Between
      2015 and 2017, professional societies and national guideline bodies released practice
      recommendation for primary HPV screening. However, none of the large health care systems in
      the U.S. have systematically adopted this new screening strategy. Kaiser Permanente Southern
      California (KPSC) is preparing to transition to primary HPV screening in 2019, with
      considerable expected impact and barriers at multiple levels. There is a critical gap of
      knowledge on effective strategies to guide implementation of uptake of new evidence-based
      practice, especially around cancer screening where changes to clinical practice guidelines
      often created confusion among clinicians and patients. The overarching goals of this
      application is to generate insights and evidence regarding barriers and facilitators and
      effective strategies to achieve clinical practice substitution. Study Aims: SA1) Compare a
      local-tailored vs. a centralized approach for facilitating adoption of primary HPV testing
      for cervical cancer screening on (a) implementation outcomes including uptake of primary HPV
      screening, acceptability, appropriateness and feasibility; and (b) stakeholder-centered
      outcomes including knowledge, experience, behavior and satisfaction; SA2) Explain variations
      in implementation strategy effectiveness on study outcomes by multi-level factors; and SA3)
      Develop guidance for use of the effective implementation strategies in additional settings
      and for additional implementation problems. Study Descriptions: We will conduct a
      prospective, cluster randomized programmatic trial to compare and evaluate a local-tailored
      versus a centralized implementation approach. The local tailoring strategy will be guided by
      a structured process, using a menu of core functions and forms with evidence-based barrier
      assessment and intervention options. The centralized implementation will be based on the
      prevalent KPSC regional approach to new practice implementation, involving the design of a
      multi-component approach that is delivered in a relatively consistent manner. Twelve of the
      14 KPSC medical centers will be randomized to receive one of the two implementation
      approaches, with two medical centers serving as pilot sites. The study subject will include
      screening age women, primary care and obstetrics & gynecology physicians, as well as clinic
      staff, administrators and operational leaders. The primary outcome of interest is uptake of
      primary HPV screening at the provider level. The secondary outcomes include
      stakeholder-centered outcomes such as knowledge and satisfaction, and additional
      implementation and system outcomes as well as implementation process evaluation. Data
      collection will be via electronic medical record extraction, patient and provider surveys,
      and semi-structured key-informant interviews. Multi-level models and generalized estimating
      equations will be used to evaluate the effect of the local-tailored approach on each outcomes
      of interest. Effect heterogeneity by multi-level factors will be examined by interaction
      terms. Content analysis will be used to evaluate qualitative data collected for Aims 1 and 3.
      We will use the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) and the Theoretical
      Domains Framework (TDF) to inform our overall study approach and provide rigor and structure
      to our analyses.
    
  