
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Estimate participation, accrual, adherence, and retention of cancer survivors who smoke
           and are randomized to receive memantine (memantine hydrochloride) (10 mg twice daily) or
           a matching placebo for 12 weeks.

        -  Estimate the self-reported abstinence rates of patients who are randomized to memantine
           or a matching placebo for 12 weeks and obtain a preliminary estimate of the treatment
           effect (difference in abstinence rates between the two groups).

      Secondary

        -  Nicotine addiction will be assessed using the Wisconsin Inventory of Smoking Dependent
           Motives.

        -  Nicotine withdrawal will be measured by the Wisconsin Smoking Withdrawal Scale.

        -  Quality of life will be measured by the SF12 questionnaire.

        -  Toxicities will be assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
           (CTCAE) version 4.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, pilot study. Participants are stratified
      according to gender (male vs female). Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Participants receive memantine hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on
           days 1-81 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Participants receive placebo PO BID on days 1-81 in the absence of unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Participants complete the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey (BRFSS), the
      Self-reported Tobacco Abstinence, the Wisconsin Inventory of Smoking Dependent Motives, the
      Wisconsin Smoking Withdrawal Scale, SF-12 quality-of-life questionnaire, and the Fagerstrom
      Nicotine Tolerance Scale at baseline and every 2 weeks for 12 weeks during study.

      Participants also undergo urine sample collection at weeks 4, 8, and 12 for cotinine test
      using the NicAlert test.
    
  