
    
      Rationale Brain injury is a leading cause of disability in Scotland. The British Society of
      Rehabilitation Medicine reports the prevalence of head injury in the UK to be 300 per 100,000
      and the prevalence of disabled survivors of brain injury is 100-150 per 100,000. A
      particularly high prevalence of disability following hospitalisation for brain injury has
      been reported in Scotland (4.5 times higher than the Department of Health prevalence
      estimate).

      People with brain injury commonly experience difficulties with memory, concentration,
      attention and judgement, meaning that important everyday actions and tasks are not carried
      out or not completed, limiting the ability to live independently. Technology-based solutions,
      including smartphone applications, can help by providing prompts about intended actions at
      the correct time. However, memory and attention impairments mean people forget to set
      reminders or fail to set them accurately (e.g. setting the wrong time/date for events). Using
      co-design methods with prospective users, the investigators developed ApplTree, a smartphone
      reminding application with design features that can be personalised to individuals. ApplTree
      prompts reminder setting, supports reminder entry to improve accuracy, and delivers users
      with prompts at the appropriate times. The investigators wish to find out if such an
      intervention can improve the everyday memory performance of individuals with memory
      difficulties following acquired brain injury compared to an off-the-shelf reminding app
      (Google Calendar). During this project a pilot randomised controlled trial will be conducted
      to provide crucial information to inform a future larger scale efficacy trial of ApplTree as
      an intervention to support memory in people with acquired brain injury.

      ApplTree app The investigators designed ApplTree with features that our research suggests can
      help support independent use and increase the efficacy of prompting technology interventions,
      and which can be personalised according to need and preference.

      User Interface (UI) Type: ApplTree has the option of a traditional 'broad-shallow' UI or a
      'narrow-deep' UK. The 'narrow-deep' UI has several screens but little information on each
      screen. Previous research has indicated that this is preferable for people with cognitive
      impairments when searching for content online compared to the alternative, and more common,
      'broad-shallow' UI that contains lots of information on each screen but a small number of
      screens.

      Unsolicited Prompts (UPs): ApplTree provides periodic prompts to encourage the user to set
      reminders. This is helpful if people have self-monitoring, initiation or mood problems that
      are common after neurological injury. The investigators investigated UP's previously using a
      single case experimental design (n=3). Participants set more reminders when receiving UPs
      illustrating their potential to increase reminder setting. More investigation is needed to
      understand how they influence acceptability.

      Carer Support in App: Reminding software that allows input from carers can be effective as a
      memory aid. ApplTree allows carer input so that carers can, when appropriate, set reminders
      and send prompts to the patient.

      Scientific justification Technologies that send timely prompts to people about everyday
      activities are an effective, low cost solution to support people with cognitive impairments
      after brain injury. Our systematic review and meta-analysis found that prompting technology
      improves memory performance for people with memory difficulties vs. practice as usual or a
      paper diary/calendar (d = 1.27, large effect size, n=147). Reminding technology can also
      reduce the burden on caregivers. This potential positive impact will only be seen in practice
      if people have access to this technology (e.g. as part of their clinical rehabilitation). The
      positive impact of reminding technology use will be greater if people are able to use the
      technology independently when it is provided, and if the technology meets the individual
      needs of the users. Our systematic review found few papers that investigated smartphone apps
      (the state-of-the-art technology for delivering prompts) delivered through a clinical
      service. Furthermore, only three studies asked participants to set reminders independently,
      which is crucial to increasing functional independence. Our research with smartphone users
      with ABI has highlighted that memory and attention difficulties prevent people from making
      effective use of reminding apps. Due to cognitive impairments impacting usability, those who
      could benefit most from reminding technology are the people for whom it is least accessible.
      This may explain why uptake of reminding technology is currently low. There is, however,
      insufficient evidence regarding the best user interface design for apps to ensure that people
      with cognitive impairments are able to use them independently. It is also unknown whether it
      is feasible and effective to introduce an app with these features to patients through
      clinical services. Answering these questions is vital for this intervention to improve
      independent functioning and alleviate caregiver burden.

      This project will build on extensive previous work developing ApplTree - smartphone reminding
      software with personalisable features, specifically designed for people with brain injury to
      improve everyday functioning. Interventions that can be tailored to individuals' needs are
      consistent with the drive towards personalised/ stratified medicine and treatment delivery.
      The investigators will undertake a user study and a pilot randomised controlled trial that
      will underpin a large-scale RCT to examine efficacy.
    
  