
    
      Veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) have poor physical functioning and there
      are no existing interventions that effectively address this problem. Our long-term goal is to
      develop and implement effective interventions to improve physical functioning and reduce risk
      for adverse health outcomes for Veterans with PTSD. The overall objectives of the proposed
      project are to develop and pilot test a novel intervention aimed at initiating and
      maintaining higher levels of physical activity for Veterans with PTSD. This new intervention
      will address attitudinal and behavioral barriers to increasing physical activity for Veterans
      with PTSD. Particularly relevant barriers for those with PTSD may include low perceived
      behavioral control for making positive long-term lifestyle changes and personal attitudes
      about the harms (vs. benefits) of physical activity.

      The proposed work will meet two specific aims: 1) Adapt graded exercise therapy (GET) and
      incorporate motivational interviewing and mobile health technology (mHealth) to increase
      physical activity for Veterans with PTSD; and 2) conduct a pilot study to examine the
      feasibility and acceptability of the intervention for a future randomized controlled trial.
      To achieve Aim 1, we will develop treatment manuals, training procedures for
      interventionists, and processes for assessment of intervention fidelity. The intervention
      will use GET to increase perceived behavioral control by enhancing knowledge about
      appropriate activities and helping participants set appropriate and attainable daily goals
      for physical activity. We will also incorporate motivational interviewing techniques and
      mHealth to enhance positive personal attitudes about physical activity. We will work with our
      Veteran Engagement Panel for PTSD to refine topics and communication materials. In Aim 2, we
      will enroll 3 groups of 6-8 participants (18-24 total) and use a concurrent mixed-methods
      approach to rapidly assess feasibility and acceptability. Quantitative measures will include
      recruitment (proportion enrolled out of total eligible); attendance (proportion who attend
      75% of in-person visits); and retention (proportion who complete post-intervention data
      collection). Qualitative assessment will consist of semi-structured interviews on
      acceptability of intervention components (eg, format and topics of in-person visits,
      usability of mHealth), and barriers and facilitators to attendance. At baseline, during, and
      post-intervention, we will also measure overall and physical functioning, and collect data on
      other clinical variables (PTSD symptoms, depressive symptoms, pain, fatigue, and sleep
      quality) to inform a future effectiveness trial.

      The proposed work is innovative because it is a novel combination of GET, motivational
      interviewing, and mHealth to increase physical activity. It will also be the first
      intervention to focus on changing physical activity as a means to improving physical
      functioning for individuals with PTSD. Successful experiences with this program may also help
      participants build confidence about their general ability to make positive changes related to
      health, thus increasing the likelihood they will engage in (and adhere to) mental health
      treatments. If such synergy is ultimately demonstrated, it will open a new direction for VA
      RR&D and VHA clinical care by indicating that interventions focusing on physical functioning
      should be more closely integrated with mental health services. Additionally, this project
      will be one of the first to collaborate with our Veteran Engagement Panel on PTSD research.
      The format of our panel is adapted from and builds upon previous models of patient
      stakeholder engagement. Our model addresses many of the barriers to effective stakeholder
      engagement, including challenges to timely recruitment of patients with relevant experiences,
      and lack of facilitation expertise among investigators. Completion of this project will help
      establish the utility of our model of Veteran stakeholder engagement for rapidly developing
      effective interventions with improved feasibility and acceptability. Thus, this work will
      enable incorporation of Veteran engagement in future VA research projects.
    
  