
    
      This will be a multicenter, open-label study in which hospitalized pediatric post-operative
      patients will receive the fentanyl HCl 40 mcg system for up to 3 consecutive days. After
      their surgery, patients will be brought to the recovery room for initial observation
      following general or regional anesthesia for abdominal, pelvic/genitourinary, orthopedic, or
      thoracic surgery. Post surgery procedures will be preformed and when analgesia is required,
      the patient will be titrated to analgesic comfort (a pain score < 4 on a scale 0-10) for at
      least 30 minutes with an intravenous opioid as clinically appropriate. After a patient has
      been comfortable (pain intensity of < 4 on 0 -10 color visual analog scale ) for > 30 minutes
      and has been monitored during recovery and is awake, able to answer questions and follow
      commands he/she will be assessed for pain intensity, vital signs, and oxygen saturation
      (amount of oxygen in the blood). If the patient meets study entry criteria, baseline
      assessments (pain intensity, vital signs, and oxygen saturation) will be completed and the
      fentanyl HCl 40 mcg system will be applied. During the first 3-hours of the treatment, if a
      patient successfully completed an on-demand dose and pain relief was still inadequate, the
      patient could deliver another dose of fentanyl, or be re-titrated to comfort with single or
      multiple intravenous doses of supplemental opioid medication (IV fentanyl or IV morphine) per
      study physician's clinical discretion. Supplemental IV doses of opioid medications can be
      administered in the first 3-hours of system application, but are prohibited after Hour 3. If
      pain control is judged inadequate with the combined use of fentanyl HCl 40 mcg system and the
      use of supplemental analgesia, the patient may be withdrawn from the study. Patients will
      receive fentanyl HCl 40 mcg system. Fentanyl will be delivered upon patient activation over
      10 minutes for a maximum of 6 doses/hour for up to 24 hrs or 80 total doses whichever occurs
      first for up to three consecutive days.
    
  