
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare progression-free survival and survival of patients with stage IB2 carcinoma of
           the cervix after radical hysterectomy with tailored chemoradiotherapy vs primary
           chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the health-related quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: (Surgery followed by chemoradiotherapy): Patients undergo exploratory laparotomy
           followed by radical hysterectomy and bilateral pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy.
           Depending on the findings at surgery, the radical hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy are
           either completed or aborted.

             -  Aborted hysterectomy: Patients with aborted hysterectomy are assigned to 1 of 3
                groups, depending on the findings at surgery.

                  -  Group 1: Within 4 weeks of surgery, patients undergo pelvic radiotherapy 5
                     times weekly for 4-6 weeks and intracavitary irradiation during or after
                     external radiotherapy. Patients also receive concurrent cisplatin IV over 1
                     hour once weekly for a total of 5-6 doses.

                  -  Group 2: Patients receive radiotherapy and cisplatin as in group 1 with
                     additional extended field radiotherapy.

                  -  Group 3: Patients receive further treatment at the discretion of the
                     investigator.

             -  Completed hysterectomy: Patients completing the radical hysterectomy are assigned
                to 1 of 3 groups, depending on the findings at surgery.

                  -  Group A: Patients receive treatment as in group 1 above without intracavity
                     irradiation.

                  -  Group B: Patients receive treatment as in group 2 above without intracavity
                     irradiation.

                  -  Group C: Patients receive no further treatment.

        -  Arm II (Primary chemoradiotherapy): Patients undergo pelvic radiotherapy 5 times weekly
           for 4-6 weeks and intracavity irradiation during or after external radiotherapy.
           Patients also receive concurrent cisplatin IV over 1 hour once weekly for a total of 6
           doses.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, during week 5 of therapy, and then at 3, 6, and 12
      months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 740 patients (370 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 7.5 years.
    
  