
    
      Statins are well established for the use of primary and secondary prevention of
      cardiovascular disease. Moreover, there is increasing evidence that statins have numerous
      effects separate from their lipid lowering properties-pleiotropic effects. These pleiotropic
      effects, including a reduction in the inflammatory response and improved endothelial
      function, may improve perioperative outcomes via modulation of the surgical stress response.
      Improved perioperative outcomes have been demonstrated in patients undergoing vascular,
      cardiac and non-cardiovascular surgery. Specific to the thoracic surgery population, statin
      use has been reported to reduce the incidence of atrial fibrillation.

      Statins, via inhibition of the rate limiting step of the mevalonate pathway, have also
      sparked interest in their potential anticancer effects as well as in cancer prevention. There
      is some evidence for anticancer effects of statins in patients with esophageal and lung
      cancer. Additionally, other agents with known anti-inflammatory effects also point to the
      potential for improved outcome in cancer patients. In this regard, aspirin use is reported to
      associate with prolonged survival in breast cancer patients, while perioperative use of
      anti-inflammatory agents (COX-II inhibitor use and lung cancer; aprotinin use and
      mesothelioma; aprotinin use and esophageal cancer) is associated with improved postoperative
      survival. Moreover, the use of regional analgesia is commonly employed in the thoracic
      surgery population and has been associated with attenuation of metastasis and improvement in
      recurrence rates for some types of cancers.

      In a prospective pilot study of patients undergoing elective thoracic surgery, a
      collaborative member of our group recently found that patients suffering postoperative
      complications had poorer endothelial function, as measured by flow mediated dilation. Those
      patients with poorer endothelial function had greater wound healing complications (6% vs. 0%,
      p=0.01), longer ICU length of stay (4 vs. 0.9 days, p=0.02), and longer hospital length of
      stay (14 vs. 6.9 days, p=0.01). Although this pilot study was underpowered to demonstrate a
      significant correlation between Brachial Artery Reactivity Testing (BART) derived endothelial
      function and "all" postoperative complications, it provides hypothesis generating data and
      supports the hypothesis that statins, as modulators of endothelial function, may have a role
      in improving postoperative outcome.
    
  