
    
      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To recruit 75 children with autism and 75 age- and sex-matched controls ages 6 to 8
      years old for an electrophysiological study and to characterize the subjects using
      appropriate instruments for autism diagnosis, language functioning and behavior/sensory
      profile, and to measure head circumferences Aim 2: To acquire and analyze event-related
      potential (ERP) data in the auditory and visual modality.

      ERP Hypothesis: Increased amplitude, altered morphology, impaired temporal discrimination and
      delayed responsiveness will be found early in the processing hierarchy, and the severity of
      these abnormalities will be associated with the severity of dysfunction at higher levels of
      cortical processing.

      Aim 3: To acquire EEG data and to analyze it quantitatively. Quantitative EEG Hypothesis:
      Both interhemispheric and intrahemispheric coherence measures of the EEG will be
      significantly deviant from those in the normal sample and predicted by abnormalities of ERPs.
      In addition, EEG background alpha activity will show post mature (i.e. higher) frequencies
      (Hz) than would be expected for age and focal epileptiform activity and slowing (i.e.
      paroxysmal theta) will predict dysfunction on the ERPs.

      Rationale:

      The goal of this grant is to use electrophysiological measures to characterize abnormalities
      in gating and timing in the autistic brain. The motivation for this research project derives
      from findings and models in autism of increased excitation/inhibition ratios, increased brain
      and white matter volume and altered connectivity. These changes, alone and in combination,
      have the potential to alter the intensity, timing and integration of signaling at multiple
      stages of processing. These signaling problems can potentially lead to the autistic
      behavioral phenotype through cognitive processing abnormalities including the
      hyperspecificity/overselectivity of autism, as well as to such features of autism as sensory
      processing abnormalities, seizures, and anxiety. We believe that characterizing abnormalities
      related to gating and timing phenomena may lead to the development of an electrophysiological
      battery that can be utilized for early diagnosis, prognosis and subtyping of autism, as well
      as the tracking of treatment efficacy.

      Subjects:

      Subjects will be recruited from the general population, the Ladders Clinic at MGH/Spaulding
      Hospital, where the PI, Dr. Martien, is employed as a clinician, as well as from the clinical
      practice of Dr. Herbert at the MGH-Institute of Health Professions preschool clinic. Flyers
      will be placed on available bulletin boards at the two clinics and throughout the greater
      Boston area, particularly at all Partners, Harvard, MIT, hospital, clinic, research, and
      educational settings.

      The study will seek to enroll eighty 75, 6 to 8 year olds with autism and 75 age and sex
      matched controls. Children will be considered for inclusion in the autism group if:

        -  English is the primary language in the home

        -  Experimental group: Child meets criteria for autism on the ADI-R and ADOS evaluation
           scales (this inclusion criteria will be explained during the consent process).

      They meet non of the Exclusionary criteria, which include:

        -  Known genetic disorder

        -  Hearing or gross sensorimotor deficits

        -  Clinical evidence of progressive encephalopathy

        -  Asphyxia at birth or any other time

        -  Frequent seizures or use of anticonvulsant drugs or psychotropic medication

        -  Known presence of focal brain lesions, brain atrophy or ventriculomegaly. Children will
           be considered for the control group if the child meets all of the above criteria except
           they do not meet the criteria for autism or close to it on the ADOS and ADI-R evaluation
           scales.

      Methods:

      The child will be seated in a comfortable chair and the physiological assessment will begin
      after a head circumference is obtained with a tape measure, an EEG cap is placed on the
      child's head and gel is applied to each electrode in the cap. The tasks include 5 minutes of
      baseline EEG recording while the child is looking at a design on a monitor placed 2 meters in
      front of the chair. We then will proceed with a series of auditory and visual stimuli
      presented by computer through two speakers placed 1 meter in front of the child (auditory)
      and strobe (visual) at 50 cm. The paradigms will include a presentation of pairs of tones
      with variable interstimulus intervals presented in random order at 65 dB SPL, a paradigm with
      either 1000 Hz or 800 Hz at 65 dB, and a final auditory paradigm with two different phonemes,
      presented at 65 dB. The visual tasks will involve the presentation of flashes of light which
      vary in frequency and luminance both reflected off a white board one meter from the child and
      directly at the child's visual field. In each series, there will be a 1 minute break between
      two blocks of 100 trials each for a total of 200 trials. The experimenter will show the child
      an interesting toy and talk to the child during the break.

      The parent will be asked to complete the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales, the Communication
      and Symbolic Behavior Scales (CSBS) and the MacArthur Communicative Development Inventory. In
      the case that the subjects are recruited from the Ladders infant sib study, we will use the
      existing ADI-R and ADOS data because Ladders has authorized the release of this information.

      The total time for the laboratory session will be approximately 1 hour. The full battery of
      tasks will be performed on compliant children. For those children whose attention cannot be
      maintained for the full battery, the examiner will stop and give breaks as needed. The
      examiner will go on to the next task or terminate the session if the subject or parent of the
      subject chooses to do so.
    
  