
    
      Study Phase: Phase II, Open-label, Randomized

      Indication: First line treatment in advanced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and extrahepatic
      biliary adenocarcinoma including gallbladder.

      Primary Objective: To evaluate the clinical activity of the Panitumumab and GEMOX (P-GEMOX)
      combination compared to GEMOX alone in patients with previously untreated surgically
      unresectable or metastatic biliary tract carcinoma (KRAS wild-type).

      Secondary Objectives: To evaluate the safety profile of the P-GEMOX combination; to assess
      the objective response rate; to assess overall survival; to study the correlation between
      biomarkers with activity and efficacy.

      Study Design: Multi-centre phase II, open-label, randomized (1:1), parallel-arm, study of
      panitumumab in combination with chemotherapy (P-GEMOX) versus chemotherapy alone (GEMOX).
      Eligible subjects will be enrolled and randomized to receive first-line combination therapy
      consisting of panitumumab and GEMOX (experimental arm) or GEMOX alone (control arm).

      Prior to study entry and in order to confirm eligibility, the investigator will review
      relevant clinical documents including existing radiological images to ensure the subject has
      previously untreated, unresectable biliary tract adenocarcinoma including gallbladder.

      Treatment assignment will be done centrally via an Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS),
      using a permuted-block randomization stratified according to ECOG performance status (PS) (0
      or 1 vs 2), and site of primary tumor (intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma vs extrahepatic
      biliary carcinoma including gallbladder).

      Panitumumab will be administered by intravenous (IV) infusion at a dose of 6 mg/kg once every
      two weeks (Q2W).

      GEMOX chemotherapy will be administered after the administration of panitumumab once Q2W.

      Each patient will be treated for a maximum of 12 cycles until disease progression (PD),
      unacceptable toxicity, or patient's refusal. Patients in the experimental arm without tumor
      progression at the end of chemotherapy (12 GEMOX completed or interruption for unacceptable
      toxicity from chemotherapy) will continue panitumumab 6 mg/kg once Q2W until tumor
      progression.

      Following documentation of progressive disease patients will be followed-up for survival.

      Subjects will be evaluated for tumor progression every 8 weeks + 1 week. Tumor response
      assessment will be performed by the Investigator using the revised Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines, version 1.1.

      Subjects with symptoms suggestive of PD should be evaluated for tumor progression at the time
      the symptoms occur.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint: Progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the time from randomization to
      evidence of progression (RECIST, vers.1.1), death, or last radiographic assessment in absence
      of a PFS event.

      Secondary Endpoints: Objective response rate (RECIST, vers.1.1); Overall survival; Safety,
      defined as incidence and severity of adverse events (Aes), significant laboratory changes,
      changes in vital signs, incidence of concomitant medications, changes from baseline over time
      in ECOG performance status, incidence of dose adjustments over the treatment period, and
      incidence of treatment limiting toxicities (TLT).

      Exploratory Endpoints:Investigation into potential correlations between the activity of the
      combination regimen of panitumumab and GEMOX (P-GEMOX) on molecular markers. Depending on the
      availability of tumor tissue, the biomarkers will be analyzed with the following priority:
      EGFr expression, nucleotide changes in EGFr and BRAF cancer genes, mutations of other genes
      involved in the activation of the EGFr pathway; EGFr gene amplification).

      Sample Size: Approximately 88 subjects

      Investigational Product Dosage and Administration:

      Panitumumab will be administered as a 60 minute +/- 15 minutes IV infusion, just prior to
      administration of chemotherapy, at a dose of 6 mg/kg on day 1 of each cycle. Gemcitabine
      1000mg/sqm will be administered by intravenous infusion in accordance with the hospital
      guidelines for administration of Gemcitabine. Gemcitabine should be reconstituted and
      administered as 1-hour infusion on day 1 of each cycle. Oxaliplatin 100mg/sqm will be
      administered by intravenous infusion in accordance with the hospital guidelines for
      administration of Oxaliplatin. Oxaliplatin should be reconstituted and administered as 2-hour
      infusion on day 2 of each cycle.

      Dose Regimen:

      Arm A: panitumumab 6 mg/kg will be administered over 60 minute +/- 15 minutes on day 1
      followed by Gemcitabine 1000mg/sqm administered by intravenous infusion as 1-hour infusion on
      day 1 of each cycle. Oxaliplatin 100mg/sqm will be administered by intravenous infusion as
      2-hour infusion on day 2 of each cycle.

      Arm B: Gemcitabine 1000mg/sqm will be administered by intravenous infusion as 1-hour infusion
      on day 1 of each cycle. Oxaliplatin 100mg/sqm will be administered by intravenous infusion as
      2-hour infusion on day 2 of each cycle.

      Statistical Considerations: This phase II design implies a direct, but non-definitive,
      "screening" comparison of the experimental therapeutic approach against a randomized
      standard-treatment control arm, within a trial with a moderate sample size.

      Assuming an accrual time of 24 months and a follow-up time of 12 months, accounting for a 10%
      loss to follow-up in both arms, a total sample of 88 patients is expected to yield the
      necessary numbers of events if the accrual rate is constant.

      The log-rank analysis will be stratified by ECOG PS (0 to 1 vs 2), and site of primary tumor
      (ie. intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma vs extrahepatic biliary tract carcinoma including
      gallbladder).
    
  