
    
      It has been generally accepted that 'old age' and 'hypertension' may be risk factors not only
      for cerebral infarction but also for cerebral hemorrhage. Usually 40 to 60 percent of
      recurrent strokes after cerebral hemorrhage cases are cerebral infarction; and 5 to 10
      percent of recurrent stroke after cerebral infarction cases are cerebral hemorrhage.

      Consequently, for the reasons described above, hemorrhagic side effects including cerebral
      hemorrhage have been a great concern, in the usage of antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant for
      the secondary prevention in the patients with cerebral infarction.

      It is reported that the occurrence of cerebral hemorrhage tends to increase in cases of
      accompanying lacunar infarction which occurs more frequently in Asians than in Westerners, or
      periventricular ischemic change which increasingly occurs with ageing. Accordingly, the point
      is that the occurrence of cerebral hemorrhage should be primarily considered in the treatment
      of cerebral infarction, along with the phenomenon of an ageing population both in Asian
      countries including Korea.

      Nevertheless, so far there has been no clinical research regarding secondary prevention of
      stroke, particularly considering the risk of occurrence of hemorrhage in cerebral infarction
      cases. However, according to a recent study, when phosphodiesterase inhibitors including
      Cilostazol are used independently, or in combination with aspirin, secondary prevention can
      be improved without increasing the occurrence of hemorrhagic side effects.

      Considering this, if it is proved that the agent, Cilostazol, could decrease the risk of
      occurrence of stoke, along with no significant increase in the risk of occurrence of
      hemorrhagic side effects, by selecting a patent group with a high risk of cerebral
      hemorrhage, the agent (Cilostazol) may be recognized as an unique antiplatelet agent
      applicable to old-aged patient with cerebral infarction who have a certain risk of cerebral
      hemorrhage.

        -  High risk of cerebral hemorrhage is defined as presence of history of cerebral
           hemorrhage with appropriate neuroimage findings or presence of asymptomatic old cerebral
           hemorrhage findings(equal or more than 8mm) or multiple microbleeds on the GRE images.

        -  1600 ischemic stroke patients with high risk of cerebral hemorrhage will be recruited
           and they are randomized into four groups (cilostazol plus probucol, aspirin plus
           probucol, cilostazol and aspirin) by 2X2 factorial design.

        -  IMT and ABI will be measured every year during follow-up period and the results will be
           compared with the baseline data. The change of IMT and ABI will be analyzed with the
           occurrence of cardiovascular events.

        -  The study will finish at least 1 year after the recruit of 1600th patients. Until the
           finish, all patients will continuously take study medications and visit every 3months at
           the study site.

        -  Brain MRI including FLAIR and GRE will be done at the final visits.
    
  