
    
      Study design for the panel study with asthmatic children:

      Children with asthma will be recruited during DDS outbreaks and will be randomized into three
      parallel groups to receive:

        1. No intervention for DDS,

        2. Intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, and

        3. Interventions for both outdoor and indoor exposure reduction.

      Disease-related adverse health outcomes will be assessed in all the parallel arms of the
      study.

      Previous publications of the MEDEA investigators, indicated that 2/3 of each year's DDS
      events in the Eastern Mediterranean region appear during February-May, with 10-15% of the
      days during this period being "DDS days". Thus, the investigators will perform this panel
      study during February-May of 2019 and 2020.

      Study population, sample size and location: Children with mild to moderate persistent asthma,
      aged 6-11 years, will be recruited from primary schools in Nicosia-Cyprus (n=150) in academic
      years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020. In order to facilitate recruitment, schools principals will be
      contacted individually at the beginning of each academic year and details of the study will
      be explained. Relations with the Administrative and Nursing staff of the Schools and Parents
      Associations will be established with the aim to facilitate field work. During fall 2018 and
      2019, MEDEA investigators will start recruitment efforts to detect eligible children with
      asthma for participation in the study in the high DDS periods of February-May 2019 and 2020.
      The same number of children will be recruited at the second study site of Heraklion-Crete.

      With an average number of 250 students per school, a childhood asthma prevalence of 9-10% and
      an estimated response of 60%, in 18-20 primary schools we expect to detect 300 students with
      reported asthma. We expect that 50% of the children with reported asthma will meet
      eligibility criteria giving us for randomization 150 subjects in Nicosia. We estimate a
      dropout rate of 30%, which will eventually give us 105 asthmatic children in total to
      analyze.

      The feasibility of protocols to assess health outcomes with and without implementation of
      exposure reduction guidelines will be tested in a pilot study during the high DDS outbreaks
      season of 2018 at both study sites in a small number of patients (6 children with asthma per
      study site).

      Duration of the study: A feasibility trial and refinement of protocols and tools will be
      performed in the high DDS period of 2018 (February-May). In fall 2018 and 2019, with the
      onset of academic year, screening survey questionnaires (International Study of Asthma and
      Allergies in Children, ISAAC) will be addressed to the parents of all children in 18-20
      primary schools in Nicosia by the MEDEA investigators to detect eligible asthmatic children
      for participation in the study during the upcoming high DDS periods of February-May 2019 and
      2020.

      Study Enrollment Procedures: Children with mild to moderate persistent asthma, aged 6-11
      years, will be recruited at primary schools in Nicosia-Cyprus (n=150) in academic years
      2018-2019 and 2019-2020. In order to facilitate recruitment, schools' principals will be
      contacted individually at the beginning of each academic year and details of the study will
      be explained. Relations with the Administrative and Nursing staff of the Schools and Parents
      Associations will be established with the aim to facilitate field work. With the use of
      screening questionnaires (ISAAC questionnaires), parents will, after giving written consent,
      report their child's respiratory health information. Then the parents of children with
      asthmatic symptoms will be invited to participate in the MEDEA program after they give their
      written consent. For children participating in the program, consent to their participation
      will be given by their parents/guardians. Parents will be asked by the study investigators to
      read the respective consent forms for the survey and the study, and will be given the
      opportunity to ask any clarification questions for their child's participation.

      Interventions, Administration, and Duration: Following the eligibility assessment, we will
      randomize participating schools (and their students with asthma) with a 1:1:1 ratio to three
      parallel groups to receive:

        1. no intervention for DDS

        2. intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, by reducing the time spend outdoors and by
           avoiding physical activity

        3. interventions for outdoor (as above) and indoor exposure reduction (by minimizing home
           ventilation and filtering indoor air).

      In the indoor intervention arm of the study, exposure reduction measures will be applied in
      the asthmatic child's classroom/school and bedroom/household settings.

      After randomization, the children, their parents and schoolteachers will be trained in the
      tools and procedures to be followed.

      Prior to the high DDS season, each eligible child will have at the school:

        -  baseline demographic, medical, and symptom survey, and

        -  assessments of lung function (Spirometry), fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), and
           specific aero-allergen sensitivities.

      The study design offers also the opportunity to assess:

        -  outdoor exposures to PM,

        -  indoor exposures to PM and

        -  related health outcomes in three parallel groups during the same DDS events with and
           without intervention measures

      Handling of Study Interventions:

      A bidirectional, patient-centered e-Platform will be created to:

        -  Communicate promptly forecast alerts to individuals about upcoming DDS events through
           smartphone applications and text messaging

        -  Disseminate exposure reduction guidelines

      In particular, in the group where there will be intervention for outdoor exposure reduction,
      the intervention will be carried out by:

        -  Informing the participant and the parent for upcoming desert dust storm episodes.

        -  Simultaneous transmission of instructions to a smartphone to reduce outdoor exposure
           during the episode (stay indoors, avoid intense physical activity outdoors, avoid
           competitive sports, avoid unnecessary walks).

      In the group where there will be interventions for outdoor and indoor exposure reduction, the
      intervention will be carried out by:

        -  Informing the participant and the parent for upcoming desert dust storm episodes.

        -  Simultaneous transmission of instructions to a smartphone to reduce:

             1. Outdoor exposure during the episode (stay indoors, avoid intense physical activity
                outdoors, avoid competitive sports, avoid unnecessary walks) and

             2. Indoor, home and classroom exposure (closed windows and doors, sealing possible
                cracks around windows and doors in order to minimize home ventilation, and using an
                air cleaner in order to filter indoor air).

      Adherence Assessment: The compliance to exposure-reduction guidelines will be monitored with
      the use of remote sensors. The intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, (by reducing the
      time spend outdoors and by avoiding physical activity) will be assessed with the use of smart
      wristwatches that will be equipped with Global Positioning System (GPS) and accelerometer.
      The intervention for indoor exposure reduction (by minimizing home ventilation and by
      filtering indoor air) will be assessed with the use of particle samplers that will be placed
      outside and inside of houses and school classrooms.

      Assessment of adverse events: Since, the intervention under study is behavioral/lifestyle
      intervention, it does not involve any specific drug administration nor any change in ongoing
      medication regimen. Furthermore, it does not include any invasive procedure and all the
      health outcomes are assessed using non-invasive methods (smart-watches, phone interviews) and
      questionnaires. Hence, there are no specific safety parameters to quantify adverse health
      events related to interventions.

      At any point during the study, patients will have the opportunity to bring any information or
      issue (e.g. health issue) that concerns them to the attention of the primary investigator,
      whose contact information will be given to all participants during the enrollment phase, and
      will also be available on the program's website.

      Intervention discontinuation:Subjects may withdraw voluntarily from the study at any time and
      for any reason.

      Parents or guardians of asthmatic children can make oral complaints to members of the
      research team as well as to the principal investigators of each site.

      The criteria for discontinuation of intervention will be:

        -  Non-adherence to the intervention

        -  Moving to a different house than the reported initial one

        -  Moving to a different school

        -  Significant change in health status

      Study design for the panel study with the AF patients:

      Patients with AF will be recruited during DDS outbreaks and will be randomized into three
      parallel groups to receive:

        1. No intervention for DDS,

        2. Intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, and

        3. Interventions for both outdoor and indoor exposure reduction.

      Disease-related adverse health outcomes will be assessed in all the parallel arms of the
      study.

      Previous publications of the MEDEA investigators, indicated that 2/3 of each year's DDS
      events in the Eastern Mediterranean region appear during February-May, with 10-15% of the
      days during this period being "DDS days". Thus, the investigators will perform this public
      health intervention study during February-May of 2019 and 2020.

      Study population, sample size and location: Men and women with prior implantation of a dual
      lead (atrial and ventricular) pacemaker or implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD), will
      be recruited from cardiac arrhythmia clinics in General Hospital in Nicosia-Cyprus (n=156) in
      project years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020. Recruitment of participants will be facilitated
      through the network of physicians in Nicosia General Hospital. In order to facilitate
      recruitment, relations will be established with the Administrative and Nursing staff of the
      Clinics and Patients' Associations and the details of the project will be explained to them.
      During fall 2018 and 2019, MEDEA investigators will start recruitment efforts to detect
      eligible AF patients for participation in the study in the high DDS periods of February-May
      2019 and 2020.

      The same number of patients will be recruited in each study site (Beer Sheba, Heraklion,
      Nicosia) and the investigators expect that a total of 468 AF patients will be recruited. The
      investigators estimate a dropout rate of 30%, which will eventually give 324 AF patients to
      analyse. The feasibility of protocols to assess health outcomes in vulnerable patient groups
      will be tested in the pilot study during the high DDS outbreaks season of 2018 with and
      without implementation of exposure reduction guidelines in all study sites in a small number
      of patients (6 AF patients per study site).

      Duration of the study: A feasibility trial and refinement of protocols and tools will be
      performed in the high DDS period of 2018 (February-May). In the fall of 2018 and 2019, MEDEA
      investigators will start recruitment efforts to detect eligible AF patients for participation
      in the study during the high DDS periods of February-May 2019 and 2020.

      Study Enrolment Procedures: Men and women with prior implantation of a dual lead (atrial and
      ventricular) pacemaker or ICD, will be recruited from the cardiac arrhythmia clinic at
      Nicosia General Hospital in Cyprus (n=156) in project years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020.
      Recruitment of participants will be facilitated through the network of physicians at Nicosia
      General Hospital. In order to facilitate recruitment, relations will be established with the
      Administrative and Nursing staff of the Clinic and Patients' Association and the details of
      the project will be explained to them. Patients will be able to ask questions and ask for
      clarification on all aspects of the program. Each patient participating in the program should
      complete the necessary consent forms.

      Interventions, Administration, and Duration: Following recruitment, the investigators will
      randomize participants with a 1:1:1 ratio to three parallel groups to receive:

        1. no intervention for DDS

        2. intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, by reducing the time spend outdoors and by
           avoiding physical activity

        3. interventions for outdoor (as above) and indoor exposure reduction (by minimizing home
           ventilation and filtering indoor air).

      In the indoor intervention arm of the study, exposure reduction measures will be applied in
      the patient's household/bedroom settings.

      After randomization, and prior to the high DDS season, each eligible participant will
      complete a questionnaire, providing socio-demographic characteristics, detailed medical and
      medication history, and will be trained in the tools and procedures to be followed during the
      monitoring sessions while in the community.

      The study design offers also the opportunity to assess:

        -  outdoor exposures to PM,

        -  indoor exposures to PM and

        -  related health outcomes in three parallel groups during the same DDS events with and
           without intervention measures

      Handling of Study Interventions: A bidirectional, patient-centered e-Platform will be created
      to:

        -  Communicate promptly forecast alerts to individuals about upcoming DDS events through
           smartphone applications and text messaging

        -  Disseminate exposure reduction guidelines

      In particular, in the group where there will be intervention for outdoor exposure reduction,
      the intervention will be carried out by:

        -  Informing the participant for upcoming desert dust storm episodes.

        -  Simultaneous transmission of instructions to patient's smartphone to reduce outdoor
           exposure during the episode (stay indoors, avoid intense physical activity outdoors,
           avoid competitive sports, avoid unnecessary walks).

      In the group where there will be interventions for outdoor and indoor exposure reduction, the
      intervention will be carried out by:

        -  Informing the participant for upcoming desert dust storm episodes.

        -  Simultaneous transmission of instructions to patient's smartphone to reduce a) outdoor
           exposure during the episode (stay indoors, avoid intense physical activity outdoors,
           avoid competitive sports, avoid unnecessary walks), and b) indoor, home exposure (closed
           windows and doors, sealing possible cracks around windows and doors in order to minimize
           home ventilation, and using an air cleaner in order to filter indoor air).

      Adherence Assessment: The compliance to exposure-reduction guidelines will be monitored with
      the use of remote sensors. The intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, (by reducing the
      time spend outdoors and by avoiding physical activity) will be assessed with the use of smart
      wristwatches that will have global position system (GPS) and accelerometer. The intervention
      for indoor exposure reduction (by minimizing home ventilation and by filtering indoor air)
      will be assessed with the use of particle samplers that will be placed outside and inside
      houses.

      Assessments of adverse events: Since, the intervention under study is behavioral/lifestyle
      intervention, it does not involve any specific drug administration nor any change in ongoing
      medication schedule. Furthermore, it does not include any invasive procedure and all the
      health outcomes are assessed using non-invasive methods (smart-watches, phone interviews) and
      questionnaires. Hence, there are no specific safety parameters to quantify adverse health
      events related to interventions.

      At any point during the study, patients will have the opportunity to bring any evolving
      information or issue (e.g. health issue) that concerns them to the attention of the primary
      investigator, whose contact information will be given to all participants during the
      enrollment phase, and will also be available on the program's website.

      Intervention discontinuation: Subjects may withdraw voluntarily from the study at any time
      and for any reason.

      Patients can make oral complaints to members of the research team as well as to the principal
      investigators of each site.

      The criteria for intervention discontinuation will be:

        -  Non-adherence to the intervention

        -  Moving to a different house than the reported initial one

        -  Significant change in health status
    
  