
    
      Adolescents and young adults who use drugs are at high risk for infection with HIV, STDs and
      other diseases with similar transmission dynamics. Although several age-appropriate and
      effective HIV, STD and disease prevention efforts have been identified for young substance
      abusers, most interventions have been narrow in focus and are generally not structured to
      readily address changing patterns of drug use among adolescents that place them at risk for
      infection with these diseases. In this study, we are developing and evaluating an
      interactive, computer-assisted HIV, STD and disease prevention program for young substance
      abusers that incorporates effective components of both prevention science and educational
      technologies. We plan to develop this program with the input from the target population of
      adolescents and young adults. We also plan to conduct a randomized, controlled trial to
      evaluate the benefit of including this program in HIV and disease prevention efforts with
      youth in substance abuse treatment. In so doing, we will evaluate the ability of the program
      to promote accurate knowledge about HIV and other diseases, promote self-efficacy to reduce
      risk behavior and change actual rates of risk behavior among young substance abusers. This
      computer-based program will be designed to promote the increased adoption of effective HIV
      and disease prevention science for this population. New information about changing patterns
      of drug use and HIV risk behaviors can be readily incorporated into the program as it becomes
      available. The program can be easily exported and able to be applied with fidelity.
      Importantly, the program will be structured such that a therapist or educator may customize
      the program content for use by various sub-populations of substance-abusing adolescents and
      young adults. Thus, the program will be able to address risk factors specific to each young
      drug user. This program may address many of the challenges associated with the current
      delivery of evidence-based HIV prevention programs to this population.
    
  