
    
      Detailed description 1 Indications and Treatment of Adult Kypho- Scoliosis (INTRAKS Study) 2.
      Background:New surgical techniques for osteotomies and promising equipment has led to a
      renaissance with broader indications, evoking the need for well-founded studies and quality
      registration of the adult kyphoscoliosis treatment to evaluate the risk of major
      complication, the benefit for the patients and socioeconomic burden. Prior randomized studies
      have had high crossover rates to surgical treatment, questioning the result of the studies.
      As a randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be difficult, the investigators plan to
      propensity match two cohorts and then compare the correctional surgery and non- surgical
      treatment at a 1 year follow-up.

      2.1 Needs description:

        1. Identify predictors for unsatisfactory outcome in adult kyphoscoliosis. This study aims
           to create a predictive model for unsatisfactory outcome after deformity surgery in adult
           kyphoscoliosis. A prospective multicenter observational effectiveness study is
           constructed to detect a < 30% improvement from baseline in Oswestry Disability Index
           (ODI) score at 12 months follow up. The predictive model can be a helpful tool in
           accessing the complexity of this patients and aid in shard decision making and improved
           surgical planning. Patients are grouped in: 1) unsatisfactory result (UR) < 30% increase
           from baseline ODI score, 2) satisfactory result (SR) ≥ 30% increase from baseline ODI
           score. A predictive model will be calculated for both kyphosis and scoliosis together
           and separately. The same criteria for inclusion are set in the non-surgical group as
           well as all the data collected, a predictive model will be created if the difference in
           outcome is significant. The investigators will also look at the patients with a > 10%
           worsening from baseline in ODI score at 12 months follow up.

        2. A prospective multicenter observational effectiveness study of adult kyphoscoliosis
           treatment, surgical and non-surgical outcome with a 12 months follow up.

             1. This part of the study will be looking at the effectiveness of surgery vs
                non-surgical treatment using the PROMS described in the protocol. It is outcome
                related, the planned follow up time is 12 months, but the investigators have
                ethical approval (REK) to continue the data recording for 24 months and more for a
                sufficient follow up time. It exceeds the time limit for the PhD candidates listed,
                but others will continue the work. It will contain all the patients included.

             2. The subgroups of iatrogenic/degenerative kyphosis and scoliosis will be studied
                separately as it is known that the mainly scoliotic patients do better than the
                kyphotic once. Around 30-40 patients will be sufficient in each surgical subgroup,
                the same in the non-surgical.

        3. The kyphotic healed high energy fracture. One of the subgroups to be investigated is the
           high energy fractures healed in kyphosis. High energy fractures are typical males in the
           age of 25-50. The fractures healed in kyphosis with a regional kyphotic angle of >20
           degrees and a positive sagittal vertical axis of >4 cm can be included (the rest of the
           inclusion or exclusion criteria listed will be followed as for the whole study). As this
           is a subgroup, around 30-40 surgical patients will be sufficient. The investigators hope
           to have the same number in the non-surgical group to compare with. The main outcome
           parameter is ODI, but the investigators will also look into the results of the EQ-5D,
           SRS22 and the numeric rating scale (NRS). As this is a fracture resulting in a secondary
           deformity, the PROMS listed should be addressing the patient problems.

        4. XLIF vs anterior-/transforaminal interbody fusion/pedicle subtraction osteotomy/Smith
           Petersen/Ponte (ALIF/TLIF/PSO/SP/Ponte).

           There is a trend towards using XLIF and OLIF procedures for deformity cases. The
           investigating party will look into the patients operated using the lateral approaches
           and compare it towards the dorsal applied interventions (TLIF, PSO, Ponte/SP), if
           possible also ALIF patients. It should be at least 30-40 patients undergoing the lateral
           intervention to be able to make a comparison that could be statistical significant.

        5. Socioeconomic study; surgery vs non-surgical for adult kyphoscoliosis. The correctional
           surgery is often of long duration with expensive implants and highly complicated with
           high risk of complications. It is costly and the investigators intend to evaluate the
           socioeconomic burden. The duration of surgery, cost of implants and duration of hospital
           stay will be registered, the readmission due to complications will be registered for the
           first 12 months. As EQ-5D is used as a PROM in this study, it will be used for the
           socioeconomic study.

        6. Identify differences in indication, examination and treatment between a European and
           Asian population.

           This is an international multicenter study in cooperation with the Kyoto University
           Hospital in Japan.

           The investigators have already detected some vital differences in the surgical approach
           for the patient group and further comparison will be of interest. The patients,
           indications, examination as well as the non-surgical and surgical treatment will be
           examined.

        7. Changes in urination and sexual function in a surgical and non- surgical cohort.

           Few studies address this issue, for spine patients it is of great importance and highly
           underreported. There are few suitable PROMS, so the investigators will use a PROM from a
           prior study. It is slightly different for men and women due to the differences in sex
           and it has no scoring system. It has not been validated, so the outcome will be slightly
           unsatisfactory, the positive sides convinced us to take use of the non-validated form.
           The investigators have had it translated into Japanese and Swedish and are interested in
           the Japanese contribution in regard of their cultural differences.

        8. Quality control of the Norwegian Quality Register for Spinal Surgery. The investigators
           will be conducting x-ray measurements (sagittal vertical axis and pelvic parameters,
           lumbar lordosis) and compare it with the values that the surgeons have entered into the
           Norwegian quality register for spinal surgery. The measurements will be conducted by an
           independent radiologist at Haukeland or Oslo University Hospital in Norway and by the
           PhD student in Norway. It will be an inter-and intra-observer study. The values
           mentioned above have been used for the last year in the register and a quality control
           would be of interest.

        9. Spinal stiffness after spinal fusion using the Lumbar spine disability index (LSDI).

      The Lumbar spine disability index (LSDI) is developed by our Japanese colleges at the Kyoto
      University Hospital and they are motivated to test it on the deformity patient. It is the
      second (2/2) non validated PROMS in this study and have been translated from Japanese to
      Norwegian and Swedish. It has been published in peer review papers by our Japanese colleges.
      Most likely it will be of most interest to our Japanese colleges and they will go forward
      with the publishing of the result.

      4. Project methodology 4.1 Project design, method selection and analyses Patients to be
      operated for the correction of spinal deformity during the following two-tree years at Oslo
      University Hospital Ullevål in Norway, Haukeland University Hospital in Bergen Norway, Malmö
      University Hospital in Sweden, Örebro University Hospital in Sweden and Kyoto University
      Hospital in Japan. A randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be difficult, so the
      investigators plan to propensity match the two cohorts and compare correctional surgery and
      non- surgical treatment at 1 year follow-up. During the 1 year follow-up period the
      non-surgical patients will attend an intensive and structured physio-logical training
      program.

      The patient inclusion will follow at the polyclinic by the surgeon; the patient will be
      presented to the "Intraks.org" homepage for the study. An information leaflet will be handed
      out and the patient will be given time to decide. If the patient is eligible to the study and
      agrees to join, a study number will be created using google Sheet, then the patient will be
      introduced to the informed consent form, paper form in Sweden and Japan, in Norway it can be
      signed using "Nettskjema" an "Bank ID". Nettskjema is an internet form used to create
      questionnaire, it is secure, but not secure enough for sensitive patient data, so the data
      from the forms will be imported directly to "service for sensitive data" (TSD). TSD is a
      service from Oslo University, secure for all sensitive data and in use for several
      prospective studies. In the homepage, the patients will, in addition to the informed consent,
      find the patient reported outcome measures (PROMS). The home page can be found using
      smartphone, tablet or computer and all forms can be filled out using the homepage. 12 months
      after surgery or inclusion to non-surgical treatment, the patient need to fill out the forms
      again. For the non-surgical treatment the homepage (Intraks.org) contains specific text,
      illustrations and videos with training instruction for the non-surgical treatment, developed
      with dedicated physiotherapists from Oslo University Hospital. The training-program consists
      of 3 levels of muscle core training and stretching to be exercised 1-3 times a week for 12
      months. They will have a training diary to follow up the compliance that will be controlled
      at the 3 months follow up. The exercises are available at intraks.org as illustration, text
      and video.

      See the protocol for detailed data collection. 4.2 Project management See protocol. 4.3 Plan
      for implementation

      See protocol, in addition:

      The "intraks.org" homepage will be updating the public on published articles and other
      activities.

      4.4 Statistical analysis Altogether 75-100 patients are expected eligible for inclusion in
      the surgical group of WP2 annually. For the non-surgical treatment, approximately the same
      number will be needed. By using alfa=5% and power=80% to detect 30% ODI improvement from
      baseline and 30% improvement in proportion of patients that improved and calculating for 10%
      crossover, 10% mismatch in the propensity score matching and sufficient power for the
      subgroup analyzes, the study will need a total of 300 patients. Considering drop outs, the
      study would have enough patients after 2-3 years of inclusion.

      Predictive analysis: Frequency analyses for categorical variables will be conducted via
      Pearson's c2 analysis. All analysis will be conducted using commercially available software
      (SPSS version 24, IBM Inc.) and the level of significance is set to p<0.05 in a two-sided
      test. For the predictive model, missing values within the database will be imputed using
      standard techniques such as mean and median imputation. Once a complete data set is
      constructed, an ensemble of decision trees will be constructed with a binary target variable
      that includes patients with: 1) unsatisfactory result (UR) < 30% increase from baseline ODI
      score (code = 0), 2) satisfactory result (SR) ≥ 30% increase from baseline ODI score (code =
      1). The decision-tree algorithm is C5.0 and 5 different bootstrapped models will be built.
      Internal validation is accomplished via a 70/30 data split for training and testing the
      model, respectively. Final overall predictions from the models will be combined and chosen by
      voting with random selection for tied votes. Overall accuracy and the area under the receiver
      operating characteristic (AUROC) curve will be calculated as well as predictor importance as
      determined by the model. The model will be built using commercially available software (SPSS
      Modeler version 24, IBM Inc.). A sensitivity analysis will be performed 1-2 years into the
      study period, the MCID/"satisfactory result" and power will be adjusted accordingly
    
  