
    
      The UVA study team will perform all study-related procedures and will collect all data.
      Contact information and permission for the study team to contact the subject's family will be
      obtained at enrollment.

      Pre-bath Procedures: Prior to the first bath, a study team member will:

        1. Record health information about the subject.

        2. Record the amount of vernix covering the subject's skin.

        3. Measure skin TEWL (see TEWL below).

        4. Procure skin swabs for microflora analysis (see Skin swabs below)

      Post-bath Procedures: Following the subject's first bath, a study team member will repeat
      pre-bath procedures.

      TEWL Procedure TEWL measurement will be performed using the Tewameter - a non-invasive,
      wand-like instrument that sits atop skin like a stethoscope and measures the water
      evaporating from the skin. TEWL is a validated non-invasive procedure for assessment of
      newborn skin integrity.

      Skin Swabs Skin swabs, softer than Q-tips, will be wiped across the skin with soft pressure
      to allow transfer of the baby's skin microflora onto the swab for analysis of skin-colonizing
      microorganisms, according to established methods.

      AD and allergy development by 2 years The medical charts of enrolled subjects will be
      reviewed at 24 months of life to determine the incidence of any physician-diagnosis of AD or
      allergic disease. Subjects who have no physician-diagnosis of AD or allergy in their medical
      record will be contacted according to the contact information they provided at enrollment.
      Investigators will get a medical release signed with informed consent so the study team can
      contact the PCP of the subject if they are not followed at UVA.

      None of these procedures are part of routine care in newborns. All procedures are being done
      solely for research purposes and pose minimal risk to subjects.
    
  