
    
      The stability of the scapula in relation to the entire moving upper extremity is the key in
      the throwing sequence. The importance of scapular positioning in handball players has been
      well documented in the literature, but no one has compared scapular positioning between
      handball players and sedentary people. Study participants completed a rating scale for pain
      and a questionnaire about demographic and shoulder problems. One assessor performed the
      lateral scapular slide test and additional flexibility measurements around the shoulder
      girdle. Flexibility (external rotation, internal rotation) and scapular position (1, 2, 3)
      were compared among groups (young players, old players, sedentary people) and between sides
      (dominant, nondominant).

      Participants: Forty-five aged between 16 and 35 yrs were recruited in the study. The
      exclusion criteria included those (a) with soft tissue or bone problems affecting lower and
      upper extremity, (b) who had acute inflammation affecting upper and lower extremity region,
      (c) had scoliosis, (d) who had undergone any orthopedic surgery, (e) who had defined any pain
      or painful area at lower extremities and (f) who were obese (BMI>30 kg/m2).

      Assessments: The investigators plan to perform the physical working capacity test, a
      force-velocity test, the lateral scapular slide test (LSST), shark skill test, Davies test,
      squat jump (SJ), countermovement vertical jump without (CMJ).

      The power analysis indicated that 32 participants for total were needed with 80 % power and a
      5 % type 1 error. The power analysis of our study showed a power of 80% with LSST as the
      primary outcome. The data were analyzed using statistical software (SPSS version 18, Inc.,
      Chicago, IL, USA). All the statistical analyses were set a priori at an alpha level of
      p<0.05. The tests for homogeneity (Levene's test) and normality (Shapiro-Wilk) were used to
      determine the appropriate statistical methods. According to the test results, nonparametric
      Friedman test was used for comparisons between baseline, first taping and last taping.
      Wilcoxon test was used for possible differences which may occur between taping applications
      in order to identify the application that provided the difference. Parametric test
      assumptions were not possible due to small sample size and inhomogeneous parameters.
    
  