
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of transcranial direct current
      stimulation (tDCS) in relieving pain of patients with fibromyalgia. Eligible participants
      will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups: Group I (Intervention group) tDCS (2mA
      for 25 minutes on 5 consecutive days/week for 2 weeks with the anode centered over M1
      bilaterally Anodal tDCS for 20 minutes at 1.5 mA (15 s ramp in and 15 s ramp out) will be
      applied daily for 10 consecutive days (5 sessions/week) . The anodal electrode (24 cm² with
      current density of 0.08 mA (2mA/24 cm²) will be placed over the left primary motor area in
      group I, and the reference electrode (24 cm² will be fixed over the contralateral arm
      (extracephalic).

      Because brief exposure to tDCS has no after-effects whereas researchers used 20min duration
      in order to produce robust after-effects. Daily tDCS was given to prolong and stabilize these
      long-lasting after-effects. Group II will receive sham tDCS will be applied using the above
      described parameters in group I. For sham tDCS, the placement of the electrodes, current
      intensity, and ramp time was identical to real tDCS stimulation group; however, the
      stimulation lasted only for 30 Sec. However, since none of the patients have been experienced
      tDCS previously, they were unaware of which stimulation is real and which sham is. The
      investigator responsible for delivering tDCS had no contact with the patients. All study
      participants will be followed up by the same evaluation sheet and by an evaluator who are
      blinded to the type of intervention she /he has received.Evaluation will be done pre
      assessment, post 5 sessions, post 10 sessions, post one month and post 2 months by using wide
      spread pain index (WPI) & symptoms severity of fibromyalgia, measuring visual analogue scale
      (VAS), Depression and anxiety will be assessed using Hamilton Depression Scale (HDS) and
      anxiety scale, pain sensitivity threshold by using Electronic Von Frey unit EVF4 .
      Determination of human beta-endorphin level before start sessions and after end 10 sessions.
    
  