
    
      Material and methods A prospective cohort study of 224 eyes of patients planned for cataract
      surgery was conducted at the University Eye Clinic, General Hospital Sveti Duh, Zagreb,
      Croatia. The inclusion criteria was age of patients over 40 years. Sex and refractive eye
      state were randomly chosen out of all cataract patients operated at the Clinic from January
      2009 until July 2009. Patients were divided in two groups. The first group consisted of 47
      eyes with cataract complicated with PEX. The control group included 177 eyes with
      uncomplicated cataract in eyes without other ocular pathology. Refractive state was defined
      by preoperatively calculated emmetropisation intraocular lens (IOL) value done by LENSTAR LS
      900®. Emmetropes had IOL value of 20-22 diopters and hypermetropes of more than 22 diopters.
      There were no myopic patients defined as IOL value less than 20 diopters in the PEX group
      operated at the Clinic in the defined time. Consequently, there were no myopic patients
      included in the control group. The PEX group and the control group were further divided into
      two subgroups: emmetropes and hypermetropes. LENSTAR LS 900® was used to measure ocular
      optical components 3-9: axial length (AL), central corneal thickness (CCT), anterior chamber
      depth (ACD), lens thickness (LT), retinal thickness (RT), keratometry values (keratometry of
      the steepest meridian (K1), keratometry of the flattest meridian (K2), its position regarding
      horizontal line (AXIS) and the difference between K1 and K2 (astigmatism, AST), horizontal
      diameter of iris (WTW) and pupillary diameter (PD). Ethics committee approval of General
      Hospital Sveti Duh, Zagreb, Croatia, was secured for the study reported. All study procedures
      adhered to the recommendations of the Declaration of Helsinki. Written consent was obtained
      from all patients prior to their inclusion in the study. Sample size was defined in a way to
      provide sufficient statistical power of the study, which was in this case over 90%.
      Descriptive statistics and Student's t-test were used for data evaluation. Value of p<0.05
      was considered significant.
    
  