
    
      This ClinicIMPPACT proposal builds upon the success of the IMPPACT project (Grant No. 223877,
      completed in February 2012), which created a model for facilitating more accurate RFA
      treatment. This preliminary RFA model was tested in swine, with extensive histological
      workup, and in a clinical simulation study based on patient data, both of which reported
      relatively high correlations between estimated and actual tumor volumes. The mapping software
      for liver cancer RFA was developed through this project and provides a simulator for
      radiologists to plan, review and optimize procedures. Within IMPPACT, extensive experiments
      were performed on pigs and cells to develop a micro-scale cellular death model, which we used
      for calibrating the software. After porcine liver calibration, eight patient lesions were
      selected from a database of clinical procedures, and the planning software was used
      retrospectively to simulate interventions and predict lesion shapes. Predicted volumes were
      then compared against real thermal lesions, visualized and segmented in contrast-enhanced CT
      one month after ablation. These comparisons showed simulated and real lesion volumes to be
      acceptably matched after taking virtual tissue perfusion values into account. Some lesion
      shapes were mismatched, possibly due to inaccuracies in segmenting radiological images.

      Treatment with RFA could be improved using a validated software solution to estimate lesion
      size and identify possible complications in advance-ideally, a solution which is adapted to
      real-time clinical requirements. However, the current state of the art involves long,
      hardware-intensive computing time (~5 hours), which is impractical for clinical use.

      The main goal of this project is to develop a simulation tool, driven by a user-friendly,
      ergonomically optimized graphical user interface, to support the complex requirements of
      clinicians. Therefore, the working steps of this international project and its medical and
      technical partners are to accelerate simulation speed, optimize needle registration, and
      integrate patients' individual perfusion values into software calculations, as well as
      accurate validation techniques, to produce more sophisticated and reliable predictions. The
      software could also aid in offline planning and simulation and as an RFA teaching tool for
      radiologists. Its use in retrospective analysis should improve clinical follow up and
      scientific evaluation.
    
  