
    
      Chronic pain is a devastating disease often treated inadequately. More than 30 percent of the
      world population suffers from chronic pain. Among a plethora of treatment options, opioid
      agonists is one of treatment options for moderate to severe chronic pain. Although its
      consumption has increased during the last two decades, it remains below the requirements in
      most regions, including the Asian countries. In South Korea (S. Korea), opioid consumption
      for medical purposes in 2015 was still below average, ranked 43rd globally and 30th among 35
      Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries (55 mg/capita in S.
      Korea vs. 258 mg/capita in an average of OECD countries). However, it is remarkable that the
      opioid consumption in S. Korea has increased 5-6 times since 2005 (10 mg/capita), ranking 3rd
      among Asian countries, preceded only by Vietnam (62 mg/capita) and Malaysia (60 mg/capita).

      One of the reluctant factors to prescribe opioids is induced reward responses, resulting in
      opioid use disorders (OUD). Particularly, in chronic noncancer pain (CNCP), concerns
      regarding drug dependence in the long-term opioid therapy (LtOT) remain its use
      controversial. The spectrum of OUD in CNCP patients is wide and varies from misuse without a
      compliant intake to addiction with a severe aberrant consumption. Between the extremes,
      opioid-related chemical coping (OrCC) may lie in a middle ground group, characterized by an
      inappropriate use of opioids to cope with emotional distress. Although, OrCC is a terminology
      first used in cancer patients, a recent study found a high correlation between the reports of
      aberrant medication-taking behavior by experienced providers and chemical coping by CNCP
      patients.

      OrCC should be distinguished from psychologic addiction, a neurobiological disease that
      corresponds with the most severe substance-use disorder referring to neuroplasticity and a
      substantial loss of self-control. All addicts are eventually chemical copers, but not all
      chemical copers are addicts. A better understanding of this intermediate status may be
      crucial to prompt to identify the risk of severe OUD and re-direct their management to avoid
      unnecessary opioid toxicity and achieve adequate pain control. However, studies to measure
      OrCC are scarce and the evidence of OUD in CNCP in countries with relatively low opioid
      consumption is practically unavailable.

      The up to date literature on OUD is characterized by great variability of definitions,
      measurements, demographics, and opioid use duration. Moreover, an overwhelming majority of
      the studies took place in the United Stated of America (US), the country with the highest
      opioid consumption and a current opioid crisis. Despite their over-consumption, however,
      studies in those countries showed that CNCP is still undertreated and even suggested that OUD
      might not be related to the prescription to pain patients. From a different angle, stringent
      restrictions and regulations to prevent OUD may result in inadequate pain control and
      insufficient opioid therapy, especially in countries with relatively low- moderate opioid
      consumption rates. Therefore, to strike a balance when treating pain with opioids, it is
      indispensable to determine the characteristics of OUD in CNCP patients with LtOT in countries
      with low-moderate opioid consumption. Moreover, in S. Korea there are not available
      statistics regarding the OUD occurrence in CNCP patients and national guidelines on LtOT in
      CNCP have not been developed.

      In this study, we will perform a national, multicenter, observational cross-sectional study
      to address the current status of opioid treatment and OUD for CNCP in S. Korea, a country
      with moderate opioid consumption since 2010. The availability of up-to-date data on OUD is
      necessary for the development of national guidelines to prevent severe harms of opioids,
      enhance patients and physicians' satisfaction, potentiate opioid's benefits, and guaranty
      adequate pain control in the CNCP population. The ultimate aims of this study are to estimate
      the frequency of OUD (such as OrCC), to evaluate the patient's functional and psychiatric
      characteristics, and to determine the risk factors associated with OUD in CNCP patients
      receiving LtOT. The results of this study will help to seize the occurrence of OUD in
      countries with low-moderate opioid consumption thus it will approach the real risk effect of
      LtOT in CNCP.
    
  