
    
      Controversy still persists regarding the type of fluid to use in the operating room to avoid
      hypovolemia and any circulatory insufficiency. While crystalloids and colloid solutions are
      frequently used to optimize intravascular volume during surgery, crystalloid solutions
      require more volume for hemodynamic optimization which may result in higher volumes of fluid
      administration and potentially side effects. Compared with crystalloids, colloids have the
      advantages of remaining in the intravascular space longer, achieving faster circulatory
      stabilization, maintaining colloid osmotic pressure and increasing micro perfusion. However,
      colloids are more expensive and may have various side effects.

      In addition to the effect of crystalloids and colloids on the patient, the amount of each
      fluid administered is also under debate. Goal-directed fluid therapy (GDFT) strategies based
      on cardiac output (CO) optimization have been shown to benefit moderate- to high-risk surgery
      patients and have recently been recommended by professional societies in the UK, in France,
      and in Europe. However, despite the growing evidence, these strategies are often not
      implemented in current practice. One of the reasons for this lack of implementation is that
      GDFT strategies, like any other complex clinical protocol, require significant provider
      attention and vigilance for consistent implementation and it is well known that even under
      study conditions protocol compliance rates are often not greater than 50% In another hand,
      one of the chief complicating factors in fluid administration studies is variation in
      provider administration practices, even when attempting to follow a protocol. Previous
      studies have used closed-loop (automated) systems to deliver fluid by a standardized
      protocol, removing variation between providers as one of the confounders of the study. Dr.
      Cannesson and Rinehart (UC Irvine, California, USA) have recently developed and used a
      closed-loop system for the provision of GDFT in clinical studies at UC Irvine and La Pitie
      hospital in France. The closed-loop system is beneficial because it involves the
      standardization of fluid management and all patients are treated equivalently. This system
      will thus provide consistent GDFT for all cases in the protocol and remove inter-provider
      variability as a confounder between groups.

      Study goal: This study will examine whether there is a significant difference in
      postoperative outcomes between GDFT using a colloid solution versus a crystalloid solution.

      Hypothesis: Perioperative fluid optimization through the use of a closed-loop assistance with
      a balanced starch solution (volulyte®) will be associated with a decrease in postoperative
      complications compared to the same approach using a balanced crystalloid solution
      (Plasmalyte®).

      Objective: To establish which kind of intravenous fluid used for goal directed therapy with
      closed-loop assistance will reduce the number of postoperative complications (evaluation made
      by the POMS score).
    
  