
    
      Rationale

      Adalimumab is both an effective induction and maintenance therapy for Crohn's disease (CD).
      Due to the risk of side effects (infections, injection reaction) and high costs, an extension
      of the injection interval is an attractive option. However, this strategy has not been
      evaluated yet in a randomized controlled trial in CD patients.

      Objective

      To assess non-inferiority and cost-effectiveness of disease activity guided adalimumab
      interval lengthening in CD patients in sustained (>9 months) clinical remission, compared to
      standard dosing of every other week.

      Study design

      Multicenter, randomized controlled, open label non-inferiority trial, with two treatment
      arms.

      Study population

      Crohn's disease patients, in sustained clinical remission on adalimumab maintenance therapy.

      Intervention

      Intervention arm: The adalimumab injection interval during maintenance therapy (40 mg per 2
      weeks) will be extended through a stepwise disease activity guided manner to 3 weeks and
      subsequently - after 24 weeks - to 4 weeks. If a step-down leads to recurrence of disease
      activity patients will return to the preceding effective dosing interval.

      Control arm: patients will continue adalimumab maintenance treatment of 40mg per 2 weeks.
      Treatment decisions are made at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Main study parameters/endpoints

      Primary outcome: Cumulative incidence of persistent disease flares in 48 weeks of follow-up.
      A persistent flare is defined as two of three of the following criteria persisting for > 8
      weeks, despite dose escalation of adalimumab; FC >250 µg/g, CRP≥10 mg/L, HBI ≥5.
      Non-inferiority is reached if the difference in cumulative incidence of persistent flares not
      exceeds the non-inferiority margin of 15%.

      Secondary outcomes include cumulative incidence of transient flares, adverse events,
      predictors for successful dose reduction and cost-effectiveness.
    
  