
    
      Title:

      Unicondylar knee arthroplasty versus total knee arthroplasty in patients with anteromedial
      osteoarthritis of the knee.

      Rationale:

      Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) offers several possible advantages over total knee
      arthroplasty (TKA). One important possible advantage is overall higher patient satisfaction
      with UKA. Patients have superior post-operative range of motion and a more "natural-feeling"
      knee. Previously, patients with patellofemoral joint osteoarthritis (PFJOA) were excluded
      from UKA. However, recent studies suggest that excellent results can be achieved with UKA
      despite pre-existing moderate PFJOA. This may broaden pre-defined inclusion criteria for UKA.
      To date, no biomechanical studies directly comparing UKA and TKA have been performed.
      Biomechanical data could help explain outcome differences. This study aims to compare both
      clinical and biomechanical outcomes in patients receiving UKA versus TKA for anteromedial OA
      in the presence of no to moderate PFJOA.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that post-operative UKA patients will display higher clinical scores using
      WOMAC and OKS questionnaires, and superior biomechanical analysis measures. In comparing to
      healthy controls, we expect to see UKA patients perform more closely to controls than TKA
      patients, with regards to WOMAC, OKS, and biomechanical scores. We further hypothesize that
      UKA patients will have larger changes in WOMAC and OKS scores pre- to post-operatively than
      TKA patients.

      Study design:

      This study is a randomized controlled trial. Eligible patients have: anteromedial compartment
      osteoarthritis (OA) with intact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) by clinical testing and
      alignment on radiographs; normal or mild to moderate PFJOA; angular deformity <15 degrees
      passively correctible to neutral; flexion contracture<5 degrees; BMI<40; age 40-80 years. We
      exclude patients with: severe PFJOA; history of previous surgery on the affected knee
      (excluding simple meniscectomy); inflammatory arthropathy; previous contralateral knee
      replacement surgery or major ligament reconstruction surgery. Patients will be stratified
      based on their PFJOA status. They will be randomized using StudyTRAX (ScienceTrax, Macon, GA)
      online system to one of two treatment arms: UKA (n=19) or TKA (n=19). The control group will
      be matched to study group characteristics, and recruited through University of Calgary and
      Alberta Hip and Knee Clinic (AHKC). UKA patients will receive a mobile bearing, Oxford UKA
      (Biomet, Warsaw, IN) utilizing microplasty instrumentation. TKA patients will receive a
      posterior cruciate-retaining TKA with unresurfaced patella utilizing Persona instrumentation
      (Zimmer, Warsaw, IN). Clinical outcomes will be assessed pre-operatively, and
      post-operatively at 6 weeks, 3 months, 1 year, and 2 years utilizing the WOMAC and OKS
      questionnaires. Radiographs include weight bearing anteroposterior (AP), AP, lateral and
      skyline views, and valgus stress views. These are standard to treatment at AHKC, and will be
      taken preoperatively and at the 2 day (non-weightbearing views only), 3 month, and 1 year
      postoperative appointments. Interpretation will be by the treating surgeons.Biomechanical
      assessment will include gait analysis and electromyography (EMG), and will be done at the
      Clinical Movement Analysis Laboratory (CMAL) at the McCaig Institute. This will be measured
      pre-operatively and at one year post-operatively. A healthy, age, gender and weight matched
      control group will be recruited to establish deviations of the patient groups from the
      healthy norm. Clinical and biomechanical outcomes will be assessed only once for the control
      group.

      The analysis plan includes descriptive analyses, univariate analysis to explore between-group
      differences and repeated-measures ANOVA to assess statistically significant changes in WOMAC,
      OKS, and biomechanical outcomes over time within both groups. T-test & Pearson chi-square
      test will be computed for all continuous variables and categorical variables, accordingly. A
      multivariate linear regression analysis may be performed to reveal relationships between
      variables, enabling us to control for baseline variables of interest.

      Significance of work:

      No studies to date have investigated whether UKA or TKA is favorable in patients with no to
      moderate PFJOA, but who meet all other traditional criteria for UKA. Additionally, no
      biomechanical data exists in this area. If patients receiving UKA demonstrate similar (or
      better) clinical and biomechanical outcomes to those receiving TKA, then it would suggest
      that UKA could be offered to a much greater number of patients, as a less invasive procedure,
      with potential health system savings. It is anticipated that the biomechanical data, in
      combination with the clinical research data, will help to better understand the differences
      between these two surgical approaches.
    
  