
    
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for insomnia (CBT-I), is an evidenced-based insomnia program
      that is recommended by the American College of Physicians and can be delivered using
      session-by-session treatment manuals.

      Among cancer survivors, CBT-I has only yielded small-to-moderate sized improvements in
      several aspects of sleep, including sleep efficiency, sleep onset latency, and wake after
      sleep onset as compared with inactive control conditions. Moreover, systematic reviews of
      CBT-I with cancer survivors have found high rates of attrition and low attendance. Thus,
      while CBT-I for cancer survivors is promising, further adaptation is needed to demonstrate
      greater feasibility and larger effects. Additionally, CBT-I is traditionally delivered
      in-person, which is not feasible for many cancer survivors. Barriers include time
      limitations, travel, and illness burden constraints, as well as a paucity of trained CBT-I
      providers. Telehealth delivery of CBT-I is an innovative approach to address these barriers
      to care and enhance uptake.

      The intervention being tested in this study was informed by a 4-10 session CBT-I protocol and
      adapted based on interviews the investigators conducted with cancer survivors with insomnia
      to learn about their sleep-related challenges, suggestions, and preferences for intervention
      delivery, as well as a systematic review and meta-analysis the investigators published in
      Sleep Medicine Reviews in 2020.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and randomization into 1 of 2
      study arms: the Adapted Virtual Intervention Group or a Control Group (Enhanced Usual Care;
      referral for behavioral sleep medicine and sleep hygiene handout). Participants will be in
      this research study for approximately 2 months. It is expected that about 40 people will take
      part in this research study.
    
  