
    
      The patients accepted with the diagnosis of pneumonia in Gaziosmanpaşa TREH, both in ICU and
      wards have treated with additional ozone therapy beside the normal treathments. In these
      patients the findings like ground glass opacity in thorax CT regarding to covid 19 were
      progressed or non changed. In the concern of these opacities turn to pulmonary fibrosis,
      ozone therapy has used to prevent this undesirable effect. It is known that enhances wound
      healing by oxidative stress and supports immune system besides it is cheap and has not any
      side effects.

      25 patients included this study. The patients were diagnosed with Covid-19 pneumonia and
      treated with ozone therapy in intensive care unit and ward. After treatment was done,
      findings of at least %20-25 ground-glass opacity on thorax ct were the main criteria for
      enrollment.

      The patients' follow-up program time after hospital discharge will be on 1st, 3rd, 6th and
      12th month. They will continue to recieve ozon therapy once in a month during one year follow
      up. Ground-glass opacity rate of thorax ct scan will be recorded as less then %25, %25-50,
      %50-75 and above %75. Tomographies will be compared with each other and also last thorax ct
      before hospital discharge. These tomographies will be applied under 80 KV and this will give
      %40 less dosage according to routine 120 KV scans. If there is an increase in ground-glass
      opacities compared to the previous one, the scan will be done again on prone position and
      suspected lesions will be reevaluated. The pulmonary fibrosis findings of the scan will be
      diagnosed by a well trained radiology doctor. The evaluation of dyspnea will also done during
      follow-ups. mMRC(medical research council) dyspnea scale will be used for dyspnea status.
      SpO2 values in room-air will also recorded. FEV1, FVC and FEV1/FVC values will also be
      recorded to demonstrate respiratory functions.
    
  