
    
      An essential requirement for sustaining male fertility is maintaining an adequate number of
      stem spermatogonia, the foundation of spermatogenesis. To achieve this, when the stem cells
      divide, some progeny must remain stem spermatogonia while other progeny differentiate. It is
      obvious that the correct balance between self-renewing replication and differentiation of
      stem spermatogonia is crucial to male fertility, and there is a indirect evidence that GDNF
      plays an important role in maintaining this balance in the normal mature testis. However,
      almost nothing is known about the in vivo regulation of this balance in the mature organ, of
      the specific function of GDNF in the adult testis, or if physiological changes in GDNF
      expression significantly affect the replication or differentiation of the stem cells. To
      address these critical issues, a unique mouse model that allows GDNF signaling to the stem
      spermatogonia to be specifically and reversibly inhibited in vivo by an ATP antagonist. With
      this model, the first direct evidence that GDNF is required for maintaining the stem
      spermatogonial pool in a normal mature testis. Additionally, the investigators have shown
      that when inhibition of GDNF signaling is reversed, the stem cells begin to rebuild the stem
      cell pool. Importantly, our data demonstrate that some stem spermatogonia are lost when GDNF
      signaling is inhibited for as little as 2 days, while other stem cells survive for up to 11
      days. This suggests that factors intrinsic or extrinsic to the stem cells modulate the
      response to GDNF. Using this new mouse model the mechanisms responsible for the loss of stem
      spermatogonia proliferation and regeneration will be investigated along with GDNF signaling
      and inhibition. At the end of all of this these studies will be done on waste tissue obtained
      from normal men and men with infertility who otherwise have testicular surgery for
      therapeutic purposes.
    
  