
    
      Acute coronary syndrome without ST-segment elevation (NSTE-ACS) is by far the most frequent
      acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in the western world. In most of the cases, it is caused by a
      clearly identifiable culprit lesion, configuring a significant angiographic stenosis (>70%),
      with flux limitation and typical aspects of unstable plaque (thrombosis). In these cases, the
      one and only treatment is stent implantation. In a small percentage of patients (10-15%),
      NSTE-ACS is caused by an angiographically intermediate lesion (40-70%). This lesion is
      identifiable as culprit, but without the typical signs of unstable plaque.

      In patients with stable coronary artery disease (SCAD) presenting with this type of lesion,
      fractional flow reserve (FFR) is the actual gold-standard for ischemic burden evaluation.
      Several studies showed that if FFR value is ≤0.80, the treatment with percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) is associated with a significant reduction of hard cardiovascular events.
      When FFR is negative (>0.80), optical medical therapy showed a better outcome when compared
      to percutaneous intervention. In NSTE-ACS, FFR evaluation of intermediate lesions is still
      mandatory, as a recent study showed a better outcome in patient with positive fractional flow
      reserve treated invasively with stenting compared to patients treated solely based on
      angiography (1). When FFR is negative, several authors and studies suggest that further
      imaging techniques are needed. In this subgroup of patients with intermediate stenosis
      without angiographic evidence of plaque rupture, European Guidelines (2) suggest utilization
      of intravascular ultrasound-near infrared spectroscopy (IVUS-NIRS) or optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) in order to better characterize the culprit plaque. At the same time, the
      therapeutic strategy is left to the operator's discretion: some implant a stent in order to
      reduce occurrence of future events, while some others leave the patient in optical medical
      therapy without stent implantation. Moreover, in these patients, it is still unclear the
      pathophysiology of the disease leading to ACS. In the last years, researchers focused their
      attention on plaque erosion, deemed to be responsible for most of these NSTE-ACS (3). An
      imaging study evaluated the incidence of plaque erosion in patients with ACS (4). This study
      enrolled an heterogeneous group of patients, evaluated with a single imaging technique (OCT).

      Based on these background, the investigators hypothesized to perform a prospective
      single-center data registry on this highly selected subgroup of patients: NSTE-ACS with
      culprit intermediate lesion with negative FFR evaluation.

      Investigators will enroll consecutive patients with NSTE-ACS with a culprit intermediate
      stenosis between 40 and 70% and in whom FFR evaluation will result negative (>0.80). In these
      patients, the operator will perform IVUS-NIRS and OCT and a blood sample to evaluate
      endothelial function as per our previous experience (5). The study has no control group.
      Endothelial function and inflammatory state will be evaluated in all patients and will be
      compared to those obtained by patients enrolled in the NATHAN NEVER study (NCT02519608, Study
      ID: 150497)(5).

      Aim of the present study is to understand whether in this group of patient endothelial
      function is impaired and which information is given by intracoronary imaging (presence of
      plaque erosion). The present study is a prospective data collection. Thus, a formal sample
      size calculation is not applicable. Contemporaneously, for pilot studies, at least 30
      patients are recommended (6).
    
  