
    
      The Be-RALP database is Belgian prospective multicenter database governed by the Belgian
      cancer registry. This was established by a collaboration between the Belgian association of
      Urology (BAU), the National Institute for Health and Disability Insurance (NIHDI) and the
      Belgian cancer registry.

      Twenty-five centres, on average 90% of all Belgian robotic centres, collected prospective
      data of 9235 patients from October 2009 until February 2016. These data is collected by local
      data managers or physicians and was required to receive reimbursion from the NIHDI for the
      disposables used during robot surgery. After filling in the data by the local datamanagers,
      the data is centralised. In Brussels the data is protected and further used by data managers
      and statisticians. In this system in-and output of data is strictly separated. Patient data
      is encoded to ensure absolute privacy. Then the data is checked upon correctness by using
      random checks. Data is completed where necessary.

      These parameters increase the quality of data handling and database.

      The final database consists of baseline pre-, per- and postoperative data as well as four
      standardised follow-up registrations (on 1, 3, 12 and 24 months), with follow-up data still
      being collected. In each follow-up registration, functional parameters and quality of life
      are re-assessed together with postoperative treatment status and PSA.

      The Be-RALP database collected patient details of 9235 patients treated by RARP between 2009
      and 2016. Patients with macro metastasis and initial PSA values higher than 100 (probable
      undetected micro metastasis) were excluded for this study, as well as all pT0, patients with
      surgery after the closing date and patients with invalid survival data. Further exclusion of
      patients with missing values for nerve sparing, extend of nerve sparing and risk category
      resulted in a group of 8306 patients.

      The selected outcomes covered in the database consist of quality of life measures (European
      Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 global, physical, emotional
      and cognitive) as well as variables covering urinary (Incontinence Modular
      Questionnaire-Urinary Incontinence: ICIQ, EORTC QLQ-PR25 urinary symptoms, incontinence aid)
      and erectile function (International Index of Erectile Function: IIEF, EORTC QLQ-PR25 sexual
      activity and sexual functioning).

      A 1:1 matching between high and low-intermediate prostate cancer will be performed.
      Afterwards, longitudinal mixed models will quantify the relation between the explanatory
      variables follow-up time, risk group (high vs. low-intermediate) and postoperative treatment
      (postoperative radiotherapy (RT) and/or androgen deprivation therapy (ADT): yes vs. no) and
      the outcomes erectile- and urinary function as well as Quality of Life. All analysis will be
      performed using the statistical analysis software (SAS system), version 9.3.
    
  