
    
      Patients:

      This study was approved by our institutional review board (Tri-Service General Hospital);
      however, patient consent was not required for the retrospective review of records and images
      because patient anonymity was preserved. The patients with clinically suspected CTS evaluated
      by the referring neurologist (F. C. Y.), and the clinical tests included (1) typical
      symptoms, eg, hand numbness and pain in the distribution of the median nerve, nocturnal
      worsening of symptoms, worsening symptoms while driving or gripping, (2) positive Tinel's
      and/or Phalen's sign, (3) failure of splinting and/or hand rest. Patients with clinically
      suspected CTS underwent US examination. The diagnoses of CTS in these patients were confirmed
      by US and/or electrodiagnostic investigations.

      Ultrasonography:

      The US was provided using a scanner (Xario 100; Toshiba, Tokyo, Japan) with a 7~18 MHz linear
      transducer (PLU-1204BT). The US examinations were performed by an experienced technician
      (C.Y. H.) with 6 years of musculoskeletal experience in US. The technician received
      specialized training on the procedure used to scan the MN regarding the CTS and to record the
      images and was directly supervised by the attending radiologist (Y.C.H.). The US images after
      the US-guided hydrodissection were recorded by the attending radiologist (Y.C.H.). The
      diagnosis of CTS was based on qualitative US criteria, with a cutoff value of ≥12 mm2
      regarding the cross-sectional area (CSA) of the MN (CSA-MN) at the inlet of the carpal
      tunnel. The diagnoses of CTS were confirmed by electrodiagnostic investigations in the
      patients with US findings of the CSA-MN < 12 mm2 at the inlet of the carpal tunnel. The
      flowchart illustrating patient selection is shown in Fig. 1. All US images and the
      measurements of cross sectional area (CSA) of the median nerve at the inlet of carpal tunnel
      were saved in the picture archiving and communication system (PACS). All the patients with
      clinically suspected CTS during the study period were examined using a standardized US
      protocol previously described to assess the MN at the wrist level (Figure. 1). Within 1 month
      after US-guided corticosteroid injection, we assessed the MN again with this manner.

      Ultrasound needle guidance:

      The US-guided injection procedure was performed in a standardized manner. The one-needle
      two-syringe technique with US guidance was used where (1) one needle is used for anesthesia,
      hydrodissection, and intra-carpal tunnel injection; (2) the first syringe is used to
      anesthetize, hydrodissect, and dilate the intra-carpal tunnel space; and (3) the second
      syringe is used to inject the corticosteroid therapy into the new hydrodissected space
      (Figure 2). After hydrodissection, the empty lidocaine syringe was detached from the needle
      while still in the carpal tunnel, and a 3-ml syringe prefilled with 10 mg triamcinolone
      acetonide suspension was attached to the indwelling needle, and the treatment was slowly
      injected into the hydrodissected neutral space that was closest to the MN. The injections
      were performed in a standardized fashion by a musculoskeletal radiologist (Y.C.H.) with 13
      years of experience in US.

      Smith et al have recommended the needle should be passed above and below the median nerve to
      fill the injectate around the median nerve with an ulnar approach. Although we can accurately
      place needle within the carpal tunnel using this ulnar approach and this approach is easy to
      learn, neurovascular injury may happened in the conditions of well-described anatomic
      variation (eg, persistent median artery, bifida of MN), and unable supination of wrists. In
      these patients with difficulty in performing hydrodissection, The investigators may abandon
      needle redirection deep to the median nerve or chose the radial approach when clearly
      identifying the fascial passage of the palmar cutaneous branch (PCB) of the MN (Figure 3).
      The only mater in the radial approach the investigators need attention is the avoidance of
      damage of the PCB of the MN.

      Data collection The patients' medical records were reviewed by a neurologist (F.C.Y.).
      Routinely, the investigators recorded clinical data (including sex, age, and side of
      injection, height and weight [which were used to estimate BMI]), complications, and the
      effect of treatment. Blood in the needle after US-guided hydrodissection was recorded as
      vascular injury in the US-guided corticosteroid injection. The US images were analyzed by two
      musculoskeletal radiologists (Y.C.H.) and (G.S.H.) who were blinded to the occurrence of MNI.
      The investigators determined the absence of hyperechoic rim of MN on pre-injection US, the
      inter-scan change of nerve echogenicity of MN at the inlet of carpal tunnel in consensus. The
      investigators determined the swelling of MN including the flattening ratio (largest
      diameter/smallest diameter) and cross-sectional area at the inlet of carpal tunnel at the
      time of before and after the hydrodissection on the procedure US. The rater (Y.C.H.)
      performed duplicate measurements, with the second measurement obtained 2 weeks after the
      first. All measurements were performed with the aid of a PACS, a mouse pointer (cursor), and
      automated computer calculation. The mean of two measurements was considered to be the final
      value.

      The investigators hypothesized that multiple pre-injection factors, including sex, age, side
      of injection, patient BMI, diabetes mellitus, anatomic variation of MN (eg, persistent median
      artery, bifida of MN), site of needle passed into the skin; and findings after
      hydrodissection such as vascular injury and the US findings of MN after hydrodissection may
      have relevance to MNI (Figure 4). To evaluate the relevance of these pre-injection factors to
      MNI, we decided to convert these continuous variables into dichotomous variables. Subjects
      were divided into old and young groups on the basis of a cutoff age of 40 years, thin and
      obese groups on the basis of a cutoff BMI of 30, ulnar and radial approaches groups on the
      basis of site of needle passed into the skin, hydrodissection in the superficial and deep to
      the median nerve groups on the basis of needle redirection.

      Boston Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Questionnaire (BCTQ) is the most commonly used questionnaire
      for the measurement of the severity of symptoms and functional status with reproducibility,
      internal consistency, and validity in patients with CTS. The symptom severity subscale of
      BCTQ (BCTQs) consists of 11 questions with scores from 1 point (mildest) to 5 points (most
      severe), and the functional status of BCTQ (BCTQf) subscale is made up of 8 questions with
      scores from 1 point (no difficulty in activity) to 5 points (unable to perform the activity
      at all). Patients were seen in the subsequent clinical visit to determine outcomes. The
      investigators also recorded the decrease of BCTQ between the before and after US-guided
      corticosteroid injection as decrement of BCTQ.

      Statistical analysis All the measurements regarding the change of MN were presented as mean ±
      standard deviation. Intra-rater agreement was evaluated using the intra-class correlation
      coefficient (ICC). Fisher's exact test was used to determine the association between MNI to
      these independent factors before injection and findings after hydrodissection. Receiver
      operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to determine the "cut-off point" for
      predicting the presence of MNI. The patients with and without the diagnosis of MNI were
      defined as 2 groups. The therapeutic efficacy of these 2 groups were compared by using a
      Student t test (for BCTQ before corticosteroid injection, BCTQ after corticosteroid
      injection, and decrement of BCTQ), as appropriate.

      All the statistical tests were performed with the SPSS software (v. 16; SPSS, Inc. Chicago,
      IL, USA). Significance testing was conducted using a two-tailed alternative hypothesis.
      Differences were considered statistically significant for a p value of < 0.05.
    
  