
    
      Hypoglycemic Unawareness is the inability for the diabetic patient to sense early symptoms of
      low blood sugar. Once blood sugar drops too low without the patient's ability to feel the
      drop urgent treatment may be necessary to prevent further progression This study was
      instituted to evaluate the effect of Pulsatile IV Insulin on improving the diabetic patients
      ability to sense and respond to the symptoms associated with falling blood sugars. Anecdotal
      reports from patients treated with pulsatile IV insulin therapy for other complications
      suggest that this treatment may show efficacy in patients with hypoglycemic unawareness.
      Patients who had lost the ability to sense when their blood sugar was dropping dangerously
      low regained signs and symptoms related to a drop in blood sugar providing them the ability
      to treat their low blood sugar before experiencing dangerous complications.This study is
      designed to compare patients with hypoglycemic unawareness who receive pulsatile IV insulin
      therapy with a control group.Patients will complete a questionnaire at baseline and quarterly
      thereafter identifying any progress in the signs and symptoms that they may be able to sense
      with low blood sugar.

      Pulsatile IV insulin therapy encourages the glucose metabolism in diabetics to normalize in
      multiple organs, especially muscle, retina, liver, kidney and nerve endings. The process
      fundamentally requires the administration of high dose insulin pulses similar to those
      secreted by non diabetic humans by their pancreas into the surrounding portal circulation.
      Oral carbohydrates are given simultaneously to augment the process and prevent hypoglycemia.
      The process is monitored by frequent measuring of glucose levels and respiratory quotients
      (RQ). RQ is measured by a metabolic cart which determines the ratio VCO2/VO2. This ratio is
      specific for the fuel used at any one time by the body. The glucose levels are monitored to
      keep glucose levels appropriate and the RQ determines the need to readjust the infusion
      protocol in each patient for subsequent insulin infusion sessions. Pulsatile IV insulin
      therapy is done over 1-hour periods with a 20 to 90 minute rest period between each
      treatment. Three treatments are given during a patient visit to the center.

      Frequent monitoring of RQ is necessary as these levels change rapidly, depending on the fuel
      being utilized by the body. IV insulin given in pulses shifts metabolism from primarily fatty
      acid metabolism to primarily glucose metabolism. This shift is reflected by the increase in
      respiratory quotient. However during rest periods the RQ may fall back to lower levels.
      Therefore RQs are done at the beginning and at the end of each insulin infusion session in
      order to appropriately monitor and adjust insulin and carbohydrate loads to reach optimal
      activation in each session.

      The respiratory quotient (RQ) is a measurement of CO2 exhaled and O2 inhaled and is
      proportionate to the fuel sources being used by the body, primarily the liver over short
      periods of time. The higher the RQ, the more glucose and less alternative fuel sources are
      being utilized. Following the RQ change helps determine the effectiveness of physiological
      insulin administration in increasing anabolic functions in diabetic individuals. By improving
      the body's glucose metabolism and thereby causing beneficial effects of anabolic factors, the
      possibility of serious complications can be decreased. In addition the use of oral
      carbohydrates at the same time along with the physiologic insulin administration stimulates
      the appropriate gut hormones which augment this effect, a response which cannot be duplicated
      with intravenous glucose. The purpose of our studies is to determine whether the physiologic
      administration of insulin along with the augmenting effect of oral carbohydrates will
      normalize metabolism in diabetic patients and correlate with an improvement in their
      manifestations of hypoglycemic unawareness in subjects with diabetes.

      The RQ is determined by the use of a metabolic cart. Individuals breathe into a mask for 3-5
      minutes after a rest period of 20 or more minutes. The ratio of exhaled volume of CO2 to the
      inhaled volume of O2 is determined as the RQ. The physiologic range is 0.7 to 1.3.
      Individuals using fat as a primary fuel have a ratio of 0.7, protein or mixed fuels is
      0.8-0.9 and carbohydrate is 0.9-1.0. Those taking excessive calories will have RQs higher
      than 1.05. The amount of intravenous insulin and oral glucose given is determined by the RQ
      changes during the previous session.

        1. Quinones MJ, Nicholas SB, Lyon CJ, Insulin Resistance and The Endothelium, Current
           Diabetes Reports 5:246-53, 2005.

        2. Parrish R, Petersen KF, Mitochondrial Dysfunction and Type 2 Diabetes, Current Diabetes
           Reports 5:177-183,2005.
    
  