
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial. In cooperation with Alberta Bone and Joint Health
      Institute (ABJHI), patients who have been deemed to be hip or knee joint arthroplasty
      candidates at the time of the initial assessment by the ABJHI musculoskeletal physician will
      be invited to participate. With the candidate's consent, they will be contacted by the study
      team, provided with additional information and an informed consent will be signed.

      Participants will be randomized (by the project coordinator via computer generated simple
      randomization schedule) into either an active treatment (a single BMAC injection into the
      arthritic joint; n=75) or conservative care group (awaiting arthroplasty; n=75). The
      treatment group will receive their BMAC injection within 2 weeks of signing their consent
      form. 60 mL of bone marrow will be aspirated from the iliac crest of each subject in the
      active treatment group. The bone marrow aspirate (BMA) will be centrifuged using a single
      spin protocol such that the red blood cells are minimized and the total nucleated and
      platelet cells are concentrated into a 12 mL volume of bone marrow aspirate concentrate
      (BMAC). Two mL of BMA and BMAC will be retained for cellular analysis (total nucleated cells,
      platelet and hematocrit) injectate description purposes. Ten mL of BMAC will then be injected
      into the arthritic hip or knee. The bone marrow aspiration and joint injection will be done
      under local anesthesia, sterile technique and ultrasound or fluoroscopic guidance by a
      practitioner with ultrasound and fluoroscopy training/credentialing in an accredited
      Nonhospital Surgical Facility operating room in compliance with the College of Physicians and
      Surgeons of Alberta's (CPSA) Stem Cell Regenerative Therapy Standards. Each group will be
      allowed to take their usual analgesic medications (with the exception of the treatment group
      who will be asked to avoid NSAID intake for one week prior to and four weeks following their
      injection), receive their usual conservative treatments and each will be given the same
      activity instructions by ABJHI.

      The active treatment group will be contacted by telephone within 3 days of their BMAC
      injection to monitor recovery and record and respond to any adverse events. Other outcome
      measures will be followed for 12 months (or until their joint arthroplasty surgery if prior
      to 12 months) and will be recorded by ABJHI who will be blinded to which treatment group the
      subjects are assigned. Outcome Measures will be measured in person at the time of enrollment
      into the study and at 6 months following post-treatment or non-treatment. At 3- and 12-months
      post, outcomes measures will be completed electronically or by phone. Only the assessor(s)
      will be blinded to the group assignment whereas the patient and the physician providing the
      treatment will be unblinded.
    
  