
    
      Study is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, Phase II clinical trial.
      Participants will be recruited while attending regularly scheduled clinic appointments at the
      Jackson VA Medical Center. Baseline Visit. Participants will be randomized 1:1 in groups of
      10 to receive valacyclovir 1.5 gram orally twice daily or matching placebo. Enrolled
      participants will complete 12 weeks of assigned therapy.

      At the initial visit, participants will complete a short questionnaire detailing past
      medical/social history and relevant symptoms. Venipuncture will be performed to obtain
      samples for the laboratory tests. The baseline de-identified serum sample will be obtained
      from the clinical lab and stored in research-approved freezer space for future confirmation
      with the Biokit HSV-2 rapid assay. Follow-up visits will be scheduled at two-week intervals
      after baseline. At each visit, pill-count, compliance and tolerability of medications will be
      assessed using a short questionnaire. Venipuncture will be performed every four weeks (i.e.,
      at every other follow-up visit) to provide samples for the tests described below. Information
      from each study visit will be recorded into the chart by the PI or Research Assistant (RA)
      and entered into an encrypted database on a VA server. Laboratory Tests. HSV-2 infection will
      be confirmed by performing the Biokit HSV-2 rapid assay on the baseline stored serum sample
      using methods previously described in this proposal. Laboratory tests will include 1)
      complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic profile, and quantitative hepatitis C virus
      (HCV) RNA; and 2) Focus HerpeSelect HSV-1 Immunoglobulin G (IgG) for participants who were
      seronegative for HSV-1 at baseline. Patient's IL28-B genotype will also be assessed at
      baseline. The PI will review all laboratory parameters.

      Baseline characteristics between the groups will be compared using appropriate parametric
      tests. Analysis will be intention to treat with the inclusion of all subjects who were
      randomized to drug or placebo. The primary outcome is change in HCV viral load in the
      treatment group compared with placebo. Because the investigators are expecting a 0.5 log10
      decline in HCV viral load, the investigators will use one-sided parametric tests. All viral
      loads will be log10-transformed before analysis.
    
  