
    
      Individuals with bipolar disorder suffer from a broad array of cognitive deficits that may
      hinder their ability to achieve successful community functioning. Consequently, greater
      attention has recently been directed toward the development of strategies to ameliorate these
      cognitive deficits. One strategy which has been shown to be successful in this endeavor is
      cognitive remediation (CR). This intervention, which is recognized as a "best practice" in
      the treatment of serious mental illness, is typically comprised of a series of repeated
      exercises delivered by a clinician or via a computer that are designed to improve performance
      in cognitive functioning. Yet, despite the promise of cognitive remediation, the benefit of
      this intervention among individuals with bipolar disorder has yet to be investigated.

      Recently, studies have demonstrated that d-cycloserine (DCS), an N-methyl-D-aspartate
      receptor (NMDAR) agonist, may facilitate the learning process for emotional and non-emotional
      information in both humans and animals. These results raise the possibility that DCS may
      increase the benefits associated with the receipt of cognitive remediation among individuals
      with bipolar disorder. To date, we are unaware of any study which has examined whether
      concurrent receipt of DCS may increase the benefits produced by cognitive remediation among
      individuals with a severe mental illness.

      Thus, we propose to complete an exploratory investigation of augmenting cognitive remediation
      with DCS among individuals with bipolar disorder. Approximately forty subjects will be
      randomized to one of two study arms: [i] CR + DCS; or [ii] CR + placebo. The primary outcome
      of interest will be changes in cognitive functioning before and after receipt of the
      cognitive remediation intervention. Secondary outcomes of interest will be changes in
      symptomatology, social and vocational functioning, and performance of tasks of everyday
      living.
    
  