
    
      Fifthy COPD patients inpatients recovering from an acute exacerbation of their disease and
      persisting hypercapnia, despite having reached a stabilization in pH (i.e. pH>7,35 and
      PaCO2>45 mmHg on 3 consecutive measurements) will be enrolled in the study after having
      signed a written informed consent OSA/COPD overlap syndrome was not considered and exclusion
      criteria and is defined as the presence of 15 or more obstructive respiratory events per hour
      of sleep, when a previous full night polysomnography (PSG) was available or from a positive
      Epworth questionnaire and a Body Mass Index>25 Cardiac decompensation, restrictive thoracic
      disorders, renal insufficiency, cancer, and neurological disease were considered exclusion
      criteria.

      On day the patients will undergo a preliminary trial with HFNC to set the optimal flow, using
      the AIRVO2 (Fisher & Paykel Healthcare, Auckland, New Zealand). To this aim the patients will
      be asked to breathe keeping their mouth closed, as much as they could, at different levels of
      flow, starting from 20 L/min up to 40 if tolerated for a minimum of 15 minutes for each
      trial. At the end of this test the maximum level tolerated will be chosen as the flow to be
      set for the experimental procedure. Temperature will be set according to the patient's
      tolerance starting from 34C, up to 37C, while FiO2 will be kept constant to maintain an SaO2
      between 92 and 94%.

      From 9 am of day 2 to 9 am of day 5 (72 hours period), the patients will undergo HFNC for at
      least 8 hours/day and during the nightime. The nurse on shift will be in charge of
      supervising the adherence to this schedule and to report any violation of the protocol on a
      dedicated sheet. Every morning at 10 am (1 hour after HFNC suspension) Arterial Blood Gases
      (ABGs), effective hours of HFT and tolerance to the treatment as reported by the patient,
      using a dedicated scale where: )1. Very bad 2. Bad 3. Moderate 4. Good 5.very good) will be
      recorded
    
  