
    
      T2D poses a significant public health problem. Hyperglycemia is associated with a variety of
      vascular complications, but clinical trials of medication regimes designed to achieve
      near-normal HbA1c have been mostly negative. The lack of benefit observed in these trials may
      be due to the fact that they targeted HbA1c rather than glucose variability, and were
      conducted in patients with established T2D that had already experienced complications of the
      disease. In early T2D, management of postprandial glycemia may be particularly important for
      minimization of metabolic memory effects and preservation of beta cell function. Postprandial
      glycemia in early T2D is largely driven by dietary intake, but research findings that guide
      clinicians regarding the best dietary approach to prescribe are mixed. Studies done, to-date,
      have used one-size-fits-all dietary regimes that do not take into consideration the person's
      unique glycemic response to food. The investigators know from decades of research that
      behavioral methods are required to engage patients in lifestyle behavior change. The
      investigators argue that tailoring the approach to the participant's glycemic response and
      gut microbiome will enhance self-efficacy in ways that cannot be achieved through standard
      behavioral methods alone and, in turn, reduce glycemic variability and metabolic memory
      effects.

      Co-PI Segal et al. demonstrated that subjects have high between-subject variability in
      postprandial response to the same food, suggesting that universal dietary recommendations are
      of limited utility for controlling elevated postprandial glucose. The machine learning
      algorithm devised by the group integrates multidimensional data to accurately predict
      personalized postprandial glycemic responses. In a subsequent validation study in 100
      participants, they showed that a personally-tailored intervention based on the predicted
      response resulted in significantly improved postprandial glycemic response, and were
      accompanied by beneficial changes in gut microbiota.
    
  