
    
      This will be a randomized controlled trial comparing conventional counseling regarding pelvic
      organ prolapse versus an interactive patient/provider counseling process using a pelvic organ
      prolapse web-based tool (iPad).

      All women agreeing to enroll will:

        1. Complete a pre-visit questionnaire querying

             1. Baseline satisfaction with knowledge of their presenting bulge symptoms ("pelvic
                anatomy")

             2. Anxiety related to their presenting symptoms

        2. Undergo a new patient history and physical exam, including a pelvic organ prolapse
           quantification (POPQ) exam as per practice standard.

        3. Patients will then be randomized and will either receive:

             1. Group 1: "usual practice" counseling regarding pelvic organ prolapse

             2. Group 2: "usual practice" counseling in addition to interactive patient/provider
                counseling using the pelvic organ prolapse web-based tool (iPad)

        4. Complete a post-visit questionnaire before leaving the office querying:

             1. Post-visit satisfaction with knowledge of their presenting bulge symptoms ("pelvic
                anatomy")

             2. Anxiety related to their presenting symptoms

             3. Satisfaction with counseling received regarding their presenting bulging symptoms.

      Provider assessment:

      The providers participating in this study will:

        1. Complete a pre-trial questionnaire assessing satisfaction with knowledge and anxiety
           regarding counseling, and satisfaction with ability to counsel women regarding pelvic
           organ prolapse.

        2. Watch a 2 minute video tutorial educating them on the use of the web-based interactive
           tool

        3. Complete a post-trial questionnaire assessing satisfaction with knowledge and anxiety
           regarding counseling, and satisfaction with ability to counsel women regarding pelvic
           organ prolapse.

      Powering the Study:

      Assuming a 30% difference in satisfaction with knowledge of presenting bulge symptoms/
      "pelvic anatomy", this study will enroll 45 pts in each arm (total of 90 pts) to achieve a
      power of 80% and an alpha of 0.05.

      Analytic Plan: Statistical analysis will be performed with SPSS v 19.0 (Chicago, IL) and will
      include, where appropriate, categorical data analysis (Pearson chi-square, Fisher's
      Exact),continuous data analysis (Student's t-test, Mann-Whitney-U), and Pearson correlation,
      and logistic regression analyses where appropriate.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      Data will be collected by the project personnel. Patient demographic and physical exam data
      will be collected by physician members of the project personnel team during the single
      patient-visit of this trial. The physician members of the project personnel team will perform
      either the "usual practice" or "usual practice" plus "interactive, web-based
      tool-facilitated" patient counseling. Patient and provider questionnaire data will also be
      collected by the project personnel team.

      Number and duration of subject contact: All data will be collected over the course of a
      patient's single "New Patient" visit. There will be no patient follow-up after this single
      visit.
    
  