
    
      Persons with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) report significantly more unmet supportive
      care needs than other cancer populations, yet they are among the most vulnerable and least
      studied. Two of the most prevalent unmet supportive care needs include overcoming fatigue and
      attaining adequate exercise to meet physical demands of daily living. Cancer-related fatigue
      (CRF) is a prevalent, persistent, and distressing symptom in the NSCLC population.
      Cancer-related fatigue correlates with greater severity of 15 other symptoms, leading to
      lower physical function for persons with NSCLC. Among 13 core symptoms across 3,106 breast,
      colorectal, prostate, and lung cancer patients, persons with lung cancer were the most
      symptomatic, with moderate to severe fatigue being reported with the greatest prevalence.
      While surgery is the standard curative treatment for NSCLC, no formal guidelines exist for
      post-surgical rehabilitation. This is a proposed randomized controlled trial (RCT) of a novel
      rehabilitative intervention for persons with NSCLC after surgery. The intervention promotes
      self-management of CRF and tests the intervention's impact on CRF severity and fatigability
      with analysis by age. Preliminary data included a two-arm RCT (R21 CA164515) incorporating
      the proposed intervention, where study goals were exceeded for recruitment (66%), retention
      (97%), adherence (93%), and acceptability. The 6-wk exercise intervention demonstrated
      preliminary efficacy in significantly reducing CRF severity and fatigability as compared to
      usual care, with mean CRF levels restored to levels lower than pre-surgery. The exercise
      group's functional performance exceeded usual care. No adverse events were reported;
      participants had a mean age of 67 with a mean of 8 comorbid conditions. The investigator's
      long-term goal is to develop interventions to increase perceived self-efficacy for CRF
      self-management in order to improve CRF, symptom status, functional status, and quality of
      life (QOL) for persons with NSCLC. The objective in this application is to determine the
      efficacy, optimal timing, and sustainability of this innovative home-based exercise
      intervention. This study has the potential to transform the current standard by providing a
      rehabilitative exercise intervention after surgery. The intervention is home-based,
      self-paced, and builds in duration upon discharge from the hospital after surgery. Aim 1:
      Determine efficacy by comparing the immediate intervention group with wait-list control
      (usual care) and attention control by age. Aim 2: Determine efficacy of initiating the
      exercise intervention 6 wks post-discharge and compare results with the immediate
      intervention group for all ages. Aim 3: Determine the immediate intervention's sustainability
      by analyzing 3a) rates of extension, adherence, and retention; 3b) acceptability; and 3c)
      efficacy of primary and secondary outcomes. IMPACT: The results of this study will provide a
      novel exercise intervention, and its optimal timing, and fill the gap for a vulnerable
      population by providing a practical, portable, and low-cost means of reducing CRF severity
      and fatigability that is enjoyable and applicable to nearly all post-thoracotomy lung cancer
      patients.
    
  