
    
      Atherosclerosis is the underlying cause of cardiovascular diseases (CVD), the major cause of
      death worldwide. Atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disease of the arteries in which
      activated macrophages are abundant in the atherosclerotic lesions.

      Macrophages play key roles during early atherogenesis. After differentiating from peripheral
      blood monocytes, the formed intimal macrophages take up oxidized/modified lipoproteins and
      are transformed into lipid-rich foam cells, the hallmark feature of early atherogenesis. In
      addition to lipoprotein uptake, lipid accumulation in macrophages can also result from
      alterations in cellular lipid metabolism, e.g. attenuated reverse lipid transport or enhanced
      rates of lipid biosynthesis. CVD and atherosclerosis development are significantly affected
      by nutritional factors. Although much progress has been made in understanding the role of
      different lipids (fatty acids, cholesterol, phospholipids or triglycerides) in
      atherosclerosis development and macrophage foam-cell formation, little is known about the
      potential impact of other nutrients, i.e. sugars or amino acids. For instance, hyperglycemia
      is known to enhance atherosclerosis development, and high glucose levels increases macrophage
      atherogenicity via pro-inflammatory and oxidative stress-related mechanisms. However, the
      role of monosaccharides other than glucose (fructose, galactose or mannose) and that of
      various disaccharides (maltose, sucrose or lactose) in macrophage foam-cell formation, the
      key event during early atherogenesis, is currently unknown. As for amino acids, a specific
      subgroup - the branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), has recently been associated with
      increased CVD risk. The BCAA subgroup, composed of leucine, isoleucine, and valine, is
      characterized by an aliphatic structure of their side chains and by a common catabolic
      pathway. Recent reports have demonstrated an association between BCAAs, CVD and coronary
      artery disease (CAD). Serum BCAA levels have been positively associated with various CAD risk
      factors and with the development as well as the severity of CAD, even after controlling for
      other risk factors. Nevertheless, the role of BCAAs in atherosclerosis development and
      macrophage foam-cell formation is currently unclear. In recent decades, the availability and
      the consumption of various artificial sweeteners have increased considerably. In the USA for
      instance, approximately 30% of adults and 15% of children, report consumption of artificial
      sweeteners. Although the consumption of artificial sweeteners was previously associated with
      elevated risk for coronary heart disease (CHD), the effects of different artificial
      sweeteners, e.g. saccharin, aspartame, sucralose, steviol, cyclamate, and mannitol, on
      atherosclerosis development and their possible impact on macrophage foam-cell formation have
      not been investigated yet..
    
  