
    
      Introduction Several studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of statins in vascular
      and heart disease. Statins have antithrombotic effects, decrease oxidative stress and
      inflammation at the vessel wall, and improve endothelial dysfunction by increasing Nitric
      Oxide (NO) production in endothelial cells.

      Statins may also inhibit fibrogenesis in cirrhotic rats. In recent years, a series of pilot
      studies have assessed the effects of simvastatin on portal hypertension and risk of variceal
      bleeding.

      Only a few studies have evaluated the efficacy of statins in cirrhosis of mixed etiology and
      decompensated cirrhosis. High quality clinical trials have focused on the hemodynamic effects
      of simvastatin on portal hypertension. Evidence supporting the use of statins in a real-world
      clinical setting, and data on the effects on inflammation and generation of fibrosis in the
      liver in humans is in high demand.

      Study setting The trial will take place in university hospitals with tertiary referral from
      other hospitals, departments and general practice. Patients referred to the outpatient
      clinics or hospitalized in the Gastro Unit, Amager Hvidovre Hospital (AHH) and Department of
      Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Aarhus University Hospital (AUH), all Denmark are eligible
      for inclusion.

      Study Part One

      After enrolment of the first 48 participants an evaluation of the trial feasibility will
      performed on the following parameters:

      i) recruitment rates, ii) allocation of adequate resources to the trial, iii) safety for the
      participants.

      Study Part One will deliver data to conduct a pilot study on the exploratory endpoints of
      inflammation, proteomics and metabolomics.

      The substudy will apply the following methodology:

      Initial analyses of biological material are performed blinded based on studyID, without
      revealing allocation to atorvastatin or placebo.

      Comparison between groups are performed by blinded allocation, meaning that analysis are
      performed as: group A versus group B, without prior knowledge of which group received the
      active drug.

      Scientific evaluation and clinical translation of study results and data are only performed
      after revelation of which group received the active drug.

      Study Part Two

      If the steering committee find all three conditions: recruitment, resources and safety
      adequate, the trial will continue into Part Two, with enrolment up to 162 participants as
      required to balance the clinical endpoints.

      Criteria for discontinuation of intervention:

      Discontinuation of trial drug will be performed in case of:

        -  The participant withdraws informed consent.

        -  Participants reach a primary endpoint (death or liver transplantation).

        -  The participant experiences serious adverse events that cause a risk to the
           participant's life or viability.

        -  The participant develops toxicity, intolerance or allergy associated with intervention
           medication.

        -  The trial participant is admitted to hospital for other morbidity that is incompatible
           with further treatment with atorvastatin.

        -  Blinding is revealed.

        -  A trial participant will be classified as dropped out of the study if the participant
           has ingested less than 55 % of atorvastatin or placebo at days 180.

      Statistical methods Data will be analyzed as repeated measures Analysis of variance (ANOVA).
      Independent groups will be compared using unpaired T-test or non-parametric tests depending
      on normality distribution of data. Survival analysis will be performed by Cox-regression
      analyses.

      Statistical analyses will be performed as per protocol and as intention to treat analyses.

      Missing data will not be replaced but left blank in statistical analysis. For intention to
      treat analyses on repeated measures, the last available value will be carried forward to last
      value.

      Sample Size

      Prior data may indicate that the median survival time on the control treatment is 35 months.
      If the true hazard ratio (relative risk) of control subjects relative to experimental
      subjects is 0.52, we will need to study 70 experimental subjects and 70 control subjects to
      reject the null hypothesis that the experimental and control survival curves are equal with
      probability (power) 0.85. The Type I error probability associated with the test of this null
      hypothesis is 0.05.

      With an expected drop-out rate of fifteen percent, we plan to enroll in total 162
      participants in Study Part One and Two, to reach the clinical endpoint of survival.

      Auditing The trial will be approved by the Danish Authorities of Health and Medicine, and may
      be subject to auditing by this institution, independent of the sponsor and investigators.
      Investigator allows direct access to source data and documents (including patient records)
      used in the trial for monitoring, auditing and/or inspection from GCP-units and The Danish
      Medicines Agency.

      Bio bank A biobank containing blood and liver tissue is established for the trial. The bio
      bank contains both samples for planned analyses, and in case of excess material, samples will
      be stored in a bio bank for future research.

      All investigations and results derived from the bio bank for future research will serve the
      purpose of improving the life and health of patients with liver cirrhosis.

      Research ethics approval Registration by the Danish Data protection Agency was conducted
      April 9, 2019. Application for approval at the Scientific Ethics Committees of the Capital
      Region of Denmark was approved by: September 3, 2019, with ammendments approved by: January
      20, 2020 (protocol version 2) and August 7, 2020 (protocol verison 3).

      Legal assistance Legal advice for contracts and agreements is provided by Centre for
      Innovation and Research, The Capital Region of Denmark c/o Cobis, Ole Maaløes vej 3, DK-2200
      Copenhagen N.

      Declaration of interests Authors of this protocol have no financial interests (holds no
      stakes, no ownership, and do not provide academic services) to any medical companies involved
      in producing or marketing statins.

      Insurance Patients participating in this trial will be insured through the national patient
      insurance. Trial participants are informed of this relation in written information of trial
      participant's rights. Sponsor and investigators are covered by statutory insurance from AHH
      and AUH.

      Dissemination policy This study will support an open access policy and aims to prepare all
      collected data to publication in anonymized form in an open access database after
      dissemination of the pre-defined trial outcomes.
    
  