
    
      Methodology:

      The Screening period will begin up to 10 weeks prior to the Baseline visit for collection of
      the sputum sample, but the remainder of the assessments including Safety labs will be
      completed within 6 weeks of Baseline, to determine eligibility. Adult subjects with a history
      of cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic pulmonary NTM infection will be considered for
      enrollment. Chronic pulmonary NTM infection will be defined by at least three positive NTM
      cultures (sputum or broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL)) for the same species/subspecies of MAC or
      MABSC within the 2 years prior to screening, with at least one positive within the past 6
      months prior to screening and a minimum of 50% of NTM cultures positive over the past 2
      years. Subjects must additionally provide a positive sputum culture with the same
      species/subspecies obtained from the central laboratory during the Screening period to be
      eligible.

      Three groups of subjects will be recruited:

        -  Group 1: Subjects with chronic pulmonary MAC or MABSC infection who have not
           consistently achieved negative NTM sputum cultures while currently on a multidrug NTM
           guideline-based antimycobacterial regimen, which has been ongoing for at least 9 months
           prior to the Baseline visit.

        -  Group 2: Subjects with chronic pulmonary MAC or MABSC infection who remain sputum
           culture positive but have stopped a multidrug NTM guideline-based antimycobacterial
           regimen at least 28 days prior to Screening due to lack of response or intolerance.

        -  Group 3: Subjects with chronic pulmonary MAC or MABSC infection not meeting
           recommendations for treatment with a multidrug NTM guideline-based antimycobacterial
           regimen based on failure to meet American Thoracic Society/Infectious Diseases Society
           of America (ATS/IDSA) criteria for NTM pulmonary disease (i.e. absence of radiologic
           findings and clinical symptoms beyond what is expected from underlying CF).

      All subjects will have Screening, Baseline, Week 1, 2 and followed by monthly Treatment
      visits from week 4 during the Treatment period. The Treatment period will be 48 weeks.
      Following the End of Treatment (Week 48), subjects will have a Follow-up visit at 4 and 12
      weeks, and the End of Study visit 24 weeks after the End of Treatment. At the Baseline visit,
      eligible subjects will start treatment with inhaled molgramostim. A detailed Schedule of
      Assessments is outlined in Table 1. At each visit any changes in concomitant medication will
      be recorded. Participating subjects will be encouraged to contact the clinic between visits
      if they experience adverse events (AE), worsening of their condition or have any other
      concerns. If needed, unscheduled visits will be conducted at the Investigator's discretion.
      All subjects will be maintained on their standard CF treatment and medications independent of
      NTM treatment status.

      Treatment with inhaled molgramostim will be given at a dosage of 300 μg once daily for 48
      weeks. Dosing will be done in the morning, after completion of the subject's normal airway
      clearance routine, where medications should be taken in the following order: bronchodilator,
      dornase alfa (Pulmozyme), inhaled antibiotics (e.g. TOBI) and lastly inhaled molgramostim.

      Subjects on a cyclical on-off anti-Pseudomonal regimen will have their trial visits (Baseline
      and subsequent visits in the Treatment Period) scheduled during a week after at least three
      weeks off treatment or after at least one week on-treatment of the antibiotic. Subjects on a
      continuous inhaled regimen, including continuous alternating therapy (CAT), should have been
      on a stable regimen for at least 28 days prior to Baseline.

      A data review will be conducted after the first 6 subjects have completed 12 weeks of
      treatment. If safety concerns or poor tolerability are identified in this review, the review
      committee may decide on less frequent dosing for subsequent subjects in the study. Additional
      safety reviews will be conducted at regular intervals thereafter. During the study, subjects
      in Group 1 will continue use of antimycobacterial treatment, whereas subjects in Groups 2 and
      3 will receive inhaled molgramostim as monotherapy for their NTM infection. For subjects in
      Group 1, the antimycobacterial therapy should preferably not change during the treatment
      period except in case of drug toxicity or adverse reactions. Antibiotics discontinued due to
      toxicity may be replaced, with drug selection and dose modification at the discretion of the
      treating physician. All changes in antimycobacterial treatment will be recorded, including
      reasons for each change. In the event the Investigator has evidence of infection while on
      treatment which requires more intensive therapy (i.e. additional antibiotics in Group 1 or
      addition of antibiotics to Group 2 or 3) the subject may be allowed to continue after
      discussion with the Sponsor medical monitor.

      Number of subjects (planned):

      No formal sample size calculation was done as this is an initial pilot study. To be able to
      assess response in each of the three groups, a minimum of 8 subjects with MAC or MABSC will
      be enrolled into each of the 3 groups, and a minimum of 30 subjects will be enrolled across
      all 3 groups. The maximum number of subjects enrolled into each group will be 12, and the
      maximum number of subjects enrolled into the study will be 34.
    
  