
    
      Patients were included in a double-blind, randomized into one of two groups. The experimental
      group received a first nebulization of 5 mg of terbutaline (Bricanyl®, AstraZeneca : solution
      of 5mg/ 2 ml ) in association with 0.5 mg of ipratropium bromide (Ipratropium®, AGUETTANT,
      solution of 0.5 mg/ 2 ml) and 0.5 mg of budesonide (Pulmicort®, AstraZeneca, solution of 0.5
      mg/2 ml) followed by repetitive nebulization of 5 mg of terbutaline with 0.5 mg of budesonide
      at 20, 40, 60 and 120 min. The control group received a first nebulization of 5 mg of
      terbutaline in association with 0.5 mg of ipratropium bromide and 2 ml of normal saline
      followed by a repetitive nebulization of 5 mg de terbutaline with 2 ml of normal saline at
      20, 40, 60 and 120 min (Figure 1). The placebo and the budesonide were prepared by the
      pharmacist. All patients received hydrocortisone hemisuccinate (100 mg i.v.) and O2 (7 l/
      min) via a nebulizer (Mini nebulizer 40-115510; Peters, France).

      Measure The following parameters were measured in each patient immediately before starting
      the treatment and at 30 minute intervals for 3 hours after presentation: peak expiratory flow
      (PEF), respiratory rate (RR), heart rate (HR), dyspnea scale, systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure. PEF was measured with peak flow meter (mini-Wright; Clement Clarke; Harlow, UK).
      The highest of three values was recorded. HR was measured from continuous monitor. Dyspnea
      was assessed by the patient's own sensation of respiratory difficulty with a value assigned
      on a scale of 0 to 3, in which 0 denoted absent, 1 mild, 2 moderate, and 3 severe. At the end
      of the treatment, the patient was asked to indicate the presence or absence of each of five
      symptoms: palpitations, tremor, anxiety, headache, and dry mouth. Also, an interviewer
      determined the duration of symptoms before presentation, which specifically included how long
      the patient had been wheezing and shorter of breath than usual; a decline in the PEF, if
      available, was considered. The occurrence of a worsening of ventilator status requiring
      mechanical ventilation led to interrupt the study protocol. The decision to discharge or
      admit a patient was made at the end of the protocol (180 minutes) by a senior ED staff
      without knowledge of previous patient group allocation. Although some patients met discharge
      criteria during the study, none were discharged until the end of the protocol. Patients were
      discharged from the ED according to the following criteria: if accessory-muscle use
      disappeared, if wheezing was judged minimal to completely resolved, if they were free of
      dyspnea, and if PEF was more than 60% of predicted value. Physicians prescribed oral
      prednisone (40 mg for 7 days) for all discharged patients.
    
  