
    
      Many members of the Armed Forces and civilians are in need of prosthetic devices due to
      amputations resulting from gunshots, bombings, vehicular accidents, and other traumas. As the
      number of amputees increase at a high rate, the limited number of certified prosthetists is
      finding it harder to satisfy the patient demand. Therefore, the overall goal is to provide
      the Orthopedic & Prosthetic (O&P) industry with a tool that accommodates the increasing
      prosthetist to patient ratio and still provide acceptable product quality.

      The practice of creating prosthetic sockets by the plaster-casting of amputees' residual
      limbs has been around for decades but continues to be the most commonly used method for the
      shape capture, modification and fabrication of prosthetic sockets. Using this traditional
      plaster-casting approach has many limitations that can now be overcome through the use of
      technology.

      With the advancing developments in Computer Aided Design (CAD) and Computer Aided
      Manufacturing (CAM) technologies over the past ten years, it is now possible to completely
      replace the plaster-casting approach with handheld, portable scanners.

      While this current CAD/CAM approach certainly creates substantial efficiencies in the
      clinical aspects of creating the prosthetic socket, the actual manufacturing of the
      prosthetic device continues to rely on the use of a positive model and a lengthy manual
      fabrication process.

      The continuing development of direct manufacturing technologies may serve as the final piece
      in the effective utilization of CAD/CAM in the care of prosthetic and orthotic patients.
      Direct manufacturing provides a means to quantify alterations and accurately reproduce
      prosthetic sockets. Additionally, direct manufacturing has the potential to reduce time,
      cost, and waste, as a result improve the quality and care ability to patients.

      This study will compare two fabrication techniques for diagnostic and definitive sockets:
      manually fabricated (positive model technique) and direct manufactured (experimental).
    
  