
    
      Current standard of care testing covers mutations in the BRAF and NRAS genes. The
      comprehensive gene testing platform to be used in this project is designed to interrogate the
      entire coding sequence of 315 cancer-related genes plus introns from 28 genes often
      rearranged or altered in cancer. These genes are known to be somatically altered in solid
      cancers based on recent scientific and clinical literature. The test panel will be used on
      melanoma tissue from patients pre-screened as having BRAF and NRAS wild-type melanoma. The
      extent of testing will be updated to reflect new discoveries in melanoma tumourigenesis and
      availability of new therapies as the project proceeds. Testing will be performed on
      formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded samples of metastatic tissue. Archival tissue from
      primary or regional recurrent melanoma may be considered if no recent sample is available or
      possible.

      All new patients with unresectable Stage III or IV melanoma seen at each participating site
      will be invited to participate. Following written consent, all patients will undergo the
      standard testing for BRAF and NRAS mutations. Patients found to have mutations in either gene
      will receive standard treatment with dabrafenib and / or trametinib and no further molecular
      testing.

      Patients with wild type versions of BRAF and NRAS genes will have tumour tissue sent for the
      extended gene testing platform. These patients will first receive standard of care therapy
      for wild type BRAF / NRAS melanoma, where possible. Once standard therapies have been
      exhausted (because of disease progression or intolerable adverse events), patients will then
      receive a targeted therapy matched for their genetic result, if applicable. The selection of
      targeted therapy will be based on clinical evidence of activity in other solid tumours
      harbouring similar mutations and / or in at least Phase I testing in melanoma. The table of
      matched therapies will be modified and extended as new findings from clinical research become
      available. Patients may be included in specific clinical trials of targeted therapies if
      available, e.g. a MEK inhibitor combined with an MDM2 inhibitor (AMG232) for BRAF and TP53
      wild-type melanoma or a MEK inhibitor combined with a CDK4/6 inhibitor for BRAF wild-type
      melanoma.

      The extensive molecular profiling platform is fully validated and will be conducted by an
      external provider accredited by an authority with the responsibility to award Laboratory
      Accreditation at private and public facilities.
    
  