
    
      Background Adolescent pregnancies carry risks to the young mothers and the baby. Keeping
      girls in school can potentially protect girls from getting pregnant. In Zambia, 35% of young
      rural girls have given birth by the age of 18 years, and the pregnancy rates are particularly
      high among girls who are out-of-school. Approximately 50% of girls never enroll in secondary
      school. A number of studies have found that economic support to girls and/or their families
      can increase school enrolment and attendance, and three trials have found effects on
      postponement of childbearing and marriage. Other studies indicate that widespread myths and
      negative social norms are barriers to adolescent girls using modern contraceptives, thus
      contributing to high rates of early pregnancy. However, there is little robust research from
      Africa on how sexual and reproductive health programmes can be delivered in a way that
      actually affects early marriage and pregnancy rates.

      Purpose To measure the effect on early childbearing rates in a rural Zambian context of (1)
      providing economic support to girls and their families, and (2) combining economic support
      with a community intervention to enhance knowledge about sexual and reproductive health and
      supportive community norms.

      Design Cluster randomized controlled trial with three arms with clusters being rural basic
      schools (With grades 1-9) with surrounding communities.

      Study population The participant population will be girls enrolled in grade 7 in January in
      2016 in rural schools in twelve study districts: Kalomo, Choma, Pemba, Monze, Mazabuka,
      Chikankata, Kapiri Mposhi, Kabwe, Chisamba, Chibombo, Mkushi, and Luano.

      Study size Approximately 5000 girls and 157 clusters, that is 1000 girls and 31 clusters in
      the control arm and 2000 girls and 63 clusters in each of the intervention arms. The
      rationale for having different numbers of clusters is that we expect larger differences
      between each of the intervention arms and the control arm than between the two intervention
      arms themselves.

      Intervention The control group (31 schools) will receive writing materials. One intervention
      group (63 schools) will be offered writing materials and economic support in the form of
      monthly cash transfers to the participating girl and her parents and payment of school fees
      in 2017 and 2018 if the girl attends junior secondary school. The second intervention group
      (63 schools) will be offered writing materials, economic support, and a community component.
      The community component will comprise of community meetings about the value of education for
      adolescent girls and the risks related to early childbearing, and a youth club for girls and
      boys (both in- and out-of-school).

      Duration and Follow-up The duration of the trial, from recruitment to the last follow-up
      survey will be 4.5 years. A baseline survey will be conducted just after recruitment, and a
      final survey will be conducted after approximately 4.5 years. In between there will be short
      phone-based follow-up contacts with all the participants every six months.

      Primary objectives

        1. To measure the effectiveness of a combined economic and community intervention on
           childbearing within 8 months of the end of the intervention period

        2. To measure the effectiveness of economic support alone and of a combined economic and
           community intervention on childbearing before the 18th birthday among girls.

        3. To measure the effectiveness of economic support alone and of a combined economic and
           community intervention on the proportion of girls who sit for the grade 9 exam.
    
  