
    
      The aim of this pilot prospective observational study is to allow outpatients with chronic
      Achilles tendinopathy and plantar fasciitis to reduce the pain during HEWST. The study will
      be focused on the evaluation of a posterior tibial nerve block efficacy in patients who
      discontinued the first application of HESWT due to surge of moderate-severe pain.

      Objectives of the study Primary objective The primary objective of the study is to observe a
      40% reduction in Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) from baseline (T0) to T1 during HESWT.

      Secondary objectives: evaluation of the number of patients that are able to complete a single
      session with Posterior tibial nerve block (usually, without Posterior tibial nerve block, 40%
      of patients can not complete the session); evaluation of the number of sessions required to
      complete successfully the treatment (usually, without Posterior tibial nerve block, the
      number of sessions required to complete successfully the treatment is 6); evaluation of the
      efficacy of HESWT (American Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Society Score - AOFAS, performed 1
      month from the end of treatment).

      Design of the study This is an observational, pilot, prospective, cohort study. It will be
      conducted in Orthopedic Day Hospital Ward of "Fondazione-Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli
      IRCCS" of Rome. The planned duration of the study is 6th months and the proposed sample size
      is N:21.

      Materials and Methods The enrollment starts after the patient interrupt his/her first HESWT
      treatment (T0) because the pain is unbearable with NRS>5. Before the second HESWT session
      (T1) patients will receive the posterior tibial nerve block (PTNB) under ultrasound control.
      This anesthetic procedure will be repeated for every subsequent HESWT session. After each
      treatment, the patient will be monitored in Orthopedic Day hospital ward for about 2 hours or
      until complete sensitive recovery. At the end of each session the patient will be asked to
      express his/her pain intensity using the NRS.

      The anesthetic procedure With the patient lying supine and the foot externally rotated, an
      expert anesthesiologist will perform the PTNB with echo guided, finding the posterior tibial
      nerve between the middle and the distal third of the leg, about 6-8 cm proximally to the
      tibial malleolus. Once the nerve will be identified, the needle (70 millimeters long, 22
      gouge, UPC Polymedic) will insert in-plain and after careful aspiration mepivacaine 1 % (3-4
      ml) will injected.

      Measurements Intensity of pain at the end of each procedure will be measured by Numerical
      Rating Scale (NRS) between 0 and 10 points, where Zero usually represents 'no pain at all'
      whereas ten represents 'the worst pain ever possible.

      Evaluation of patient's adherence to the treatment, will be detected as the number of
      patients that manage to complete the session The sensitive block duration will be evaluated
      by pinprik test (defined as a test for cutaneous pain receptors. A small, clean, sharp object
      such as a pin or needle is gently applied to the skin and the patient is asked to describe
      the sensation. One must be certain the patient is reporting the sensation of pain rather than
      that of pressure.) The efficacy of HESWT will be evaluated by American Orthopedic Foot and
      Ankle Society Score (AOFAS) after 1 month from the end of treatment. Each measure of AOFAS is
      comprised of nine questions and cover three categories: Pain (40 points), function (50
      points) and alignment (10 points). These are all scored together for a total of 100 points.

      Inclusion criteria

      Patients will be enrolled if they present all of the following criteria:

      History of Chronic Achilles tendinopathy and/or plantar fasciitis at least 6 months long
      Unsatisfying subjective result (Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) score persistently ≥ 4 points for
      pain during the ﬁrst few steps of walking in the morning) after at least 6 months after ≥ 3
      of the following 5 conventional therapy programs: ≥ 4 weeks of physical therapy; ≥4 weeks
      course of non-steroidal anti-inﬂammatory medications HEWST indication Application of HESWT at
      1500 shock waves with energy of 16 Ky First treatment discontinued for surge of pain (numeric
      rating scale > 5) Exclusion criteria Patient < 18 years Peripheral circulatory disorders
      Arthrosis of the foot or ankle, as conﬁrmed by X-ray diagnosis Skin lesions of the foot
      Allergy to local anesthetic Neurologic abnormality (changes of deep tendon reﬂexes, motor or
      sensory deﬁcit) Routinely consumption of analgesics or history of analgesic consumption
      within 24 hours prior to therapy.

      Statistical Plan Sample size determination As a pilot study, no data is available in the
      literature. The proposed sample size is N:21 patients. This dimension provides a power of
      0.99, with confidence level = 0.05 of detecting a 40% reduction in the NSR score from T0 to
      T1.

      Statistical analysis The sample will be described in its clinical and demographic features
      using descriptive statistics techniques. Quantitative variables will be described using the
      following measures: minimum, maximum, range, mean and standard deviation. Qualitative
      variables will be summarized with absolute and percentage frequency tables. Normality of data
      will be verified using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.

      The primary objective will be achieved performing a Student's T test for paired sample.

      The proportion of patients that are able to complete a single session with Posterior tibial
      nerve block will be evaluated and compared to the same proportion in patients without
      Posterior tibial nerve block (40% of patients can not complete the session); The mean and
      median number of sessions required to complete successfully the treatment will be calculated.

      The evaluation of HESWT efficacy will be performed via the AOFAS score, comparing proportions
      using the Chi squared test.

      Possible comparisons will be performed with the Student T test for paired sample (if data are
      normally distributed) or with the Wilcoxon test (for non normal distribution). Comparison of
      categorical data will be performed using a Chi-square test.
    
  