
    
      -  This phase IV study is designed to evaluate, in a real-world setting, usage patterns and
           associated outcomes associated with the anticancer treatment and/or best supportive care
           in the clinical practice. The primary study analysis will be to collect clinical data on
           symptomatic and best response, including tumor control rate, survival, TTP and PFS.
           Other endpoints of the study will include an evaluation of on-study subsequent
           anticancer treatments, QoL evaluation by using the EORTC QoL test (QLQ-C30) and an
           economic cost-effectiveness analysis by using the EQ-5D test.

        -  The study population will consist of patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma after
           failure of anthracyclines and/or ifosfamide or patients unsuited to receive these drugs.
           To be enrolled in this study, the patients must meet all inclusion criteria and none of
           the exclusion criteria. Estimated 100 patients will be enrolled.

        -  Inclusion Criteria

             1. Patients of both sexes with histologically diagnosed advanced soft tissue sarcoma
                after failure of anthracyclines and/or ifosfamide or patients unsuited to receive
                these drugs.

             2. Patients must have signed an informed consent document indicating that they
                understand the purpose and procedures required for the study, and that they are
                willing to participate in the study.

             3. Age ≥ 18 years. Exclusion Criteria Withdrawal of the informed consent at any point
                of the study will exclude the patient from the study.

        -  Assigned Intervention

             1. Trabectedin treatment The administration of chemotherapy regimen with trabectedin
                will be determined by the Investigator's discretion depending on the patients´
                conditions and previous chemotherapy.

             2. Other conventional care regimens: other palliative chemotherapy or biological
                therapy or best supportive care. Patients on the other conventional care regimens
                could receive the following preselected treatments options:

      A.Palliative chemotherapy or biological therapy (such as Ifosfamide or other anticancer
      agents with antitumor effect) as a palliative systemic therapeutic modality that may be
      offered to the patient with advanced soft tissue sarcoma.

      B.Best supportive care, as a palliative therapeutic modality that may be offered to the
      patient with soft tissue sarcoma excluding chemotherapy/biological therapy but including
      radiotherapy and non-anticancer medication. Hence, this includes nutritional support,
      analgesics, antibiotics, antiemetic, transfusions, appetitive stimulants, antidepressants or
      any other symptomatic therapy, palliative surgery and/or psychological support and/or deep
      relaxation therapy. Localized radiotherapy to alleviate symptoms (i.e., pain) will be
      allowed, provided that the total delivered dose is within a palliative range. All therapies
      with potential systemic antitumor effect were excluded as BSC definition

        -  Subsequent Anticancer Treatments Administered After chemotherapy discontinuation,
           patients with documented progressive disease (PD) may be treated with subsequent
           anticancer therapies or best supportive care at the Investigators´ discretion. All
           subsequent treatments, surgical procedures or radiotherapy will be reported in the CRF.

        -  The study period starts at study inclusion and will continue until treatment
           discontinuation, death or until the predefined date of April 2014, when a final analysis
           have to delivered to the Dutch authorities.

        -  Efficacy Evaluations: Symptomatic response and best response as per the Investigator,
           according to RECIST will be assessed. Tumor control rate (CR + PR + SD), TTP, PFS and OS
           will be also evaluated.
    
  