
    
      Background

      Obesity, in particular visceral obesity, is associated with impaired insulin action on target
      tissues (insulin resistance or metabolic syndrome) that, in turn, is related to an increased
      risk for cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Pathophysiological mechanism remains
      unclear. Interventions in patients with impaired glucose tolerance/impaired fasting glucose
      have consistently demonstrated that by increasing physical activity and reducing calorie
      intake the risk to convert to frank type 2 diabetes is decreased, even more efficiently than
      by early medical therapy with metformin.

      Physically inactive and overweight subjects do not only store the excess of fat in the
      intra-abdominal or subcutaneous department but also in non-adipose tissue (="ectopic"
      tissues), such also skeletal muscle, liver and myocardium, also called intramyocellular
      lipids (IMCL), intrahepatocellular lipids (IHCL) and intramyocardial lipids (IMCaL).This
      ectopic lipid accumulation occurs either by increased free fatty acids (FFA) uptake, increase
      synthesis in the involved tissues or reduced FFA oxidation.

      The relative contribution of these factors to ectopic lipid accumulation varies in different
      physiological conditions (i.e. physical exercise, fasting, postprandial condition) and in
      different tissues. In addition, it may be influenced by hormones that regulate lipid
      metabolism. There is increasing evidence that ectopic fat and its intermediate metabolites
      interfere with insulin signalling, thereby contributing to the impaired insulin action on
      target tissues such as liver and skeletal muscle. It has been well showed that high fat
      oxydation capacity allows to keep a lower lipolytic activity and therefore low levels of
      lipolyse degradation products. Strong evidence is accumulating that these intermediates
      interact with insulin signalling finally resulting in insulin resistance.

      There is still scarce data about the behaviour of ectopic fat stores in the presence of
      positive(nutritional fat excess) or negative energy balance (physical activity) and the role
      of hormones in regulating these fat depots.

      Additionally,we have previously shown that GH values obtained during a 2h standardized
      aerobic exercise of moderate intensity revealed a high diagnostic accuracy in predicting
      severe GHD in adult individuals. Whether a shorter exercise on higher intensity may lead to
      comparable results has to be assessed.

      Objective

      The study aims to comprehensively assess the flexibility and partitioning of ectopic fat
      deposition and to define the role of relevant hormones (especially GH and insulin) in
      relation to the availability of FFAs as well as their role in the process of ectopic fat
      deposition and consumption. Another objective is to investigate the role of a standardized
      fat load and aerobic exercise on IMCaL.

      Methods

      Using the two-step hyperinsulinaemic-euglycaemic clamp technique hepatic and peripheral
      insulin sensitivity is assessed.

      Lipid depots (skeletal muscle and liver) are repeatedly measured by MR-spectroscopy,
      subcutaneous and visceral fat mass by whole body MR-imaging.

      Exercise capacity ist measured on a bicycle (incl. spiroergometry). Counterregulatory
      hormones, glucose and free fatty acids are measured during a 2h physical exercise at 50-60
      VO2max.

      Blood samples to evaluate GH will be taken immediately before and after the Vo2 max-test, as
      well as 15, 30 and 45minutes after the end of the exercise test.
    
  