
    
      Each year, almost two million episodes of pneumonia are suffered by nursing home (NH)
      residents across the United States, resulting in more deaths than from any other infection.
      Further, NH residents acquire pneumonia at a rate 6-10 times higher than older adults in the
      community, indicating that characteristics of these individuals and/or the NH settings put
      them at increased pneumonia risk.

      Pneumonia is an inflammatory condition usually initiated by the introduction of bacteria into
      the lung, such as through aspiration. In aspiration, contents from the mouth, throat, or
      stomach that are colonized with pathogenic bacteria are inhaled into the lungs. Poor oral
      hygiene is therefore a critical risk factor for pneumonia because it increases the volume and
      infectious nature of secretions from the mouth and throat.

      Considering the high rate of pneumonia in NHs and its relationship to oral hygiene, it should
      come as no surprise that mouth care provided in NHs is poor. Almost 90% of residents require
      help with tooth brushing, yet only 16% have their teeth brushed regularly. Reasons for
      insufficient care include time, other priorities, existing procedures, perceptions that oral
      health is not vital to overall health, and fear of resistant residents.

      Evidence is emerging that improved oral care can prevent pneumonia. However, no studies have
      developed and tested a program designed specifically for widespread adoption and
      sustainability. Our research team developed the Mouth Care Without a Battle (MCWB) program,
      and in pilot-testing, MCWB significantly improved tooth brushing and flossing, reduced dental
      plaque and gingivitis (which harbor the bacteria that can cause pneumonia), and increased
      staff knowledge and attitudes related to mouth care.

      If MCWB is effective in reducing pneumonia and related hospitalizations and mortality, it
      would constitute a major advance in disease prevention. Therefore, the aims of this
      evidence-based, tested, matched-pairs cluster randomized trial are:

      1a. Compare the incidence of pneumonia in seven mouth care NHs to the incidence of pneumonia
      in seven control NHs for two years.

      Secondarily:

      1b. Compare the case-adjusted incidence of pneumonia in mouth care NHs to the case-adjusted
      incidence in control NHs, and evaluate whether the intervention effects for pneumonia
      incidence are modified by resident-level risk factors for pneumonia.

      1c. Examine the relationship between the overall incidence of pneumonia and change in average
      oral health status, as measured by the plaque and gingival indices of cross-sectional random
      samples of 60 residents per NH at baseline and at the end of the study.

      2. Examine the implementation and sustainability of the mouth care program, including: (a)
      staff self-efficacy to provide mouth care; (b) frequency of mouth care and related
      supervision; (c) use of mouth care products; (d) barriers and facilitators to implementation;
      and (e) cost of the mouth care program.

      3. In regard to secondary outcomes of hospitalization and mortality: 3a. Compare differences
      in hospitalization and mortality rates (pneumonia and all cause) from baseline through two
      years for mouth care and control NHs.

      3b. Assess the likelihood that the intervention is cost-saving, and estimate the cost per
      hospitalization avoided attributable to the mouth care program.

      These aims will be addressed in a two year matched pairs cluster randomized trial will be
      conducted in seven pairs of NHs; one half of each pair will be randomly assisted to receive
      the intervention (MCWB), and the other half will be assigned to the control condition.
    
  