
    
      There are over five million Americans living with heart failure (HF), and another 670,000 new
      cases being diagnosed each year. HF is a characteristically unstable condition that is the
      most costly diagnosis in the Medicare population and is the most common cause for
      hospitalization. The instability of HF disease is reflected in short-term fluctuations of the
      HF disease biomarker, B-Type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP). Patient self-management behaviors are
      important for minimizing HF disease instability. Depression is often comorbid with HF, and
      elevated depressive symptoms are associated with a marked increase in adverse clinical
      outcomes. For both depressed and non-depressed HF patients, worsening depressive symptoms
      mark a substantially increased risk of cardiovascular hospitalization or death. Despite the
      risk associated with depressive symptoms, the nature of their association with a worsening HF
      disease trajectory and adverse clinical outcomes is poorly understood.

      Converging evidence suggests that the association between depressive symptoms and accelerated
      HF disease progression may involve multiple behavioral and pathophysiological pathways. This
      study proposes an innovative, prospective bio-behavioral monitoring study of 220 HF patients
      that is designed to address the issue of how depressive symptoms and their bio-behavioral
      manifestations are implicated in worsening HF disease. Using home-monitoring biotechnology,
      we propose to track fluctuations in HF disease severity using biweekly assessments of BNP
      over a 16-week period. Symptoms of depression and HF-related health behaviors also will be
      assessed biweekly via concurrent monitoring. This biweekly bio-behavioral monitoring will be
      framed by comprehensive baseline and 4-month assessments of depression, HF disease severity,
      and pathophysiological mechanisms that have been related to the presence of depressive
      symptoms and implicated in the progression of HF disease. Clinical outcomes also will be
      assessed over a subsequent average 3-year follow-up period. This study will create a unique
      data structure that will allow us to use contemporary statistical methods that will serve to
      elucidate causal associations between depressive symptoms, self-management health behaviors,
      pathophysiological processes, and HF disease progression and clinical outcomes. The study
      findings are expected to yield important advances in our understanding of why depressive
      symptoms may be particularly detrimental in the presence of HF and will help to inform the
      design of future clinical trials.
    
  