
    
      Study 3 investigates the hypothesis that an exercise programme of steady walking will have
      larger effects on insulin sensitivity and glycaemic control when combined with Acipimox
      intake prior to each exercise session in people with prediabetes. Thirty-four sedentary,
      overweight/obese people (aged 25-50 years, BMI >28 kg.m-2) with prediabetes will be recruited
      using the same strategy as study 2 and split into two groups (detailed below).

      Pre-intervention assessments:

      Visit 1: Participants will undergo an assessment of body composition (DXA) and undertake a
      graded treadmill walking test to estimate maximal aerobic fitness (VO2max).

      Visit 2: Participants will be able to opt to undergo an MRI scan, taking place before
      breakfast. The MRI scan is used to measure fat stored in the liver and muscles. A continuous
      glucose monitoring (CGM) sensor will be inserted to measure insulin sensitivity.

      Visit 3: Participants will arrive at the laboratory after an overnight fast (>10 h) to
      undergo a Hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic clamp to assess whole-body insulin sensitivity.
      Plasma glucose will be measured at regular intervals and muscle biopsies will be obtained
      from the vastus lateralis muscle of one leg before and after 2 hours of the clamp.

      Exercise intervention: Pairs of participants from each group (matched for gender, age and
      VO2max) will be randomized to undertake 12 weeks of steady walking combined with ingestion of
      either Acipimox or placebo in a counter-balanced, double-blind design. Supervised treadmill
      walking sessions will be undertaken at LJMU three times per week, with exercise performed at
      a speed equivalent to 45% VO2max. Participants will initially exercise for 30 mins per
      session (weeks 1 and 2), and each session will increase in duration by 5 mins every 2 weeks
      thereafter, up to 50 minutes of exercise. 1 hour before each walking session, participants
      will ingest either 250 mg Acipimox or nothing.

      Post-intervention assessments: The post-intervention assessments will be identical in all
      respects to the pre-intervention assessments and will be commenced ≥72 hours after the final
      training session.
    
  