
    
      In this prospective randomized double blind placebo controlled clinical trial we would like
      to assess the efficacy of a bilateral lumbar erector spinae block on the 24h morphine
      consumption after posterior lumbar interbody fusion surgery. Patients scheduled for 1-2 level
      PLIF surgery will be recruited in AZ KLINA in Brasschaat and the University Hospital Antwerp
      in Edegem. The study contains two arms. Subjects will be randomly allocated to an erector
      spinae block group or the sham block group (placebo).

      Stratified randomization will be done according to gender, levels of surgery and site online
      with Q minim.The study medication will be prepared in identical premade syringes and numbered
      according to a computer generated block randomization list (1:1 ratio ESB:sham). Subjects
      will be assigned consecutive numbers upon inclusion to the study and receive the study
      medication from the corresponding numbered syringes. The study medication in syringes for
      injection will be prepared by an anesthesiologist neither involved in the study nor in the
      care of the patient, before handing it over to the investigators. The ESB-group will receive
      20 ml Chirocaine 0,25%. The sham block group medication will receive 20 ml Nacl0,9%. The
      levobupivacaine and saline 0.9% are identical in appearance. All investigators, staff and
      patients will be blinded to the treatment groups. Epinephrine is added to the placebo block
      in order to prevent unblinding by increased heart rate or blood pressure. Unmasking will not
      occur until statistical analysis is complete.

      Patients in the erector spinae block group will receive a bilateral ESB block with an
      injectate containing 20 ml of levobupivacaine 0.25% in each puncture. Patients allocated to
      the sham group receive a bilateral ESB block with each injectate containing 20 mL of NaCl
      0.9% . The blocks will be performed by experts in the field of ultrasound guided locoregional
      anaesthesia namely dr D. van Aken, dr L. Sermeus and dr M.B. Breebaart who are also teachers
      for the BARA (Belgian Association of Regional Anaesthesia). The blocks will be performed
      preoperatively in a separate block room with ultrasound after placement of an iv line and
      application of standard monitoring (ECG, NIBP, saturation). The blocks will be placed as
      described by Chin et al. modified for lumbar level.8 First, the patient will be placed in the
      lateral or sitting position. A curve array probe or a high frequency linear probe, depending
      on the BMI of the patient, will be placed in a longitudinal position 2-3 cm lateral of the
      vertebral column. The transverse processes of the vertebrae at the (mid) level of surgery,
      the erector spinae muscle and the psoas muscle are identified. In case of two level surgery
      the transverse process of the upper level will be considered as the preferred target.
      Depending on the depth a 5 or 8 cm 22 G ultrasound needle (Pajunk) will be inserted with an
      in plane technique in a cephalad to caudad direction until bone contact with the top of the
      transverse process is reached. After slight retraction of the needle, 20 ml of the study
      medication will be injected behind the erector spinae muscle. The same procedure will be
      repeated on the contralateral side.

      General anesthesia will then be induced in a standardized way with propofol 2-3mg/kg,
      sufentanil 15mcg and rocuronium 0.5mg/kg. After tracheal intubation anesthesia will be
      maintained with sevoflurane and intraoperative analgesia with sufentanil. The dosages of
      these agents will be determined at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. At the end of
      surgery patients will receive acetaminophen 1g IV, ketorolac (Taradyl, CSP Benelux) 0.5 mg/kg
      (max. 30 mg) IV and a morphine loading dose (0.1 mg/kg) IV to manage postoperative pain.
      Patients will be extubated in the operating theatre and admitted to the post anesthesia care
      unit (PACU). Postoperative pain in the PACU and on the ward will be treated with
      acetaminophen 1g IV round the clock (4 times daily) and by a patient controlled intravenous
      analgesia pump (PCIA) with morphine at a concentration of 1 mg/ml and dehydrobenzperidol
      (DHBP) 0.05 mg/ml. The PCIA will be set using a standardised protocol: no background
      administration of morphine, a bolus dose of 1.5 mL morphine with a lock-out interval of 8
      minutes and an hourly limit of 7.5 mg. If pain management on the PACU is inadequate (NRS > 3)
      additional boli of 1 mg morphine IV will be administered with the total additional dose of
      morphine limited to 0.15mg/kg morphine. In case NRS is still > 3 an IV ketamine (Ketalar,
      Pfizer) bolus (0.2 mg/kg) will be given. All patients receive dexamethasone 5mg IV as
      postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) prophylaxis. If needed, this will be supplemented by
      ondansetron 4mg IV and if still insufficient with alizapride 50mg IV. Other study endpoints
      will be retrieved from the patient data management systems

      The morphine consumption during the first 24 hours postoperatively will be extracted out of
      the PCIA pump. The total morphine dose requirement during the first 72 postoperative hours
      will also be extracted out of the PCIA pump. Pain scores at rest will be assessed with the
      numeric rating scale (NRS, 0=no pain 10= worst imaginable pain) and tested at regular time
      intervals: at the time of inclusion, at the PACU (T0 = arrival at Post Anesthesia Care Unit,
      T+15min, T+30min) and ward (twice daily- morning and evening until postoperative day 3) Pain
      scores during defined movement (first moving to chair and upright sitting) will be examined.
      Time to first mobilization in chair (in hours since T0) and time to first walk of twenty
      meters (in hours since T0) will be noted in the patients study diary. The quality of recovery
      40 score (QoR-40) will be calculated out of a series of questions patients are required to
      answer at day 1 and 3 postoperatively. The QoR-40 is a widely used and extensively validated
      measure of quality of recovery. It is a 40-item questionnaire on quality of recovery from
      anesthesia, that has been shown to measure health status after surgery.
    
  