
    
      Half of the participants will be randomized to a "text-messaging" protocol, and the other
      half will be randomized to a "standard of care" protocol.

      Text messaging protocol: A trained research personnel (student, pharmacist, physician or
      research assistant) will record the patient's cell phone number. Participants will select 7
      morning and 7 evening times that are convenient for them to check and send blood pressure
      measurements. (The literature recommends that 12-14 measurements should be taken over one to
      weeks with morning and evening readings before making a diagnosis of hypertension).
      Participants will use a home blood pressure monitor that will be provided to them after given
      instruction of how to use it. This visit should take around 30 minutes.

      After the participant leaves the clinic, at the pre-specified times and dates, an automated
      server side script running on the investigators' server will check the application database
      at a given time interval and at the appropriate times send the participant a text message
      with specific, simple instructions. An example of the message is as follows: "Please remember
      to check your blood pressure this morning at 7am! Reply to this message with your blood
      pressure and time it was taken." The participant will return a short text with his/her blood
      pressure measurements and the time they were taken: "150/90 and 145/88 7am". The
      investigators' software will identify the cell phone number associated with each message and
      will enter the blood pressure measurement, the time the blood pressure was recorded, and the
      time the message was received into an account associated with that participant in our secure
      database. If the participant does not complete the blood pressure homework assignment, a
      pre-specified number of reminders will be sent to the patient until 2 weeks have elapsed.

      Once the pre-specified number of measurements (seven days' worth of measurements) has been
      received by the website, an email alert will be sent to the study personnel and a generated
      document with blood pressure numbers will be sent to the treating physician e.g. physician's
      clinical mailbox.

      Standard of care protocol: participants who are randomized to the "Standard of Care" group
      will be instructed to obtain 7 morning and 7 evening blood pressure measurements.
      Participants will be asked to choose a method of communication to reply their blood pressure
      numbers back to their physician. These include "MyChart" which is Internet-based web-portal
      connected to the participant's electronic medical record, calling back the clinic with their
      numbers, mailing, or faxing blood pressure log to their physician. The type of method each
      participant chooses will be recorded. Participants will use a home blood pressure monitor
      that will be provided to them after given instruction on how to use it.

      Participants in both groups will be asked to return the blood pressure cuff to Iowa River
      Landing Internal Medicine clinic. This can be done at any time that is convenient to them
      after finishing the blood pressure assignment.

      During the study, investigators will access the participants' medical record to obtain the
      following information: latest blood pressure measurement, blood pressure medications, latest
      cholesterol measurements, cholesterol medications, latest glucose measurement, other chronic
      medical conditions, other medications, insurance, race, age, gender, marital status, height
      and weight.

      Medical records will also be accessed 3-6 months later to identify any change in medical
      management that occurred after sending blood pressure readings. Time and type of intervention
      will be recorded whether it is adding a new medication or increasing a current medication
      dose. Also blood pressure readings during the next clinic visit (3-6 months after the study)
      will be recorded.
    
  