
    
      Primary Objective-To assess if switching from ritonavir boosted-PI based ART regimen to a
      Raltegravir-based regimen will reduce the rate of hepatic fibrosis progression in HIV-HCV
      co-infected patients as measured by transient elastography (Fibroscan®) and the
      AST-to-platelet ratio index (APRI) after 48 weeks of treatment.

      Secondary Objectives:

      (i) To assess the safety and tolerability of switching from a ritonavir boosted-PI ART
      regimen to a raltegravir-based regimen for 48 weeks.

      (ii) To evaluate hepatic function (liver enzymes) at weeks 0, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 72
      post switch.

      (iii) To evaluate the effect of switching treatment on control of HIV infection (as measured
      by HIV viral load and CD4) at weeks 0, 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 72 post switch.

      (iv) To evaluate metabolic profiles (e.g, fasting lipid profiles, glucose and insulin) at
      weeks 0, 24, 48 and 72 post switch.

      (v) To evaluate inflammatory markers associated with liver fibrosis at weeks 0, 2, 4, 8, 12,
      24, 36, 48 and 72 post switch.

      Population: Patients will be selected from CTN222; a Canadian National multisite prospective
      cohort of HCV-HIV infected persons (N=978) or from other eligible patients followed at
      participating sites. All patients recruited into the cohort are adults aged over 16 years old
      with documented HIV infection (ELISA with western blot confirmation) and with chronic HCV
      infection or evidence of HCV exposure (e.g. HCV-seropositive by ELISA with RIBA II or EIA
      confirmation, or if serologically false negative, HCV RNA+).

      Study Design: A Randomized Prospective Open label study

      Sample Size:

      N = 40 This is a Phase II study designed to evaluate the safety and feasibility of a switch
      to raltegravir in HIV-HCV co-infected patients. As neither the duration of time required to
      improve fibrosis nor the potential impact of such a switch currently is known, this trial
      will provide important pilot data with which to estimate the true effect size and calculate
      the sample size required to conduct a larger definitive study on this question. It is
      hypothesized that switching therapy will lead to significant reduction in fibrosis as
      measured by APRI and FibroScan®. In other studies, for example, of successful HCV treatment
      using FibroScan®, a 34% reduction in fibrosis score was observed in those obtaining a
      sustained virologic response at 48 weeks (e.g., from mean baseline score of 10.3 kPa to 6.6
      kPa at 48 weeks; s.d.= 5 kPa 1). We propose a sample size of 20 patients in each group, which
      would provide approximately 80% power to detect at least a difference of 5 kPa in fibrosis
      score change between the two groups assuming a similar standard deviation.
    
  