
    
      Objective:

      It is well known that social and contextual cues and the whole atmosphere around the patient,
      such as words, attitudes, and providers behaviors, all contribute to evoke placebo responses.
      Moreover, an extensive literature investigating prosocial behaviors (e.g. ability to share
      another s feelings, imitation, mimicry) suggests that social modeling is critical in
      developing learning processes across species, including social influences on psychophysical
      aspects of pain. Only recently, it has been demonstrated that observing the beneficial
      effects in a demonstrator induces substantial placebo analgesic responses which are
      positively correlated with empathy. A crucial role in social behaviors is played by oxytocin
      (OXT) and arginine vasopressin (AVP), two neuropeptides, produced mostly in the hypothalamus
      and acting on certain brain regions whose function is associated with emotion perception
      (amygdale and nucleus accumbens), eye-gaze, trust and processing of positive and negative
      social cues. Since beliefs, trust and contextual cues are important elements of the
      clinicianpatient relationship and socially-induced placebo effects, it is reasonable to
      hypothesize that OXT and AVP may be one of the endogenous substances that trigger contextual
      and interpersonal placebo responses. By viewing interpersonal healing as a central causal
      process (or a set of related causal processes) within the domain of pain modulation, it is
      possible to probe the potential role for OXT and AVP in the modulation of a placebo response.
      In pursuit of this goal, we use a neuropharmacological intervention with OXT and AVP agonists
      in combination with a behavioral, brain imaging and genetic approach.

      Study population:

      Healthy men and women participants aging from 18 to 55 years.

      Design:

      We will investigate the role of oxytocinergic system in the processing of social cues by
      using a model of pain and interpersonal placebo analgesia already tested (9). The following
      drugs will be used: 1) oxytocin, 2) arginine vasopressin, and 3) placebo.

      Outcome measures:

      Primary outcomes are subjective pain reports (Experiment 1) and brain- and cortical -related
      responses (Experiments 2 and 3). Secondary measures include skin conductance response, heart
      rate, cortisol, subjective measures of empathy; trait and state anxiety measures; and
      functional pain-related genetic polymorphisms.
    
  