
    
      In France, transgender still a taboo subject, and is poorly documented. There are no precise
      data on the number of transgender people in France or on their socio-demographic
      characteristics. The absence of such data reinforces their invisibility in social life and
      contributes to their stigmatization. Transgender people faces many social barriers in our
      society. These barriers accumulate in HIV seropositive transgender people (TRHIV), and most
      likely increase the burden of HIV infection. The main objective of ANRS TRANS&VIH - the
      community-based research study presented here - is to identify personal and social situations
      of vulnerability for TRHIV in France, the obstacles for receiving medical care, and their
      healthcare needs.

      ANRS TRANS&VIH is an ongoing national, exhaustive, cross-sectional survey of all TRHIV
      currently followed up in HIV services in France. It is a mixed-methods study, the
      quantitative and qualitative components includ TRHIV women and men, respectively.
      Socio-behavioral and medical data are collected (start date January 2021) by community-based
      interviewers in participating hospital-based HIV structures in order to explore patient care
      pathways and living conditions of the TRHIV population with regard to transitioning and HIV.
      This is the first study in France to collect such data. The statistical techniques used for
      the data analyses will reflect the study's objectives and will be adapted to the type of data
      collection used: cross-sectional (questionnaires) and longitudinal (life history). Several
      types of analyses will be performed, including: (i) a description of the individual
      characteristics of transgender female TRHIV; (ii) comparative analyses between different
      groups of stakeholders (e.g., differences between the Ile de France region (which covers
      Paris and the surrounding area) and other regions); (iii) analysis of life and HIV
      trajectories; (iv) structural analyses using structural data collected for participating HIV
      structures (v) qualitative analysis of data from interviews with participating TRHIV men.

      ANRS TRANS&VIH results will be used to make recommendations to health authorities to ensure
      that a comprehensive healthcare package will be offered to TRHIV which takes into account
      this population's specific background and problems.
    
  