
    
      Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in spring 2020, the German government decided to impose strict
      contact restrictions to prevent an exponential increase in SARS-CoV-2-positive individuals.
      These included visiting regulations in hospitals from March 16th, 2020. These also applied to
      obstetrics departments in Cologne until April 30th, 2020. At the Obstetrics University
      Hospital Cologne as well as at the Protestant Hospital Cologne-Weyertal, fathers were allowed
      to be present in the delivery room for the birth of their newborns, but had to leave the
      hospital again before the mothers were being transferred to the obstetrics ward. The fathers
      could not see their newborn again until they were discharged a few days later. The
      consequences of these contact restrictions on the newborns and their parents have been little
      studied.

      In a few hospitals, there were exceptions currently to the strict contact restrictions. These
      included the Hospital of the Augustinian Sisters in Cologne, where no visitation bans were
      imposed on fathers in the obstetrics department. With general precautions fathers were still
      allowed to accompany their newborns and mothers in the obstetric ward. The study of the
      newborns of this hospital enables the researchers to see whether the parents were
      nevertheless affected by the general changes in the living situation during a pandemic.

      The phenomenon of "neonatal programming", which establishes the connection between formative
      influences in the neonatal period (e.g. pain or stress by separation of mothers) and
      disorders in later life (attention deficits, lack of concentration, learning difficulties)
      has received increasing attention in recent years. In particular, the search for molecular
      mechanisms that cause such programming has been the focus of scientific projects. In a
      delivery-room skin-to-skin study (deisy) conducted by this research group preterm infants
      were randomized to skin-to-skin contact or visual contact with their mothers. Significant
      differences were found in both mother-infant interaction at six months of age and the
      expression of candidate genes of stress signaling pathway.

      An important regulatory mechanism for influencing the activity of certain genes in the long
      term is the methylation of their promoter region. This epigenetic regulatory mechanism plays
      an important role, so that the modulation of DNA methylation by events in the neonatal period
      could be responsible for a permanent determination of a certain infant phenotype. This
      methylation in candidate genes in the stress signaling pathway is currently investigated by
      the research team in healthy mature neonates born before the onset of the pandemic, and
      results are pending.

      The aim of the present study is to investigate the impact of contact restrictions during the
      coronavirus pandemic on newborns and their parents.

      Normally in healthy mother-infant-dyads without separation during the first postpartal hours,
      the mother has the best conditions to develop a high level of sensitivity. Sensitive maternal
      behavior favors the formation of optimal mother-infant interaction and is relevant for infant
      neurocognitive development. Due to the stressful situation caused by the separation of the
      father for several days, the psychological well-being of the parents as well as the optimal
      mother-child interaction could be negatively affected.
    
  