
    
      Background:

      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common dementia in elderly populations, and amnestic mild
      cognitive impairment (aMCI) refers to a transitional stage between normal aging and early
      dementia. Patients with aMCI are at higher risks of evolving toward AD. Although it has been
      widely recognized that early intervention of aMCI holds the potential to delay or even
      reverse the cognitive impairment, no treatment is available yet. Episodic memory dysfunction
      is the characteristic impairment in aMCI, cognitive control training significantly improved
      executive function in patients with aMCI . Whether and how cognitive control training
      improves episodic memory function in patients with aMCI remains largely unknown.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this double-blinded, randomized RCT is to assess whether
      internet-based cognitive control training in patients with amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment
      improves their episodic memory function. The second objective is to evaluate the effect of
      cognitive control training on neural plasticity, including brain activation and white matter
      integrity, which are assessed by functional and structural MRI.

      Patients and Methods:

      The proposed study is a single-center, double-blinded, randomized controlled trial that will
      include 70 patients diagnosed with aMCI from the neurology clinics at The First Affiliated
      Hospital, Zhejiang University. The patients will be randomized to either a training or a
      control group. The intervention is internet-based cognitive control training performed for 30
      minutes over 60 sessions. Neuropsychological assessment and functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) will be performed before and 12 weeks after training.

      Relevance:

      Currently there is no known treatment available for aMCI. The proposed study is to determine
      the efficacy of cognitive control training on episodic memory function in patients with aMCI.
      Secondly, using functional and structural MRI, this study is to reveal the potential
      mechanism underlying cognitive control training.
    
  