
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival in patients with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma
      randomized to daratumumab-lenalidomide (revlimid)-dexamethasone or revlimid-dexamethasone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression-free survival and response rates between arms. II. To evaluate
      safety and compare toxicity rates between arms. III. To monitor incidence of infusion-related
      reactions over the first cycle of daratumumab.

      IV. To evaluate stem cell mobilization failure and early stem cell mobilization feasibility.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure treatment exposure and adherence. II. To estimate treatment duration and time
      to progression.

      PATIENT-REPORTED OUTCOMES OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare change in health-related quality of life (Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy [FACT]- General [G]]) from baseline to end of study therapy between arms.

      II. To compare change in FACT-G scores from treatment end to 6-months post-treatment end
      between arms.

      III. To describe changes in FACT-G scores over study therapy and shortly after treatment
      discontinuation and evaluate correlation with survival.

      IV. To evaluate attributes of select patient reported treatment-emergent symptomatic adverse
      events (Patient Reported Outcomes [PRO]-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      [CTCAE]) longitudinally.

      V. To derive an overall PRO-CTCAE score at each assessment time point. VI. To measure the
      likelihood of medication adherence (ASK-12) at 6 month intervals throughout treatment.

      VII. To assess the association of overall PRO-CTCAE score with FACT-G score. VIII. To compare
      select PRO-CTCAE items and related provider-reported CTCAEs. IX. To evaluate association
      between treatment adherence and Adherence Starts with Knowledge 12 (ASK-12) score.

      X. To assess correlation of treatment adherence and ASK-12 score with FACT-G score.

      XI. To tabulate PRO compliance and completion rates.

      LABORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare minimal residual disease negative rate after 12 cycles of study therapy between
      arms.

      II. To compare minimal residual disease (MRD) positive to negative conversion rates from 12
      cycles to end of treatment between arms.

      III. To examine patterns of change in minimal residual disease levels during study therapy.

      IV. To evaluate agreement and discordance between methods determining disease-free status.

      V. To assess the prognostic value of minimal residual disease status at 12 cycles for overall
      and progression-free survival.

      IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the association of baseline fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission
      tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) imaging with progression-free survival.

      II. To assess the ability of baseline FDG-PET/CT to predict minimal residual disease status
      after 12 cycles of study therapy and at the end of study therapy.

      III. To describe the results of subsequent FDG-PET/CT imaging studies in the subset of
      patients with baseline abnormal FDG-PET/CT, and to associate these results with
      progression-free survival (PFS).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of courses
      1-2, days 1 and 15 of courses 3-6, and day 1 of courses 7-24. Patients also receive
      lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-21 and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 in
      courses 1-12. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21 and dexamethasone PO on days 1,
      8, 15, and 22 of courses 1-12. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study, patients will be followed up every 3, 6 or 12 months for up to 15
      years from study entry.
    
  