
    
      The NPDS Endodontic clinic is a referral base clinic. All scheduled and/or emergency
      (sick-call) patients undergo a thorough clinical and radiographic examination. Patients will
      be asked to enroll in this prospective study when a diagnosis of symptomatic irreversible
      pulpitis is established, nonsurgical root canal treatment is indicated and they meet all
      study inclusion/exclusion criteria. An investigator, not involved in treatment, will explain
      the study and answer all question(s). Those that agree to participate will be consented and
      enrolled.

      To qualify for this study, each patient had a tooth that fulfilled the criteria for a
      clinical diagnosis of symptomatic irreversible pulpitis: a vital mandibular posterior tooth
      actively experiencing pain; a prolonged response to cold testing using Green Endo-Ice
      (1,1,1,2 tetrafluoroethane; Hygenic Corp, Akron, OH) and had not taken any analgesics within
      the past 8 hours.

      Exclusion criteria are as follows: any person under the age of 18 years; allergies or
      sensitivities to Ibuprofen or Methylprednisolone; allergies or sensitivities to local
      anesthetics or sulfites; were pregnant or nursing; medical condiditons that contraindicate
      the ingestion of Ibuprofen or Methylprednisolone, such as : active or latent peptic ulcers,
      Crohn's Disease, ulcerative colitis, gastroesophageal refulx, systemic fungal infections,
      active herpetic infections, asthma, open-angle glaucoma, osteoporosis or cirrohsis; has as a
      medical condition requiring the use of steroid medications; or had a history of a serious
      medical condition preventing routine dental treatment. Patients with no response to cold
      testing, presence of periradicular pathology (other than a widened periodontal ligament), or
      the lack of vital coronal pulpal tissue upon endodontic access were also excluded from the
      study. Thus, confirming the clinical diagnosis of irreversible pulpitis.

      After written informed consent is obtained, a study subject will rate their pain prior to
      administration of an analgesic on a visual analogue scale (VAS) (14). The VAS used is 10 cm
      in length and divided into four categories. No pain defined at 0 mm, mild pain 1mm to 50mm,
      moderate pain 51mm to 74mm, and severe pain is defined as 75mm or greater. Subjects' will
      rate their pain on this scale at specific timeframes during treatment dependent upon when
      anesthetic success is achieved.

      Two oral medications are compared in this study: 800mg Ibuprofen and 40mg Methylprednisolone.
      The medications are blinded to the subject and the provider. Each medication will be
      compounded, visibly identical and labeled as either A or B by the Investigational Pharmacy
      Department at WRNNMC (the PI will be provided the code in a sealed envelope). A third party,
      not involved in the study, will distribute the blinded medication to the provider for
      administration to the subject. Forty-five minutes after oral administration of the blinded
      medication, an inferior alveolar nerve block (IANB) and long buccal nerve block (LBNB) will
      be administered to each subject. Prior to the injection, the anesthetic injection site is
      dried with a 2 x 2 gauze, then 20% benzocaine topical anesthetic gel is placed at the site
      for 1 minute using a cotton tip applicator. Standard IANB and LBNB injections are
      administered with a 27-gauge, 1 ¼ in. needle attached to an aspirating syringe. Each
      cartridge of anesthetic used contains 34mg of 2% lidocaine with 0.017mg of epinephrine. Each
      subject receives 2 full cartridges of anesthetic in total with 1.5 cartridges given as an
      IANB and 0.5 cartridges given as a LBNB. Each cartridge was measured in millimeters from the
      end of the aluminum cap to the stopper. This distance was found to be 50mm in length,
      therefore at the 25mm mark on every cartridge a line was drawn dividing all the anesthetic
      solution into halves. All injections were administered by one of three board certified
      endodontic staff members.

      After anesthetic delivery, the subject will remain in a semi-supine position for fifteen
      minutes. The subject is questioned for lip numbness in five-minute intervals for up to
      fifteen minutes. If the subject does not achieve lip numbness, the nerve block is considered
      missed, patient care will continue with additional anesthesia administered. Data collection
      will not occur afterward. A missed block is different than a failed block. A failed block hit
      the target area, however due to the inflammatory nature of the disease process, the patient
      still is not completely anesthetized and requires additional anesthesia. Our study is trying
      to suppress that inflammatory process with the steroid medication, therefore hopefully
      leading to more successful blocks. A missed block does not hit the target area and therefore
      the patient does not exhibit signs of anesthesia, therefore the effect the medication has on
      that block is irrelevant at that point and cannot be measured because additional anesthesia
      is needed to begin the procedure. The subject becomes a patient and his or her participation
      in the study is ended. Non-surgical root canal treatment will be completed following the NPDS
      Endodontic Dept. Standard of Care for that particular tooth. The following methodology will
      be followed for the remaining enrolled subjects. It should be noted all of the following
      procedures normally would be Standard of Care for patients presenting for Endodontic
      treatment at NPDS. The consenting of subjects, prescribing of either of the oral medications,
      and recording of VHS scores, during and shortly after the Endodontic procedure, are the
      research components of this study.

      If after the fifteen minutes (60 minutes after the administration of ibuprofen or
      methylprednisolone) lip numbness is perceived, teeth are isolated with a rubber dam and
      endodontic access is initiated. These subjects will complete the entire study. Subjects are
      informed to raise a hand to alert the dental team if they feel pain during the endodontic
      procedure. The goal of treatment is a thorough pulpal debridement of each canal without pain
      during the procedure. If pain occurs, the procedure is immediately stopped and the subject
      rates their pain on a VAS scale. The success of the IANB is defined as the ability to access
      and instrument the canal(s) without pain (VAS score of 0) or mild pain (VAS score of 1
      -50mm).

      Rubber dam isolation is removed for those who rated their pain as moderate or severe during
      access preparation. A supplemental buccal infiltration injection is administered in the
      alveolar mucosa near the apex (apices) buccal to the tooth under treatment utilizing a
      27-gauge short needle and a cartridge of 68mg 4% articaine with 0.017mg epinephrine. All
      injections are given by one of three board certified endodontic staff members. Rubber dam
      isolation is reapplied five minutes after the supplemental injection and endodontic access is
      continued. The supplemental buccal injection is considered a success if endodontic access,
      initial file placement and canal debridement is completed without pain (VAS score of 0) or
      mild pain (VAS score of 1-50mm). Once again, if the subject indicates pain during access or
      instrumentation, the procedure is stopped and the subject rates their pain on a VAS scale. If
      pain is moderate (VAS score of 51-75mm) or severe (VAS score of 76-100) the supplemental
      buccal infiltration injection will be recorded as a failure (the subject will remain in the
      study) and an intraosseous injection is given as described by previous authors (15, 16).
      Rubber dam isolation is reapplied five minutes after the intraosseous injection and
      endodontic access is continued. Following the same protocol as with the supplemental buccal
      injection, if the subject indicates pain during access or instrumentation, the procedure is
      stopped and the subject rates their pain on a VAS scale. All injections were administered by
      one of three board certified endodontic staff members. As a last resort, if pain still occurs
      after the intraosseous injection, an intrapulpal injection is given and no VAS scores will
      obtained after the intrapulpal injection.

      Obturation of the root canal (completion of treatment) may or may not be accomplished in one
      appointment. A thorough pulpal debridement is acceptable and the subject will be scheduled to
      complete treatment. Regardless of how many appointments it takes to complete the root canal,
      subjects will be finished with the study once they turn in the completed pain journal
      (following the first appointment).

      After treatment is completed, each subject is given a pain journal and asked to note their
      pain six, twelve, twenty-four and forty-eight hours after treatment. The journal is returned
      to the provider at the follow up appointment for completion of root canal therapy. Following
      enrollment of the last subject, the code will be revealed and the data analyzed.
    
  