
    
      The Department of Defense and the Defense and Veteran's Brain Injury Center estimate that 22%
      of all combat casualties from conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan are brain injuries. Patients
      with TBI often meet criteria for PTSD on screening instruments for TBI and vice versa. No
      screening instruments available can reliably make the diagnosis of PTSD and the gold standard
      remains an interview by a skilled clinician using the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale
      (CAPS) a 30-item structured interview that corresponds to the Diagnostic and Statistical
      Manual of Mental Disorders IV (DSM-IV) criteria for PTSD. Treatment for veterans who have had
      a TBI and who are suffering from PTSD is varied with varied outcomes. Investigators propose a
      Randomized Prospective Clinical Trial of PTSD treatment in military Veterans that have
      suffered traumatic brain injuries. Investigators will use 2 independent specialty treatment
      centers that utilize different methodology of PTSD treatments and study the clinical outcomes
      of veterans who have suffered a TBI with associated post-concussive symptoms and other
      comorbidities such as PTSD. This study will use a baseline CAPS assessment and investigators
      will establish cut points and randomize from within those to establish a stratified
      randomization within groups. Subjects will undergo treatments and an outcome CAPS score will
      be obtained at the end of treatment as the primary outcome to calculate if there is a change
      in score that is statistically or clinically significant. Investigators also will utilize
      secondary outcomes to measure any changes in the scores obtained by these instruments. These
      instruments and measures such as Computerized Dynamic Posturography and video
      electronystagmography and saccadometry will be obtained before the initiation of treatment
      and when treatment is terminated to measure a change in score. All instruments will be used
      to measure changes in function that are related to changes in PTSD symptomatology and
      neurological function
    
  