
    
      The spread of artemisinin resistance in Plasmodium falciparum, which compromises the
      therapeutic efficacy of artemisinin combination treatments (ACTs), is the greatest threat to
      current global initiatives to control and eliminate malaria and is considered the highest
      priority of the WHO Global Malaria Programme. If not eliminated, resistant parasites could
      spread across Asia to Africa, as happened with resistance to other antimalarials in the past.

      Conventional descriptions of the epidemiology of malaria in low transmission settings suggest
      that malaria prevalences are low (<10%) and heterogeneous. Most or all infections are thought
      to be symptomatic so the focus of malaria control activities is on the identification and
      treatment of symptomatic individuals. We and others have shown recently that artemisinin
      resistant P. falciparum is prevalent in Western Cambodia, and that it is now also found along
      the Thailand-Myanmar border and Vietnam. We have recently developed highly sensitive
      quantitative PCR (uPCR) methods for parasite detection using >1mL of blood which are 5,000
      times more sensitive than conventional microscopy, and 100 times more sensitive than
      currently used PCR.

      We have studied villages along the Thai-Myanmar border which are typical for the region and
      are classified by conventional epidemiological techniques as low-transmission (5-20% malaria
      prevalence). Our studies suggest that the majority of the population is infected. In Pailin,
      Western Cambodia, in areas where the National Malaria Control Programme and WHO believe that
      malaria has been all but eliminated, we have also found very high rates (>80%) of
      sub-microscopic parasitaemia in patients with fever or history of fever who are RDT negative.
      Thus, there is a lot more asymptomatic malaria in low transmission settings than previously
      thought, suggesting that control and elimination activities need to be rethought.

      Highly sensitive quantitative PCR (uPCR) requires a venous blood sample, a laboratory which
      can perform vacuum DNA extraction, and on average four weeks for processing. A rapid highly
      sensitive diagnostic test which can be performed at the point of care would be a
      technological breakthrough. Screening with highly sensitive RDTs and treating of asymptomatic
      carriers will have a range of public health applications. Such tests are becoming available
      in 2017 and will be evaluated side by side with uPCR.

      This study is designed to conduct and evaluate the efficacy of pilot implementation of
      targeted chemo-elimination in selected areas with the goal of eliminating malaria in these
      regions. This differs from mass drug administration (MDA); it is a strategy used to identify
      specific areas where mass treatment is necessary, in this case to eliminate all malaria
      parasites. Elimination will be targeted at communities with significant levels of subclinical
      infection and transmission which will be identifiable in the future by comparing rates of
      positivity by RDT or microscopy from new population samples against our qPCR data, which
      shows the true falciparum prevalence.

      The study will assess the feasibility, safety and acceptability of this strategy and its
      impact on the transmission of malaria and the progression of artemisinin resistance. In
      addition it will evaluate the contribution of low parasitaemia carriage to transmission of
      artemisinin resistant malaria. These pilot studies are a necessary prelude to future scale up
      and policy implementation.

      Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) is a highly efficacious and inexpensive ACT which is well
      tolerated by all age groups when used to treat uncomplicated multi-drug resistant falciparum
      malaria in South East Asia. Monthly DP treatments have proved highly effective and well
      tolerated. When used as part of a MDA strategy, the addition of a gametocytocidal drug
      contributes towards the goal of malaria elimination by adding a strong transmission blocking
      activity to the regimen. Primaquine (PQ), the only currently licensed 8-aminoquinoline, is
      relatively safe and very effective when used at a dose of 0.25 mg base/kg, and does not
      require G6PD screening. Thus, we propose to evaluate the potential of this strategy to
      eliminatie malaria focally in areas where artemisinin resistance in P. falciparum is
      prevalent using DP plus PQ.
    
  