
    
      If in the past the HSN could be considered a rather benign disease not requiring specific
      active treatment, the studies evaluating the long-term outcome have shown the risk of
      progression to Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) and have lead to recommend the use of
      corticosteroids and immunosuppressors even in not rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis
      forms (24,25). Unfortunately clinical studies are scarce, often with few patients and
      uncontrolled (17,26,27). However, the efficacy of methylprednisolone pulses followed by oral
      steroids has been suggested in several studies, as in the study conducted at the Hospital
      Necker, where prospective patients receiving pulses of methylprednisolone were compared to an
      historical cohort from the same center (28) in a control arm of a randomized controlled trial
      (29), and in studies where patients received combinations of several immunosuppressive drugs
      (30-32).

      Thus, the current French way to manage severe HSN is to give methylprednisolone pulses
      followed by oral steroids. Anti-proteinuric medications are for initially mild forms or
      sequelae. Immunosuppressor is added to steroid in the forms not responding well to initial
      corticosteroid therapy.

      If these therapies are used by most of pediatric teams, practice in kidney biopsy (KB) varies
      from one center to another. Some teams routinely perform KB before the start of steroid
      therapy (and adapt the treatment to the results), while others first establish the treatment
      and perform the KB only if the evolution is not as expected. This second approach reduces the
      number of KB since patients with favorable outcome will never be biopsied.

      The question is which of these two attitudes is the best. Do the biopsied patients have a
      better prognosis at 5 years (because the lesions were better evaluated in comparison to
      clinical evaluation, because the diagnosis was confirmed, despite the risk taken to perform
      KB, because there is no excess of treatment) than those who were not biopsied at the initial
      period (with possible errors in assessing the severity of injury ), or is there is no
      difference (because the treatment is the same whether KB was performed or not, because
      clinical criteria prevail in the therapeutic decision on histological criteria, because KB
      may falsely reassure and may lead to stop treatment too early (sample problem)).

      The aim of the study is to answer these questions, to improve patients care by identifying
      the most effective strategy to improve long term prognosis, and to standardize practices to
      make randomized control trials easier to drive in the future.
    
  