
    
      Peripheral artery disease is a condition defined by marked accumulation of atherosclerotic
      plaque below the distal aorta that reduces lower limb arterial perfusion. Blood flow
      reductions may be inadequate for exercising limbs and cause ischemic muscle pain, called
      intermitted claudication, or, in severe cases, the reduction may be inadequate for basal
      metabolism and cause pain at rest, ulceration, or gangrene. The presence of symptoms at rest
      or tissue necrosis is a medical urgency and represents a state of critical limb ischemia
      (CLI) where the risk of amputation, in the absence of revascularization, is high. The ageing
      of the population and the increasing prevalence of diabetes mellitus ensures this population
      will continue to grow in the foreseeable future. The impact of diabetes, however, is not
      limited to PAD incidence. Diabetic patients represent a particularly vulnerable subset of PAD
      patients and have a four-fold risk of CLI compared to non-diabetic patients. Indeed, in
      previous studies of CLI, more than half of patients have diabetes. As a result, the
      combination of diabetes and PAD accounts for more than half of non-traumatic amputations in
      the United States. Diabetic patients often present with foot ulcerations as their first
      manifestation of PAD and have challenging anatomy for revascularization. Failed vascular
      reconstructions, both endovascular or surgical, often result in additional tissue loss and
      transtibial amputations. Despite these challenges, the mechanisms of restenosis and the
      impact of diabetes have not been well explored for both types of revascularization in
      patients with CLI. The BEST-CLI trial is a multi-center, randomized, comparative
      effectiveness trial comparing open surgical bypass therapy to endovascular therapy in CLI
      patients with a composite clinical endpoint denoted as Major Adverse Limb Event free survival
      (MALE-free survival). However, the BEST-CLI trial does not study the mechanisms by which
      revascularization may fail. This proposal will extend the novel clinical work of the BEST-CLI
      trial by studying the mechanisms of bypass vein graft and stent failure. The investigators
      will adjudicate the mode of revascularization (vein graft or stent) in a central core
      laboratory, measure systemic markers of diabetic dysmetabolism including inflammation,
      insulin resistance, adverse adipokine expression, poor nutrition, and renal dysfunction, and
      begin to study the association of these factors with graft failure. Indeed, no trial
      conducted to date in either coronary or peripheral revascularization has determined the
      mechanism of revascularization failure, the impact of diabetes, nor the relationship between
      conduit patency and clinical outcomes. Therefore, this trial represents a unique opportunity
      to investigate the mechanisms by which diabetes affects surgical and endovascular
      revascularization procedures.
    
  