
    
      There is a paucity of patient reported outcome data documenting the impact of PK focused
      prophylaxis discussions. This prospective, multicentre UK-PK trial will coincide with the
      initiation of the myPKFiT® device in the context of an enhanced clinical review. This will
      include a standardised patient education package using a short animated film explaining PK
      and personalised prophylaxis, followed by modelling of the patient's own PK using the
      myPKFiT® device and discussing the dosing options with the patient. The aim of the PK
      educational package is to educate and engage patients and ensure that their treatment
      regimens meet their individual needs. In addition, the study will capture the prophylaxis
      dosing strategy agreed upon by patients and the clinical team where treatment decisions are
      made jointly between patients and the clinical team (concordance). Looking forward,
      haemophilia clinical care team members need a marker to judge or predict patient engagement
      with this personalising medicine process. Successful consultation strategies may differ if
      the team can anticipate how an individual person with haemophilia (PWH) might respond to
      discussions about potential change. The primary outcome measure is the Patient Activation
      Measure (PAM) which gauges the knowledge, skills and confidence essential to managing one's
      own health and healthcare. A PAM score can predict healthcare outcomes including medication
      adherence, healthcare utilisation and hospital visits. It is hypothesized that a more
      activated patient will be more receptive to changes in their treatment regimen, education and
      information about their health condition.

      In addition to patient activation, the study will assess a range of patient reported outcomes
      and psychological factors using validated tools. These will include patients'
      Haemophilia-related quality of life (HAEMO-QoL-A), beliefs about medicines (BMQ),
      self-reported adherence (VERITAS-Pro) and activity levels. These tools will provide clear
      patient reported outcomes for the haemophilia community, with accompanying EQ5D data,
      enabling robust health economic evaluation.
    
  