
    
      Introduction

      Clinical perspective on breath testing for breast cancer:

      Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women, in whom it is second only to
      lung cancer as a cause of cancer death. The National Cancer Institute estimated that more
      than 232,000 US women would be diagnosed with breast cancer in 2013 and nearly 40,000 would
      die of the disease.

      Screening mammography and its limitations: In order to reduce the number of breast cancer
      deaths, many countries have established screening mammography programs to detect and treat
      early-stage disease. However, the impact of screening mammography on mortality has been
      questioned. Also, screening mammography is limited by its very low yield: a 2005
      retrospective analysis reported that 510 US radiologists performed 2,289,132 screening
      mammograms and found 9,030 cancers i.e. only one cancer was found for every 253 mammograms.
      99.6% of all screening mammograms were negative for cancer: they provided reassurance, but at
      a human cost of millions of women exposed to potentially hazardous radiation and discomfort,
      and a financial cost of several million dollars. Also, screening mammography may be
      associated with an increased risk of radiation-induced breast cancer, as well as with
      overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Many women decide not to take the test even when it is
      readily available, and screening mammography may be underutilized because of fear of pain and
      radiation exposure, ethnicity, poverty, and level of education.

      Breath tests - a new diagnostic tool: Abnormal volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in breath
      have been identified in breast cancer. Breath VOC biomarkers have been reported in other
      disorders including bronchial asthma, lung cancer, active pulmonary tuberculosis, radiation
      exposure, and heart transplant rejection. The Food & Drug Administration (FDA) approved the
      nitric oxide breath test in bronchial asthma, the urea breath test for H. pylori, and
      Menssana Research's Heartsbreath test for heart transplant rejection under the Humanitarian
      Device Exemption regulations.
    
  