
    
      COPD is a disease in which the lung airways are partly damaged and obstructed, making it
      difficult to breathe. It is the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. Cigarette
      smoking is the most common cause of COPD; however, breathing in other types of lung
      irritants, including pollution, dust, and chemicals, over a long period of time may also
      cause or contribute to COPD. The primary symptoms of COPD, exercise intolerance and shortness
      of breath, often result in physical activity limitations, which may lead to a decreased
      quality of life. While COPD is a chronic, incurable disease, individuals who incorporate
      exercise and physical activity into their daily lifestyle may reduce the symptoms and slow
      the progression of the disease. The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of
      an overall lifestyle activity program versus a traditional exercise program on physical
      activity in individuals with COPD. The study will also evaluate the impact of the two
      programs on exercise capacity, physical function, self-reported disability, and
      health-related quality of life.

      Participants with COPD will be randomly assigned to either an 11-month lifestyle activity
      program or a traditional 3-month exercise program. The lifestyle activity program will
      consist of 35 exercise and counseling sessions spaced over 11 months. This program will use
      cognitive-behavioral strategies to encourage physical activity at home. Participants will
      receive information on how to deal with COPD symptoms (including shortness of breath),
      goal-setting, social support, and motivation. Participants will also receive follow-up
      telephone calls from the program staff for additional support. The 3-month exercise program
      will consist of 36 1-hour exercise training sessions, conducted 3 times a week for 12 weeks.

      All participants will attend 4 baseline study visits at which their medical history will be
      reviewed and standardized questionnaires will be completed to assess mood, depression, social
      factors, COPD symptoms, and physical activity levels. Participants will undergo a physical
      examination; a blood draw for laboratory testing; and spirometry, lung function, exercise,
      and strength tests. These measures will be assessed again at 3, 6, and 12 months; the 3- and
      12-month assessments will occur over four study visits, and the 6-month assessment will occur
      over two study visits.
    
  