
    
      This research study is a Feasibility Study, which is the first-time investigators are
      examining this supportive care mobile app intervention. The goal of this research study is to
      refine and examine the feasibility and benefits of a supportive care mobile app to improve
      symptoms, coping skills, and quality of life in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
      Many people diagnosed with lung cancer experience challenging symptoms and increased stress.
      To help address these concerns, this study is exploring how a mobile application (app)
      intervention, designed specifically for people with lung cancer, can expand the availability
      of much needed supportive care services.

      The research study procedures include:

        -  A supportive care mobile app consisting of six intervention modules that focus on
           components of wellbeing, such as physical, social, functional, and emotional wellbeing

        -  Questionnaires asking about demographic information (e.g., gender, ethnicity, income)
           and participants' experience with cancer (e.g., quality of life, symptoms)

        -  Data collection from participants medical records

      After completing a baseline study questionnaire, participants will be randomized into two (2)
      study groups:

        -  Usual Care Group: Participants will receive standard oncology care and attend their
           regular clinic visits. Study staff will monitor participant use of supportive care
           services.

        -  Intervention Group: Participants will be provided with a study-issued tablet computer to
           access the mobile app and receive tutorial and instructions for how to use the app.

      Participants will be in this research study for 12-14 weeks.

      It is expected that about 120 people will take part in this research study.

      The sponsors of this study are the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and
      AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals. NCCN is a non-profit alliance of leading cancer centers across
      the United States, and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals is a global bio-pharmaceutical company.
      These two sponsors are together providing funding and oversight for the conduct of this
      research study.
    
  