
    
      This study aims to determine the diagnostic and prognostic values and the clinical impact of
      Talaromyces marneffei antigenemia (TmAg) in patients with advanced HIV disease using a novel
      enzyme immunoassay (EIA) detecting Tm-specific cell wall mannoprotein Mp1p. The data
      generated will be used to inform the design of future diagnostic clinical trials to test the
      utility of screening and providing pre-emptive antifungal therapy to prevent disease and
      reduce HIV mortality in Southeast Asia.

      The primary objective is to screen for TmAg and determine its diagnostic and prognostic
      performance in symptomatic and asymptomatic HIV-infected patients with a CD4 count ≤100
      cells/mm3.

      We will test the following hypotheses:

        1. In symptomatic hospitalized patient Cohort 1, the sensitivity of the Mp1p EIA will be
           higher than conventional culture method while simultaneously specificity is higher than
           95% for diagnosing culture-confirmed talaromycosis over a six-month follow up period

        2. In asymptomatic outpatient Cohort 2, there will be at least 30% difference in risk of
           talaromycosis development in TmAg-positive patients compared to TmAg-negative patients
           over a twelve-month follow up period

        3. TmAg concentration predicts development of talaromycosis

      Secondary Objectives include:

        1. To assess the impact of presence of TmAg on clinical outcomes, including development of
           culture-confirmed talaromycosis, incidence of state III and IV AIDS events, subsequent
           hospitalizations, and death over six- to twelve-month follow up periods

        2. To compare the diagnostic values of the Mp1p EIA when performed in plasma, sera, and
           urine samples and when performed in these matrices in combination

           We will test the following hypotheses:

        3. To model the health economic benefits of screening and pre-emptive treatment for
           pre-clinical infection

        4. To assess impact on clinic outcomes of screening all patients for cryptococcosis and
           histoplasmosis

        5. To collect additional blood samples and store left-over samples for future research to
           validate infectious disease diagnostics and research to understand genetic
           susceptibility to infectious diseases relevant to HIV population

      Participants in the study, will be asked questions about their medical and travel history.
      Participants will have blood and urine collected for the Mp1p EIA test to look for early
      talaromycosis infection and for other tests to look for common HIV-associated infections
      including tuberculosis, cryptococcosis, and histoplasmosis. They will be examined by a study
      doctor at least once weekly if they are in the hospital and will be followed in clinic
      monthly for between 6 and 12 months.
    
  