
    
      Congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency is an autosomal recessive
      disorder characterized by cortisol and in some cases aldosterone deficiency, associated with
      androgen excess. Treatment goals are to replace cortisol deficiency, to control androgen
      levels, while avoiding the adverse effects of exogenous glucocorticoids. A variety of
      glucocorticoid treatments have been used in an attempt to control the overnight increase in
      adrenal androgens. However, there is no consensus on the optimum management of congenital
      adrenal hyperplasia adults. Current evidence in patients with adrenal insufficiency suggests
      that the inability of current regimens to replace physiological circadian cortisol levels,
      leads to adverse clinical outcomes, including metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance,
      increased risk factors for cardiovascular diseases, bone and immune alterations, sleep
      disturbances and quality of life impairment. Moreover, the risk for poor treatment
      compliance, in case of multiple daily doses treatment regimens, should not be excluded. In
      this trial a dual-release hydrocortisone preparation, that been able to mimic the circadian
      pattern of circulating cortisol, was studied in patients with adrenal insufficiency due to
      congenital adrenal hyperplasia.

      All patients with a diagnosis of congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase
      deficiency, irrespective of glucocorticoid treatment, are eligible for the inclusion in the
      study and may be asked to participate in the study. Patients are followed during the course
      of routine clinical practice for the duration of time that the study is active.

      ARM1: Conventional glucocorticoid therapy is continued as before entering the study

      ARM2: Dual release hydrocortisone oral tablets is administered once-daily in the fasting
      state. The dose is kept the same as patients had before entering the trial.
    
  