
    
      Lumbar punctures are a common procedure performed in children in the emergency department. In
      febrile infants they are frequently performed as part of a sepsis evaluation, and in older
      children they are used in the evaluation of possible meningitis, new seizures, altered mental
      status and other neurologic emergencies.

      Several studies in the pediatric emergency medicine literature have found a positive
      association between lumbar puncture success and the use of local anesthesia in infant lumbar
      punctures. Despite this data, studies have shown that 70-76% of lumbar punctures in the
      emergency department are performed without any form of pain management, with up to 95% of
      infants receiving no form of pain management. Common reasoning for providers to forgo pain
      management include the time for topical anesthetics to be effective (30-45 minutes), the pain
      already associated with injectable lidocaine, and obscuring of anatomic landmarks with
      injectable lidocaine.

      A recent development in pain management for pediatric procedures is the use of needle-free
      jet injection of lidocaine. One such device is the J-Tip, which uses a compressed carbon
      dioxide (CO2) cartridge to deliver medication to the subcutaneous tissues to a depth of 5-8
      mm in 0.2 seconds. It has been shown to be largely pain-free for children. Multiple studies
      have shown it to be effective in reducing pain associated with peripheral IV placement in
      children. The J-Tip has recently been approved for peripheral IV starts in the Children's
      Hospital Colorado emergency department.

      Some hospitals anecdotally report using the device for lumbar punctures, but to date no
      randomized studies have evaluated its effectiveness in pain management compared to other
      methods. Our study aims to evaluate the efficacy of the J-Tip in lumbar punctures. It offers
      the advantage of providing much faster anesthesia compared to topical creams, yet does not
      require the initial skin puncture of injectable lidocaine. If a rapid form of local
      anesthesia is available, it may increase the overall use of local anesthesia and improve pain
      management in the pediatric population.
    
  