
    
      Prostate cancer (PCa) is the third most common male cancer in Hong Kong. While the use of
      serum PSA has greatly improved the proportion of patients diagnosed at localized /early
      stage, there are also problems of overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Unfortunately, there was
      still no ideal markers that could help to predict the aggressiveness of PCa, especially in
      Chinese population. Exosome is an important media for cell-cell interaction. The content of
      exomsomes, including microRNAs, are believed to have important roles in PCa development and
      progression, and might also serve as potential markers in PCa management. Therefore,
      investigators would like to explore the role of exosomal microRNA in the prediction of tumour
      aggressiveness in local Chinese PCa patients. This is a prospective study divided into two
      parts. Subjects will be recruited consecutively from two hospitals.

      In Part I of the study (Candidate exosomal microRNA discovery and selection), a total of 60
      patients from three groups (non-cancer, pathologically insignificant cancer and significant
      cancer patients) will be recruited. First portion of urine will be collected from them. For
      Group 2&3 patients, they are patients with clinically localized prostate cancer and planned
      for radical prostatectomy, urine will be collected before surgery for these two groups.
      Exosomal RNA will be extracted from urine and microRNAs expression profiles will be
      determined by next-generation sequencing. Candidate exosomal microRNAs that could
      differentiate pathological insignificant and significant PCa will be identified for Part II
      study.

      In Part II study (Candidate exosomal microRNAs validation), 180 patients with localized
      prostate cancer, planned for radical prostatectomy will be recruited. Urine will be again
      collected before surgery and the level of candidate exosomal microRNAs for each patient will
      be assessed. The diagnostic accuracy of these candidate exosomal microRNAs on predicting
      pathological insignificant cancer and also correlation with the final pathology will be
      assessed.

      The primary tasks for Part I study is the identification of potential exosomal microRNAs that
      could differentiate pathologically insignificant and significant PCa.

      The primary task for Part II study is the validation of the ability of those candidate
      exosomal microRNAs in differentiating pathological insignificant and significant PCa.
    
  