
    
      The object of the study is by screening for adults (20 years) with chronic kidney disease
      (CKD stage 1-3a) and high-risk groups. They were randomly assigned into experimental groups
      (self management and peer-assisted management) and control group (general management). All
      participants received a general education with the knowledge on care for early chronic kidney
      disease recently establishes by the National Health Insurance system. We then used the
      cross-theoretical model to assess the intervention among the three groups.

      We collected information on baseline and follow-up data on biochemical and physiological
      check-ups, health promotion behavior, dietary intake status, self-efficacy and cost etc.
      Information on behavior changes, including smoking, chewing betel nut, medication, exercise
      and diet, was also collected and assessed. Participants in the self-management group are
      expected to emphasize on self-managed interventions, including self-monitoring and records
      keeping, self-education with digital video disc (DVD) courses. We negotiated their behavior
      change set goals for them etc. The peer-assisted management group received similar program
      for 3 months, the peer oriented group activities followed, including group discussions to
      share experience and sports map etc. The effectiveness assessments have been set for the
      baseline, 3rd, 6th, 12th and 18th months. With one year of intervention period, the 3 groups
      will be assessed at the 18th months of follow-up next year.

      In the third year, we will use social perspective point to evaluate the costs and benefits of
      intervention. We suppose that a 100,000 people to screen out cases of chronic kidney disease
      (CKD stage 1-3a) and high-risk groups, and we will compare the cost-effectiveness analysis
      between the experimental group with accept the intervention for 12 months to the control
      groups without receiving extra intervention.
    
  