
    
      The optimal therapy for numerous disease states involves the replenishment of intravascular
      volume. Unfortunately, our current clinical measures of volume status are imperfect. Given
      biologic plausibility and preliminary study, it is possible that static and/or dynamic
      measures of internal jugular vein (IJV) size may correlate with volume status and/or be
      associated with volume responsiveness. If so, this type of assessment might be a more ideal
      clinical volume-assessment tool. This pilot study aims to establish proof of concept via
      evaluation of this question in patients following cardiac surgery.

      This is a prospective observational study of physiologically-stable, ventilated patients
      post-cardiac surgery. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the relationship
      between the static size of the right IJV and fluid responsiveness in ventilated
      post-operative cardiac surgical patients. A secondary objective is to evaluate the
      relationship between dynamic variations in the size of the right IJV related to respiration
      and leg-raising and fluid responsiveness in the same group. Static and dynamic ultrasound
      measurements of the right IJV will be performed pre-volume challenge.

      Volume responsiveness will be independently assessed by cardiac index measurement before and
      after rapid infusion of 10% pentastarch. 30 subjects will be recruited pre-operatively and
      informed consent obtained. Stability of sedation, mechanical ventilation, and hemodynamics
      will be assured prior to initiation of measurements. Baseline static and respiratory dynamic
      ultrasound measurements of the right IJV will be obtained and then repeated after bilateral
      leg-raising. Baseline hemodynamics and cardiac outputs will be obtained using indwelling
      pulmonary artery catheters. A standardized volume challenge of 10% pentastarch given over 15
      minutes will then be provided followed by repeat hemodynamic and cardiac output measurements.

      Offline measurements of IJV size will be obtained from unmodified stored video loops by a
      single observer blinded to patient identity, hemodynamic, and fluid response data. Fluid
      responsiveness will be assessed by examining the change in cardiac index after volume
      challenge with a fluid responsive state defined as an increase of ≥ 12 % of cardiac index
      after volume challenge. The relationship between volume responsiveness and IJ ultrasound
      measures will be evaluated continuously and dichotomously.
    
  