
    
      The traditional treatment course for new cases of ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal
      cancer is cytoreductive surgery followed by chemotherapy with paclitaxel in combination with
      carboplatin. Unfortunately, despite high initial response rates, the majority of patients
      recur and subsequent therapy is much less likely to be effective. The use of ineffective
      chemotherapy can result in unnecessary toxicity and costs, delay of more effective treatment,
      and the potential for the development of cross-resistance to additional drugs. The ability to
      individualize therapy by providing the treating physician with ex vivo response information
      on a panel of drugs should aid in the selection of effective therapy for individual patients,
      thus resulting in improved outcomes.

      Resistance to chemotherapy cannot be predicted by either clinical or histological
      examination. Historically, the ex vivo sensitivity and resistance of tumor cells has been
      evaluated as a tool for predicting the clinical response of the patient to therapy. In this
      study, chemotherapy drugs will be tested using both the Precision Therapeutics' ChemoFx Assay
      and the Yale Apoptosis Assay. The assay results will be compared to clinical outcomes that
      will be reported at regular intervals. Blood, tumor pathology slides, and excess tumor cells
      (if available) will be used to characterize common polymorphisms in drug metabolizing enzymes
      as well as other molecular markers potentially associated with tumor response.

      This is a one-arm validation trial with a goal of approximately 256 evaluable patients
      recruited from multiple sites. Patients will be drawn from the Yale -New Haven Medical Center
      and multiple additional sites as needed to meet accrual goals. The patients will be treated
      with FDA approved drugs and/or drug combinations based on the medical judgment of the
      treating physician. The study is not randomized and the results of the assay will not be used
      in the decision process for which agent to select for treatment, but are made available to
      the treating physician upon further progression.
    
  