
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Overall response rate to combination ibrutinib and venetoclax after 12 cycles
      (intervention cohort).

      II. Rate of mutation negative status after 12 cycles of combination venetoclax and ibrutinib
      (intervention cohort ).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Incidence of BTK C481S mutations during ibrutinib treatment (observation cohort).

      II. Progression-free survival after development of a BTK C481S mutation (observation cohort).

      III. Progression-free and overall survival after adding venetoclax to ibrutinib (intervention
      cohort).

      IV. Type and incidence of adverse events during combination ibrutinib and venetoclax
      treatment in this patient population (intervention cohort).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine patient and disease characteristics associated with clinical disease progression
      in a univariable and multivariable analysis (observation cohort).

      II. Determine the changes in the allelic frequency of ibrutinib resistance mutations after
      their development (observation cohort) and after venetoclax is added (intervention cohort).

      III. Determine novel resistance mechanisms to ibrutinib and ibrutinib/venetoclax combination
      therapy by whole exome and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing at baseline and clinical
      relapse.

      IV. Perform BH3 profiling and correlate with response to combination venetoclax and ibrutinib
      therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of venetoclax.

      OBSERVATION COHORT: Patients who are taking ibrutinib enter Observation cohort and undergo
      screening every 3 months for development for genetic mutations. If mutations develop,
      patients undergo increased screening for development of clinical disease progression.
      Patients who develop clinical disease progression with or without mutations enter the
      Intervention cohort.

      INTERVENTION COHORT: Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) daily and ibrutinib PO once
      daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete
      remission (CR) after 12 or 24 cycles continue receiving ibrutinib PO QD on days 1-28 in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  