
    
      Unpredictable laryngoscopic difficulty, especially if difficult ventilation occurs, during
      standard laryngoscopy, remains a dramatic challenge for anaesthesiologists. Accurate airway
      assessment should always be performed, but the common clinical screening tests have shown low
      sensitivity and specificity with a limited predictive value. Ultrasound (US) based airway
      assessment has been recently proposed as a useful, simple, bedside and non-invasive tool in
      adjunct to clinical methods, but to date few studies are available about the potential role
      of ultrasound in difficult airway evaluation and these are mostly limited on specific groups
      of patients.

      The aim of this prospective, single blinded, observational study is to determine the
      correlation between two neck ultrasound measures assessed at the pre-operative visit and
      Cormack-Lehane grade view at direct laryngoscopy, assessed at the induction of anaesthesia 24
      hours later.

      METHODS: During the pre-operative visit (24 hours before surgery), clinical screening tests
      to predict a difficult airway are performed and the anterior cervical soft tissue's thickness
      is assesses.

      The thickness of the anterior cervical soft tissues is measured at two levels, thyro-hyoid
      membrane (pre-epiglottis space) and vocal cords (laryngeal inlet), using a US probe 10-13-MHz
      linear transducer placed in the transverse plane with the patient's head in neutral position.

      On each level the distance from the skin in the median axis in cm (mDSE = median distance
      skin to epiglottis; mVC = median distance skin to vocal cords) and the surrounding Area in
      cm2 (PEA = pre-epiglottis area; AVC = Area pre vocal cords) are measured.

      At the induction of anaesthesia the laryngoscopic view is graded by a different anaesthetist
      blinded to the ultrasound assessments and with more than 5 years of experience with OR
      activity. For each patient it's considered only the best attempt at direct laryngoscopy
      obtained after optimizing position, complete muscle relaxation (TOF=0), and, if necessary,
      external laryngeal manipulation. A decrease of SpO2 < 92% is a criterion for abandoning the
      procedure and a maximum of three attempts are admitted before declaring intubation failure
      with direct laryngoscopy. A Cormack-Lehane Grade 1 or 2a are classified as easy laryngoscopy
      and grade 2b - 3a - 3b or 4 as restricted or difficult laryngoscopy.

      STATISTICAL ANALISYS: According to the literature, ultrasound measurements should predict as
      difficult at least 80% of the intubations that are really difficult (with a C-L ≥ 2b). Since
      the incidence of difficult intubation is about 5-10% of all intubations 1-3,6, it is
      necessary to study at least 244 patients in order to obtain statistically significant
      differences between the two groups accepting an alpha error of 0.05 and a beta error of 0.20.

      Kolmogorov-Smirnov's test is used to test the normality of distribution. Receiver operating
      characteristic curves (ROC) is used to determine the "difficulty prediction capability" of
      each sonographic measurement and to assess the optimal cut-off scores To allow for
      comparisons between "restricted-difficult" airway and "easy" airway groups, a two-sided
      Student's t-test and Fisher's exact test are employed as appropriate. The results will be
      averaged (mean ± standard deviation SD) for each parameter for continuous data. Values of p <
      0.05 were considered as statistically significant.

      ETHICS: Ethical approval for this study was provided by Marche's Regional Ethics Committee
      (CERM), Ancona, ITA (Protocol No. 2016-0405); Chairperson: Prof Marcello D'Errico on 23 March
      2017. Informed written consent was obtained. The study conformed to the Declaration of
      Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice guidelines.
    
  