
    
      Multi-modal prehabilitation programs reported positive results in patients undergoing colonic
      resection. These protocols are, generally, based on physiotherapist, nutritional and
      psychological implementation programs. Nevertheless, the conflicting results obtained in
      previous trials demonstrate how many elements have still to be clarified and that, probably,
      the pre-habilitation interventions must be tailored, as much as possible, on the peculiar
      characteristics of each single patient, modifying the approach as a function of the clinical
      specific response. All these considerations suggest a strong basis for tailored interventions
      in patients undergoing esophageal surgery, highlighting at the same time, as concluded in a
      recent review, the need of further studies to better define specific peri-operative
      strategies. This study will be a randomized, not blind, monocentric trial, that will be
      conducted at Ospedale San Raffaele, Milano, Italia, between January 2018 and January 2021
      (three years). 200 patients will be randomly assigned to two different groups. All the
      patients, included in the study, will receive a preliminary evaluation performed by different
      professional figures.

      Physiotherapist evaluation:

      All the patients of both groups will be classified according to specific tests in order to
      establish their basal condition. Spirometry examination, 6-minute walking test, time up and
      go test, steep ramp test

      strength tests (target muscles will be the quadriceps and the handgrip muscles:

      in both cases a specific dynamometer will be utilized) and Modified Iowa Level

      of Assistance Scale (MILAS) evaluation will be performed.

      The experimental group will follow a home-based prehabilitation program for four weeks; this
      will be tailored on the patient on the bases of the first functional evaluation and the
      identified needs. On day 1 the patients will attend a hospital session and will be instructed
      by a physiotherapist on exercises and program to follow. The patients will then receive
      instruction support in order to better follow and adjust the program at home. Patients will
      also record what they do on a diary.

      The physiotherapist will make phone calls in order to supervise patients' adherence to the
      program and help them in adjusting it.

      Prehabilitation program will comprise aerobic exercise (cyclette or treadmill, 3 times a
      week) and IMT (inspiration muscle training, IMT respironics Philips, daily). In adjunction to
      these ones, further exercises will be prescribed on the bases of the functional assessment
      and the identification of deficits in any functional capacity assessed and will include two
      of the following: airway clearance (two sessions 10' a day for 7 days a week), skeletal
      muscles strengthening (3 days a week), stretching (three times a week), transfer and mobility
      training.

      The control group will follow the actual procedure usually administered prior to surgery:
      this comprises inspiration exercises through a spirometer incentive without any monitoring
      and some recommendations aimed at staying active during the preoperative period.

      Nutritional evaluation:

      All patients will undergo a comprehensive nutritional assessment at baseline, 4 weeks prior
      to surgery, the day before or the day of surgery and 3 and 6 months after surgery. At
      baseline, a complete medical and nutrition history will be collected, and physical
      examination will be performed. Anthropometric parameters including body weight (kg) and
      height (cm), waist and hip circumference will be measured, and body mass index (kg/m2)
      calculated. The Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool (MUST) will be used to screen patients
      for nutrition risk. Standard biochemical markers of malnutrition and inflammation, including
      albumin, prealbumin, retinol-binding protein, total lymphocyte count, transferrin and
      C-reactive protein will be measured in all patients. The Prognostic Nutritional Index (PNI)
      will also be calculated using serum albumin concentration and total lymphocyte count. Single
      frequency-bio-impedance analysis (SF-BIA) will be used to estimate total body water (TBW),
      fat free mass (FFM) and BIA-derived phase angle. Basal energy expenditure (BEE) will be
      estimated using the Harris-Benedict equation. Energy and protein needs (ranging from 1 to 1.5
      g/kg/day) will be established according to age, BEE, disease and degree of protein depletion.
      At baseline, all patients will receive nutrition counselling to help manage symptoms and
      encourage the intake of energy-enriched foods and fluids that are better tolerated, as per
      the European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism (ESPEN) guidelines on nutrition in
      cancer patients. Patients in the treatment group will be provided with a dietary plan based
      on their energy and protein needs. Patients will be monitored by a follow-up phone call at
      two weeks after the baseline visit. Furthermore, patients in the treatment group will receive
      an immune-enhancing formula (7.6% protein, 18.9% carbohydrate, 3.9% fat) enriched with
      arginine, RNA, ω3 fatty acids and soluble fibre (partially hydrolysed guar gum, PHGG) 5 days
      before surgery (237 ml TID). Patients in the control group will receive nutritional
      counselling at baseline and will be managed according to standard protocols in use at our
      Institution.

      Psychologist evaluation:

      All the patients will perform a psychological interview and specific assessment tests to
      define their: quality of life (SF-36 and EORTC), specific disorders anxiety and depression
      Hads (Hospital anxiety and Depression Scale) and coping strategies (MAC mental Adjustment to
      Cancer). The assessment test will be performed at the recruitment of the patients, the day
      before surgery and 3 and 6 months after surgery. In the treatment group, periodical
      re-evaluations, trough phone calls, will be performed to support patients in their adjustment
      path to surgery. It will be, also, necessary to sustain them to accept possible changes and
      pressures deriving from prehabilitative programs. Treated patients will also receive a
      post-operative evaluation to define possible symptoms and adaptive reactions, developed to
      overcome the physiologic and metabolic modifications deriving from surgery.

      The intra and post-operative treatment will be developed according to the same principles of
      ERAS in both groups. The authors will record all post-operative complications; the length of
      hospital stays and the reach of the criteria for the discharge (free solid intake, adequate
      pain control with oral analgesics, autonomous mobilization, restarting of bowel function and
      no evidence of possible post-surgical complications). Postoperative complications will be
      defined and registered according Calvien- Dindo classification criteria. The primary outcome
      of our study will be the reduction of post-operative complications, from 70% to 50%.
      Secondary outcomes will be a reduction in the length of hospital stay and a faster return to
      the pre-operative physical conditions, through a comparison with the basal evaluation, in the
      treatment group. Patients will be evaluated the day before surgery, during hospital stay and
      trough a follow-up visit at 3 and 6 months after surgery.
    
  