
    
      Vitamin K antagonists (VKAs) have traditionally been used for long-term prevention of
      thromboembolic complications in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Because of the
      variability in the dose response with VKAs and the narrow therapeutic window, monitoring the
      degree of anticoagulation is mandatory. The international normalized ratio (INR) provides a
      standardized measure of the VKA anticoagulant effect. The INR should be kept within a narrow
      range (therapeutic INR target 2.0-3.0) to control the intensity of anticoagulation.

      The primary objective of this study was to determine rates of INR control of patients with
      nonvalvular AF daily attended in primary care in Spain.

      PAULA is an observational retrospective/cross-sectional and multicenter study supported by
      the three main Spanish primary care scientific societies: Sociedad Española de Médicos de
      Atención Primaria (SEMERGEN), Sociedad Española de Medicina de Familia y Comunitaria (SEMFYC)
      and Sociedad Española de Médicos Generales y de Familia (SEMG).

      Patients aged ≥18 years old, with nonvalvular AF, treated with VKAs for at least one year in
      primary care were included in the study. To be included, at least 80% of INR values during
      the past 12 months should be available. Before inclusion, patients provided written consent.

      Clinical data (biodemographic data, comorbidities, treatments, and thromboembolic/bleeding
      risk) were recorded from the clinical history of patients at the moment of inclusion. INR
      values were taken from the previous 12 months of inclusion.

      Poor INR control was considered when percent time in therapeutic INR range (TTR) was <65%
      (calculated by Rosendaal method) or <60% by direct method (proportion of INR values).

      The study was approved by the ethics committee of hospital La Paz, Madrid.

      A total of 1,524 patients have been included in the study.
    
  