
    
      This multi-center prospective feasibility study will enroll at up to 6 clinical sites for a
      total of 30 subjects. Enrollment criteria includes subjects with clinically significant
      benign or malignant obstructions of the central airways, who require treatment intervention
      and are not candidates for surgical resection. The central airways are defined as including
      the trachea, left or right main bronchus, or the bronchus intermedius on the right. Spray
      cryotherapy (SCT) using the truFreeze system will be used in conjunction with mechanical
      interventions (balloon/rigid dilation or debridement of tumors) to improve airway patency.
      Subjects will receive up to 4, 5-second spray cycles prior to mechanical intervention
      (balloon/rigid dilation or debridement of tumors), followed by up to 4, 5-second additional
      spray cycles immediately following mechanical intervention.

      The degree of airway narrowing will be estimated by the treating physicians before and after
      each treatment using a graded scale. Digital endoscopic images of each obstruction taken
      before and after each treatment, will also be assessed by a neutral assessor blinded to
      treatment. Subjects will be contacted on Day 1 following treatment to assess for any
      treatment related adverse events. Subjects may undergo a repeat bronchoscopy two weeks (14
      days +/- 2 days) following the initial SCT treatment if clinically indicated or routine
      practice of the treating physician. A SCT treatment at a NORMAL flow setting may be performed
      at the 14 day bronchoscopy if deemed clinically indicated. If subjects are treated with SCT
      at the 14-day treatment, they will again be contacted on Day 1 following treatment to assess
      for any treatment related adverse events.

      A follow-up bronchoscopy to reassess luminal patency and treatment site healing response will
      be performed at 30 days (+/- 5 days) following the last SCT treatment. The last SCT treatment
      may be the initial treatment day or 14-day treatment if performed. again, the degree of
      airway narrowing will be estimated by the treating physicians using a graded scale and
      digital endoscopic images of each obstruction will be taken to be assessed by a neutral
      assessor blinded to treatment.

      The primary efficacy endpoint for statistical analysis and study powering will be the
      proportion of subjects exhibiting an adequate (minimum of 25%) improvement in airway patency.
      Based on prior clinical experience with liquid nitrogen spray cryotherapy and other ablation
      techniques, a response rate of approximately 80% is anticipated. This study is powered to
      detect a 20% lower response rate (i.e. 60% or lower) compared to the expected rate.
    
  