
    
      COPD is the fourth leading cause of death in the United States, with more than 12 million
      people currently diagnosed with the disease. Risk factors for COPD include smoking,
      environmental exposure to lung irritants, and genetic predisposition. People with COPD often
      experience symptoms of chronic cough, shortness of breath, excess mucus production, and
      wheezing. In COPD, the airways in the lungs are chronically obstructed, and if left
      untreated, this obstruction can cause significant damage to the lungs and lasting disability.
      The quality of life of a person with COPD decreases as the disease progresses, making
      treating and managing COPD in the moderate stages important. Long-term oxygen therapy has
      been shown to help people with severe COPD that is characterized by very low blood oxygen
      levels at rest to live longer and healthier lives. This study will determine whether
      supplemental oxygen therapy is helpful for people with COPD that is characterized by
      moderately low blood oxygen levels at rest or normal oxygen levels at rest and low or very
      low levels during exercise.

      Participation in this study will last at least one year and up to 7 years. Potential
      participants will first undergo a screening visit that will include questionnaires, a
      breathing test, measurements of resting and walking blood oxygen levels, a brief physical
      exam, and a blood draw. Eligible participants will then return for a second screening visit,
      during which they will complete more questionnaires. At the end of the second visit, eligible
      participants will be assigned randomly to supplemental oxygen therapy or no oxygen therapy.

      Participants assigned to supplemental oxygen therapy will receive stationary and portable
      oxygen systems. Shortly after receiving the portable oxygen system, participants will return
      for a 1-hour visit to determine how much oxygen to use while walking and to learn how to use
      the equipment. Participants who have low blood oxygen levels during rest will be instructed
      to use supplemental oxygen 24 hours per day. Patients with normal resting blood oxygen
      levels, but low or very low blood oxygen levels during exercise will be instructed to use it
      during physical activity and sleep. Throughout the treatment period, participants will be
      asked to keep records of the number of oxygen tanks emptied or pounds of oxygen delivered,
      meter readings, and changes in equipment. Study officials will contact participants weekly
      for the first month, monthly for the next 5 months, and then every 2 months until the Year 1
      study visit. Participants will also complete a form about their oxygen equipment and usage
      every 2 months. Participants assigned to receive no oxygen treatment will be contacted 1 week
      after study group assignment for a check-up.

      All participants will return for study visits once a year for up to 7 years. At each of these
      visits, participants will complete some of the same tests and questionnaires from the
      screening visit. At the Year 1 visit, participants will also undergo a blood draw. Both
      treatment groups will receive two phone calls each year to check on status and use of oxygen.
      Participants in both groups will be asked to complete a quality of life questionnaire by mail
      at 4 months and 16 months. Participants will also sign a release of medical records form each
      year and will have their Medicare claims collected for the time they are in the study.
    
  