
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the induction of apoptosis (as determined by TUNEL) in the ovarian epithelial
           and stromal cells of participants at high risk for ovarian cancer treated with
           fenretinide vs placebo.

      Secondary

        -  Compare modulation of several intermediate markers (TGFβ, BAX, Ki-67, ER, PR, RARβ,
           TGFβRI, TGFβRII, p21, p53, FAS, and FASL) in participants treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare early microvascular changes, using contrast-enhanced ultrasound, in participants
           treated with these drugs.

        -  Determine whether the use of contrast agents could indicate changes in ovarian size and
           architecture that may be assessed as potential surrogates for preventive effect in these
           participants.

        -  Determine the feasibility of future chemoprevention trials for ovarian cancer.

        -  Determine the toxicity of fenretinide in these participants.

        -  Compare the microvascularity index and ovarian volume of participants treated with these
           drugs.

        -  Correlate areas of increased microvascularity and other abnormalities with pathology
           findings obtained at oophorectomy in participants treated with these drugs.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study.
      Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Participants receive oral fenretinide once daily.

        -  Arm II: Participants receive oral placebo once daily. In both arms, treatment continues
           for 6-8 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 5 days after completion of fenretinide or placebo, participants undergo bilateral
      salpingo-oophorectomy.

      Participants are followed at 6 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 participants (20 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  