
    
      The investigators will identify patients with gastroparesis due to idiopathic causes
      (including post-viral) and diabetes who have undergone a 4 hour gastric emptying study
      showing delayed gastric emptying. Patients enrolled must have clinical symptoms due to
      gastroparesis including nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, early satiety, bloating, reflux,
      postprandial fullness or weight loss. Patients included in the study may be refractory to
      treatment or ineligible for current standard of care with metoclopramide, domperidone,
      macrolide antibiotics, or pyloric injections with botulinum toxin.

      Patients who agree to enroll in the study will sign an informed consent which will explain
      study purpose along with the risks of the procedures involved in the study. One of the team
      members will also explain the study to the patient either over the phone or in person and
      answer any questions they may have in regards to the study.

      Patients who are enrolled in the study will fill out a questionnaire comprised of the
      gastroparesis cardinal symptom index daily diary (GCSI-DD) and visual analog scale (VAS) to
      assess severity of nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and bloating. Then, patients will
      undergo autonomic function measurements using the Ansar system which is a non-invasive
      measurement of the autonomic system using blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate
      monitoring. Ansar testing takes approximately 15 minutes.

      Subsequently, patients will undergo a celiac plexus block, performed endoscopically with EUS-
      guidance by Ann Chen. Injections will be performed using 0.75% bupivicaine and 40mg/ml of
      triamcinolone, ideally 1ml each directly into the celiac ganglia. If no ganglia is
      identifiable, then the injection will be performed into the celiac space, located at the take
      off of the celiac artery from the aorta. One week after their block, a gastric emptying study
      and Ansar testing will be performed. The GCSI-DD/VAS questionnaire will be repeated 1 week, 2
      weeks, 3 weeks, and 2 months after the procedure.
    
  