
    
      Evaluation. Evaluation of cocaine craving was assessed weekly through the Cocaine Craving
      Questionnaire (CCQ-G) (43-46). The CCQ-G measures the desire or urge level for drug
      consumption throughout the 45 Likert items established in the Questionnaire. The Likert scale
      consisted of seven options ranging from 1 to 7. Indicating from the lowest number (1)
      complete disagree of questions asked/item and the highest number (7) complete agreement of
      questions answered/item. CCQ-G items were written in past tense, with the intention that
      participants could report their cocaine craving status (level) during the previous week. Main
      items in the CCQ-G used to assess cocaine craving defined as factors were; a). Elements that
      denote intense cocaine craving (factor 1); b). Items that related to the anticipation of
      positive results (factor 2); c). Anticipation of relief from drug-withdrawal symptoms (factor
      3); and d). Items that perceived a lack of control over cocaine consumption, denoting the
      intention and planning for cocaine consumption (factor 4).

      Each week patient were assessed about their psychopathological status through the Symptom
      Check List 90 (SCL-90-R) (47-50). The SCL-90 evaluate the psychological degree of "distress"
      shown by a subject through 90 Likert-type reagents, ranging from 0 up to 4, and grouped into
      nine dimensions, which include, somatization, obsessive-compulsive, interpersonal
      sensitivity, depression, anxiety, hostility, phobic anxiety, paranoid ideation and
      psychoticism.

      Statistical Analysis.

      Data were expressed, as mean ± SEM. To determinate the differences in score between groups
      over time, the data were then analyzed by a two-way repeated measures ANOVA with time (week)
      as the repeated measure. If there was a significant interaction between time and treatment,
      we then performed a Tukey's post-hoc test to detect significant differences between each one
      of the factors at each experimental phase. Comparisons between mean score obtained during
      each phase were analyzed by a two-way ANOVA (treatment x phase) followed by Tukey's test for
      post-hoc comparisons. The level of statistical significance was set at p < 0.05.
    
  