
    
      Intensive Care patients experience severe alterations of sleep. They may develop a circadian
      rhythm sleep disorder, characterized by an irregular sleep/wake pattern. The presence of
      abnormal sleep/wake cycles may be a risk factor for delirium, which would link it to higher
      morbidity, mortality and longer ICU stay. Bright light therapy is the treatment of choice for
      circadian rhythm sleep disorders and may be helpful in handling delirium. The objective of
      this study is to determine whether bright light therapy is effective for reducing the
      incidence and duration of delirium in the Intensive Care Unit.

      This is a prospective, single center cohort investigation by witch the influence of bright
      light therapy on the incidence and duration of delirium will be examined and compared with
      environmental light. This study will take place at the ICU of the OLVG, a level three ICU
      with 24 beds in a teaching hospital.

      Patients will be assigned to a chamber with or without bright light therapy. This assignment
      is based on occupation of ICU beds and availability of nurses and is therefore independent
      from patients characteristics. All patients of 18 years and older who will be admitted to the
      Intensive Care Unit of the Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam can be included in the
      study. Patients diagnosed with bipolar disorder will be excluded from participation. Other
      exclusion criteria are the use of an antipsychotic drug in the home environment, temporary or
      permanent loss of total vision and participation in this study during a previous admission to
      the Intensive Care Unit.

      Patients assigned to a chamber with bright light therapy will receive light therapy for three
      hours in the morning, from eight o'clock till eleven o'clock. The Confusion Assessment
      Method-score (CAM-score) and the Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale-score (RASS-score) will be
      performed three times at one day by ICU nurses, this is according to the existing routine.
      Besides this, an extra CAM-score and a clinical assessment will be performed once a day by a
      trained non-clinician, to determine the presence of delirium. The use of sedatives, haldol
      and fixation will be registered to determine the occurrence, duration and severity of
      delirium. Eventually the most important outcomes will be the clinical assessment of the
      patients, the CAM-score and the use of haldol.

      At the Intensive Care Unit of the Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam, light therapy is
      used by nurses for optimizing the light intensity in their work environment, for their own
      well being and for the prevention of sleep disturbances. The light therapy is also randomly
      used for the treatment of Intensive Care patients, though the effectiveness and functionality
      have not been a subject of investigation. Our purpose of this study is to determine whether
      bright light therapy is effective for reducing the incidence and the duration of delirium in
      the Intensive Care Unit. The primary outcome of this study is the duration of delirium,
      defined in number of days. This will be derived from the clinical assessments and the
      CAM-scores, performed by the trained non-clinician.
    
  