
    
      Pulmonary disease in Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is characterized by progressive loss of functional
      gas exchange units that eventually results in respiratory failure. In CF lung disease,
      remodeling of pulmonary blood vessels, and vascular growth of bronchial blood vessels leading
      to systemic vascularization of the lung are the principal characteristics of pulmonary
      vascular disease. Studies have demonstrated that abnormal perfusion is present in up to 85%
      of 1 year old CF infants and only 17% of the perfusion deficits could be explained by mucus
      plugging or bronchial wall abnormalities at this age. Based on the investigators' state of
      the art method to reconstruct the pulmonary vasculature from non-contrast high resolution CT
      scan of the lungs, the investigators demonstrated that the blood volume in small vessels
      begins to decline when lung function is still in the normal range and worsens with increase
      disease severity. Furthermore, the investigators have also demonstrated that systemic
      vascularization of the lungs by the bronchial circulation begins at a FEV1% of 100.
      Preclinical studies of pulmonary endothelium revealed that delivering vascular endothelial
      growth factor receptor (VEGFR) antagonist to rats leads to air space enlargement and pruning
      of the pulmonary arterial tree. Thus, there is a central unanswered question as to whether
      pulmonary vascular disease (vascular remodeling and systemic vascularization) are just a
      squeal of parenchymal destruction or whether they contribute to the loss of alveolar gas
      exchange units and decline in lung function. In this proposal, the investigators will
      accomplish the following aims: 1) describe the morphology of the pulmonary vasculature across
      a wide range of lung function and relate the findings to functional outcomes, 2) examine
      mechanism of early loss of small blood vessels in CF patients as it relates to endothelial
      CFTR dysfunction. In addition, the investigators will study the changes in the pulmonary
      circulation after the initiation of triple combination therapy Trikafta (elexacaftor,
      ivacaftor, and tezacaftor).

      This is a case control study of 93 cystic fibrosis patients and 100 age and gender matched
      controls. CF patients (cases) will be recruited from two cystic fibrosis centers, Cincinnati
      Children's Hospital and Riley Children's Hospital. Controls will be subjects from the
      oncology service without lung disease who had CT scan of the chest to rule out pulmonary
      metastasis. 31 subjects of the 93 subjects enrolled will receive a second evaluation 6 months
      after starting a clinically prescribed corrector / modulator of Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane
      Conductance Protein Regulator (Trikafta) that was approved by the FDA in October, 2019 for
      patients with CF ages 12 and up. If FDA approval for use of Trikafta for ages 6-11 years of
      age is obtained, this patient age range will also be eligible for the second evaluation at 6
      months.
    
  