
    
      The treatment method "Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) sequentially combined with
      thermal ablation" is recommend for large HCC patients from NCCN Guideline and Chinese
      guideline "Diagnosis and Treatment of Primary Liver Cancer". The details of this sequential
      method consist one or more times of TACE followed by thermal ablation at least one month
      later to make the tumor completely inactivate. The thermal ablations include multiple
      applicators radiofrequency or microwave ablations. However, this method includes such
      disadvantages. 1) The limitation of lipiodol dosage in one TACE session is 30ml so that many
      patients needs more sessions of TACE; (2) Lipiodol and chemical drugs is easy to leak when
      patients have hepatic arteriovenous fistula. (3) Repeated TACE could cause more serious side
      effects. (4) Tumors of many patients are still not controlled or grow too large to ablate
      after TACEs which increases the metastasis risk and affects the efficacy and survival time.

      However, TAE simultaneously combined with thermal ablation is another combination type which
      reduce the interval time between two procedures from one month to 1-3 days. TAE removes the
      chemical drugs and uses embolic agents such as Embosphere to obstruct vessels to enhance the
      effect of followed ablations. The main aim of reducing interval and remove chemical drugs is
      to make the tumor completely inactivate in one hospitalization like surgical operation,
      hoping bringing less side effects, better efficacy and longer survival time.

      Thus the investigators will launch a prospective, multicenter randomized controlled clinical
      trial to compare the 3-years overall survival, safety, social and economic benefit of TAE
      simultaneously combined with ablation and TACE sequentially combined with ablation. The
      investigators expect to acquire Ia-level evidence-based medical evidence which can be
      accepted by the clinical guideline, popularizing, demonstrating our therapy.
    
  