
    
      This Expanded Access Program (EAP) is designed to provide access to an unlicensed drug that
      is approved in the United States for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening
      condition. This EAP will be sponsored by SK Life Science Inc. and managed by WEP Clinical.
      Cenobamate is approved for the treatment of partial onset seizures in adults in United
      States. The attached US Label (appendix 1) provides the most recent guidance for use of
      cenobamate.

      The objective of this EAP is to continue providing treatment with Cenobamate (YKP3089) to
      patients with partial-onset epilepsy that were enrolled in the SK Life Science clinical trial
      YKP3089C013, YKP3089C017 or YKP3089C021. Access to Cenobamate under this guideline is
      considered a treatment scenario and is not a clinical trial.

      Epilepsy is a symptom of a neurological problem that causes sudden, brief seizures. It leads
      to an increased risk of injury from accidents, an increased rate of mortality, and has a
      significant impact on quality of life. Epilepsy can occur as a result of a neurological
      injury, a structural brain lesion, as a part of many systemic medical diseases or may be
      generic in origin. The incidence of having epilepsy during a lifetime is between 2-5%.
      Available medications control seizures in 50% of patients and decrease seizure incidence in
      75%. The remainder continued to have unacceptable number of seizures, side effects, and
      psychiatric symptoms. The high treatment failure may be the result of inadequate efficacy or
      intolerable side effects that lead to poor compliance.

      Cenobamate is a novel small molecule that is an antiepileptic agent for partial onset
      seizures. The precise mechanism by which cenobamate exerts its therapeutic effects in
      patients with partial-onset seizures is unknown. Cenobamate has been demonstrated to reduce
      repetitive neuronal firing by inhibiting voltage-gated sodium currents. It is also a positive
      allosteric modulator of the γ-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) ion channel.
    
  