
    
      Anorexia and cachexia are common clinical sequelae of uncontrolled, metastatic cancer. These
      effects can impair physical function, reduce quality of life, impair tolerability of
      anticancer therapy, and reduce survival. Anorexia and cachexia are especially challenging
      problems in patients diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic cancer. With an annual incidence
      approaching 50,000 patients in the U.S. alone, pancreatic cancer has an annual mortality of
      approximately 40,000 patients with most individuals succumbing to their disease within two
      years. Between 70-80% of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer experience cancer
      cachexia, which has been associated with reduced survival, increased risk of disease
      progression, and impaired chemotherapy tolerance.

      Anamorelin HCl is an orally-active selective ghrelin receptor agonist which has shown
      anabolic and appetite-stimulating effects. Several randomized, double-blind, clinical trials
      in cancer patients have shown that anamorelin HCL is safe, efficacious and increases lean
      body mass, bodyweight, and appetite. Investigators propose to test anamorelin HCL
      administered with chemotherapy in the first-line treatment of locally advanced unresectable
      and metastatic pancreatic cancer.

      The study is a randomized, placebo controlled multicenter, Phase II trial to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of anamorelin HCl. Approximately 100 patients with be enrolled in a 1:1
      randomization to anamorelin HCL 100mg per day given concurrently with first-line chemotherapy
      compared to chemotherapy alone. Patients randomized to anamorelin HCL will take it daily for
      24 weeks starting one day prior to chemotherapy. All patients will undergo an assessment by a
      certified nutritionist at or prior to their first cycle of chemotherapy. Both body weight and
      appetite will be measured at enrollment as well as at the initiation of chemotherapy.
      Patients will be stratified by degree of weight loss in the six months prior to enrollment,
      choice of first-line chemotherapy, and by baseline score of 5-item Anorexia Symptom Scale.
    
  