
    
      Aim: A 3-yr multi-centre, pragmatic Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) to compare
      effectiveness of nicotine e-cigarettes (e-cigs) (with counseling) with peer-led PROMPT
      strategy (nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) and counseling) for tobacco dependence in the
      inner city population.

      Background: Homelessness/at-risk for homelessness populations in Canada carry
      disproportionate burden of many diseases, mostly due to tobacco. With smoking rates at ~100%
      in some subpopulations as compared to 9-18% in the general population, tobacco inequity is
      translated into unequal morbidity and mortality (COPD, cancers, heart diseases). Tobacco use
      costs the Ontario economy ~$1.6 billion/yr in healthcare costs. Smoking attributable
      hospitalization costs ~$38.2 million/yr in Ottawa alone from 2008-10. The inner city
      population in Canada dies ~25 yrs earlier than housed Canadians, largely due to tobacco. With
      negligible quit rates using conventional strategies, novel approaches to address tobacco
      inequity are urgently needed.

      Study Population: 200 Toronto and Ottawa inner city homeless/ at-risk for homelessness
      participants using poly-substances.

      Primary Patient-Oriented Outcome: To assess impact of two tobacco dependence strategies on
      quality of life (QOL) measured by questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L scores) at 26 wks; Secondary: i) To
      assess effectiveness of these two strategies with biochemically validated 7-day point
      prevalence smoking abstinence at 12, 26 and 52 wks; ii) To assess effectiveness of these two
      strategies on cigarette use reduction and cessation at 12, 26 and 52 wks; iii) To assess
      self-reported reduction and cessation of other illicit drug use; and; iv) To describe the
      safety/tolerability of nicotine e-cigs serious adverse events (SAEs), adverse events (AEs),
      drop-outs due to side effects, and therapy adherence over 52 wks; and, v) To compare the lung
      function (spirometry/oscillometry), 6-min walk and self-efficacy at baseline, 26 and 52 wks;
      Tertiary: i) To assess the cost-effectiveness of the pragmatic tobacco dependence strategies.

      Study Design: A multi-centre pragmatic RCT trial comparing e-cigs (with nicotine) with
      counseling or NRT with counseling for a 26 wks treatment period and 52 wks follow up. Similar
      to the real world all participants will be given an opportunity to choose either strategy at
      26 wks. The primary analysis will be change in QOL measured with EQ-5D-5L at 26 wks between
      participants.

      Setting: 1) The Bridge Engagement Centre, Ottawa, adjacent to the largest homeless shelter
      downtown; and 2) Nicotine Dependence Clinic, Center for Addiction and Mental Health, catering
      Toronto's inner city population downtown.

      Expertise: Both PIs are well versed in community-based research and Dr. Pakhale led the
      PROMPT project, a community based smoking cessation project engaging the same target
      population. Together the team is very experienced in tobacco dependence and the target
      population. The investigators collective expertise with links to the target community will
      support the implementation of the trial.

      Outcomes: Pragmatic community-based participatory and peer-led research holds a tremendous
      potential in investigating solutions 'for the people, by and with the people'. Outcomes of
      this trial will aid policy makers in implementing effective programs to treat tobacco
      dependence in marginalized population. The cost-effective community based framework of this
      trial can be used as a template for intervention in other chronic diseases (e.g. obesity or
      diabetes).

      Timeline: The trial will require 3 yrs to complete.
    
  