
    
      In this study , we aim to :

      1-Evaluate the immunohistochemical expression of p16 in both neoplastic and stromal
      components of benign and malignant OGCTs and scoring its immunoreactivity.

      2-Correlate between P16 immunohistochemical expression with clinicopathological parameters
      (Age, Histopathological type, grading, and staging).

        1. Type of the study: Matched case-control study.

        2. Study subjects:

             1. Inclusion criteria: Different types of Ovarian germ cell tumors including : benign
                ( mature cystic teratoma ) and malignant ones ( dysgerminoma , immature teratoma
                and yolk sac tumor ) .

             2. Exclusion criteria:

                Any criteria that not fulfill the inclusion criteria such as resected ovarian
                tumors other than ovarian germ cell tumors e.g epithelial ovarian tumors, sex cord
                -stromal tumors or metastatic ovarian lesions.

             3. Sample Size Calculation: by Open Epi version 3. As regards review of literature:
                Risk of exposure measures % of P16 protein IHC expression in tissue.

           In normal ovarian tissue as Control group: measured approximately (50%). In malignant
           OGCT as case group: has decreased or absent expression (equals 10 % or less).

           And benign OGCT will be represented as equal comparison group.

        3. Materials and methods :

      Formalin fixed paraffin embedded blocks of eighty ovarian specimens will be included in this
      study. These specimens will be divided into 2 groups:

        1. Forty surgically resected ovarian germ cell tumors specimens: twenty malignant ones(
           dysgerminoma , immature teratoma and yolk sac tumor) as a case group and equal twenty
           benign ones (mature cystic teratoma ) as comparison group with mean age 17 years old.

        2. Forty normally apparent ovaries that surgically resected with specimens of total
           abdominal hysterectomy and salpingo-Oopherctomy for non-ovarian causes in perimenopausal
           women as a control group with mean age 40 years old.

      Adjustment of confounders (as Age) is not to be statistically significant.

      These specimens will be retrieved from the surgical pathology Lab of Assiut University
      hospital (AUH) from January 2010 to January 2021.

      The clinical data includes age, marital status, parity and laterality of lesions will be
      evaluated according to pathological referral records.

      Histopathological examination of sections stained with hematoxylin and eosin from cases of
      ovarian germ cell tumors by routine light microscopy to determine type, grade and
      pathological stage of the tumor.

      Immunohistochemical stain using anti-p16 antibody with immunoperoxidase staining as a
      visualization method. Antibody dilution, antigen retrieval methods and incubation time will
      all be conducted according to the manufacturer's instructions.

      4- Scoring and evaluation of immunohistochemistry: Semi-quantitative approach using H-score
      will be used to evaluate the staining as previously mentioned. A final score ranges from
      0-300 will be obtained by multiplying the staining intensity (0: negative, 1: weakly
      positive, 2: moderately positive and 3: strongly positive) and the percentage of positive
      cells.

      5-Data management and analysis: Computer software: All statistical analysis will be performed
      using software package SPSS version 16.

      Statistical tests: The numerical data will be presented as mean and standard deviation, while
      categorical data will be presented as number and percentage. Chi-square test will be used to
      evaluate the association between P16 immunohistochemistry and pathological variables.
      Adjustment of confounders (as Age) is not to be statistically significant. P value less than
      0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Multivariate Cox regression analysis will
      be performed.
    
  