
    
      A. Randomization of subjects: Infants will be randomized to receive Proparacaine versus no
      intervention based on computerized randomization performed by our statistician. Due to the
      lack of a placebo group, practitioners present at the time of examination will not able to be
      blinded to group assignment. Each infant will only be enrolled for one examination.

      B. Monitor setup/application: The Central Nervous System (CNS) Neonatal Neurological Monitor
      (Moberg Research) will be used to videotape each patient encounter and record vital sign
      information during the study period. The CNS monitor will record physiologic variables
      indirectly via cables attached to the bedside monitor. Before scheduled eye drop
      administration takes place, the appropriate connections between the bedside monitor and CNS
      monitor will be made in order to continuously record heart rate, respiratory rate, pulse
      oximetry, and blood pressure. A video camera attached to the CNS monitor will also be
      positioned to capture the subjects' facial activity and gross body movements. The monitor
      will be set up with enough time prior to eye drop administration such that baseline data can
      be collected before any intervention is performed. In addition, a video recording of the
      method of eyedrop administration will be assessed. The monitor will remain in place up to 5
      minutes after completion of eye drop administration.

      C. Eye drop administration: The CNS Monitor will be in place at least 3 minutes prior to
      administration of any eye drops to record baseline data on the infant. One drop of
      Proparacaine anesthetic ophthalmic solution will be applied to each eye of infants randomized
      to receive Proparacaine prior to the mydriatic eye drops. At least 30 seconds and no longer
      than 5 minutes after administration of Proparacaine, the mydriatic eye drops will be given as
      per routine standard practice for ophthalmologic examinations in the NICU.
    
  