
    
      Pneumonia is a common cause of admission to the intensive care unit, and can also develop as
      a secondary complication of mechanical ventilation. The diagnosis of pneumonia relies on a
      combination of clinical and radiographic signs, demonstrating an inflammatory infiltrate to
      the lung parenchyma combined with evidence of infection. The treatment is appropriate
      antibiotics, together with supportive care as required by the patient's condition.

      The selection of appropriate antibiotics presents a significant challenge, as between 60 and
      70% of cases of pneumonia do not yield positive results on microbial cultures. This is the
      case in both community acquired and hospital acquired pneumonia. It can take up to 72 hours
      for results of conventional cultures to be returned, and these two aspects mean that
      pneumonia is commonly treated with empiric broad spectrum antibiotics. Rapid, sensitive tests
      for microbes could lead to a significant reduction in antibiotic use 1 and use of narrower
      spectrum agents, which will reduce the selective pressure for anti-microbial resistant
      organisms.

      The investigators on this study have previously shown that a multiplex polymerase chain
      reactions targeting respiratory pathogens can enhance the detection of such organisms in
      patients with community-acquired pneumonia and immuno-compromised patients developing
      pneumonia. The use of a TaqMan microarray card allows for large multiplexing of the PCR
      reactions, which would allow a single card to target a wide range of potential respiratory
      pathogens including both community-acquired and hospital-acquired organisms.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate a new taqMan multiplex PCR array card, which targets
      common community and hospital-acquired respiratory pathogens. The investigators anticipate
      that the results from this card will be available more rapidly than conventional culture. The
      investigators also aim to evaluate the diagnostic performance of the card, compared to
      conventional cultures, and validate its use in the population of ventilated patients in
      intensive care. In addition, conventional cultures of blood have a significantly lower yield
      in pneumonia that respiratory samples, however as they are considerably less invasive to
      obtain than broncho-alveolar lavage it would be advantageous if a highly sensitive assay for
      bacteria could detect relevant respiratory pathogen DNA in the blood. Therefore alongside the
      testing of respiratory samples, the investigators will assess the ability of the taqMan array
      to detect organisms in a contemporaneously obtained blood sample.
    
  