
    
      Melanoma arising from the choroid and ciliary body is the most common primary intraocular
      cancer. The Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study (COMS) randomized clinical trial of I-125
      brachytherapy versus enucleation for medium-sized choroidal melanoma (2.5-10.0 mm in
      thickness and ≤ 16 mm in diameter) showed that, for patients who met the eligibility
      criteria, there was no statistically significant difference in all-cause mortality between
      I-125 brachytherapy and enucleation 5, 10, and 12 years following treatment. The COMS trial
      supported the use of globe-conserving I-125 brachytherapy. Following brachytherapy, however,
      visual acuity in the treated eye generally declined at a rate of approximately 2 lines of
      visual acuity per year and nearly 45% of patients lost ambulatory vision (≤20/200) in the
      treated eye by 3 years.

      Adverse effects of plaque brachytherapy include cataract, radiation-associated proliferative
      retinopathy, maculopathy and papillopathy. Radiation maculopathy, which may result in
      decreased central vision, cystoid macular edema (CME), macular ischemia, and chorioretinal
      atrophy, was reported in other series in 18% to 43% of treated eyes within 5 years after
      brachytherapy. Typical onset occurred 18-24 months following treatment. Primary risk factors
      for radiation papillopathy and maculopathy were total radiation dose to the affected
      structures, proximity of the tumor to the affected structures and systemic conditions such as
      diabetes mellitus. No treatment for radiation maculopathy or papillopathy has been proven to
      be effective in a randomized clinical trial.

      Radiation injury to vital structures may be avoided or shielded with the use of materials
      such as lead that have a higher effective atomic number and density than tissue. However,
      solid metals are not amenable to use within the eye (Figure 1).

      There have been previous efforts to try to use a vitreous substitute in order to protect
      intraocular structures from the deleterious effects of radiations. In an animal study, Finger
      et al, demonstrated that iodinated contrast agents (iophendylate, iohexol, and iopamidol)
      could block radiation intraocularly. But these substances were highly toxic and could not be
      retained in the eye due to high water solubility.

      The technique of vitrectomy and oil tamponade during plaque brachytherapy has been performed
      previously in humans by Dr. Tara McCannel at UCLA. During a paper presentation at the 2010
      meeting of the American Society of Retina Specialist in Vancouver, BC, the first series of 10
      patients were presented, and no complications of the technique were reported. It is now a
      commonly applied technique at this center for treatment of choroidal melanoma (Oncology Times
      2010; 32(14):36, UCLA, Clinical Update 2011; 20(1):1, 4)

      In this prospective pilot study the investigators propose that patients will undergo standard
      plaque placement for treatment of their ocular melanoma in addition to pars plana vitrectomy
      and silicone oil infusion. When patients return for their scheduled plaque removal one week
      later, they will also undergo removal of the silicone oil from the eye. Placement of silicone
      oil should not alter the radiation dose delivered to the tumor, as there is no physical space
      between the tumor and the radioactive plaque for silicone oil to be present. The reduction in
      radiation to healthy ocular structures by using the oil technique may be sufficient to avoid
      the clinical complications caused by radiation-induced injury.
    
  