
    
      Clinical Evaluation: of patients with 1- Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), 2- Neck Disability
      Index (NDI), 3- Modified Japanese Orthopaedic Association Cervical Myelopathy Score
      (mJOA.CMS), 4- American Spinal Injury Association Score (ASIAs). Immediate preoperative
      functional scoring, and 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year postoperative.

      Surgical Technique: The patient is handled in prone position after successful general
      anaesthesia with supported head to ensure that the Occipito-Cervical junction maintains in
      neutral position. The Occipito-Cervical junction is then exposed through a traditional
      midline longitudinal posterior skin incision extends from the external occipital protuberance
      to the C3-C4 level. The nuchal ligament is divided in the midline, and the occipital and
      cervical musculature is dissected subperiosteally. The suboccipital and cervical paraspinous
      muscles are retracted laterally to expose the underlying bony architecture. The posterior
      arch of C1 is exposed and the dissection is continued laterally in a subperiosteal manner to
      identify the horizontal segment of the vertebral arteries (VAs) which is enveloped in a dense
      venous plexus. The atlanto-occipital joint capsule is to be approx. 3 mm. Cranial to the
      superior margin of tht VA. Attention is then focused on the foramen magnum. Using curettes,
      the atlanto-occipital membrane is gently dissected from the foramen magnum laterally until
      the medial aspect of the occipital condyle is reached. At this point, the dissection
      continues laterally, maintaining bone contact to prevent injury to the horizontal segment of
      the VA along the condylar fossa, until the posterior condylar foramen and emissary vein are
      identified. The condylar foramen and vein represent the lateral extent of the dissection. At
      this stage, the operative field is prepared for instrumentation. Inserting the cervical
      screws first provides useful information about the axial location of the occipital condyles.
      The condylar entry point (CEP) is defined using a combination of radiographic and anatomic
      landmarks. The CEP is located (4 to 5 mm) lateral to the posteromedial edge of the condyle,
      and (2 mm) above the atlanto-occipital joint line. Pilot hole is then made at the entry point
      using an awl with slight cranial angulation to avoid injury to the horizontal segment of the
      VA. The pilot hole is then drilled under image-guidance in a convergent trajectory with (12
      to 22 degrees) of medial angulation and (5 degrees) cranial angulation in the sagittal plane
      with the tip of the drill directed toward the basion, advancing slowly until the anterior
      cortical edge of the condyle is breached. The hole is tapped, and a (3.5 mm) polyaxial screw
      of an appropriate length (30 to 34 mm) is inserted bicortically into the occipital condyle.
      Approximately (12 mm) portion of the screw remains superficial to the posterior cortex of the
      condyle, allowing the polyaxial portion of the screw to lie above the posterior arch of C1,
      minimizing any chance of irritation of the VA by the rods.

      Radiological Evaluation: 1- Preoperative: Plain X-ray (PXR) Antero-posterior (AP) and Lateral
      (Lat.) views to study the upper cervical instability indices and measurements, Multi-Slice
      Computed Tomography (MSCT) to study the boney Occipito-Cervical architecture for any
      fractures or anomalies, CT Angiography (CTA) to study the vertebral artery for anomaly
      especially in the horizontal segment of the VA, and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) to study
      the spinal cord for any compression signs. 2- Postoperative: Immediate (PXR) AP. and Lat.
      views for overall global assessment of the reduction and the construct installation. Then at
      3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after surgery with flexion extension lateral view bending
      stress films for assessment of stability. Immediate (MSCT) to study the crucial screws
      placement estate for any breaches or successfulness, and after 1year for assessment of the
      fusion rate achieved.

      Serial Follow-Up: after 6 weeks for clinical evaluation and functional scoring. At 3 and 6
      months for radiological evaluation of stability, clinical evaluation and functional
      re-scoring. At 1 year for evaluation of fusion rate, clinical evaluation and over all
      resultant functional scores.
    
  