
    
      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a major public health problem affecting
      approximately 10% of patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) and 23% of all patients on a
      breathing machine (mechanical ventilator). The short-term mortality of patients with ARDS is
      approximately 40% and better ventilation of these patients has the greatest potential to
      improve outcomes.

      The lungs in patients with ARDS are severely inflamed which reduces lung volume and their
      ability to stretch, making ventilation difficult and dangerous. However, mechanical
      ventilation is the mainstay of supportive therapy. Although it is life-saving, it can also
      can generate secondary injury and inflammation, called ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI).
      The investigators know that inadequate mechanical ventilation worsens outcomes but are
      uncertain of the optimal way to manage ventilators at the bedside.

      Furthermore, ARDS is challenging because there is no treatment for the alveolar-capillary
      leak characterizing this syndrome; aside from treating the underlying cause, the only
      supportive therapy is mechanical ventilation. This is specially the case for COVID-19 induced
      ARDS. Despite best practices, over-distension of the lung or inappropriate positive end
      expiratory pressure (PEEP) is common. Finally, once spontaneous breathing has resumed and is
      assisted by the ventilator, an additional phenomenon occurs, called patient self-inflicted
      lung injury. The drive for breathing in many patients is stimulated by lung inflammation, and
      strong breathing efforts can generate high distending pressures, causing lung (and systemic)
      inflammation and organ damage. Whether the management of COVID-19 induced ARDS should differ
      from all other ARDS has been debated at length but has no clear response

      Recent advances in our understanding of bedside physiology (airway closure, recruitability,
      lung distension, respiratory drive) can now be applied for an individual titration of
      mechanical ventilation.
    
  