
    
      Endometriosis is a gynecologic condition in which tissue similar to the inside lining of the
      uterus (the endometrium) grows in locations in the body outside of the uterus. This abnormal
      growth can cause severe pain, often coinciding with a woman's menstrual period. Endometriosis
      affects about 10% of all women of reproductive age in the US, and leads to an estimated $22
      billion/year in health care costs in the US alone. Endometriosis is a chronic disease that
      can progress over time, leading to infertility, debilitating pelvic pain, and resulting poor
      quality of life. Disease management involves not only prompt initiation of therapy, but also
      the maintenance of therapy for a prolonged length of time. As no cure currently exists, the
      disease typically progresses until menopause. Current medical management typically consists
      of hormonal medications and surgery, but these therapies are limited by lack of successful
      relief of symptoms, cost, or side effects. Many patients have endometriosis pain that is
      refractory to all available treatments. Safe, well-tolerated, long-duration additions to
      currently available treatments are sorely needed to ameliorate the chronic course of this
      disease.

      Angiogenesis refers to the generation of new blood vessels from existing vessels. It is
      required for the growth of new living tissue and has been implicated in the initiation,
      maintenance, and spread of endometriosis. The investigators hypothesize that medications that
      inhibit the process of angiogenesis can be used to treat endometriosis. The angiogenesis
      inhibitor medications that are currently available cause severe side effects such as birth
      defects that prevent them from being safely used for treating endometriosis in young,
      otherwise healthy women. In contrast, there is an alternative medication, cabergoline, which
      has been extensively used in clinical practice for treatment of other endocrine conditions
      suffered by reproductive-aged women. While cabergoline appears to inhibit angiogenesis, it
      acts on this process indirectly such that it has very few side effects, making it appropriate
      for use in young women with endometriosis.

      The investigators will conduct a clinical drug trial to determine whether cabergoline is an
      effective addition to standard hormonal therapy for decreasing persistent pelvic pain
      suffered by adolescents and young women with surgically-proven endometriosis. Patients who
      are interested in participating in our study will be randomized (decided by a flip of a coin)
      to either receive cabergoline, the investigational medication, or a placebo pill (a sugar
      pill). It is believed that after 6 months, patients who take cabergoline twice a week will
      demonstrate decreased pain scores and improved quality of life/ability to perform daily
      activities as compared to patients who take a placebo pill (sugar pill) twice weekly. During
      the research study, the investigators will study how pain symptoms, menstrual bleeding,
      levels of inflammation, risk for future cardiac disease, and measures of pain sensitivity
      change over time by using well-established, validated tools and techniques that the research
      team has utilized successfully in previous work.
    
  