
    
      Approximately 20% of Americans over 65 have mild cognitive impairment (MCI), defined as
      experiencing more memory problems than normally expected with aging, but no other symptoms of
      dementia such as impaired judgment or reasoning. Persons with MCI (patients) are at great
      risk for developing dementia (10-33% per year). Memory problem (poor executive function)
      diminish the patient's confidence and ability to perform meaningful and/or important
      activities (e.g. socialization, medication management).

      Deteriorating life satisfaction in patients and care partners (caregivers) is a prevalent
      problem due to diminished meaningful activity engagement which occurs as a result of patient
      frustration and embarrassment, lack of self-efficacy (confidence), and diminishing activity
      performance. As a result, patients experience additional negative health outcomes: 38% report
      depressive symptoms and anxiety. Caregivers often lack confidence to manage their own and the
      patient's daily challenges and meaningful activity engagement, leading to high caregiver
      burden, depressive symptoms, and anxiety. As a dyad, both patients and caregivers report
      diminished satisfaction within their communication and relationship due to disagreement about
      the patient's functional ability to effectively and safely perform meaningful activities.

      Emerging evidence indicates regular engagement in social, physical or cognitive activities
      can improve life satisfaction, activity performance, depressive symptoms, anxiety, and dyad
      communication; health outcomes are even better when the activities are self-selected and
      meaningful. To promote patients' and caregivers' life satisfaction and health outcomes,
      interventions to maximize patients' capacity for full engagement in meaningful activities are
      essential; yet, there is a marked absence of such empirically validated interventions.

      The investigators developed and tested the Daily Engagement in Meaningful Activities (DEMA)
      intervention to improve life satisfaction and health outcomes for patients and caregivers.
      DEMA is a positive health focused, theoretically grounded, tailored, family-centered,
      multi-faceted intervention. Over 7 session, dyads work with a nurse to 1) identify meaningful
      activities, assess capacity, problem-solve barriers, and establish routines for engagement
      and 2) learn more about MCI by working through six Self-Management Toolkit topics (e.g.,
      benefits of meaningful activity; planning the future).

      The investigators' purpose is to evaluate the efficacy of DEMA in a two-group randomized
      controlled trial with 200 patient/caregiver dyads (DEMA intervention vs. the information
      support (IS) attention control group).

      Aim 1 (Primary Objective): Test DEMA's efficacy for improving life satisfaction in patients
      and their caregivers over time.

      Aim 2 (Secondary Objective): Over time, evaluate DEMA's efficacy for patient and caregiver
      to:

        1. increase patient activity performance and diminish depressive symptoms and anxiety.

           Hypothesis 2.1: Compared to the IS group, patients receiving DEMA will have improved
           activity performance and decreased depressive symptoms and anxiety.

        2. decrease caregivers burden, depressive symptoms, and anxiety . Hypothesis 2.2: Compared
           to the IS group, caregivers receiving DEMA will have decreased burden, depressive
           symptoms, and anxiety.

      Aim 3: Explore improvement in health outcomes over time in the sub-sample of patients with
      depressive symptoms using the (PHQ)-9 ≥ 5 at baseline) and explore the burden on caregivers
      when patients have PHQ-9 is >5. Compared to the non-depressed participants:

      Hypothesis 3.1. Patients with depressive symptoms (scores > 5 on PHQ-9 measured at baseline)
      will have improved activity performance.

      Hypothesis 3.2 Caregivers of patients with depressed symptoms (scores > 5 on PHQ-9 measured
      at baseline) will report reduced burden.

      Hypotheses 3.3. Patients with depressive symptoms (scores > 5 on PHQ-9 measured at baseline)
      and their caregivers randomized to DEMA will report improved: confidence to manage daily
      challenges, communication satisfaction, life satisfaction, relationship satisfaction,
      decreased depressive symptoms and anxiety.
    
  