
    
      Severe malnutrition is a major cause of child morbidity and mortality in developing countries
      especially sub-Saharan Africa. The hospital case fatality rate of severely malnourished
      children in developing countries ranges from 20 to 30%. In Uganda the prevalence of
      malnutrition remains high: among children below 5 years, 39% are stunted, 4% are wasted and
      23% are under weight. For the rehabilitation of severely malnourished children, the World
      Health Organization recommends a liquid milk-based diet, formula 100 (F100) which contains
      100 kilocalories per 100 milliliters. F100 is prepared by mixing dried skimmed milk, oil,
      sugar and mineral vitamin mix. It provides 100 kilocalories of energy and contains 2.9 grams
      of protein per 100 milliliters. In Uganda the rehabilitation of severely malnourished
      children is based on High Energy Milk (HEM) which is reconstituted cows' milk with
      nutritional composition similar to F100.

      Recently a semi-solid ready- to- use therapeutic food (RUTF) whose nutrition composition is
      similar to F100 or HEM has been designed. It is prepared by mixing full cream powder, icing
      sugar, ground nut paste, vegetable oil and mineral vitamin mix. RUTF contains 545
      kilocalories per 100 grams of which 10% are protein calories and 59% lipid calories. This
      preparation can be eaten without adding water hence reducing the risk of bacterial
      contamination and it can be used at home with minimum supervision. RUTF has energy density of
      more than 5 times that of milk-based feeds. Hitherto the efficacy of RUTF in the
      rehabilitation of severely malnourished children in Uganda has not been studied. The purpose
      of this study is to determine whether giving daily RUTF in the rehabilitation of severely
      malnourished children results in a higher weight gain than giving HEM.

      Hypothesis: Giving 5 meals of RUTF daily in the rehabilitation of severely malnourished
      children will result in a higher mean weight gain (>10g/kg/day) than giving 5 meals of HEM
      daily.

      The researchers calculated the minimum sample size of 64 patients in each group for 90% power
      and 95% confidence. In the calculation the researchers assumed that the mean weight gain in
      the control (HEM) group would be 10.1 g/kg/day with standard deviation of 4.4g according to
      results of a study by Diop in Senegal; and assumed that the mean weight gain in the RUTF
      group would be 12.63g/kg/day (25.05% effect size)
    
  