
    
      The study population will include active and otherwise healthy patients of both genders, all
      races, and between 18-40 years old at any of five locations, who elect to undergo primary
      surgery for a torn ACL within 50 days of injury. Approximately 100 patients will receive each
      of the experimental BEAR surgery and the comparative control BPTB reconstruction surgery,
      with each group distributed similarly across the five medical centers where the trial is
      being conducted: Cleveland Clinic, Vanderbilt University, Ohio State University, Rhode Island
      Hospital/University Orthopedics, and Washington University in St. Louis. The study
      intervention uses a BEAR Implanted scaffold, which is placed between the torn ends of the
      ruptured ACL. The BEAR scaffold is resorbed over 4 to 8 weeks, during which period it
      promotes repair of the ACL tissue in the gap between the torn ends. The device provides a
      stable provisional scaffold to facilitate intra-articular repair of the torn ACL ligament,
      where without the implant device, healing does not occur. The results of this BEAR procedure
      will be compared against ACL reconstruction using a BPTB autograft. This technique consists
      of removing the torn ACL tissue, harvesting patellar tendon, and grafting that tendon within
      tunnels in the bone to reconstruct or replace the torn ACL. The study duration is five years.
      Surgery will occur at most 50 days after the patient's ACL is torn, with two year follow-up
      and a three month window for the final follow-up examination, for a maximum enrollment period
      for each patient of approximately 2 years and five months (29 months). Randomization will
      occur during the surgery, and patients will be informed of their treatments at conclusion of
      their participation. The two research time points are 1 and 2 years, when assessments will be
      conducted by an independent examiner masked to the type of surgery the patient received. With
      the exception of the RCT consenting process, use of the BEAR implant, and the blinded
      assessment process, clinical care will be standard practice following surgical treatment for
      a torn ACL.
    
  