
    
      The total death rate of ruptured aorta-iliac aneurysms is around 90%. A meta-analysis
      published by Bown et al. in 2002 in British Journal of Surgery finds on 171 studies compiled
      since 1955 an operational mortality post of the conventional surgery of 47%. This figure of
      post-operative mortality seems incompressible since many years in spite of the improvement of
      the techniques of anaesthesia and the surgery. The endovascular repair of the asymptomatic
      aneurysms of the abdominal aorta proved to be feasible and effective. In studies with limited
      and selected patients, the endovascular repair of ruptured aorta-iliac aneurysms seems to
      show a reduction in post-operative mortality in the average of 20%. However, the only
      comparative study (n=32) could not highlight of significant difference.This justifies a
      multicentric randomized study of which the goal is to compare the Endovascular repair and the
      Conventional repair in a cohort of a minimum of 160 patients carrying a Ruptured aorta-iliac
      Aneurysm(study name: ECAR) observed on CT-scan and being able to profit from the 2
      techniques.The emergency does not allow the randomization by patient. The unit of
      randomization will be the week for each center, one week of endovascular treatment in
      alternation with one week of treatment by conventional repair and that in a synchronous way
      for the unit of all the centers of the study. The first week will be devoted to the
      conventional surgery and will be effective as of the opening of the first center. The
      principal objective is to compare mortality at 30 days in both groups. The secondary
      objectives are to compare in the 2 groups:• Morbidity (cardiac, pulmonary, renal,
      neurological, digestive) at 30 days.• Duration of stay in intensive care unit. The principal
      awaited results are a significant reduction in the mortality of the endovascular repair
      compared to the conventional surgery and a reduction in morbidity.
    
  