
    
      This is a multicenter, placebo controlled, randomized, double blinded Phase 2 study in 100
      subjects 18-90 years of age who have sustained a recent ischemic stroke. Potential subjects
      can be screened and consented the day of their stroke (Day 1). Treatment with umbilical cord
      blood (UCB) cells or placebo will be administered intravenously as a single infusion as early
      as 3 days but no later than 10 days after the patient's stroke. UCB units will be selected
      from an accredited U.S. public cord bank based on blood type, race and a targeted cell dose
      ranging between 0.5 to 5 x 10^7 total nucleated cell count (TNCC)/kg. Study subjects will not
      receive immunosuppressive or myeloablative medications prior to infusion of the cord blood or
      placebo.

      All subjects, families and medical staff will be blinded to treatment arm. When a subject is
      randomized to study drug at a clinical site without a cord blood bank, the selected cord
      blood units (CBU) will be shipped frozen overnight to the site. Once selected and available
      on site, each CBU will be thawed, washed, tested, released and infused intravenously using
      common standard operating procedures (SOPs) at all sites. For subjects randomized to placebo,
      a diluent with the same appearance and odor as a CBU will be prepared.

      Patients will have baseline magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and will be assessed at 1, 3, 6,
      and 12 months for functional outcomes. All patients will receive standard of care therapy
      while enrolled in this study and all subjects will be strongly encouraged to participate in
      rehabilitative therapy.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine, in a randomized, placebo controlled
      trial, the efficacy of a single intravenous (IV) infusion of unrelated donor UCB for
      improving functional outcomes in patients with ischemic stroke. The secondary objectives are
      as follows:

        1. To describe the safety and tolerability of a single IV infusion of unrelated donor UCB
           in patients with ischemic stroke

        2. To evaluate the efficacy of a single IV infusion of unrelated donor UCB for improvement
           of neurological symptoms following ischemic stroke

        3. To evaluate the efficacy of a single IV infusion of unrelated donor UCB for improvement
           in quality of life and emotional and cognitive status in patients with ischemic stroke
    
  