
    
      1.1 gastrointestinal tract cancer liver metastasis Most mortality of the gastrointestinal
      tract cancer patients is related with distant metastasis, especially liver is the main site.
      It has been estimated that 25% of colorectal cancer patients have hepatic metastases at
      diagnosis, and another 50% will have their tumor recurrence in the liver within 5 years.

      Selected patients who had oligo (usually 2 to 3) or isolated liver metastases resected
      curatively and have yielded 5-year survival rates of 50% to 60%, showing that local therapy
      has the potential to cure. It is only possible in less than 25% of all patients with hepatic
      metastasis because of medical and/or surgical reasons, furthermore two-thirds of resected
      patients showed ultimately liver recurrence within 2 years.

      The standard treatment of unresectable liver metastasis in gastrointestinal tract cancer is
      chemotherapy, but considerable portion of the patients progressed and most of the liver is
      converted to metastatic tumor lesions. Significant quality of life decrement was detected in
      those patients, especially in patients suffered severe symptoms

      1.2 Radiation therapy (RT) for liver metastasis Several studies reported that whole liver RT
      (WLRT) can be used effectively to control severe symptoms from unresectable liver metastasis
      in colorectal cancer patients. However, it is well known fact that the liver is a very
      sensitive to RT. The radiation induced liver disease (RILD), dreadful complication without
      special treatment method and subset of patients could be dead, can be developed as low as 30
      gray (Gy). Despite symptom palliation is obtained after 20 to 30 Gy RT but only in small
      subset of patients get local control. In this aspect, the combined with radiosensitizer with
      WLRT is considered to enhance RT effect to palliate symptom and control local tumor
      progression, and increase the quality of life ultimately.

      1.3 Hyperthermia It is reported that hyperthermia is effective in S phase, Low oxygen partial
      pressure (pO2), low hydrogen ion concentration (pH), and low perfusion site which are known
      as radio-resistant. Because of these characteristics, it considered as the most valuable
      radiosensitizer in cancer treatment, theoretically. Furthermore, mild hyperthermia (41 to
      41.5 ºC) can promote tumor reoxygenation.

      1.4 Purpose of this study Based on those studies, we start this prospective study to
      investigate the effect of combination treatment of WLRT and hyperthermia on quality of life
      in the patients with unresectable chemoresistant liver metastasis from gastrointestinal tract
      cancer.
    
  