
    
      Control Group:

      The congenital heart surgery will be performed according to usual practice with the degree of
      intra-operative hypothermia determined by the cardiothoracic surgeon based on the anticipated
      complexity of the case. Following completion of the surgical procedure, the infant will be
      rapidly rewarmed on CPB at a rate of 0.2 to 0.3°C per minute to a normothermic temperature of
      36.5°C. Infants in this group will be given a single weight-based 15 mg/kg dose of
      intravenous Tylenol in the operating room (OR) by the anesthesiologist as the chest is being
      closed. The infant will be transported to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) for
      routine post-operative monitoring. If the infant develops a fever, ice packs will be applied
      to the axilla and groin per usual routine and removed once the fever has abated.

      Experimental group:

      Partial rewarming will occur on CPB to 35°C. During the last hour of surgery, the infant's
      temperature will be maintained at 35°C while the chest is closed by using a BairHugger and
      lowering the room temperature. Transfusions of packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma
      and cryoprecipitate will not be automatically warmed. Infants will be given a single 15 mg/kg
      dose of IV Tylenol in the OR. The infant will be transported to the PICU at 35°C and placed
      on the temperature-regulating blanket. The infant will be incrementally rewarmed with
      increases in temperature of 0.3°C every 2 hours for 6 hours, then 0.2°C every 2 hours for 6
      hours to the goal temperature of 36.5°C. Once the infant is stable, EEG will be performed for
      48 hours to screen for seizures. The PI will interpret the EEG every 6-8 hours. The infant
      will remain on the blanket at 36.5°C for another 12 hours. The blanket and esophageal
      temperature probe will then be removed a total of 24 hours after surgery was completed.
    
  