
    
      Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is characterised by pain, exocrine insufficiency and endocrine
      dysfunction. Of all symptoms, intractable abdominal pain is the most debilitating that
      mandates a multidisciplinary treatment approaches. Long term treatment of pain begins with
      antioxidants. If the pancreatic duct contains stones in a limited area (head, neck and
      proximal body), the patient is subjected to endoscopic treatment, which includes
      extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) for large stones (>5mm) with or without
      pancreatic duct stenting. For smaller stones, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography
      (ERCP) alone suffices. ERCP with pancreatic ductal stenting is also the first line treatment
      for a solitary symptomatic pancreatic ductal stricture. If symptomatic stones are located all
      along the pancreatic duct, or if there are multiple strictures, surgical drainage of the
      pancreatic duct becomes the treatment of choice. If there are any mass lesion in the pancreas
      on the background of CP, then resection procedures such as Whipple's operation or distal
      pancreatectomy with/without splenectomy is resorted to.

      Even though the above mentioned modalities are directed to relief the patient of pain, a
      substantial proportion of patients return with recurrence of pain. This explains the
      complexity in the pain mechanisms in CP. Pain mechanisms in chronic pancreatitis (CP) are
      heterogeneous and includes nociception, pancreatic neuropathy and central
      neuropathy/neuroplasticity. These mechanisms could occur simultaneously in variable
      proportions and could explain why several patients develop recurrence of pain even after
      being treated by all the currently available modalities.

      One aspect that is often overlooked in studies involving pain mechanisms and management.
      Since CP is a chronic disease with systemic effects, several additional factors could impact
      the evolution and response to pain. These could include the patient's personality traits,
      educational background, family history of CP, previous experience of the disease, background
      knowledge of CP, coping capability, to name a few. The investigators have been working on
      these aspects for the past couple of years, wherein they looked into the mental status
      (depression/anxiety), quality of life and the impact of pain in these aspects. Since pain
      memory and emotional responses to pain is mediated by the basal ganglia, hippocampus,
      anterior cingulate cortex and prefrontal cortex of the brain, the investigators also looked
      at the metabolites in these areas using magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The investigators
      observed that persistent pain in these patients will be associated with varying grades of
      depression and poor quality of life. This was accompanied by alteration in the metabolites
      myoinositol, creatine, glycine/glutamate in the hippocampus, and basal ganglia Following
      this, when the investigators counselled these patients and explained their disease and
      possible outcomes based on their own clinical course, imaging and treatment response
      (personalized education/counselling), they reported significant improvement in depression,
      quality of life parameters and, interestingly, also in pain. Further, there were changes in
      the metabolite parameters in the brain on MRS after personalized counselling/education that
      were more closer to that of healthy controls.

      This led to the hypothesis that better understanding of the disease and its outcomes by the
      patients could improve their coping capabilities and increase their pain thresholds. This
      could augment the pain responses of these patients to the other therapeutic modalities.

      The investigators will conduct this single blinded, placebo controlled, randomized controlled
      trial on patients with documented CP of over 3 years duration, who had at least 5 episodes of
      abdominal pain of over the past 6 months.

      The investigators will provide detailed education regarding the disease to the patients
      (based on their disease characteristics) in the study arm and evaluate the changes in pain
      scores, pain episodes, QOL, mental status and metabolomic status in the brain (hippocampus,
      basal ganglia, anterior cingulate cortex, prefrontal cortex).
    
  