
    
      This study will be a prospective analysis of the treatment of patients with carotid stenosis
      through carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stenting performed at 5 centers proposed by
      five years with the Vascular Study Group from public Universities of Sao Paulo state in
      Brazil. The primary outcome measures will be:

        1. any in-hospital stroke.

        2. any stroke, death, or myocardial infarction (MI). Patients undergoing CEA in conjunction
           with cardiac surgery will be excluded. Multivariate logistic regression will be
           performed to identify predictors of stroke or death in patients undergoing CEA and CAS.

      The characteristics and background of patients who underwent CAS and CEA include: age,
      gender, carotid endarterectomy high risk; also presentation of symptoms, and degree of
      stenosis will be analyzed. Next, procedural success, periprocedural antiplatelet use, embolic
      protection device use, the type of stent (open-cell or closed-cell) or patch to carotid, the
      execution of pre ballooning or post ballooning dilatation at carotid artery stenting, and
      procedure-related complications will be analyzed to clarify the current strategy and the
      treatment results of both techniques . Degree of stenosis have been measured in accordance
      with North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial method.

      Outcomes will be stratified by symptomatic and asymptomatic status. Symptomatic patients are
      defined as having a neurologic event, including any hemispheric or ocular transient ischemic
      attack,major or minor stroke preceding the intervention ipsilateral to the treated lesion.
      Technical success relates to periprocedural events that occur from the initiation of the
      procedure and extend through the first 24-hour postoperative period. Primary technical
      success was defined on an intent-to-treat basis, and it will requires the successful
      exclusion of the carotid plaque by surgical or interventional means. Technical success
      include the outcomes and complications of preoperative carotid angiograms whenever these
      imaging studies are obtained prior to the carotid intervention. For carotid endarterectomy,
      primary technical success implies a successful removal of the carotid plaque and closure of
      the artery with or without patch and less than a 30% residual stenosis. For carotid stenting,
      the introduction and deployment of the embolic protection device and the carotid stent in the
      absence of stroke, myocardial infarction, death, surgical conversion, or vascular obstruction
      constitutes primary technical success.

      All complications should be categorized as local vascular, local nonvascular, and systemic.
      Other complications. As with any vascular procedures, complications after carotid
      interventions should be reported in a systematic and standardized manner with a description
      of the degrees of severity. Although assigning a degree of severity to all complications of
      different methods of treatment may be difficult, severity scales should be provided whenever
      possible so adverse events can be assessed and compared. The following severity scale has
      been modified from the reporting standards for lower extremity ischemia:Mild (1) refers to a
      complication that resolves spontaneously or with minimal intervention, does not increase the
      hospital length of stay, and does not cause permanent disability. Moderate (2) refers to the
      need for significant intervention, prolongation of hospitalization more than 24 hours, and at
      most, minor permanent disability that does not interfere with normal daily activity. A severe
      complication (3) needs major surgical, endovascular or medical intervention, may be
      associated with prolonged convalescence, is usually accompanied by prolonged or permanent
      disability, and may result in death.
    
  