
    
      This is a randomized clinical trial of quantitative character, realized in a classical ballet
      school in Teresina, Piauí, Brazil, from June to October 2017. The present research was
      approved by the Ethics and Research Committee of State University of Piauí. The participants
      or their guardians signed the Term of Free and Informed Consent in accordance with Resolution
      466/12 of the National Health Council (CNS).

      The Random randomization in two groups (n=10, each) happens through drawing lots, with the
      intervention group (GI) submitted to the thrust technique of the tibiotarsal joint for
      decoaptation of this joint, and the control group (GC), to its simulation.

      The instruments used to data collect from the study were: (1) Visual Analog Scale (VAS), a
      scale that quantifies the intensity of pain through punctuated values, at one extreme of 0,
      indicating "no pain", to 10, pointing an "maximum pain" 19; (2) Digital algometer (Wagner
      Instuments®) with a capacity of ten kilograms-force (kgf) and compression deformation of 10
      cm, to evaluate the threshold of painful pressure; (3) Questionnaire, developed by the
      researchers, relating to personal and anthropometric data and related to the ballet practice.

      The data collection was carried out in an evaluation room at the ballet school, after the
      dancers had participated of the classical dance, by a research assistant that was blind to
      conditions for treatment. The evaluation of the dysfunction in compression of tibiotarsis and
      the osteopathic manipulation were performed by an experienced osteopath and familiarized with
      the technique.

      To determine the presence of tibiotarsal compression dysfunction in dancers who presented
      pain during dancing and on palpation at the anterior and posterior tibiotalar joint, the
      tibiotarsal coaptation and decoaptation test was performed20 (Figure 01): the participants
      were positioned in dorsal decubitus, already the osteopath, with the internal hand slipped
      the pinky finger on the medial edge of the foot to the talus neck, the other fingers on the
      dorsum of the foot and the thumbs on the sole of the foot, the ankle of the dancer was kept
      in slight inversion and plantar flexion, the therapist flexed his knees, until his forearms
      stay in the same level as the lower limbs of the participant. Shortly after tractioned and
      related the joint to perceive if there articulation mobility, or if the joint was fixed.

      The VAS was used to weighting (evaluate) the effects on pre and post-test of the osteopathic
      manipulation, and the algometer checked quantitatively. The points measured by this
      instrument were the anterior and posterior tibiotalar joint. Before the evaluation, the
      dancers were submitted to familiarity with the equipment in the triceps surae, in which they
      were orientated to inform when the pressure would become a painful sensation. In the
      assessment, the algometer was positioned perpendicularly at the aforementioned points (Figure
      01).

      The GI dancers, submitted to tibiotarsal thrust manipulation (Figure 02), were positioned in
      dorsal decubitus position with the heel outside the stretcher. The osteopath positioned in a
      lateral feint, inflected knees and forearms in the same plane as the participant's leg. With
      the internal hand slipped the pinky finger on the medial edge of the foot to the talus neck,
      the other fingers on the dorsum of the foot and the thumbs controlling the first metatarsus.
      The position of the talus in relation to the tibia was corrected, initially by placing the
      foot in eversion and then in dorsal flexion. The osteopath left the body weight behind,
      causing a traction in the joint. The thrust consisted of a impulse of high speed and low
      amplitude impulse in a caudal direction, closing the elbows20. The technique was performed
      until the obtainment (achieved) the joint noise only in the restricted foot, and only one
      service was performed. After one week, a reassessment of the painful sensation after the
      dance was performed.

      For the CG was performed the simulation of the technique, with the participants and the
      osteopath positioned in the same way as the IG, however there was no reproduction of joint
      noise.
    
  