
    
      This is a cross sectional/natural history protocol designed to investigate the clinical,

      microbiologic, and immunologic consequences of genetic immune defects in the oral cavity. The
      hypothesis is that genetic immune defects will lead to alterations in the local immune
      response and microbial colonization and ultimately predispose to susceptibility to oral
      infections and inflammatory conditions.

      In the cross-sectional phase the following individuals will be enrolled, evaluated and
      screened for presence and severity of periodontitis, presence of a genetic defects and
      sampled for studies in oral immunity and microbiome: 1) individuals diagnosed with genetic
      immune defects 2) individuals with severe periodontitis of suspected genetic etiology and
      their family members 3) healthy volunteers. Subjects identified with a genetic immune defect
      and with presence of oral disease (primarily periodontitis) may enter the natural history
      phase of the study to be clinically followed at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) over
      time. This protocol aims to determine whether specific genetic immune defects will predispose
      to oral disease (primarily periodontitis) and to better understand consequences of immune
      deficiency on the oral immune response and microbiome.

      Primary Objectives

        1. Investigate the degree, scope, etiology and natural history of oral manifestations in
           patients with genetic immune defects.

        2. Characterize the immune response in the oral cavity of patients with genetic immune
           defects.

        3. Characterize the microbiome in the oral cavity of patients with genetic immune defects.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Assay development/validation for the study of tissue immunity and microbiome
           characterization

        2. Establishment of normative values for immune mediators and microbial elements at the
           oral cavity

      Study Population (s)

      The study population will include:

        1. Subjects with genetic immune defects

        2. Subjects with severe periodontitis of suspected genetic etiology and their family
           members

        3. Healthy volunteers (with/without periodontal disease)

      Design

      This is a cross-sectional/natural history study for the evaluation of clinical, immunologic,
      and microbiologic oral manifestations (primarily periodontitis) in patients diagnosed with
      genetic immune defects or those with severe periodontitis of suspected genetic etiology and
      healthy volunteer subjects.

      Cross Sectional Phase: Three groups of subjects will be enrolled in the cross-sectional phase
      of the study 1) individuals diagnosed with genetic immune defects 2) individuals with severe
      periodontitis of suspected genetic etiology and their family members that include parents or
      siblings 3) healthy volunteers (with/without periodontal disease). All groups will be
      evaluated for oral disease (periodontitis) and sampled for oral immunity, systemic immunity
      and microbiome characterization. Individuals with severe periodontitis in the
      presence/absence of a genetic defect may be offered the option of receiving standard of care
      inflammatory control periodontal treatment at NIH without travel compensation, following the
      cross-sectional portion of the study. Family members (parents or siblings) of individuals
      with periodontal disease of suspected genetic may be asked to participate in this study.
      During the course of genetic testing, family members may be enrolled in the cross sectional
      phase of the study for phenotyping and genetic testing.

      Natural History Phase: Subjects identified with a genetic defect with the presence of oral
      disease may enroll in the natural history phase of the study to be followed clinically over
      time.

      Primary Outcome Measures

        1. Clinical intraoral characterization (i.e., presence and severity of periodontitis).

        2. Characterize the immune response in the oral cavity of patients with genetic immune
           defects

        3. Characterize the microbiome in the oral cavity of patients with genetic immune defects

      Secondary Outcome Measures

        1. Assay development/validation for the study of tissue immunity and microbiome
           characterization

        2. Establishment of normative values for immune mediators and microbial elements at the
           oral cavity

      Exploratory Outcome Measures

      Initial data from this study may generate new hypotheses for investigation as part of this
      study.
    
  