
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. In patients with hematologic malignancies who are undergoing standard reduced intensity
      conditioning regimen (RIC) prior to allogeneic stem cell transplantation, to evaluate the
      safety and feasibility of Clostridium butyricum CBM 588 probiotic strain (CBM588) treatment
      by assessing:

      Ia. Type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration of adverse events,
      including diarrhea, bloodstream/intestinal infections.

      Ib. Patient compliance, the patients' ability to take CBM588 during the treatment period.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the incidence and severity of adverse events (AE) among CBM588-treated and
      untreated patients, including diarrhea, bloodstream infections and intestinal infections.

      II. Estimate overall survival (OS), cumulative incidence (CI) of chronic graft versus host
      disease (GVHD), relapse/progression, and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100 days, 6 months, 1
      year and 2 years.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare gut microbiome diversity among CBM588-treated/untreated patients. II. Obtain a
      preliminary estimate of the possible association between gut microbiome diversity and
      bloodstream infections.

      III. Characterize and compare graft versus host disease (GVHD) inflammatory biomarkers
      (presence, level) among CBM588-treated and untreated patients.

      IV. Obtain preliminary estimates of gut microbiome diversity, as assessed by the inverse
      Simpson Index, in CBM588-treated/untreated patients.

      V. Obtain a preliminary estimate of the possible association between gut microbiome diversity
      and acute GVHD cumulative incidence, including time to onset.

      VI. Characterize and compare urinary uindoxyl sulfate, tryptophan and kynurenine levels
      between CBM588- treated and untreated patients.

      VII. To obtain a preliminary estimate of gut microbiome diversity and calorie intake.

      VIII. Characterize and compare impact of CBM588 administration on regulatory T cells (T regs)
      reconstitution between CBM588-treated and untreated patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (CBM588): Patients receive standard peri-/post-transplant supportive care and CBM588
      orally (PO) twice daily (BID) from day of admission to day 28 in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (STANDARD OF CARE): Patients receive standard peri-/post-transplant supportive care.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 100 days and then up to 2
      years.
    
  