
    
      Increasing numbers of aged patients with multiple chronic diseases are undergoing major
      surgery. In the first third the last century, surgery was considered a desperate measure and
      patients greater than 50 years of age were felt incapable of sustaining the rigors of an
      inguinal hernia repair. Advances in anesthesia during the last century have allowed surgeons
      to develop an extraordinary array of procedures with excellent outcomes. Over 5.5 million
      patients aged 60 and over had major procedures in 1994. Centenarians routinely undergo
      surgical procedures.

      Notwithstanding the enthusiasm for surgical treatments, morbidity, mortality, and recovery
      times for elderly patients are still substantially greater than for younger patients. Some
      morbidities, such as postoperative delirium and cognitive dysfunction appear to predominantly
      affect elderly patients. In a previous study, Dr. Valerie Lawrence, a co-investigator on this
      proposal, demonstrated that recovery from major surgery, as measured by the ability to
      accomplish standard activities of daily living, takes an average of 6 weeks while more
      complicated instrumental activities of daily living take an average of 3 months to return to
      baseline in elderly surgical patients. These data have profound implications for initiatives
      to control length of hospital stay, utilization of resources and costs of care. Evidence
      suggests that family members are requiring extra time off work to care for family members
      discharged earlier from hospitals.

      Published reports and our preliminary data support the notion that intraoperative
      administration of adrenergic receptor antagonists (blockers) will improve functional recovery
      following surgery under general anesthesia. There is value in targeting functional status for
      elders undergoing surgery, because there is a direct relationship between functional status
      and utilization of health resources. Maximizing postoperative recovery, as opposed to
      minimizing morbidity and mortality, associated with surgical interventions in the elderly is
      consistent with the goal of prolonging "active life expectancy" expounded by Healthy People
      2002.
    
  