
    
      Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is characterized by an exaggerated heart
      rate response to the standing position in a patient with symptoms of orthostatic intolerance.
      It is likely a heterogeneous disorder representing a common manifestation of a number of
      possible underlying derangements such as impaired sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction,
      excessive sympathetic drive, volume dysregulation and deconditioning. While the actual
      prevalence of POTS is unknown, it has been estimated to affect at least 500,000 individuals
      in the United States. It predominately affects young individuals, and particularly women.

      The prevalence of iron deficiency in adolescents with POTS has been reported to be greater
      than that expected in the general adolescent population. The use of intravenous iron sucrose
      has been shown to be a safe and effective therapy for correcting iron deficiency in children
      and adolescents. Anecdotal experience at our clinic has demonstrated an immediate reduction
      in self-reported orthostatic symptoms in several patients diagnosed with POTS following the
      administration of intravenous iron sucrose for iron deficiency.

      This study is a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study to assess the efficacy of
      a single iron sucrose infusion in adolescents with non-anemic iron deficiency and POTS.
      Subjects will be screened at outpatient clinic visit appointments. Interested qualified
      subjects will be consented and offered participation in this trial. Once consent and assent
      (for patients less than 18 years of age) has been obtained, subjects will be randomized to
      either treatment or placebo group. Subjects will participate in two on site study visits.
      During the first visit subjects will complete baseline laboratory studies, tilt table test
      and study questionnaires. Subjects will then receive the intervention study drug or placebo.
      The second study visit will occur 7 days + 2 days from the first study visit. During the
      second study visit subjects will repeat laboratory studies, tilt table test and study
      questionnaires. Follow up questionnaires will be sent to all subjects six months following
      the initial study visit.
    
  