
    
      -  Postoperative cognitive dysfunction is a common postoperative complication in elderly
           patients. Despite the role of the risk of anesthesia and/or surgery in developing
           postoperative cognitive dysfunction, it can be developed even with surgeries performed
           under local or regional anesthesia.

        -  Ageing is the most common risk factor for developing postoperative cognitive dysfunction
           that can affect memory and speech. Also, impaired vision may be another important risk
           factor.

        -  Cataract surgeries can be considered the most common surgery performed in elderly
           patients. It is usually performed under local anesthesia (peribulbar, retrobulbar, or
           sub-tenon blocks), however, sedation is usually required to relieve the anxiety of the
           patients and induce amnesia.

        -  there are many sedative agents that can be used with such patients, the most commonly
           used are benzodiazepines. However, benzodiazepines use may increase the incidence of
           postoperative cognitive dysfunction.

        -  Ketamine, the dissociative anesthetic, acts mainly through inhibition of NMDA receptors
           that reduce the neuronal loss of the cortex. it may attenuate the postoperative
           cognitive dysfunction and induce neuroprotective effect through suppressing the
           inflammatory response and minimizing cerebral ischemia.

        -  dexmedetomidine is a sedative and analgesic agent that have the advantage of minimal
           respiratory depression and can be used as a sedative agent in cataract surgery. Studied
           revealed that its sedative analgesic effect is not associated with changes in memory.

        -  This randomized controlled double-blinded study will be carried upon 90 elderly patients
           undergoing cataract surgery under peribulbar anesthesia where they will be classified
           into 3 groups: - Group I (Placebo Group). Where the patients will receive normal saline
           as a placebo.

      Group II (Ketamine group). Where patients will receive ketamine in a dose of 0.3 mg/kg in
      physiological solution.

      Group III (Dexmedetomidine group). where patients will receive dexmedetomidine in a dose of
      0.5 ug/kg in a physiological solution.

      -Primary outcome will be the incidence of POCD, the secondary outcomes will be the
      hemodynamic changes and the changes in the intraocular pressure.
    
  