
    
      To date, no studies have examined how foam rolling effects the PPT of the ipsilateral
      antagonist and contralateral muscle. There is a gap in the literature regarding our knowledge
      of the effects of foam rolling on these muscles. This will be the first study to examine the
      acute effects of a foam rolling intervention on ipsilateral antagonist and contralateral
      muscle group PPT.

      Forty-five (N=45) healthy adults (18-65 years) from California State University Dominguez
      Hills (CSUDH) will be recruited for this study via convenience sampling. Data collection will
      take place in the CSUDH sports medicine laboratory. Prior to testing, participants will fill
      out a screening questionnaire with questions that represent the exclusion criteria which will
      be used to determine ineligibility for this study.

      Prior to participant recruitment and enrollment, a pilot study will be done on 10
      participants to establish rater reliability using the methods mentioned below. After
      acceptable reliability is achieved, recruitment and enrollment will continue.

      Participants who meet the inclusion criteria and consent to participate will be enrolled in
      the study. Participants will read and sign a CSUDH approved consent form prior to beginning
      data collection. Following consent, participants will also fill out a questionnaire to
      provide demographic information which includes age, height, and weight.

      Following completion of the paperwork, all participants will undergo testing which will be
      conducted between the hours of 10am and 2pm. Each data collection session will last for
      approximately 10 minutes. Pressure pain threshold (PPT) will be measured using a digital
      algometer on the ipsilateral left quadriceps, left hamstring, and right quadriceps muscle
      group. All subjects will follow a 2-minute video-guided foam roll intervention on the left
      quadriceps using a rigid foam roll with outer foam covering. The data collection process is
      as follows:

        1. Pretest measures (subject standing): PPT of the ipsilateral left quadriceps, left
           hamstring and right quadriceps group (subject is standing during testing)

        2. Intervention: 2-minute video-guided foam roll intervention using a rigid foam roller.

        3. Posttest measures (subject standing): PPT of the ipsilateral left quadriceps, left
           hamstring, and right quadriceps group.

      Collected data will be transferred to SPSS v.22 (IBM SPSS, Chicago, IL). Means,standard
      deviations, 95% confidence intervals (95% CI), and ranges for participant descriptive data
      will be calculated. Pressure pain threshold pretest and posttest differences will be
      calculated using the paired t-test The p-value will be considered significant at the .05
      level using a two-tailed test (α2 =.05)
    
  