
    
      Alcohol use is a major problem in HIV care. Sixty-six percent of people living with HIV
      (PLWH) report using alcohol in the previous year, 8-20% report drinking at hazardous or heavy
      levels, and 30% report current binge drinking (>5 drinks in an occasion in the past 30 days).
      PLWH who are hazardous drinkers, compared to those who abstain, experience a significant
      increased risk for: taking ART medications off schedule, suboptimal adherence to ART, and
      engaging in sexual risk behavior. Hazardous alcohol consumption has been found to affect
      every stage of the HIV care continuum, from diagnosis, to linkage to care, to retention, and
      viral suppression, making it a critical factor in HIV treatment that, if unaddressed, may
      significantly contribute to onward transmission.

      Behavioral interventions for HIV-infected drinkers have provided limited evidence of benefit.
      HIV-prevention interventions do not typically address alcohol use, and it is often overlooked
      in HIV care. While there have been several clinical trials of alcohol interventions for PLWH
      in the US, these trials have shown mixed results for reducing alcohol use and improving
      HIV-related outcomes. No alcohol intervention for PLHW has shown long-term reductions in
      heavy drinking or a significant impact on HIV-related outcomes. One hypothesized reason for
      this limited success is that PLWH who are at-risk drinkers are also likely to have multiple
      overlapping problems. It is estimated that 38% of PLWH meet criteria for both a substance use
      and another psychiatric disorder and also have a myriad of behavioral health needs (e.g.,
      treatment adherence, condom use), any one of which would benefit from intervention. In order
      to adequately address these issues, PLWH require innovative alcohol intervention strategies
      that can also have an impact on other behavioral and mental health needs, in a format that
      can be feasibly delivered in the context of HIV care.

      Brief acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) is a promising intervention for HIV-infected
      drinkers. ACT is a transdiagnostic treatment that targets experiential avoidance (repeated
      attempts to eliminate or avoid difficult thoughts/feelings) as an underlying factor common to
      mental and behavioral health problems. Mindfulness skills and values-guided behavioral action
      plans are used to decrease experiential avoidance and impact a broad array of psychological
      symptoms. ACT has shown efficacy for treatment of anxiety depression, and chronic pain,
      making it a promising approach for HIV-infected hazardous drinkers. A recently published
      meta-analysis also indicates that ACT is efficacious for smoking, opiate use, methamphetamine
      use, and polydrug abuse, showing a small to medium effect size compared to active treatment
      controls (e.g., Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), pharmacotherapy). ACT's unique focus on
      skills that increase the ability to experience and accept, rather than change and control,
      urges and cravings related to substance use is different from more traditional forms of
      addiction treatment such as CBT. Indeed, a pilot RCT of a brief, telephone-delivered ACT
      intervention for smoking cessation had quit rates more than double that of traditional CBT
      for smokers with comorbid depression. However, ACT has not been studied as an intervention
      for hazardous drinkers.

      The overall objective of this study is to adapt an existing brief ACT intervention and pilot
      test its feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy for PLWH who are hazardous
      drinkers. We hypothesize that the resulting intervention will have a significant effect on
      biological and self-reported measures of alcohol use and ART adherence. Secondary analyses
      will also examine changes in acceptance-a known mechanism of change in ACT -symptoms of
      depression and anxiety, and drug use, which we expect to differ by treatment group. The
      specific aims are as follows:

      Aim 1: Adapt an existing brief ACT intervention for HIV-infected at-risk drinkers (ACT). We
      will accomplish this aim by: Modifying an existing 5-session, telephone-delivered ACT
      intervention for smoking cessation using a theoretical framework that has been previously
      used to systematically adapt evidence-based HIV interventions. We will conduct iterative
      multidisciplinary team meetings, focus group discussions with HIV clinic patients (N =
      15-20), and qualitative interviews with HIV clinic providers (N = 5-10) to inform the
      adaptation process, get feedback on intervention content, and develop a new treatment manual.

      Aim 2: Conduct a pilot superiority trial of ACT compared to a brief alcohol intervention. We
      will accomplish this aim by: Randomly assigning N = 74 HIV-infected hazardous drinkers (50%
      women) to the intervention developed in Aim 1 (n = 30) or a brief alcohol intervention
      previously developed for PLWH that is nearly equivalent in number and length of sessions. We
      will assess feasibility, acceptability, and primary trial outcomes of alcohol use and ART
      adherence immediately post-treatment and again at 3 and 6-months post-randomization.
      Secondary outcomes of changes in acceptance, symptoms of depression, symptoms of anxiety, and
      drug use will be assessed at all time points.

      The proposed research will provide essential pilot data for an R01 application to conduct a
      full-scale RCT to determine the efficacy of ACT compared with the current evidence-based
      treatment for PLWH. If successful, this intervention will have broad implications for
      implementation in HIV and other integrated care settings.
    
  