
    
      The inherited bone marrow disorders (IBMD) comprise both the traditional inherited bone
      marrow failure syndromes (BMFS) and the more recently described entity of germline
      predisposition to haematological malignancy. Patients with IBMD often present highly complex
      health issues that are unique and not commonly encountered. As a consequence, clinicians may
      feel less confident in managing these unique issues given their lack of frequent exposure to
      this patient group. Recent advances in genomics have resulted in more accurate diagnosis of
      IBMD and their subtyping and have resulted in a rapidly evolving field with multiple
      opportunities to improve patient outcomes.

      Stage 1 of this study evaluated and quantified the current challenges faced by 3 stakeholder
      groups, patients with IBMD, patient advocates and nationally, clinicians who care for IBMD
      patients. The results demonstrated that the challenges described in Stage 1 may be overcome
      by instigating a multidisciplinary approach to care for BMF patients. Interventions designed
      to address the challenges identified in stage 1 form the model of multidisciplinary care to
      be implemented in the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre/ Royal Melbourne Hospital clinic. The
      model of care involves:

        1. Provide access to genetic testing with expert result interpretation

        2. Presentation of clinical information and relevant investigations (including genetic) at
           a multidisciplinary team meeting involving haematologists, molecular
           haematopathologists, clinical genetics, genetic counsellors, scientists and specialised
           nurses.

        3. Provision of a suggested care plan to clinician

        4. Genetic counselling and provision of written disease specific information including
           details of suggested care plan to patient

        5. Genetic counselling and provision of written information and access to testing for at
           risk family members

        6. Dedicated team focused on many individually rare diseases with a demonstrated focus on
           provision of comprehensive care

        7. Opportunity to participate in local and international research

      The EMBRACE study will focus on evaluating the model of care.
    
  