
    
      This study involves a 2-group design with stratified cluster randomization at the level of
      the preschool. The investigators will recruit 60 preschools from LA County's most vulnerable
      communities, stratified by size (large, small). The investigators will randomly select pairs
      of schools from each stratum and randomly assign one member of each pair to the intervention
      or control conditions. Given the 10-month instructional year (Sept. 1-June 30), preschools
      will be recruited in three cohorts over three instructional years (~20 schools per cohort).
      To control for time trends in outcomes, the randomization protocol will be implemented
      independently within each cohort. Baseline data collection, conducted in the first six weeks
      of the school year, will include surveys (site directors, teachers, parents), anthropometric
      measures (children), preschool policy reviews and direct observation in preschools including
      child-level eating behavior and physical activity.

      The multilevel intervention will be initiated immediately following baseline data collection
      and will consist of 1) establishment of organizational policies to support healthy nutrition
      and physical activity, 2) integration of nutrition and physical activity content into
      curricula 3) supports for teachers and staff to model healthy behavior, and 4) engagement of
      parents as partners in implementing healthy policies in preschool and at home. Implementation
      measures will be collected throughout the project period. Follow-up data collection, in the
      last four-six weeks of the school year, will mirror baseline data collection.

      Study Hypotheses:

        1. Children at intervention schools will gain less weight relative to height gains compared
           to children at control schools, resulting in lower mean BMI z-scores at follow-up
           (effectiveness). Outcomes will be assessed in the overall sample and among the subset of
           children who are overweight or obese at baseline.

        2. Intervention preschools will have greater implementation of healthy nutrition and
           physical activity policies and practices at follow-up compared to control preschools.

      The primary effectiveness outcome will be child age-and sex-adjusted BMI z-score. The
      investigators will obtain baseline data on 1,630 children, 815 per condition, 60 preschool
      site directors and approximately 135 teachers. Estimating 80% child retention at follow-up,
      the investigators anticipate having follow-up data on 1,304 children, 652 per study arm. Data
      will also be collected from the parents of participating children at baseline and follow-up.
    
  