
    
      This is a phase 2, non-randomised, open-label study that aims at evaluating the efficacy of
      single agent PEG-BCT-100 in adult patients with relapsed/refractory AML. Eligible patients
      will receive intravenous (IV) infusion of PEG-BCT-100 weekly until disease progression,
      unacceptable drug-related toxicity(ies), allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      or withdrawal of subject consent.

      Pharmacokinetic (PK) of PEG-BCT-100 and pharmacodynamics (PD) activity of PEG-BCT-100 on
      arginine depletion will be evaluated throughout the study. Plasma arginine level,
      intracellular blast arginine level (IBAL) in peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) will
      be measured at specific time points. PEG-BCT-100 will be given once weekly at 1600 Units/kg
      (2.7mg/kg) per dose for three weeks (Cycle 1). If the post-treatment IBAL-BM examined within
      5 days prior to each cycle fails to drop at least 70% from baseline value and disease
      response fails to achieve complete remission (CR) or complete remission with incomplete blood
      count recovery (CRi), PEG-BCT-100 may be increased to 2500 U/kg (the maximum tolerated dose
      as reported previously) at investigator's discretion. Disease response will be assessed
      within 5 days prior to each cycle according to the International Working Group (IWG) AML
      Response Criteria.

      Safety and toxicity will be assessed through physical examinations, vital signs, blood tests
      and urinalysis throughout the study. Adverse event (AE) and serious adverse events (SAE) will
      be reported according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse
      Events version 4.03 (CTCAE v4.03) until 28 days after the last dose of PEG-BCT-100.

      Immunogenicity response including anti-drug antibody (ADA) level and neutralizing antibody
      level will be assessed weekly for the first 2 cycles of PEG-BCT-100, pre-dose of each cycle
      thereafter and End of Study (EoS). Specific response predictive biomarkers in circulating and
      BM blasts, and emerging genetic markers will also be explored in the study.
    
  