
    
      CM is the most common central nervous system (CNS) complication of AIDS worldwide and
      accounts for up to a third of all deaths from AIDS in many developing countries. Current
      treatments for CM are lacking in both effectiveness and accessibility, particularly in
      limited-resources settings. Conventional therapies utilizing an amphotericin B deoxycholate
      (ampho B)-based regimen require maintaining intravenous access (IV) and monitoring and
      treating any associated complications. The price to acquire ampho B can also be prohibitive
      to successful treatment. Cumulatively, a treatment course with ampho B is neither cost
      effective nor administratively efficient, leaving patients either untreated or inadequately
      treated with low-dose regimens of fluconazole alone.

      Fluconazole is widely available, inexpensive, can be given orally, has a demonstrated safety
      profile over a broad range of doses, and has proven activity against the fungus that causes
      CM, Cryptococcus neoformans. All of these factors make fluconazole a potential treatment
      option for a wide range of people. However, at its present recommended dosage, fluconazole is
      only expected to be successful in 34% to 42% of patients. This rate is lower than regimens
      combining fluconazole with other treatments including flucytosine or ampho B.

      The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether high-dose fluconazole is safe and effective
      for the treatment of CM for up to 10 weeks. This study also collected information about
      treating CM with ampho B (either alone or with another drug, either flucytosine or
      fluconazole).

      For this study, 168 HIV-infected people with CM participated for a duration of 24 weeks. This
      study proceeded with 2 stages and each stage consisted of up to 4 steps. Participants could
      take part in only one stage of the study. Stage 1 measured the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      of fluconazole in participants. Stage 2 consisted of dose validation and safety monitoring.

      In Stage 1, participants were randomly assigned to receive either fluconazole only or an
      ampho B-based regimen (a regimen that is either ampho B alone or ampho B in combination with
      5-fluorocytosine or fluconazole, according to the local standard of care).Three doses of
      fluconazole were tested, and the MTD was found to be 2000 mg/day. The two higher doses of
      fluconazole tested in Stage 1 (1600 mg/day and 2000 mg/day doses) were tested further in
      Stage 2 of the study.

      Participants enrolled in Stage 2 were randomly assigned to receive treatment with either
      fluconazole only (at one of the 2 doses (1600 mg/day or 2000 mg/day) found to be safe in
      Stage 1) or an ampho B-based regimen.

      After randomization in Step 1, participants in both Stage 1 and Stage 2 could be enrolled in
      up to three additional steps. In Step 2, participants who were randomly assigned to receive
      the ampho B-based regimen and who were intolerant to the regimen (experienced a treatment
      limiting toxicity [TLT]) received fluconazole (400-800mg daily). Participants who received
      study-provided fluconazole in Step 1 or in Step 2 could be enrolled in Step 3 if they had a
      negative cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) culture. Participants in Step 3 received fluconazole
      (400mg daily) until Week 10. At Week 10, all participants were enrolled in Step 4 and
      received a daily dose of fluconazole of 200mg until the end of the study (Week 24).
      Participants in both stages beginning treatment with ampho B received daily ampho B
      intravenously for up to 2 weeks.

      Before entering the study, potential participants attended a screening visit where they had
      CSF collected via lumbar puncture. HIV testing was also conducted, along with clinical
      assessments, and a health and medical history questionnaire. Participants had blood
      collection, an electrocardiogram (ECG), and a pregnancy test (if applicable) at that visit.
      Once accepted into the study, participants again answered questions about their health and
      medication history; had a complete physical exam, blood collection, HIV testing, neurological
      exam, lumbar puncture, and ECG; and may have had a pregnancy test (if applicable).

      Study visits occurred during Weeks 1 (at Days 1, 4, and 7), 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 24, and extra
      visits could occur for individualized reasons. Total study duration was 24 weeks. Plasma,
      urine, serum, and CSF samples were collected from all participants and stored for possible
      future use.

      Note on efficacy population versus safety population: After entering the study, participants
      had their CM diagnosis confirmed by testing of the CSF collected via lumbar puncture.
      Confirmation could take up to 2 weeks after study entry. Due to the mortality rate of CM,
      participants received treatment before CM diagnosis confirmation. Post-entry 12 participants
      either reported non-confirmatory baseline results making them ineligible. An additional 2
      participants were found to be ineligible for the study but died prior to being found
      ineligible (one had non-confirmatory baseline results, one was on a disallowed medication)
      All participants (n=168) are included in the safety population. Participants who were
      ineligible after study entry were excluded from the efficacy population (n=16). The efficacy
      population had 154 participants. Outcomes will specify if the efficacy population is used
      instead of the safety population.
    
  