
    
      Rationale: Low physical activity (PA) levels are common in hospitalised patients. Digital
      health tools could be valuable to prevent negative effects of inactivity. We therefore
      developed Hospital Fit 1.0; a smartphone application with accelerometer, designed for
      hospitalised patients. It enables objective activity monitoring, provides patients insight in
      their recovery progress and offers a tailored exercise program. Hospital Fit 1.0 has recently
      been updated, resulting in the improved Hospital Fit 2.0. Improvements in the accelerometer
      algorithm are made, a goalsetting and reminder function are added, and data from the app can
      be linked to the electronic medical record. It is hypothesized that using Hospital Fit 2.0 as
      part of the physiotherapy treatment of hospitalised patients will result in an increase in
      the amount of PA performed compared to patients who do not use Hospital Fit 2.0 as part of
      the physiotherapy treatment.

      Objective: To investigate if using Hospital Fit 2.0 as part of the usual care physiotherapy
      treatment will result in an increase in the amount of PA performed compared to patients who
      did not use Hospital Fit 2.0 as part of the usual care physiotherapy treatment.

      Study design: Assessor blinded randomised controlled trial. Study population: 78 patients
      hospitalised equally distributed over the department of Internal Medicine and the department
      of Pulmonology at the Maastricht University Medical Center.

      Intervention (if applicable): PA will be measured with an accelerometer until discharge with
      a maximum of seven days in all patients. The control group receives usual care physiotherapy
      (n=39), while the intervention group uses Hospital Fit additionally (n=39).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary outcome parameter: time spent walking per day (min).
      Secondary outcome parameters: time spent standing per day (min.), average time spent standing
      and walking (min.) measured over total measurement time (max. 7 days), number of transitions
      per day and average number of transitions measured over total measurement time (max. 7 days),
      number of times walking longer than 5 minutes per day and the average number measured over
      total measurement time (max.7 days), number of times sitting/lying longer than 30 minutes per
      day and the average number measured over total measurement time (max. 7 days) and the mILAS
      score per day (max. 7 days).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The burden and risks on patients are minimal. The control group will receive
      usual care physiotherapy and will wear an accelerometer. The intervention group will use
      Hospital Fit 2.0 additionally. Wearing a small accelerometer and using Hospital Fit 2.0
      should not be a burden to patients. The only burden is the time it take to prepare subjects
      (install app, explain study). No invasive interventions will take place.
    
  