
    
      Rationale: Radiation therapy has become indispensable in cancer treatment. However, it is
      associated with severe side effects. Innovation in radiation therapy has resulted in the
      development of MR-guided radiation therapy (MRGRT) which allows high precision radiotherapy
      under real time MR visualization. High precision MRGRT has the potential of dose escalation
      and margin reduction and may potentially lead to higher cure rates and less toxicity. MRGRT
      can be delivered by the MRI guided Linear Accelerator (MR-Linac) which integrates a
      state-of-the-art linear accelerator, 1.5T diagnostic quality MRI and an online adaptive
      workflow.

      Objective: The Multi-OutcoMe EvaluatioN of radiation Therapy Using the MR-Linac Study
      (MOMENTUM) aims to accelerate the technical and clinical development of Anatomic and Biologic
      MRGRT and facilitate the evidence-based introduction of the MR-Linac into clinical practice.
      In MOMENTUM, technical and clinical data are gathered in order to optimize software, evaluate
      treatment outcomes, toxicities and progression free, disease free, and overall survival per
      disease site, and create a repository of anatomical and biological MR sequences to develop
      new features.

      Study design: A multi-institutional, international observational cohort study. Study
      population: Cancer patients ≥ 18 years receiving treatment and/or imaging on an MR-Linac
      machine are eligible for enrollment.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: MOMENTUM will collect technical and clinical patient data.
      The technical patient data is defined as data generated by (the use of) the MR-Linac and will
      include data collection during scans performed during routine care as well as research MRIs.
      Clinical data will be categorized into six classes: demographic, disease characteristics,
      treatment classifiers, toxicity outcomes, cancer control outcomes and PROs.
    
  