
    
      Secondary Hypothesis for the study is to compare the impact of the intervention and treatment
      as usual on patients' satisfaction with care, resolution of interpersonal and family problems
      and attributions to fully understand the mechanism of action of the intervention.

      Background and Significance:

      Most economically developed nations are multi-ethnic. If current demographic trends continue
      societies will become more ethnically diverse. UK censuses revealed that the proportion of
      the UK population belonging to a non-white minority ethnic group increased by 53% between
      1991 and 2001, from 3 million to 4.6 million (or 7.9% of the UK population). Half of the
      total ethnic minority population is of south Asian family origin (UK census 2001).

      Suicide, a self-directed violence, is a global public health problem. According to a recent
      report from the World Health Organization, world wide, suicide claimed the lives of an
      estimated 815,000 people in the year 2000, for an over all age-adjusted rate of 14.5 per
      100,000 (WHO, 2002). In the United Kingdom, suicide is the second most common cause of death
      in people aged 15-24 (Hawton et al, 1998).

      Prevention of suicide is now included in health policy initiatives in several countries and
      reduction in suicidal behavior, both fatal and non-fatal, is part of the Health for All
      targets of the World Health Organization (WHO, 1992). Prevention of suicide is also a
      priority for health services in England (Department of health, 1999a,b, 2002).

      Deliberate self-poisoning is one of the commonest reasons for medical admission in the United
      Kingdom. (NHS Centre for R&D 1998) it is a major public health problem with over 170,000
      hospital attendances per annum (Kapur et al, 1998). Health significance of attempted suicide
      is further underlined by the links with suicide. Of patients presenting to hospital with
      deliberate self-harm, up to 15% eventually kill themselves. (Nordentoft et al, 1993). It has
      been estimated that in the year following a suicide attempt, the risk of a repeat attempt or
      death by suicide may be up to 100 times greater than that seen in people who have never
      attempted suicide (Garland & Zigler, 1993)

      Among the ethnic minority groups in UK there are reports of high rates of suicide in Asian
      women (Soni Raleigh et al, 1990; 1992; Neelman et al, 1996; Patel & Gaw, 1996). Previous
      studies from the United Kingdom have also suggested that rates of self-harm in young Asian
      women are higher than in the white population (Burke, 1976; Merrill & Owens, 1986; Glover et
      al, 1989, Husain et al, 2006). Recent hospital data in London indicate that self harm was 2.5
      times more frequent among young Asian women (16-30 years) than white women of the same age
      and 62% of the former expressed regret that they had survived compared to 36% of the white
      women (Bhugra et al, 1999).

      There are concerns about the acceptability of current services to ethnic minority patients
      (Parkman et al, 1997; Goater et al, 1999; Sashidharan, 2001). The high rate of suicide in
      young women of South Asian origin in the UK may be related to untreat self-harm. Of the known
      risk factors for suicide, the most strongly predictive of a future suicide attempt or
      completed suicide are hopelessness and a prior history of self harm (Brown et al, 2000).

      In Manchester (MASH project) using data collected in Emergency departments over a four years
      period we have found a higher rate of self harm in South Asian than white European females
      (relative risk 1.5 times 16-24 years age group). Interpersonal conflicts within the family
      were the main precipitating factor, which was significantly more frequent than in white
      females. In spite of no differences in clinical presentation and suicidal intent there were
      significant differences in the Emergency departments' management of the two groups. Referral
      back to primary care was the most common management plan for South Asians while European
      whites were referred to psychiatric services for further management (Cooper et al, 2006). It
      is extremely important that effective treatments for deliberate self-harm patients that can
      be widely utilized in clinical practice be identified (Arsensman et al, 2001). We are not
      aware of any such intervention trials in the ethnic minorities in UK. As our population
      becomes increasingly diverse, tailoring practice to the area's demographics is crucial to
      providing effective treatment. For mental health providers in areas with large black and
      minority ethnic populations, it is essential to provide culturally acceptable services.

      The National Service Framework (NSF) for Mental Health in UK (DoH, 1999) reaffirms the issue
      of inappropriate services for black and ethnic minority communities. Standard one of the NSF
      requires working with both individuals and communities so that disparities can be combated.
      The mental health services should work against social exclusion, especially with regards to
      people from black and minority groups. The standard seven of the NSF focuses on reduction of
      rates of suicide.

      The NICE (National Institute of Clinical Excellence) guidelines also make recommendations for
      culturally sensitive services and suggest that the NHS Trusts must identify a board member to
      take responsibility for diversity and ethnic issues. Responsibilities must include adequacy
      of service provision, training on cultural difference, and monitoring service usage by
      ethnicity, consultation with local black and minority ethnic groups and achieving targets set
      in advance on a year by year basis.

      The low uptake of statutory services within the South Asian community in the UK calls into
      question the appropriateness of the existing services. There is a need to move away from
      stereotypes and overgeneralizations and start from the user's frame of reference, taking
      account of family dynamics, belief systems and cultural constraints. This indicates the
      urgent need for all those concerned with the mental health services for ethnic minorities to
      take positive action to eradicate these barriers.

      The Case for Action in Inside Outside (DOH, 2003) highlights the significantly raised risk of
      suicide and attempted suicide among young Asian women in the UK. Cutting the suicide rate by
      20% by 2010 is a key national mental health target. Catering for the needs of this high-risk
      group is a vital component of meeting this target.

      Under representation of ethnic minorities in mental health research: Despite the evidence for
      a relationship between ethnicity and increased risk for mental disorders, very little is
      known about providing mental health services to these groups. (Waheed et al, 2003). A new
      research agenda is needed to drive the development and evaluation of culturally sensitive and
      appropriate psychosocial interventions for ethnic minority groups. Not only studying
      effectiveness of these interventions but the efficiency of delivery systems as well are
      priorities for these special populations. (Miranda et al, 2003)

      UK clinical trials are not catering for the needs of ethnic minorities (Mason 2003), unlike
      USA where all National Institute of health (NIH) funded research has to be sensitive to these
      specific needs (Sheikh 2004). This compromises their generalisability and external validity.
      We have ourselves carried a systematic review and have found that few studies provided
      information on outcomes of mental health care for ethnic minorities. In UK to date only one
      RCT of an educational intervention for depression has been reported (Jacob 2002). This under
      reporting mainly due to under-representation of ethnic minorities in health research is
      concerning. In fact contrary to this prevalent under investment greater resources and effort
      should be directed toward researching those sections of society that have the greatest
      capacity to benefit from such research (i.e. those at high risk and/or not currently
      accessing or receiving appropriate care). (Sheikh 2006)

      High prevalence of suicidal ideations and depression among women of South Asian origin:

      In our previous study in primary care (Husain et 1997) and in the MRC funded population-based
      project (Gater et al (2008)) concerning the mental health needs of people of Pakistani family
      origin we have demonstrated that women of Pakistani origin living in the north west of
      England have high rates of psychological distress and depression, 13.8% of Pakistani women
      from the community based sample of the 475 women reported suicidal ideations on Self
      Reporting Questionnaire (SRQ). This was associated with increased psychological distress
      (mean SRQ score of 12.3 in participants with suicidal ideas as compare to 5.23 in those who
      did not report suicidal thoughts). This presumably reflects the hopelessness of some South
      Asian women in UK.

      Socio cultural determinants of deliberate self harm in women of South Asian origin:

      Primary care and hospital based research in the UK has demonstrated that there are socio
      cultural determinants such as cultural a synchronization between women of South Asian origin
      and their culture of family origin characteristically in realms of overprotective home
      environment, differences in social norms, interpersonal conflicts with in the family, issues
      around personal choices like relationships and marriage as the main precipitating factors
      (Hicks& Bhugra 2003). Compared to match GP attenders, who had not self harmed, the Asian
      self-harm group was significantly less in favour of arranged marriage and was more likely to
      have experienced a severe life event in a close relationship (Bhugra et al, 1999b). It has
      been shown that younger women are not restrained by religion from being involved in self-harm
      as compare to older women. (Glover et al 1989). In a survey in London 180 women reported the
      top three causes of suicide attempts by Asian women to be 'violence by the husband' (92%),
      'being trapped in an unhappy family situation' (90%), and 'depression' (90%) (Bhugra 2004).

      Failure to access care as a determinant of chronic distress:

      The higher rate of suicide in young women of South Asian origin (Raleigh VS, 1996) may be
      related to untreated self harm. A previous qualitative study has shown that young South Asian
      women tend to access care only at the point of desperation rather than before this crisis is
      reached (Chew-Graham et al 2002). There appears to be reluctance to seek early help thus
      prolonging the course of distress, which may be explained by a cultural attitude to mental
      disorders. Among South Asians, women are less likely to seek help (Fenton & Sadiq; 1993).
      Furthermore psychologically distressed Asian patients consulting their GP are more likely to
      present with a physical problem than their white counterparts, and are less likely to have
      their distress identified than their white counterparts (Wilson & MacCarthy1994). The
      literature suggests services fail to engage with ethnic minorities (Beliappa, 1991; Newham
      Project, 1998; Chew-Graham et al, 2001). Language problems may be a barrier to accessing
      appropriate treatment, although it is likely that most of the young South Asian women who
      self harmed were second or third generation and would be fluent in English. Low intensity of
      treatment and/or adverse experience of services may prevent South Asians from presenting
      again to hospital following subsequent self-harm episodes.

      A higher proportion of South Asians (particularly women) have cited an interpersonal problem
      with family members as the main precipitant of the self-harm episode in our study in
      Manchester (Cooper et al, 2006). The psychosocial stressors which precipitate self-harm in
      South Asian women may be culturally influenced, but this should not exclude them from
      psychological help. Both problem solving therapies (Salkovskis PM et al, 1990; Hawton et al,
      1998) and interpersonal forms of psychotherapy (Guthrie E et al, 1998) are of benefit in the
      treatment of patients who self-harm, and could potentially be of help to this group. However,
      work to adapt either approach, specifically to cater for the needs of South Asian women, is
      required. A recent systematic review of self harm concluded that while some treatments showed
      promise, further randomised intervention trials were required (Hawton K et al, 1998). Since
      most episodes of deliberate self-harm in South Asian women are precipitated by an
      interpersonal problem with family members there is a strong rationale for investigating the
      efficacy of an intervention, which addresses such issues.

      Problem solving therapy has a sound theoretical basis. Consistent evidence has shown that
      people who attempt suicide have poor problem solving skills (Linehan, Camper, Chiles et al,
      1987, Schotte & Clum, 1987; McLeavey, Day, Murray et al, 1987; Pollock & Williams, 2001). It
      is hypothesized that problem-solving deficits contribute to hopelessness and depression,
      which in turn increase the probability of suicidal ideation and intent (Schotte & Clum, 1987;
      D'Zurilla et al, 1998). Problem solving therapy has been found to be effective in reducing
      levels of depression and hopelessness in patients who have attempted suicide (Townsend et al,
      2001). In addition, problem-solving therapy is a brief, cost effective, pragmatic
      intervention that has the potential to be widely utilized in clinical practice. Thus, the
      problem solving deficits seen in suicidal individuals indicate that systematic training in
      problem solving skills with a focus on problems precipitating the suicide attempt is likely
      to have a positive effect on predictors of suicidality and repetition of suicidal behavior.
      Thus strong rationale exists for the pilot study of problem solving therapy in order to
      clearly determine the acceptability of this intervention following self harm in South Asian
      population.
    
  