
    
      This one year study plans to enroll 62 individuals into two groups. One group will receive
      the standard diabetic care provided and the second group will receive the standard diabetic
      care and training on how to use a computer to access the Internet. Participant assignment
      into either group is random (like flipping a coin). Study procedures will include the
      completion of questionnaires; a blood pressure reading, weight and a finger prick to obtain a
      blood sample.

      There will be a total of three visits. One visit will occur before the study starts and at a
      six-month interval during the study period. The time to complete the study procedures by the
      research staff is approximately 1 to 1½ hours.

        1. Questionnaires: Participants will meet with a research staff person who will ask
           questions about dietary intake, exercise activity, blood glucose levels, feet
           inspections, past and current Internet activity, and psychosocial well-being
           (depression, quality of life, self-efficacy, social support, readiness to change, and
           adjustment to diabetes). The time estimated for completion is about 45 to 60 minutes.

        2. Physiologic Measures: Participants will have their blood pressures taken, weight
           measured using a scale, and asked to provide 4-5 drops of blood from the fingertip to
           measure glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), Cholesterol (HDL:LDL ratio) will be measured to
           evaluate improvement in short-and-long term (3 months to one year) management of
           diabetes.

        3. Participants selected to participate in the computer/Internet study group will be
           contacted by research staff within one month to schedule a time to set-up the study
           computer equipment and receive computer training. Three 2 hour sessions of computer
           training over a three-week period in participants' homes will be scheduled. Participants
           will also be expected to participate in following Internet study procedures, available
           via the Internet from their homes.

             1. Maintaining a daily personal log of diabetes self care activities (blood sugar
                readings, diet, exercise, feet inspections, etc.)

             2. Participating in nurse led peer support question and answer chat sessions twice a
                month.

           d). Read and respond to e-mail sent from the study nurse. e) Read health information on
           diabetes management, depression, and psychosocial well being that will be provided by
           the study nurse.

           Computer Training Training will be provided on how to use the computer, access the study
           web page resources, and participate in the nurse-led peer support group conference
           forum, use e-mail, and how to prepare and send a daily log of self-management activities
           (blood sugar monitoring, diet, feet inspections, and exercise). Training will also be
           provided on how to use the study web site's bulletin board, and the electronic prompt to
           verify completion of the weekly health reading assignment, and how to develop and post
           an action plan on-line.

           The amount of time for the above Internet activities will vary depending on
           participants' degree of interest in accessing the Internet resources provided.
           Approximately 1-4 hours per week or more will be needed to complete the Internet
           activities. Participants who are assigned to the intervention group who fail to respond
           to e-mail or to use any of the intervention resources for a one-week period will be
           contacted by telephone to determine the reason for not participating in the study
           activity (technical, knowledge deficit, medical, lack of ability, lack of interest,
           etc.).
    
  