
    
      1. Study design The study has a before-and-after study design, the tailored support will be
           available for every informal care group and no older civilian will be excluded from an
           optimal care context, which is required by the social framework of this project.
           Therefore, no control group will be included in this study. The intervention consists of
           already existing support, although it is strengthened by means of a self-management
           tool, the 'Keuzewijzer', which helps the informal care group making specific choices
           with regard to tailored support, adjusted to their needs, norms and values. By a pre-
           and post-test, the effect of the intervention on the psychosocial well-being of the
           informal caregivers can be mapped out.

        2. Study population 2.1. Study population definition In this study, informal care groups of
           older civilians will be included. These civilians will be 70 years or older and have to
           live independently at home in the Leuven region. The informal care groups consist of two
           or more relatives, friends or neighbors caring for the older civilian (≥70 years),
           beyond the scope of professional care or organized volunteering. There are no age
           restriction for the informal caregivers.

           2.2. Inclusion and exclusion criteria Both the older civilians and the informal
           caregiver give their written consent after being informed. Only civilians aged 70 years
           or older and their informal caregivers who have a thorough command of Dutch will be
           included. Older civilians with a formal diagnosis of dementia, too ill to participate or
           in a palliative phase be excluded.

        3. Intervention The intervention, offered to the older civilians and their informal care
           groups will consist of an updated version of the 'Keuzewijzer', which has been developed
           in an earlier phase of the research project. This is a self-management tool which
           stimulates the communication within the informal care groups to make behaved choices
           concerning the care for the older civilian, taking into account the standards, values,
           concerns and needs of every informal caregiver and older civilian.

           The following aspects will be discussed in the context of the care for the older
           civilian: 1) analyzing the problem, 2) detection of possibilities or alternatives, 3)
           clarifying of motives and feelings and 4) weighting between values. The first purpose of
           this intervention is to develop a care planning focused on the older civilians with a
           clear distribution of tasks. The second purpose is to stimulate the communication
           between the informal caregivers and the older civilian, allowing timely adjustments in
           the care planning and preventing for caregiver burden.

           The intervention consist of the following parts: 1) introduction conversation, 2)
           Keuzewijzer and 3) follow-up conversation. In addition, an evaluation of the
           intervention takes place at the end of the intervention study (6 months).

           3.1. Introduction conversation During this conversation, a researcher will explain the
           dual purpose of the study, in which on the one hand the psychosocial well-being of the
           informal caregivers and the older civilian is mapped by means of the personal interviews
           and on the other hand, tailored support is offered through the intervention.

           The aim of this conversation consists of two aspects: 1.) providing information about
           the study and the informed consent and 2.) making the informal care group sensitive to
           its own care context and the concerns and needs that exist.

           3.2. Intervention The intervention consists, as explained earlier, of a self-management
           tool based on the 'Keuzewijzer'. Both the individual members of the informal care group
           and the older civilian must complete this online tool individually, preferably shortly
           after the introduction conversation. After completing the 'Keuzewijzer, the participants
           gets an overview of advice and referrals. Hereby, the informal care group gains insight
           into which existing support is available in response to their needs, concerns, values
           and standards. Direct contact can be made with the organizations involved and the
           tailored support can be started.

           The aim of the intervention is to strengthen existing support for informal caregivers
           and to tailor this support on the needs and concerns of the informal care groups.

           3.3. Finishing conversation and evaluation of the intervention After the intervention,
           the informal care group is offered a final conversation (6 months), in which the effect
           of the intervention will be discussed and the intervention itself will be evaluated. In
           addition, this conversation offers the opportunity to discuss and refer to any
           outstanding needs and concerns. A project employee will also guide this conversation.

           Together with the finishing conversation, the informal caregivers and the older civilian
           are given the opportunity to evaluate the intervention by means of a focus group.

           The aim of this conversation is to consider together with the informal care group 1) the
           effect of the intervention, 2) the possible concerns and needs to refer if necessary and
           3) the intervention itself.

        4. Data collection The study will take place over the period of 6 months with two
           measurement moments: within one month after including (baseline) and 6 months after
           inclusion. The informal care groups and the older civilians will be questioned
           individually through a web survey about their general everyday functioning and physical
           and psychosocial well-being. In addition, current support (apart from the study related
           support) focused on the older civilian or caregiver needs will be accurately recorded.
           This will allow to evaluate whether this contaminates the effect of the study
           intervention. When a caregiver or older civilian is unable to complete the questionnaire
           online, a paper version will be offered.

           4.1. Baseline data collection

           At the first measurement moment (baseline), data will be collected through online
           questionnaires. The questionnaires of both older civilian and caregiver will consist of
           the following parts:

           4.1.1. Informal caregiver

             -  Background, functional status and caregiving The information about the background
                and functional status of the informal caregiver will comprise 1) socio-demographic
                information, e.g. age, living conditions, education and ethnicity and 2) physical
                well-being, like subjective health evaluation, visits to the GP and use of
                (prescribed and OTC) medication. The information about caregiving will comprise 1)
                type of caregiving tasks, 2) time investment 3) social and financial consequences
                of caregiving and 4) caregiving in group, e.g. division of tasks, communication,
                group cohesion and dynamics.

             -  Psychosocial well-being

           Regarding the psychosocial well-being of the caregivers of the informal care group, the
           structured interviews will consist of the following questionnaires:

             -  Zarit Burden Inventory The Zarit burden interview (ZBI), a self-report scale, is
                believed to be the most commonly used measure of caregiver burden. Bachner et al.
                showed that the ZBI was reliable across populations of caregivers and patients.

             -  Geriatric Depression Scale The most commonly used scale for late-life depression is
                the geriatric depression scale (GDS). The 15-item GDS has been shown to have
                adequate sensitivity and specificity and to be significantly more accurate than the
                30-item GDS.

             -  State Trait Anxiety Inventory This subscale evaluates relatively stable aspects of
                anxiety, including general states of calmness, confidence and security. In this
                study, the Dutch version of the STAI will be used: The 'Zelf-Beoordelings
                Vragenlijst' (STAI-DY).

             -  Spiritual resources & needs The spiritual resources and needs of the individuals of
                the informal care group and the older civilian will be questioned through open
                questions.

                  -  Support In this part of the structured interview, informal caregiver will be
                     asked about the current formal and informal support and their knowledge about
                     available support and information channels. The informal caregiver will also
                     be asked about their role and experiences in the informal care group.

           4.1.2. Older civilians

             -  Functioning The information about the functioning of the older civilians will
                comprise 1.) socio-demographic information, like age, living conditions, education
                and ethnicity, 2.) disease and treatment characteristics, 3.) activities of daily
                living (ADL, Barthel index) and 4.) instrumental activities of daily living (IADL,
                Lawton scale).

             -  Psychosocial well-being Regarding the psychosocial well-being of the older
                civilians, the structured interviews will consist of the same questionnaires as for
                the informal caregivers, except the Zarit Burden Inventory. Besides, the loneliness
                of the older civilian will be measured. Loneliness is the subjective experience of
                social isolation and is associated with the well-being of community-dwelling older
                persons. Loneliness has been less well studied and may be less definable than
                depression or social support. But loneliness should certainly not be neglected as
                it has been shown that it is associated with adverse health consequences of older
                civilians. In the Netherlands, the loneliness scale of De Jong Gierveld and
                Kamphuis is generally used. As this scale has been developed in Dutch, has been
                used among older persons and has been proven to be a reliable and valid instrument
                that is robust to different data collecting modalities, this scale will be used.

             -  Support In this part of the structured interview, the older civilian will be asked,
                like the informal caregiver, about the current (in)formal support and their
                knowledge about available support and information.

           4.2. Data collection during follow-up The data collection during follow-up will also
           take place online through a web survey. The Zarit Burden Inventory (ZBI-12 items) and
           the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS-15 items) will be included in the follow-up
           interview of the informal caregiver, examine changes in their psychosocial well-being
           over time. Besides, the follow-up interviews also include questions about their physical
           well-being, support, functioning of the informal care group and socio-demographics. The
           spiritual well-being, coping and state anxiety of the informal caregiver are considered
           to remain stable over 6 months, so these items will not be questioned again. The
           follow-up interview of the older civilian will include the Geriatric Depression Scale
           (GDS-15 items), Activities of Daily Living (ADL, Barthel index) and the Instrumental
           Activities of Daily Living (IADL, Lawton IADL scale), besides socio-demographic
           questions.

        5. Statistical analysis Standard statistical analyses will be used for describing the
           characteristics of the older civilian and informal care group at baseline and during
           follow-up.

      When applicable more complex statistical methods will be used. For example, odds ratios and
      95% confidence intervals for the different outcome parameters (e.g. functional status,
      physical and psycho-social well-being) will be estimated using multivariable logistic
      regression models.
    
  