
    
      After the participants have read and understand the Participant Information Sheet, and had
      sufficient time (at least 24 hours) to consider their participation in this study, the
      investigators will ask them to sign a consent form, which shows their willingness to take
      part. The investigators will then collect information from their medical records about their
      hospital admission with COVID-19, including their age, ethnicity, medical conditions, length
      of hospital stay, tablets or any other treatments they received, as well as details of their
      stay in the ICU. The investigators will also arrange their first study visit which should be
      3-6 months after they had been discharged from the hospital. During this first study day, the
      investigators will:

        -  Measure weight and height and take blood pressure.

        -  Take blood and urine samples.

        -  Ask participants to complete three questionnaires about their health, symptoms of
           fatigue and quality of life (SF-36, EQ-5D-5L and Fatigue Questionnaires).

        -  Measure the accumulation of toxins in the skin using a safe, quick (less than five
           minutes) and painless technique called skin autofluorescence. This involves placing the
           forearm on a piece of equipment that shines a light on the skin and measures the amount
           of light that is reflected back.

        -  Conduct an MRI scan of the kidneys, muscles, abdomen and heart. The MRI scan will take
           60-70 minutes in total. The investigators will ask participants not to eat or drink
           anything two hours before the MRI scan.

      After this visit, the investigators will ask participants to come back for two more study
      visits, which will be arranged at 12 and 24 months after their hospital discharge. These
      visits will consist of the same procedures and measurements done in the first study visit.
    
  