
    
      The small for gestational age (SGA) concept includes babies born to term whose weight and/or
      height is lower than two standard deviations (SD) below the mean. Pathologically short
      stature is understood as a stature of 2.5 SD below the mean for their age and an expected
      adult height adjusted to the parental height of one SD below the mean. These SGA children
      with a pathological short stature after four years of age are unsuitable for GH treatment. In
      fact, there is no other efficient treatment for short stature and insufficient development of
      these children other than GH. In addition to short stature, the SGA syndrome also includes
      resistance to insulin with the consequent risk of developing type 2 diabetes and other
      interrelated metabolic alterations like dyslipidemia and hypertension; and the
      glucose-insulin-insulin growth factors (IGFs)-proteins transport axis regulate growth as well
      as foetal metabolism and development. Independent from the possible maternal environmental
      causes, those born with SGA have low levels of somatomedin C (IGF-I) and its transport
      protein [Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3)] as well as fasting
      hyperinsulinemia. The low levels of IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 persist in those that do not present a
      catch-up growth and the insulin resistance is secondary to the somatotrope axis. Treatment
      with GH increases IGF-I and IGFBP3 levels but also the plasmatic level of fasting insulin and
      the long term net result of this combination is unknown.

      An analysis has shown, that although during the first 2 years of GH treatment, there are no
      signs of glucose intolerance even though there is less sensitivity to insulin, there could be
      a greater incidence of type 2 diabetes in deficient children that have been treated with GH
      for a longer period. Treatment with GH, of children born SGA that have not caught-up their
      growth at 4 years of age, in the majority of cases achieves a good initial growth speed
      increase in order to continue to grow within normal limits and end up with an adult height
      that falls within normal. This is achieved with an authorised daily dose of 0.035 mg/kg (1
      mg/m2/day). However, the question regarding the possible metabolic consequences of GH
      treatment of those born SGA remains unanswered in both forms, to find out if GH treatment
      increases or reduces resistance to insulin and other associated metabolic parameters and
      therefore, the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Continued monitoring to adult height of a
      cohort of subjects born with SGA and treated with GH is the most efficient, easy and
      comfortable tool for answering that question.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To quantify the evolution of insulin sensitivity from the start of treatment with GH
           until adult stature is reached. Sensitivity or resistance to insulin is calculated using
           the HOMA-IR model (Homeostasis Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance) which is a
           reliable and easy mathematical model that uses the following formula: insulinemia
           (μU/ml) x glycemia (mmol/l)/22.5.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To find predictive factors for the possible changes in insulin sensitivity and its
           complex associated obesity, hypertension and high triglycerides type dyslipidemia with
           low high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol. For this, a relation between these
           metabolic factors and auxological parameters is to be identified.

           a. The following are considered independent or predictive variables:

        -  Speed of growth in cm/ year

        -  Standard deviations of height

        -  IGF-I in ng/ml

        -  IGFBP-3 in ng/ml b. The dependent variables will be:

        -  HOMA-IR value

        -  Triglycerides rate in mg/dl / HDL-cholesterol in mg/dl

        -  Blood pressure in mmHG

        -  Body mass index

      This is an observational study of a single cohort, without the possibility of a control group
      because those born with SGA, who experience a catch-up growth and enter normal auxology
      within the first four years of life are not subjected to a paediatric follow-up similar to
      those that do not catch-up to normal auxology and are treated with GH. Therefore, the same
      auxological and metabolic test results are not available in standard care. The collection of
      said parameters requires an "ad hoc" intervention and the study would be experimental or
      interventional. The observation period of this study encompasses from the start of treatment
      with GH up to a year after finishing the treatment for any reason. The starting age as well
      as the time treatment is ended will vary per subject. However, most subjects finish treatment
      once adulthood is reached. In accordance with clinical studies, the average observation
      period will probably be about 10 years. After the basal data is made available, the
      collection of data afterwards will be carried out once a year per subject.
    
  