
    
      • Background:: Everolimus has been reported to be effective compared with placebo in
      well/moderately differentiated pancreatic NETs in terms of progression-free survival (PFS)
      improvement. However, a number of patients are refractory upfront or become resistant after
      few months of therapy. Therefore, it is crucial to detect some biological factors which can
      help to identify the responsive tumors. Everolimus is a biological agent and its mechanism of
      action can be partially directed towards angiogenesis. This can be studied on different
      levels and with different methods. Upfront and early surrogate predictive markers of
      activity/efficacy can be studied on tumor tissue, on tumor imaging, and on the peripheral
      blood. Tumor study with diffusion-MRI and angiogenic circulating markers can be studied also
      as markers of response compared with the morphological imaging.

        -  Material and Methods :

             1. Circulating Endothelial Cells (CECs) and Circulating endothelial progenitors (CEPs)
                will be performed by flow cytometry. The monoclonal antibodies used for the search
                of CECs and CEPs include: cluster of differentiation antigen 45 (CD45), CD31,
                CD133, CD146, CD34, VEGFR-2, 7-amino-actinomycin D (7-AAD) and Syto1. Vascular
                endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), VEGFR-2
                and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) will be also detected on the peripheral blood.

             2. On the tumor tissue the following determinations will be performed, including:

                  -  Subtype 2 somatostatin receptor,

                  -  Phospho-AKT

                  -  Phospho-mTOR

                  -  Phospho-4E-BP1

                  -  Phospho-p70-S6 kinase Rabbit anti-tuberous sclerosis complex 2 (TSC2) Cell
                     Signaling Technology

                  -  Mouse anti-PTEN Cell Signaling Technology

             3. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) has been shown to be able to provide information
                regarding the cellular density and properties of the extracellular matrix and the
                apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) value calculated using DWI can serve as a
                marker of cellularity. Given that tumor cellularity is contributed largely by
                cellular proliferation, the ADC value can be a surrogate biomarker for tumor-cell
                proliferation . ADC-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) will be performed at baseline,
                after 1 month and after three months of therapy.

        -  Study design

      Baseline, after 1 month of therapy, after three months of therapy and at progression:

        -  Abdomen DWI-MRI

        -  CEC, CEPs

        -  Circulating VEGF, VEGFR-2, bFGF, TSP-1

      Baseline biopsy of a metastatic site and possibly a new biopsy at the time of tumor
      progression

      Correlation of biological parameters with clinical outcome ( tumor response and progression
      free survival, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors , RECIST 1.0 criteria)

      • Statistical analysis: This is an exploratory study on the potential predictive value of
      some biological factors (CECs, VEGF and bFGF among them) expressed in terms of reducing risk
      of progression in patients with advanced pancreatic NETs treated with Everolimus.

      We will use two-tailed log-rank test (α = 0.05, 1-β = 0.20) to test the hypothesis of 30% a
      reduction in risk (hazard rate; HR) equal to HR = 0.30 for those belonging to the following
      layers:

        -  ≥ 2.2/uL vs < 2.2/uL for CEC at basal or

        -  ≤ 65.6 vs > 65.6 for FGF levels after two months since start treatment or

        -  ≤ 32.5 vs > 32.5 for VEGF levels after two months since start treatment The sample size
           is calculated to compensate for the power loss of the log-rank test assuming an average
           and uniform log-rank test drop-out of 10% and bearing in mind that the threshold values
           refer to the 25th, 75th and 50th percentile distributions of CEC, bFGF, and VEGF,
           respectively. Considering an accrual rate of 20 patients/year, a treatment period of 12
           weeks with a follow-up of 1 year and for a sample size equal to 43 patients, the study
           will have a total length of about 3 years and 6 months.
    
  