
    
      The developmental approach taken here combines what we already know about morpho-syntactic
      deficits in DLD with recent developments in the fields of linguistics and language
      acquisition. First, it is possible to divide phonological and morphological patterns into
      three pattern types (Single Feature, OR/Disjunction, Family Resemblance/Prototype), with
      these types having a long history of study in visual pattern learning. Importantly, children
      with DLD appear to have maximum difficulty with morpho-syntactic patterns of the OR type
      (e.g., regular past tense; add a "t" if the final consonant is voiceless OR a "d" if the
      final consonant is voiced). In contrast, studies using artificial grammars show that infants
      who are typically developing are highly adept at learning Single Feature and OR pattern
      types; Family Resemblance patterns may be weaker. Family resemblance patterns relate to
      similarity, and may be more closely tied to the lexicon than to grammar (e.g., beagles and
      terriers are similar and they are both dogs; the words "goat" and "boat" are similar).
      Typical adults are adept at Single Feature and Family Resemblance patterns, but appear to be,
      at least superficially, more like children with DLD in their performance on the OR pattern.

      With these intriguing findings as a starting point, the proposed research links phonological
      and morphological sequence learning in children with developmental language disorder (DLD).
      In the studies focused on children, we ask if 4- to 6-year-olds who are typically developing
      as well as those with DLD (both with and without co-occurring speech sound deficits) and
      speech sound disorder (SSD; without co-occurring morpho-syntactic deficits) are sensitive to
      input examples that fit one of these three patterns. Our hypothesis is that, consistent with
      their long-documented morpho-syntactic deficit, children with DLD will have particular
      difficulty with the OR pattern. Consistent with their intact morpho-syntactic skills,
      children with SSD should show no deficits in the OR pattern, revealing a link between OR
      pattern learning, phonology, and morpho-syntax. Our endpoint measure is that children with
      DLD (both with and without an accompanying SSD) do not show sensitivity to the OR pattern, as
      measured by sound pattern (e.g., phonetic accuracy, syllable sequence stability) and motor
      learning (e.g., articulatory and acoustic variability) measures.

      This hypothesis is assessed by indexing the learning trajectory across the training period
      and during generalization to new nonwords that are consistent or inconsistent with the
      training pattern. In the generalization phase, children are asked to name new novel words
      that are either consistent (i.e., that fit the training rule) or inconsistent (i.e., that do
      not fit the training rule) nonwords. It is predicted that children with TD and SSD, who are
      still in a period of language learning plasticity (they can still learn the sound patterns
      and grammar of a second language) will be sensitive to all three patterns. However, children
      with DLD (both with and without accompanying SSD) are predicted to show sensitivity to the
      family resemblance and single feature patterns, but not to the critical OR pattern-the one
      associated with sound pattern and grammatical learning, This would reveal an important
      connection between sound pattern and grammatical learning, which could lead to earlier
      diagnosis (phonological patterns emerge earlier than grammar) and to more general
      intervention practices that focus on sequential pattern learning rather than specific
      language goals may be efficacious.

      A second aim explores whether the inclusion of a semantic subcategory cue facilitates
      learning the OR pattern. The hypothesis is that children with DLD (as well as typical adults)
      who initially are predicted to have the most difficulty with the OR pattern, will show
      increases in sensitivity following the addition of a semantic category cue (e.g., animals for
      the voiced consonant rule OR tools for the voiceless consonant rule). This result would be
      especially important for learners with DLD, as it may provide a pathway for intervention of a
      core learning deficit.

      Critically, these studies are developmental in nature. In the adult component of this
      research, we ask if adults are sensitive to input examples that fit one of these three
      patterns. Our hypothesis, based on previous findings from the Gerken lab, is that adults,
      like children with DLD, do not show sensitivity to the OR pattern. However, adults are
      sensitive to single feature and Family Resemblance patterns. Adults still learn words readily
      and are sensitive to family resemblance prototype relationships. For adults, perceptual
      measures index sensitivity. Similar to the children with typical development, DLD and SSD, we
      explore whether the inclusion of a semantic subcategory cue facilitates learning the OR
      pattern in adults. The hypothesis is that all learners, including adults, will show increases
      in sensitivity following the addition of a semantic category cue (e.g., animals for voiced
      rule OR tools for voiceless rule). The findings from adults contribute to a dynamic
      developmental framework. Because of the dramatic developmental changes in sensitivity to
      phonological sound patterns and the presumed linkage of such patterns to morpho-syntax, the
      data from adults are essential in identifying the underlying mechanism(s) of DLD and to
      suggesting possible intervention strategies, such as employing semantic cues to the OR
      pattern and strengthening lexical organization.

      From previous work, we know that infants are sensitive to the OR rule. In the studies focused
      on toddlers, we ask if dependence on the associatively organized lexicon can account for the
      infant-to-adult developmental changes observed for the OR pattern (which is not associatively
      organized) and thereby explores the possibility that children with DLD rely on their lexicons
      to compensate for their sequential pattern learning deficit. The hypothesis is that
      20-month-old children, who are just entering a period of rapid vocabulary learning, will show
      increased sensitivity (based on looking time to words that are consistent vs. inconsistent
      within the training set) in the family resemblance condition when a visual referent (i.e.,
      semantic cue) is added, but decreased sensitivity in the OR condition when a visual referent
      is added. These results will also be related to vocabulary size as reported on the CDI, with
      the prediction that robust patterns are smaller for children who received referents or who
      have smaller vocabularies for the OR pattern and greater for children who received referents
      or who have larger vocabularies for the family resemblance pattern. The results from
      toddlers, who are just entering a period of rapid vocabulary learning, provide an essential
      framework for understanding how different types of phonological patterns apply to lexical and
      morpho-syntactic learning, The results of the proposed study provide a critical developmental
      framework for identifying the underlying mechanism(s) of DLD. These findings will also lead
      to the development of intervention strategies, such as strengthening lexical organization, to
      support problematic aspects of sequential pattern learning.
    
  