
    
      Vertigo ranks among the most common complaints in medicine and have a considerable personal
      impact, affecting 15-35% of the general population at some point in their lives. The
      combination of neck disorders with vertigo or dizziness was formally coined "cervical
      vertigo" by Ryan and Cope in 1955. The precise incidence of cervical vertigo is controversial
      but it is estimated that 20-58% of patients who sustain closed-head injuries or whiplash
      experience late onset symptoms of dizziness, vertigo and disequilibrium. The treatment option
      of cervical vertigo is versatile and challenging. Surgical intervention is recommended when
      the patient is a good candidate. Plasma-mediated ablation using the Coblation Spine-Wand
      device has been used for several years to perform spine disc decompression. However, there is
      no short and long-term report of percutaneous disc decompression with coblation nucleoplasty
      (PDCN) for treatment of cervical vertigo, and complications observed with this procedure have
      not been reported yet. In the retrospective observational study (unpublished data), the
      investigators found that PDCN was effective for reducing cervicogenic dizziness, a disabling
      and persistent problem, in the long term. A mean effective rate of 94.6% (70 of the 74
      patients) one week after surgery and 90.6% (67 of the 74 patients) at the last follow-up (1
      year to 8 years and 3 months). Good to excellent results were attained in 85.1% (63 of the 74
      patients) of these patients one week after PDCN and achieved in 75.7% (56 of the 74 patients)
      at the last follow-up (p<0.0001). Recently, a randomized trial had proven that manual therapy
      had long-term beneficial effects in the treatment of chronic cervicogenic dizziness. This
      study aims to conduct a randomized controlled trial to investigate both of its short term and
      long term effectiveness and safety in prospective fashion comparing with manual therapy.
      Participants will be randomized and allocated to either PDCN group or manual therapy group
      with 1:1 ratio. All the patients had recurring symptom of dizziness over three months and
      conservative treatment applied for at least three weeks and failed.
    
  