
    
      The degeneration that occurs in the osteoarthritis of the knee joint leads to the loss of
      proprioception, resulting in the misalignment of the mechanoreceptors in that region, the
      joint stabilization is impaired, the muscles do not fulfill the protective role and the joint
      neuromuscular is inadequate for control. Neuromuscular control is the subcortical activity of
      effector structures against stimulation with mechanoreceptor, visual, and vestibular
      affinities. Proprioception, kinesthesia, sensation of joint position, visual and vestibular
      information constitute sensory data; functional motor patterns, dynamic joint stability and
      reactive neuromuscular control motor efferent response definitions. Disturbance of
      neuromuscular control of the muscles also affects walking and balance with abnormal weight
      transfer. There are many ways to treat knee osteoarthritis such as patient education, weight
      control, different physical therapy modalities (hot, cold, electrotherapy, deep heat),
      exercise, pharmacological treatments (topical, systemic, intraarticular). There is no radical
      treatment of osteoarthritis to restore structural changes; but with the treatment applied,
      findings such as pain and loss of function of the individual can be reduced and the patients
      become more independent in daily life activities. Surgical treatment is the last resort in
      osteoarthritis. In osteoarthritis( OA), there is no pharmacological method to treat the
      deformed joint structure that will change the course of the disease. This situation
      significantly increases the importance of rehabilitation in the treatment of osteoarthritis.
      The aim of neuromuscular rehabilitation that reestablish and regulated features such as
      dynamic joint stability, reactive neuromuscular control, functional motor patterns.
      Rehabilitation programs created for this purpose include balance exercises, strengthening
      exercises, postural control, functional exercises, postural orientation, flexibility,
      agility, plyometric exercises, spore-specific exercises. neuromuscular exercise program
      includes 7 parameters including functional mobility, functional stability, sensorimotor
      system training, proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation training techniques, plyometric
      exercises, reactive neuromuscular system training, technical training. Main purpose of this
      study is that the effect of neuromuscular exercise program on physical activity,
      functionality and balance in patients with knee osteoarthritis.
    
  