
    
      BACKGROUND

      One of the most common features of human movement is its variability across multiple
      repetition of the same rhythmic task (1). In humans, many periodic signals, such as gait,
      heartbeat, respiratory and neuronal activities are characterized by their temporal
      complexity, fluctuating in a complex manner over time. Although fluctuations between cycles
      could appear to vary randomly, without apparent correlations between cycles, healthy systems
      possess the memory of preceding values of the series displaying a complex temporal structure.

      In order to assess variability in physiological time series, several mathematical methods can
      be used. On one hand, classical mathematical methods, usually applied on shorter time series
      (tens of data points), quantify the fluctuation magnitude in a set of values independently of
      their order in the distribution, by computing the standard deviation (SD) and the coefficient
      of variation (CV). On the other hand, more complex mathematical methods, applied on longer
      time series (≥512 cycles), can be used to assess the fluctuation dynamics over time (3).
      These latter methods have demonstrated that variability of numerous physiological signals
      (cardiac and respiratory rhythm or locomotor activities e.g.) exhibit long-range
      autocorrelations, whereby the statistical inter-dependency between cycles spans of a very
      large number of cycles (14).

      This temporal organization of variability is thus an intrinsic property within numerous
      biological systems. Moreover, it could provide insight into the neurophysiological
      organization and into the regulation of these systems (32). Recent studies claimed that these
      fluctuations, included in an optimal range, would represent the underlying physiologic
      capability to make flexible adaptations to everyday stresses placed on the human body (32).
      Therefore, the presence of such temporal dynamics is thought to be a critical marker of
      health and their breakdown as an index of pathological condition (18, 25, 32). In human heart
      rate for instance, deviations from an optimum of variability in either the direction of
      randomness (atrial fibrillation e.g.) or the over-regularity (congestive heart failure e.g.)
      indicate the loss of the adaptive capabilities of the system (9, 32).

      Alongside, some central nervous system diseases influence the variability, especially, of
      gait. Indeed, neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson and Huntington diseases are
      characterized, among others, by a modification of walking variability (observed by a
      breakdown of long-range autocorrelations) and a high risk of falling. Although the origin of
      long-range autocorrelation remains unknown, their breakdown in such diseases suggests a
      central control mechanism (8, 11, 13, 16, 17, 36).

      RESEARCH PROJECT

      Affecting about 1% of the population over the age of 60, Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of
      the most common neurodegenerative disorders. PD is progressive in nature, and so patients
      face increased difficulties with activities of daily living and various aspects of mobility
      such as gait, transfers, balance, and posture. Ultimately, this leads to decreased
      independence, inactivity, and social isolation, resulting in reduced quality of life.
      Consequently, the improvement of locomotion is one of the most important aims of the
      management of PD.

      The management of PD has traditionally centered on drug therapy, with levodopa viewed as the
      "gold standard" treatment. However, even with optimal medical management, parkinsonian
      patients experience deterioration in body function, daily activities and participation. For
      this reason, support has been increasing for the inclusion of rehabilitation therapies as an
      adjuvant to pharmacological and neurosurgical treatment. Indeed, regular physical activity
      slows down the progression and decrease the fall risk. Moreover, exercise has demonstrated
      its effectiveness for both preservation of functional abilities and prevention of
      complications (cardiovascular, osteoporosis,…).

      Until now, few studies have included the analysis of variability in the functional assessment
      of patients presenting a neurological disease, such as PD. Yet, walking disorders and falls
      represent not only an important cost for the society but also a sizeable individual risk of
      morbi/mortality. An appropriate rehabilitation program should allow for reduction at once the
      risks and costs resulting from these disorders. The investigator hypothesize that the
      analysis of walking variability could be useful as clinical tool in the assessment of fall
      risk and as assessment tool of the therapeutic effectiveness (medication and/or physical
      exercise) in PD. Therefore, the aims of this study are (1) to assess the influence of
      physical exercise on human walking variability and (2) to study its potential correlations
      with walking abilities and neurological impairments of parkinsonian patients.

      Patients

      The investigators will recruit 50 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease from the
      department of Neurology of Cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc (Brussels, Belgium) The study
      is approved by the ethics committee. All patients will give informed written consent to the
      study. Eligibility criteria are: diagnosis idiopathic Parkinson (according to the Brain Bank
      criteria of the United Kingdom Parkinson's Disease Society), disease severity (according to
      modified Hoehn & Yahr stages I to IV), absence of dementia (Minimal Mini Mental State
      Examination score of 24 or higher), stable drug usage in the last 4 weeks and adequate vision
      and hearing, achieved using corrective lenses and/or hearing aid if required. Patients will
      be excluded if they have severe co-morbidity, other neurological problems, acute medical
      problems (e.g. MI, diabetes) and joint problems affecting mobility, and unpredictable
      "Off"-periods (score >2, MDS-UPDRS item 4.5).

      Procedure

      The present study is a controlled, randomized, single blinded clinical study with a crossover
      design. The control group will not change its usual physical activity whereas the
      intervention group will benefit from the physical exercise program. This latter will include
      30 sessions of circuit-group training of 60 min (twice a week) spread over 15 weeks. Then,
      the two groups will be crossed. According to the recent guidelines, the program will include
      a specific work on balance, posture, gait, fitness, dual tasks and stretching. All sessions
      will be performed at an adequate intensity (i.e. 60-80% of predicted maximal heart rate). At
      least 512 cycles will be recorded (at a high sampling rate (512 Hz)) on a treadmill at a
      self-selected comfortable speed using a unidimensional accelerometer taped on the right
      lateral malleolus.

      Functional assessment based on the 3 domains of the International Classification of
      Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF)

      Patients will be assessed before intervention (T0) and at 15 (T1), 30 (T2), 45 (T3) and 60
      weeks (T4) among the 3 ICF domains:

      Impairments will assessed by MDS-UPDRS, an instrumented gait analysis (kinematic, kinetic,
      electromyographic and energetic) (18), the 6 minute walk distance, the 10 meter walk test,
      the ABC-Scale and the BESTest (including the Functional Reach Test, the Push & Release and
      the Get Up & Go test).

      Activities, participation and quality of life will be evaluated the Impact on Participation
      and Autonomy Questionnaire (IPAQ) and a fall diary.

      Walking variability analysis

      Revolution time variability will be appreciated by classical and complex mathematical
      methods. Classical mathematical methods (standard deviation, coefficient of variation) allow
      for evaluating the fluctuation magnitude, while complex mathematical methods (long-range
      autocorrelations) assess the dynamics of fluctuations over time (3).

      The presence of long-range autocorrelations will be evaluated using the integrated approach
      proposed by Rangarajan and Ding and validated by Crevecoeur et al. in the context of
      physiological time series. These methods are described in greater details elsewhere. Briefly,
      the Hurst exponent (H) will be calculated using the rescaled range analysis and the α
      exponent will be evaluated using the power spectral density of the time series. For each time
      series, both methods will be applied to sequences of 512 consecutive gait strides.

      In theory, the exponents H and α are asymptotically related by the relation H. Hence, the
      integrated approach consists of separately computing H and α, and verifying that these two
      parameters are consistent through the equation d=H-(1+α)/2=0. A value of d ≤ 0.10 is
      considered acceptable since the asymptotic parameters are evaluated on finite time series.

      In summary, the following three conditions must be satisfied to conclude for the presence of
      long-range autocorrelations :

      H > 0.5; α is significantly different from 0 and lower than 1; and d ≤ 0.10

      When inconsistencies appear between H and α, the investigators will use the randomly shuffled
      surrogate data test to reject the null hypothesis that the series under investigation has no
      temporal structure (i.e. uncorrelated random process).

      PERSPECTIVES

      By studying the influence of physical exercise on human walking variability and its potential
      correlations with walking abilities and neurological impairments of parkinsonian patients,
      the investigators hope to demonstrate that the analysis of walking variability could be use
      as a clinical tool in the assessment of fall risk and as an assessment tool of the
      therapeutic effectiveness (medication and/or physical exercise) in PD.
    
  