
    
      The overall objectives in this application are to (a) examine the feasibility of providing
      telehealth ICU recovery care and (b) determine if ICU recovery care is effective. The central
      hypothesis is that ICU recovery care improves cognitive, mental health, and physical function
      of ICU survivors by application of a patient-centered survivorship care plan with targeted
      interventions to address patient-specific cognitive, mental health, and physical
      dysfunctions. The rationale for this project is that a determination of the feasibility of
      telehealth and effectiveness of ICU recovery care in general is likely to offer a strong
      scientific framework informing the development of new implementation strategies. We will test
      the central hypotheses by pursuing two specific aims: 1) Test that telehealth ICU recovery
      care is feasible, and 2) Test the hypothesis that telehealth ICU recovery care compared to
      standard of care conditions will be more effective for improvement in cognitive, mental
      health, physical, and global function at 6 months following hospital discharge. To address
      these aims, we will enroll patients treated for septic shock and acute respiratory distress
      syndrome in the medical and surgical ICUs at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. Study
      patients will be randomized 1:1 to either the telehealth ICU recovery care or standard of
      care groups. We will conduct telehealth ICU recovery care from the Vanderbilt ICU Recovery
      Center. This ICU survivor clinic relies on the expertise of clinicians from critical care
      medicine, nursing, pharmacy, neuropsychology, rehabilitation, and case management to assess
      and manage PICS. Telehealth feasibility measures include appropriateness, acceptability, and
      implementability. Following telehealth clinic participation at 3 weeks and 3 months after
      hospital discharge, we will assess participants for cognitive, mental health, physical, and
      global quality of life outcomes using trained, blinded research personnel at 6 months
      following hospital discharge. We incorporated PROMIS patient-centered outcome measures into
      each patient outcome category. This research is significant because it is expected to provide
      scientific justification for the continued development and implementation of ICU recovery
      care programs. Ultimately, such knowledge has the potential to improve the quality of life
      for millions of ICU survivors and their family members.
    
  