
    
      In patients with primary melanoma and breast cancer, lymph node status is often a strong
      predictor of outcome and influences the course of treatment a patient may follow after
      surgery. In an effort to reduce the morbidity and costs of detection of lymph node
      metastases, surgical oncologists have developed a method by which the sentinel lymph node
      (the first node in a draining basin) is identified intraoperatively and removed. This
      technique, called sentinel node biopsy, has extremely high negative predictive values for
      melanoma metastases and breast cancer metastases. The two largest trials for melanoma,
      Morton, et al (2005) and Rossi, et al (2006), reported false negative rates of 6.3% and
      14.7%, respectively. Morton, et al (2006), in perhaps the most mature trial reported to date,
      showed a false negative rate of 3.4% . There is growing evidence that sentinel node biopsy
      will have a significant impact on the management of melanoma. Sentinel node biopsy also has
      extremely high negative predictive values for breast cancer metastases; the false-negative
      rates range from 0% to 9%. There is growing evidence that sentinel node biopsy will have a
      significant impact on the management of breast cancer. Although the survival and local
      recurrence studies have yet to be completed, the technique has emerged into common practice.

      Lymphatic mapping with a radiopharmaceutical is a nuclear medicine examination which
      identifies for the surgeon the first lymph node to receive lymphatic flow from the primary
      tumor site. This node is removed and analyzed for the presence of malignant cells. By
      locating the lymph node prior to surgery, a small incision can be used to remove the node and
      a smaller dissection can be employed. The high negative predictive value of the technique
      seems to provide an accurate staging procedure and may spare patients who are lymph node
      negative the morbidity of a complete lymph node dissection. Consequently, staging of melanoma
      by lymph node mapping and biopsy may be equivalent to regional node dissection without the
      attendant post surgical morbidity.

      An ideal lymph node imaging agent would exhibit rapid clearance from the injection site,
      rapid uptake and high retention within the first draining lymph node, and low uptake by the
      remaining lymph nodes. The ideal agent would also have low radiation absorption; high
      biological safety; convenient, rapid, and stable technetium-99m labeling; and biochemical
      purity.

      Lymphoseek (technetium-99m-labeled diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid-mannosyl-dextran,
      [Tc-99m]DTPA-mannosyl-dextran) is a radiotracer that accumulates in lymphatic tissue by
      binding to a mannose-binding protein that resides on the surface of dendritic cells and
      macrophages. Lymphoseek is a macromolecule consisting of multiple units of DTPA and mannose,
      each synthetically attached to a 10 kilodalton dextran backbone. The mannose acts as a
      substrate for the receptor, and the DTPA serves as a chelating agent for labeling with
      Tc-99m.
    
  