
    
      Cardiovascular disease remains a leading cause of death in North America (1). Uncontrolled
      platelet activation, adhesion and aggregation initiated by vessel wall plaque rupture are
      thought to be responsible for acute vascular occlusion in many situations (2-5). Although
      many platelet inhibition drugs are available, all currently available drugs have undesirable
      toxicity profiles (6-8). Thus, reduction in toxicity and improved management of patients with
      thrombotic diseases remains an unmet medical need.

      Platelet activation plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of acute coronary syndromes,
      strokes and other thrombophilic diseases. Atheromatous plaque rupture changes the shear
      forces of blood flowing over the injured vessel surface and also exposes collagen as well as
      other prothrombotic factors (9-11). As the initial hemostatic event, platelets become
      activated and cover the injured surface. Following platelet activation highly active
      substances like adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and thromboxane A2 (TxA2) are released from the
      platelet to promote and recruit further platelet aggregation to the injury site (12). If this
      process proceeds unabated, as it often does in atherosclerotic diseases, the vessel becomes
      occluded and infarction may follow.

      Lovaza® (Reliant Pharmaceutical Inc., Liberty Corner, NJ), a commercially available
      formulation that contains 90 % omega-3-acid ethyl esters (46% eicosapentaenoic acid -EPA- and
      38% docosohexaenoic acid -DHA-), has the potential ability to modify the recruitment of
      additional platelets to the growing thrombus by promoting synthesis of thromboxane A3 (TxA3),
      a poor platelet activator, instead of thromboxane A2, a potent platelet activator. Agents
      used to inhibit platelet function such as aspirin and clopidogrel are not always effective
      (13-16). Unfortunately, some patients do not respond to these therapeutics (17-24). Realistic
      numbers for patient resistance to these drugs are probably 10-15% for ASA and 20-30% for
      clopidogrel. Almost all resistant patients have less favorable outcomes and are unaware of
      this potentially life-threatening problem until a severe cardiac adverse event occurs.
      Lovaza® may add additional therapeutic benefit to these patients.(25,26) Beyond the
      occasional patient with complaints of eructation or a "fishy" taste in their mouth, Lovaza®
      has a benign toxicity profile. If Lovaza® can be shown to have a clinically relevant
      anti-platelet effect, it may have a use to either replace or reduce the dose of more toxic
      anti-platelet agents.

      The proposed biochemical mechanism for the anti-platelet effect of omega n3 fatty acids is
      based on modifications in platelet prostaglandin metabolism (27-31). Cellular membranes are
      primarily composed of phospholipids (PL). The backbone of PL's is glycerol. The glycerol
      hydroxyl groups in position 1 and 2 bind two fatty acid molecules through formation of ester
      bonds (31). The third hydroxyl binds the so-called head group, which may be choline,
      inositol, ethanolamine or serine. At least in the case of platelets the fatty acid at the C-2
      position is often the unsaturated arachidonic fatty acid (an omega n6 fatty acid). When
      Lovaza® is ingested (an omega n3 fatty acid), the unsaturated fatty acid at the C2 position
      can be DHA or EPA. Several important differences result from this substitution including an
      important effect on platelet function. As part of the platelet activation process,
      phospholipase A2 clips the fatty acid at the C-2 position, either arachidonic acid or DHA/EPA
      (31). In the case of the platelet, the fatty acid is then metabolized through an enzyme
      called COX-1 to a thromboxane (32-35). When the fatty acid is arachidonic acid, thromboxane
      A2 is synthesized (TxA2). TxA2 is a very potent platelet activator and vasoconstrictor. In
      the case of DHA or EPA, a series 3 TxA3 is synthesized, a poor platelet activator and
      vasoconstrictor (32-35). Production of TxA3 underlies the potential anti-platelet effect of
      Lovaza®.

      The second effect of DHA inclusion in PL's is a newly discovered alteration in the cell
      membrane structure. It is now well established that DHA promotes "lipid raft" formation in
      cellular membranes (36-38). These rafts, primarily composed of sphingomyelin and cholesterol,
      form the sites where some transmembrane proteins can be inserted into the membrane. These
      transmembrane proteins may be sites for ion channels or receptors that define important
      cellular functions and can be a means to activate cells. Thus, DHA's ability to promote raft
      formation may have a profound beneficial effect on platelet function.

      Since it is the Lovaza®-alteration of the platelet membrane that leads to its clinical
      benefit, assays to determine how the lipid composition of the platelet membrane changes after
      ingestion of Lovaza® will be carried out. The concept of these experiments is fairly simple.
      A standard well-established 1H NMR method will be used to detect changes in the lipid
      composition of the platelet membrane as a function of the Lovaza® dose (39-41). From these
      experiments we will be able to prove that DHA or EPA from Lovaza® is actually directly
      incorporated into a platelet membrane
    
  