
    
      Recruitment will be a prospective study in patients with body mass index (BMI) of 23.5-30
      kg/m2, aged between 18 and 65 years old. Each patient will be preoperatively screened
      (including psychologist assessment) and evaluated by the study multidisciplinary team before
      recruitment. The study will involve two groups with equal allocation of patients in the
      intensive medical therapy (IMT) group and Single Anastomosis Duodeno Jejunal Bypass with
      Sleeve Gastrectomy (SADJB-SG) group with stratification by use of insulin at screening. All
      patients who agree to participate in this study will be assigned to one of the treatment
      groups by the doctor without randomization. Before making a final decision for treatment,
      every patient will undergo a detailed and up-to-date evaluation by the doctor regarding the
      suitability, the pros and cons, risk and benefits, the potential postoperative complications
      and the likelihood of requiring postoperative nutritional supplementation. Patients that are
      eligible to take part in this study will be informed, and the final decision will solely be
      made based on patients' willingness. The patients will also be made aware that this is an
      experimental trial and both verbal and written informed consent will be taken before
      treatment. In addition, the patients will be informed regarding the use of the clinical and
      analytical data for publication purposes. Initial assessment of the patient's social
      demographic data, history of present illness (duration of diabetes, oral hypoglycemic agent
      used), medical and surgical history, family history, anthropometric measurements (height,
      weight, BMI, calculated as weight (kg)/height (m2), waist, hip and neck circumference),
      history of weight loss attempt, diet and lifestyle assessment, quality of life assessment and
      biochemical measures including fasting blood glucose (FBG), glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), C-
      peptide, plasma insulin and HOMA-IR, assessment for obstructive sleep apnea, depression and
      sleep quality will be obtained upon approval of participation in the study or before any form
      of treatment. An additional pre-operation questionnaire will be given to the SADJB-SG group
      during initial assessment to ensure understanding of the patients towards the surgery.
      Adverse events will be monitored closely at 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks after surgery. In any
      occurrence of an adverse event, it will be documented and reported within 14 days.The study
      will be terminated if there are life-threatening or severe adverse events associated with
      SADJB-SG group or IMT group.

      Patients will not be given access to the study data however the patients will be informed
      regarding their progress during every follow-up visit. All medical records and research data
      will be kept in the investigator's hard disk and web-based storage (i-cloud and i-drive) for
      two years. Study data will be held even after the study period as there will still be a
      continuous follow-up with the patients for life. However, all patients' information obtained
      from this study will be kept and handled in a confidential manner, by applicable laws and
      regulations. When publishing or presenting the study results, the identity of patients will
      not be revealed without patient's expressed consent. Participants will also be covered under
      clinical trial insurance from the institution during the study period. In the case of
      emergency, all patients will be given the contact number of the investigator as the
      investigators are contactable throughout the day. This study will begin after receiving the
      approval of Medical Research & Ethics Committee, Ministry of Health Malaysia.

      Sample size:

      The sample size was estimated with the help of PS software (power and sample size calculation
      software) 3.1.2 with a power of 80% and a significant level of 0.05. The estimation was based
      on the diabetic remission in a few study done on bariatric surgery on one arm and intensive
      medical treatment on the other and it was detected a range of 57% to 73% diabetic remission
      among the bariatric surgery group. Another study by Lee WJ et al., 2014 found a diabetic
      remission rate of 64% (HbA1C<6.0%) with the SADJB-SG group one year after surgery. The total
      estimated sample size is 34 patients in each arm for this study. However, with the inclusion
      of 20% dropout rate, the total number of patients needed for this study is 42 patients in
      each arm.

      Laboratory investigations:

      15 ml of fasting blood samples will be taken early in the morning for the following blood
      tests stated below in Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), fluoride oxalate and plain
      tubes, depending on the respective test. Samples will be further centrifuged for the serum to
      be stored in 3 aliquots (1 ml each) for batch analysis. This serum will be stored at - 80°C
      pending further analysis. The analysis will be done at the Chemical Pathology Laboratory,
      Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences, UPM.3.6.1. Baseline preoperative biochemical markers
      and profiles for all bariatric surgery T2DM candidates, and other nutrients 'at risk' related
      to medication usage or poor dietary quality include:

      Blood investigations on automated analyser:

        -  Full blood count

        -  Renal profile (urea, creatinine, sodium, potassium)

        -  Liver function test (total protein, albumin, bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, alanine
           transaminase, aspartate aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl transferase)

        -  Thyroid function test (TSH, free T4)

        -  Cortisol

        -  Fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c

        -  Fasting lipid profile (total cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL, HDL)

        -  Bone profile [calcium, phosphate, magnesium, parathyroid hormone, 25-OH vitamin D]

        -  Iron, ferritin, vitamin B12, folate

      Urine investigations

        -  Urinalysis (dipstick) & urine FEME (automated analyser)

        -  Urine microalbumin (automated analyser)

      These investigations will be repeated in 24 months but more frequently if clinically
      indicated. Apart from that, studying the following parameters at baseline, 6 and 12 months
      post-surgery will allow us to explore the hypothesis that a modulatory effect on incretin
      production could lead to better glycaemic control independent of weight loss.

        -  Insulin, C-peptide (automated analyser), HOMA-IR (calculated value)

        -  Lipoprotein Subfractionation on Lipoprint LDL system.

        -  Incretins (GLP-1, GIP)

        -  Adipokines such as leptin

        -  Adiponectin

        -  FGF19 (Fibroblast Growth Factor 19)

        -  Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)

      Genetic Analysis:

      DNA Extraction- Laboratory analyses will be obtained after an overnight fast and the plasma
      will be separated by centrifugation and storage at -20ºC. The available commercial DNA
      extraction methods will be utilized to get a good DNA regarding quantity and quality.

      DNA Quantification- The quality of the extracted DNA will be evaluated using electrophoresis
      and the concentration of the extracted DNA will be estimated using the spectrophotometer.

      Genotyping analysis-

        -  Standardization of Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) will be carried out for the
           respective genes.

        -  Identification and analysis of candidate genes polymorphisms of GCG, GLP1R, DPP4, GIP,
           GIPR and PCSK1 genes by conventional PCR, PCR-RFLP, Real time- PCR High Resolution
           Analysis.

      Staining and Visualizing of Genomic DNA- Agarose electrophoresis will be carried out to
      determine the PCR products by staining with ethidium bromide. The genomic DNA, PCR amplified
      products and the restricted fragments will be visualized under ultraviolet light and the
      image will be captured by Alpha Imager.

      Validation- Nearly 10% of the samples will be randomly chosen and the samples will be
      genotyped on the same assay for the second time and the results will be scored by the other
      researcher.

      Positive and Negative Controls PCR amplified products from the respective gene will be
      sequenced to identify the genotypes. Those samples will be used as a positive control for the
      respective genes and the PCR grade water lacking the DNA template will be used as a negative
      control.

      DNA Sequencing methods-

        -  DNA sequencing will be done to confirm the polymorphism of the respective genes.

        -  The sequencing results will be subjected to BLAST (www.ncbi.nlm.nig.gov/BLAST) and it
           has been verified against the published gene sequence for the respective gene.

      Data Analysis:

      Statistical calculations will be performed using the standard statistical software package,
      IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version 23.0. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp. Results will be
      expressed as mean values and standard deviation for normally distributed variables. Median
      and interquartile range (IQR) will be calculated for all not normally distributed continuous
      variables. Non-parametric tests such as Mann-Whitney U test and/or Kruskall-Wallis test will
      be used for non-normal distribution of variables. Associations between qualitative variables
      will be determined by Chi-square test, Fisher's exact test and SAS Exact Contingency Table.
      In all statistical analyses, p-value of < 0.05 (95% confidence interval) was considered to be
      statistically significant.

      Analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to test for significant differences between means.

        -  Univariate logistic regression analysis will be used to determine the synergistic effect
           of the genetic variants

        -  The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium for genotypic distribution will be evaluated using the
           Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium exact test.

        -  Rotor-Gene 6000 software (software version 1.7, built 87) will be used for the HRM
           analysis for certain gene polymorphisms by generating a normalized melting curve, a
           difference graph and a derivative plot.

      The categorical variables from this study such as Body Mass Index (BMI), fasting glucose,
      HbA1c, C- peptide levels, Plasma insulin and HOMA-IR will be reported as counts and percent
      and compared between SADJB-SG group and IMT group by SPSS method.

      Study Ethics:

      Ethical clearance will be obtained from the Ethics Committee for Research Involving Human
      Subjects Universiti Putra Malaysia (JKEUPM) and Kuala Lumpur General Hospital. This study
      will be submitted to National Medical Research Register (NMRR) for Medical Research and
      Ethics Committee, Ministry of Health Malaysia (MREC) clearance. Informed consent will be
      obtained from each participant of the study.

      Conflict of Interest:

      There is no conflict of interest among the investigators.
    
  