
    
      Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the most common medication used for pain
      relief in the postpartum period in the United States. For pain relief of uterine involution,
      NSAIDs have shown to be superior to placebo, and equivalent or superior to narcotics. In 2013
      the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) discouraged the use of NSAIDs
      in women with pre-eclampsia due to concerns for inadvertently increasing blood pressure. This
      recommendation is based on non-obstetrics literature, which tended to show a small increase
      of blood pressures in patients who use NSAIDS. However the literature is mixed, particularly
      on ibuprofen which is the most common NSAID used in the postpartum. Of the two meta-analysis
      that are commonly referenced, Pope et al found a decrease of -0.3 (+/- 2.57) mmHg in mean
      arterial pressure (MAP) in patients with hypertension treated with ibuprofen, and Johnson et
      al identified an average of 5mmHg increase in blood pressure with ibuprofen use. A large
      study of 18,325 patients who were treated with NSAIDS or COX-2 inhibitors, found an average
      of a 2.1 (+/- 0.5) mmHg increase in blood pressure with ibuprofen administration.

      There are two articles available in the obstetrics literature on the topic of NSAIDS in women
      with hypertension disorders. The first is by Makis et al, and is a case series of six women,
      with discussion of two cases. The explanations of hypertension causes are limited and
      possible alternate diagnoses are not discussed (6). The second by Wasden et al is a
      retrospective study of women who had the diagnosis of severe hypertension disorders in
      pregnancy. The patients were matched 2:1 for women exposed to NSAIDs versus those who did not
      receive NSAIDs. MAPs were compared, and there was no difference found between the two groups.
      This second study is better designed and is likely representative of the true outcome of
      NSAID use in pre-eclamptic women, as the general literature shows a small, non-clinically
      significant change in blood pressure readings.
    
  