
    
      At MD Anderson, patients with breast cancer routinely have mammograms and ultrasounds to
      measure the size and extent of cancer.

      MRI of the breast is a technology that is better than mammograms and ultrasounds at locating
      cancer. Although MRI may locate more areas of cancer, it can sometimes falsely identify
      normal areas of the breast as cancerous.

      Unlike ductal cancer of the breast (the most common type of breast cancer), lobular cancer is
      more difficult to see on mammograms and ultrasounds. Therefore, patients with lobular cancer
      of the breast may be best suited for MRI of the breast in order to more accurately determine
      the extent of the cancer. In addition, in young women, because the breast tissue is very
      dense, all types of breast tumors are harder to detect with mammogram and ultrasound and may
      be better seen with MRI.

      A correct measurement of the size and extent of the cancer is important because this affects
      the recommendation for the type of surgery a patient may have.

      Study Procedures:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have an MRI of both breasts.

      For the MRI, part or all of the body will be passed into a long, narrow tube scanner, which
      is open at both ends.

      The MRI images will be compared with the images from your standard of care mammogram and
      ultrasound images. If the MRI shows abnormalities not seen on the mammogram or ultrasound and
      your doctor thinks it is necessary, you may have additional testing and/or a tumor biopsy.
      This is part of your standard of care.

      The results of this additional MRI testing will be used by your surgeon to guide his/her
      recommendations for your surgery.

      Information like your age, diagnosis, and results of your testing will be collected as part
      of the data analysis for this study.

      No identifying information will be sent outside of MD Anderson. Your information will be
      stored on a password-protected computer. Information may be kept for up to 5 years after the
      study ends.

      This is an investigational study. The investigational part of this study is the comparison of
      the outcome of MRI images to mammogram and ultrasound images in determining appropriate
      surgical therapy.

      Up to 170 patients will be take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  