
    
      Objectives

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the effect of a 6-month course of
      standardized physical exercise, added on to pre-existing stable AED treatment, on seizure
      frequency in patients with epilepsy aged 16 to 65.

      Secondary objectives include the assessment of the effect of a 6-month course of standardized
      physical exercise, added on to pre-existing stable AED treatment, on (i) depressive and
      anxiety symptom scores; (2) health-related quality of life; (3) adverse

      events.

      Study design

      Open-label randomized controlled trial. Before the intervention each subject will undergo an
      evaluation of cardiovascular fitness using the cycle ergometric test and his/her work level
      ((Wmax/kg) transformed into a stanine (1-9) score. Patients will be randomized into two
      groups by applying a stratification procedure which will allow a similar proportion of
      patients with high fitness (stanine score 5 to 9) and low fitness (stanine score 1 to 4) in
      both groups. Randomization will be conducted by telephone through an external randomization
      center based on a sequence of random numbers.

      Of the two randomized groups, one (Intervention group) will receive a course of standardized
      physical exercise for at least 5 days per week while the other group (control group) will
      randomize to listening to a computerized disc (CD) on muscular relaxation..

      Changes in concomitant AED treatment during the study will not be allowed unless for adverse
      events related to the AEDs.

      Study procedures

      Patients considered to be eligible for the study will undergo initially a 4-week prospective
      baseline to ascertain baseline seizure frequency. After confirming their eligibility based on
      seizure frequency recording, patients will be examined by a study physician and by a physical
      therapist who will conduct an ergonomic test with a stationary bicycle under ECG and blood
      pressure monitoring to determine the level of cardiovascular fitness required for
      stratification. Thereafter the patients will be randomized to the intervention and the
      control group.

      The intervention group will receive a course of standardized physical exercise designed to
      fulfill the Swedish recommendations (FYSS) on exercise for disease-prevention (150 min per
      week of average intensity); at least 5 days per week for 6 months using a bicycle ergometer
      for 30 minutes a day. An individually adjusted workload will be determined by the physical
      therapist to achieve moderate intensity workout based on maximal oxygen uptake (VO2)max and
      percentage of maximal heart rate. Patients in the other group (control group) will be
      randomized to listen to a CD on muscular relaxation every day for 20 minutes and continue
      with their usual lifestyle. At enrollment, subjects randomized to the intervention group will
      be provided with a bicycle ergometer. requirements) as well parameters related to seizure
      activity.

      The following evaluations will be conducted at the times indicated, which correspond to
      hospital visits:

      Time 0 (enrollment): Medical examination; body weight; fitness test (Åstrand submax test,
      which is a submaximal test of aerobic fitness.), including ECG and BP measurements, seizure
      frequency (last 4 weeks); adverse effects (unstructured interview); details of concomitant
      concomitant treatment, mood assessment by using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale-Anxiety (HADS); health related quality of life (RAND-36).

      Month 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5: Seizure frequency (recorded daily on seizure calendars), adverse
      effects (unstructured interview); body weight; details of concomitant treatment, E4-data
      downloading, advice on exercise from physical therapist.

      Month 6: Medical examination; body weight; fitness test, including ECG and BP measurements,
      seizure frequency; adverse effects (unstructured interview); details of concomitant
      concomitant treatment, mood assessment by using the Hospital Anxiety

      and Depression Scale-Anxiety (HADS); health related quality of life (RAND-36), E4-data
      downloading,

      Any additional testing (e.g. EEG, laboratory tests) may be performed as considered clinically
      indicated by the treating physician.

      Sample size and statistical analysis

      Assuming that 40% of patients in the intervention group vs. 20% of patients in the control
      group have a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency compared with baseline, 79
      patients per group provide 80% power to identify a difference between groups at a
      significance level of 0.05. To account for potential dropouts, a total of 100 patients per
      group will be randomized.

      The primary analysis will be intent-to-treat (ITT) using "The Last Observation Carried
      Forward " (LOCF) extrapolation when appropriate. Per-protocol analysis (PPT) will exclude
      patients discontinuing prematurely the study and patients with less than 75% compliance with
      exercise requirements.

      Ethical aspects

      The study protocol has been approved by the Ethics Committees of Gothenburg in behalf of the
      participating centers. Before the study, all patients will be informed about the objectives
      and implications of the study, and will be asked to sign an informed consent form.
    
  