
    
      More than 25 million adults suffer from chronic pain in the United States making it the
      single most common symptom for which patients seek medical care. Although chronic pain can
      develop from a variety conditions, surgery is one of the most common and the incidence of
      chronic pain after thoracic surgery is particularly high. Opioids have been a mainstay
      therapy for post-surgical pain, but there is increasing awareness that post-surgical opioid
      use is a risk factor for addiction. Consequently, there are major nationwide efforts underway
      to limit opioid use in the post-surgical setting and identify safer options. One promising
      modality that has emerged in recent years is the use of non-invasive brain stimulation using
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).

      TMS provides a method for noninvasively modulating cortical excitability, and a number of
      studies have shown that non-invasive neuromodulation can reduce pain in patients suffering
      from chronic pain. Using resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging, the
      investigators propose to investigate changes in brain networks after TMS and additionally
      investigate individual differences in brain network connectivity patterns that predict the
      effectiveness of TMS. The investigators expect that active TMS, compared to sham TMS, will
      normalize brain network connectivity and lead to lower pain and opioid use after surgery. In
      addition, by assessing pre-surgical brain networks, the investigators hope to identify brain
      connectivity patterns that predict efficacy of TMS as a post-surgical treatment option.

      The investigators will recruit 36 subjects who've undergone thoracic surgery. The
      investigators will recruit primarily in-patients but may also recruit patients who have gone
      home after surgery.

      During weeks 2-3 Post-Surgery, 5 study visits will be completed, each ranging in duration
      from 1 1/2 - 3 hours. All 5 visits include 2 short TMS sessions (10 total), pain and mood
      assessments. At V1 and V5, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans will be
      completed, as well as additional pain and health related assessments (many only done at V1).
      Also, short, follow-up phone calls will be completed at 3 and 6 months post-surgery to assess
      pain and other outcomes.
    
  