
    
      Design:1st phase: Visual Risk Map Design (MRV); 2nd Phase: Randomized clinical trial by
      conglomerates (Primary Care Centers).

      Study population (indicate inclusion and exclusion criteria):

      Patients included in the Home Care program (ATDOM) assigned to the Primary Care Centers in
      the territory who agree to participate in the study. The only exclusion criterion will be the
      patient's refusal to participate in the study

      Sample size and sampling procedure:

      The study will be conducted in 8 Centers; 4 will be randomly assigned to intervention and 4
      to control. If approximately 80% of patients have had an admission in the previous year and
      the investigators intend that, with our intervention, this percentage drops to 70%, for a
      confidence of 95% (alpha error of 5%) and a statistical power of 80%, the investigators will
      need a sample of 231 patients and, if the investigators have a 15% loss, 272 patients per
      group (control and intervention). Each Center will be able to provide approximately 50 ATDOM
      patients. All patients will be invited to participate. They will be given a brief explanation
      of the study and invited to sign informed consent (in case the patient has a significant
      cognitive impairment, their guardian will sign the consent). All patients who meet inclusion
      criteria will be included.The basic morbidity and mortality characteristics of the sample
      will be compared with the MSIQ (health and quality monitoring) record of CatSalut (catalonia
      health services).

      Dependent and independent variables (for quantitative studies):

      Dependent variables: Percentage of patients with: hospital admissions / avoidable hospital
      emergency room visits (main variable) during the follow-up year sores falls. Death and final
      institutionalization will also be considered dependent variables In addition to the
      percentage of patients with admissions, the investigators will also consider the total number
      of preventable admissions and visits to hospital emergencies during the follow-up period.
      Another dependent variable will be the quality of life, which the investigators will measure
      using the EuroQol-5D index (see appendix 1), a record currently available at the e-cap
      clinical station.

      Independent variables: The main independent variable is "intervention".

      Intervention: The intervention consists of the availability in the patient's medical history
      of the visual risk map. Patients in the intervention group will have a risk map in their
      medical history and any professional who treats them will have immediate access to this map,
      which the investigators think will help them prioritize the implementation of the relevant
      practices. safe (in relation to the areas that appear in red) Patients in the control group
      will have in their clinical histories the usual records of comprehensive geriatric assessment

      Risk areas: Other independent variables will be the risk areas: Patient identification,
      Functional autonomy and quality of life, Caregiver, Management and safe use of medications,
      Risk of falls, Risk of pressure injuries and ulcers, Control of symptoms, Risk of infection
      associated with health care, Values and beliefs of the patient and the family, Social risk,
      Unplanned hospital admissions / proactive follow-up, Continuity of care 7 days X 24 hours ,
      Transfers (between levels of care), Security culture and Nursing work environment.

      During the first stage of the project, the 15 variables (indicators) corresponding to the
      aforementioned Risk Areas (RAs) will be created based on the integration of one or more
      variables. the investigators detail all the "primary" variables that will be considered for
      inclusion in the 15 indicators ("secondary" variables) corresponding to the 15 RAs, which
      will generate 1 synthetic indicator of the overall risk of the patient. The selection of the
      variables to be included was made based on the bibliographic search; their final inclusion
      and the relative contribution of each will depend on the consensus among the members of the
      interdisciplinary team of professionals (doctors, nurses, social workers) experts in ATDOM.
      For the weighting (contribution of each of the variables to the final indicator) will be
      taken into account on the one hand the magnitude / severity of the problem measured by the
      variable and on the other the existence of feasible interventions (safe practices) that have
      proven its effectiveness in improving it. The same team will also decide the cut points; that
      is, from which values of the new variables / indicators (operated from the weighted "primary"
      variables) is it considered moderate risk and when it goes to high risk. For this recoding
      and fusion of primary variables will have the support of a mathematical expert and the
      professionals of the Technologies of the Information and the Communication (TIC) will be the
      commissions.

      Most of the data will be collected from the records in the e-cap (primary care clinical
      station): socio-demographic variables, scores at different scales, diagnostic codes. Other
      sources of information will be direct observation, interviews with patients and caregivers,
      exchange of information with other professionals involved (social services, professionals
      from other care devices ...).

      Once the first phase of the study has been completed with the "construction" of the 15
      variables corresponding to the risk areas, the investigators will make a descriptive
      analysis: the investigators will determine the mean and standard deviation for quantitative
      variables and frequencies (percentages) for qualitative ones. Based on the categorization of
      risk areas, the investigators will analyze the distribution of these categories (low,
      moderate or high risk) for each of the 15 RAs.

      The investigators will do a baseline comparative analysis (using Chi-square test and
      Student's t, as the investigators compare qualitative or quantitative variables) between
      control group and intervention to check that there are no significant differences between
      groups.

      Finally, the investigators will compare the outcome variables (outcomes) between groups using
      the chi-square test and the investigators will also do a multivariate analysis (Cox
      regression) introducing in the model adjustment variables: socio-demographic, risk areas and
      covariates mentioned above, and considering the time to the event of the outcome variables:
      admission, fall, sore or infection, institutionalization, and success. For the variable
      quality of life the investigators will compare the scores (averages and percentiles) of the
      scale between control group and intervention and also at the beginning and end of the
      intervention.
    
  