
    
      Design: Multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label, and pragmatic trial.

      Settings: Several different emergency departments (EDs) in Denmark.

      Study flow: After arrival, the patients are screened according to eligibility criteria. If
      patients meet the inclusion criteria and informed consent is obtained, the patients are
      randomly assigned to one of two groups. In both groups, the patients received standard
      evaluation, e.g., blood samples, physical examination, arterial blood gas, and in addition
      ultrasound examination of the heart and the lungs. In the intervention group, the patients
      are further examined with serial ultrasound scans of the heart and the lungs after two and
      four hours after the initial evaluation.

      In the course of admittance, the patients will have there baseline characteristics recorded
      together with the ultrasound findings, symptoms, and vitals. Symptoms will be recorded at a
      verbal dyspnea symptom scale (VDS) from 0-10.

      All data will be registered at the same time points to make comparisons: At 1, 2, 4 and after
      5 hours.

      Sample size: This is calculated from the primary outcome and with an assumption of a power of
      80%, type 1-error of 5%, and 10% dropouts. The calculations are based on previous studies
      using the VDS on patients with acute dyspnea. The sample size is 103 patients in each group.

      Statistical analysis: Baseline characteristics will be summarized and divided into the
      intervention and control group. Continuous variables will be summarized as means and standard
      deviation (SD) or medians and interquartile range (IQR) depending on the distribution of the
      variable. For categorical variables, frequencies and percentages will be reported.

      The primary outcome - change in dyspnea on VDS - will be compared between the two groups to
      detect any difference. Pairwise comparisons of VDS will be made at the same time points in
      both groups.

      The secondary outcomes: Length of stay, death, and the number of readmissions will be
      compared between the two groups to detect a difference. Time-to-event (dead or readmission)
      will be visualized with Kaplan Meier curves.

      In the case of lost to follow-up or other reasons for missing data both intention-to-treat
      and per-protocol analysis will be used.

      The secondary outcomes in the interventions group: The dynamic changes in inferior vena cava
      collapsibility index (IVC-CI) and the sum of B-lines will be expressed as means and SD or
      median and IQR depending on the distribution of the data and compared between the different
      time points. Furthermore, IVC-CI and the sum of B-lines will be compared to vitals and
      VDS-score to detect a correlation.

      The inter- and intraobserver variability regarding the focused ultrasound will be accessed.

      Data management: The registered data on each patient will be recorded and securely stored in
      an encrypted, logged, and password-protected database called REDCap. All adjustments in the
      database are logged. The patients are anonymized.
    
  