
    
      There have been several studies linking hyperglycemia during pregnancy to adverse perinatal
      outcomes such as macrosomia, fetal cardiac defects, and shoulder dystocia. However, there
      have only been a few studies addressing the effects of hypoglycemia on perinatal outcomes.
      Several of these studies have shown an increased risk of intrauterine growth restriction
      (IUGR) with maternal hypoglycemia particularly during the glucose tolerance test (GTT).3-6
      However, many of these studies have not taken into account comorbid factors or have
      conflicting findings.3-6 IUGR is defined as infant birth weights below the tenth percentile
      when the baby is otherwise genetically normal. The purpose of this retrospective pilot study
      is to assess the association of maternal hypoglycemia during the one hour glucose tolerance
      test with decreased placental weight and identifiable placental pathology. We hypothesize
      that a decreased one hour glucose tolerance test is a risk factor for decreased placental
      weight, an increased fetal to placental weight ratio, and other identifiable placental
      pathology.

      Abell et al. found that maternal hypoglycemia during the one hour GTT was associated with
      decreased birth weights and intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). However, this study made
      no comment on the effect of confounding factors such as tobacco use, history of gestational
      diabetes, or maternal BMI. Both Sokol et al and Langer et al revealed a link between
      decreased maternal response during the third trimester GTT and IUGR, although in the Sokol
      study, each pregnancy had one known risk factor for gestational diabetes. Conversely, several
      more recent papers have reported that maternal hypoglycemia is not predictive of IUGR or poor
      perinatal outcomes. -8 Consequently, the effect maternal hypoglycemia during the oral GTT is
      unclear. The placenta is viewed as a reflection of the intrauterine environment during
      pregnancy. Therefore, we wish to examine hypoglycemia during the oral one hour GTT as a risk
      factor for decreased placental weight, increased fetal weight to placental weight ratio, and
      an increased incidence of abnormal placental pathology.

      A normal term placenta weighs approximately 450 grams, which is on average, one sixth of the
      fetal weight.9 Increased maternal substrate availability of vital fetal nutrients, such as
      glucose, has been known to result in large for gestational age infants, such as occurs with
      gestational diabetics.10 This may also be reflected in the increased placental weights linked
      with large for gestational age infants.11 Conversely, IUGR and small for gestational age
      infants may have decreased placental weights, possibly due to decreased substrate
      availability secondary to maternal hypoglycemia. 12 Increased fetal to placental weight
      ratios of 1.5 or greater above the average value for a particular gestational age are also
      indicative of an IUGR infant.

      Identifying a possible indicator for an increased risk of decreased placental weight, which
      may in turn indicate an increased risk for IUGR, is vitally important when considering the
      outcomes of IUGR infants. These infants are at great risk for hypoglycemia, sepsis, seizure,
      stillbirth, respiratory distress, and meconium aspiration. Long term outcomes include poor
      school performance, hyperactivity, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease.2 Study
      Population Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria Our study population will consist of women younger
      than 35, who delivered a term infant either by vaginal delivery or cesarean section at Tulsa
      Regional Medical Center between July 1, 2005 and July 31, 2007. This time range was selected
      in order to have an adequate number of recent charts to review. (Women 35 and older are
      considered "advanced maternal age" and may be at increased risk of placental pathology for
      that reason, so they are excluded.) We expect to collect approximately 350 usable charts,
      with perhaps only 35 of those from patients with blood sugars in the "low" or experimental
      category. A power analysis using these assumptions is provided at the end of this protocol.
      All placentas are sent to pathology on a routine basis. A term infant is defined as delivery
      at 37 weeks or greater.

      The study population will consist of a typical resident clinic patient population from the
      OSU OB-Gyn clinic. The ethnicities of the study population include African-American,
      Caucasian, Hispanic, American Indian, and Asian women. The population included in the study
      must have a one hour glucose tolerance test result equal to or less than 88 mg/dl. These
      results are equal to a range in the fifth percentile or less.3 We used 50 grams of oral
      glucola at 24 weeks or greater for our glucose tolerance test.

      We will exclude women with the following comorbid conditions, due to the fact that such
      conditions manifest placental pathology and may affect placental weight: insufficient
      gestational dates, multiple gestation, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, heart disease,
      tobacco use, drug use, history of or current gestational diabetes, history of IUGR,
      chromosomal abnormalities, congenital malformations, preexisting diabetes, any autoimmune
      disease, hypertensive disorders, abnormal maternal screen, pulmonary disease, previous
      gastric bypass, any disease process that results in decreased gastrointestinal absorption,
      HIV, intrauterine amniotic infection, history of placental abruption, thrombophilia, body
      mass index (BMI) greater than 40 or BMI less than 19.8.13

      Early Termination Criteria N/A

      Methods/Procedures Diagnosis

      The diagnosis of maternal hypoglycemia after a one hour glucola screen will be defined as a
      one hour plasma glucose measurement of equal to or less than 88 mg/dl. The glucose screen
      will be performed at 24 weeks gestation or greater, as calculated by last menstrual period
      and ultrasound. The one hour GTT results will be obtained from the patient's chart. A
      decreased placental weight will be defined as a weight equal to or below one standard
      deviation of the mean placental weight according to gestational age (Table 1). The control
      group of this population will have a one hour GTT result greater than 88mg/dl. In this study,
      we will assess placental weight, birth weight, the placenta to birth weight ratio, and
      placental pathology as described in Table 2. All placental findings were assessed by a single
      pathologist blinded to the patient's one hour GTT results.

      Data Collection The collaborating investigators and research assistants will collect age,
      height, weight at initial visit, date of delivery, infant birth weight, one hour GTT result,
      smoking and drug use status, placental weight and pathology results, and any of the above
      mentioned exclusion criteria only from any patient chart. (Height and weight are needed to
      calculate BMI.) Research assistants will be utilized to aid in the collection of this data
      from clinic and hospital records. These assistants will be OSU medical students employed by
      the work study program and will have basic human research and HIPAA training.

      Analysis The two populations will be compared for various response variables. Whenever the
      response variable is meaningfully numeric and continuous in nature, two population t-tests
      will be used to compare the means of the two groups. When the response is categorical in
      nature, contingency tables will be created and Chi Squares tests utilized to compare the
      proportion of responses for the two groups. All analyses will be conducted with the use of PC
      SAS Version 9 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC).

      Confidentiality The records reviewed will be kept in the Houston Park medical records
      department or Tulsa Regional Medical Center health information management department. Both
      these facilities are locked or under security supervision at all times. All study records
      will be de-identified by conversion to numbers before review, analysis, or interpretation. J.
      Martin Beal, D.O., Sarah McCoy, Ph.D., and Elsa Vadakekut, D.O. will have access to these
      numbers which will be kept locked in the OSU Ob/Gyn office, which is separate from both
      medical records departments. All documents linking patient names to charts will be destroyed
      after the data collection is complete.
    
  