
    
      Background: Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the US, and is 2-7 times higher in
      Veterans than age- and sex-matched civilians. Standard psychiatric medications (such as
      lithium) are anti-suicidal with prolonged use only, and do not impact acute suicidality. A
      priority for suicide prevention is to define novel treatment targets for safe and
      rapidly-acting interventions. Recent studies have associated suicide and medically severe
      suicide attempt (MSSA) with dysregulation of the brain kynurenine pathway (KP), which could
      predispose to excessive NMDAR activation, a molecular target purportedly involved in rapid
      improvement of suicidality with agents such as ketamine. AV-101 (4-chlorokynurenine,
      4-Cl-KYN) is an oral pro-drug that targets KP dysregulation with downstream NMDAR
      deactivation. Phase-1 testing showed that AV-101 is metabolized to 7-Cl-KYN in 1.5 to 2 hours
      after intake.

      Objective: Before testing possible anti-suicidal properties, biomarkers need to be defined to
      show that AV-101 engages the NMDAR. The objective of the current study is to define valid and
      sensitive neurophysiological markers with a dose-response relationship with AV-101 as
      evidence of NMDAR engagement, as well as study safety and tolerability.

      Methods: The investigators will recruit 12 healthy and non-psychiatrically ill OEF/OIF/OND
      Veterans (age 25-64) who will receive two single doses of AV-101 (720 mg, 1440 mg) and
      placebo in a randomized, double-blind, crossover design with one week wash-out between
      conditions. Neurophysiological measures collected at baseline (pre-treatment) and hourly for
      5 hours following medication intake are resting state EEG, Mismatch Negativity amplitude, and
      P50 sensory gating, measures sensitive to modulation of different NMDAR mechanisms. Repeated
      measures General Linear Models will be used to test dose-response relationships.
    
  