
    
      The PIANO COVID-19 study is an observational, ambidirectional multicenter cohort study. The
      study will compare the death rates (COVID and non-COVID) in NHs according to the application
      of the general and specific recommendations of the region by the NH teams, taking into
      account the COVID infection rate in the NH department, the transfer capacities to hospitals,
      the medicalization of NH and the general characteristics of residents of NH. These parameters
      having been fluctuating over time, the analysis will also take into account the period
      considered.

      3 sources of data will be used :

      - Questionnaire: The NH team leaders will be asked to report variable related to the
      implementation of the recommendation/guidance by the nursing home staff, the general
      characteristics of the residents (GMP, PMP, GIR, rate of death during the previous three
      years 2017, 2018 and 2019), and characteristics of the NH (private, publics, address, level
      of medicalization with nurses, coordinating physician), and the monthly rate of death (COVID
      and not COVID) from January to December 2020.

      A score will be built in regard to the implementation of the recommendation/guidance from the
      nursing home staff.

      - Data related to the recommendations/guidance of the 13 regions of France (general guidance
      such as barriers measures and specificity guidance such as rt-PCR COVID diagnostic and
      management strategy), the COVID infection rate in each NH department, the transfer capacities
      to hospitals and emergency department, will be collected by the PIANO COVID-19 research team.

      For this purpose, referent teams for the COVID-19 outbreak of the each Regional Health Agency
      (RHA) of the 13 regions of France are contacted in order to recover the recommendation
      documents having been sent to the NHs.

        -  Official national data related to the COVID infection rate in the NH administrative
           region, and transfer capacities to hospitals, will be collected from open access website
           of the Santé Publique France website or other official websites currently providing
           these data. These data are updated on a daily basis for all administrative region of
           France and have been registered from the beginning of the outbreak.

        -  Qualitative study: To improve the understanding of the effects of the
           recommendations/guidance on resident's health, we will carry out a qualitative study
           with the NH staff of 20 public and private NH (half clusters NH for COVID-19 and half NH
           saved from COVID-19). Onsite semi-structured interviews will be conducted with the NH
           staff to better understand the subjective assessment of healthcare professional on the
           impact of the recommendations/guidance on the residents' health status. The main
           questions to which the interviews with the nurses and the nursing assistants will
           answer, will relate to the functional decline, the appetite and the nutritional status,
           the mood, the evolution of the cognitive capacities,their psycho-behavioral disturbances
           and their quality of life during the epidemic period. This qualitative survey will be
           carried out among NHs having been strongly impacted by the epidemic (NHs cluster with
           more than 20 deaths) and NHs having not at all been affected by the epidemic (no case of
           COVID-19 among residents or health care professional). The qualitative study will
           involve NHs located in very variable geographical regions in regards to the outbreak.
    
  