
    
      When the treatment itself appears to initiate the onset of pain and/or swelling, the result
      can be very distressing to both the patient and the operator.

      Patients might even consider postoperative pain and flare-up as a benchmark against which the
      clinician's skills are measured. Prevalence of postoperative pain or flare-up is, therefore,
      one of the influencing factors when making a clinical decision. Better management of
      postoperative pain increases the patients' confidence in dentist's skills and gives positive
      attitude toward dental profession. The major cause of this pain is thought to be because of
      the release of inflammatory mediators that stimulate sensitive nociceptors surrounding the
      tooth. The resultant stimulation of both central and peripheral mechanisms is described as
      hyperalgesia which is defined as an increase in the perceived degree of a painful stimulus.
      One of the many inflammatory mediators, IL-8 has been extensively considered as a potential
      marker for irreversible pulpitis. Increased expression of IL-8 is correlated with increased
      polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) within the pulp because IL-8 induces neutrophil
      chemotaxis and release of degradation enzymes during degranulation. Substance P was the
      initial neuropeptide identified in the dental tissues. The released substance P further
      promotes the release of short-lived inflammatory mediators providing a fresh supply of
      prostaglandins (iPGE2), leukotriene (iLTB4) and bradykinins. These sustained effects of the
      released inflammatory mediators are part of a local positive feedback cycle. Neuronal
      responses in the dental pulp due to caries have been shown to alter the anatomical
      distribution of nerve fibers, leading to increases in neuropeptide expression and increased
      pain sensitivity as a result of peripheral sensitization. Prostaglandin construction in this
      inflammatory process is via the cyclooxygenase pathway. Ketorolac tromethamine, a potent
      NSAID available in both oral and injectable forms, is over 400 times more potent as a
      selective inhibitor of COX-1 over COX-2 than many other drugs. When ketorolac tromethamine
      was used as an intracanal medicament in teeth with irreversible pulpitis undergoing root
      canal treatment, it contributed to significant post operative pain relief.
    
  