
    
      Background:

        -  The PI3K-AKT (protein kinase B) and RAF/MEK (methyl ethyl ketone)/ERK
           (extracellular-signal regulated kinase) pathways are two of the most frequently
           activated signaling pathways in cancer, including colorectal cancer (CRC). KRAS (Kirsten
           Rat Sarcoma Viral Oncogene Homolog) mutations are detected in approximately 40% of
           patients with CRC and predict for resistance to EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor)
           inhibitors. AKT is upregulated in approximately 60% of CRC.

        -  Preclinical studies demonstrate that activating mutations in the PI3K-AKT pathway and
           increased phosphorylated Akt through a MEK-EGFR-PI3K feedback loop are implicated in
           resistance to the antitumor effect of MEK inhibition.

        -  MK-2206 and AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate are selective inhibitors of human AKT and MEK,
           respectively, with preclinical and clinical anti-tumor activity as single agents and in
           combination with a variety of drugs. Combination treatment in mouse cancer models
           harboring mutations in both the PI3K and RAS (Rat Sarcoma) pathways was more potent
           compared to either agent used alone, and resulted in substantial tumor inhibition,
           including tumor regression. The combination is being studied in a Phase I trial and
           appears tolerable.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  Determine reduction of pERK and pAKT in tumor biopsies on C1D1 (cycle 1 day 1)
           post-administration of the combination of AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate and MK-2206 in
           patients with advanced colorectal cancer, stratified for KRAS mutation status.

        -  Evaluate for recovery of pAKT levels in tumor biopsy samples obtained on C1D4 (cycle 1,
           day 4) after administration of the combination of AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate and MK-2206
           in patients with advanced colorectal cancer, stratified for KRAS mutation status.

        -  Determine reduction of Ki-67 in tumor biopsies post-administration of the combination of
           AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate and MK-2206 in patients with advanced colorectal cancer,
           stratified for KRAS mutation status.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Evaluate reduction of pERK and pAKT in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) after
           administration of the combination of AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate and MK-2206 and correlate
           these reductions with those seen in tumor biopsy samples.

        -  Evaluate antitumor activity of the combination of MK-2206 with AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with histologically documented colorectal cancer that has progressed or recurred
      after oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-based chemotherapy for metastatic disease. KRAS mutation
      analysis results must be available prior to enrollment. Patients must have disease amenable
      to biopsy, and be willing to undergo pre-and post-treatment tumor biopsies.

      Study Design:

        -  MK-2206 135 mg PO (by mouth) once weekly and AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate 100 mg PO (by
           mouth) once daily will be administered in 28-day cycles, beginning on C1D1 (cycle 1, day
           1).

        -  Patients will be stratified for KRAS mutation status.

        -  Blood samples and paired mandatory tumor biopsies will be obtained for pharmacodynamic
           studies.

        -  CT (computed tomography) scans will be performed every 2 cycles for restaging.
    
  