
    
      PTSD is a psychiatric disorder that can occur following exposure to a traumatic event in
      which grave physical harm occurred or was threatened. PTSD is marked by clear biological
      changes as well as psychological symptoms. Many people with PTSD repeatedly relive the trauma
      in the form of flashback episodes, memories, nightmares, or frightening thoughts. This study
      will evaluate the effectiveness of cognitive processing therapy (CPT) versus prolonged
      exposure therapy in treating women with PTSD brought on by sexual assault.

      Participants in this single-blind study will be randomly assigned to one of three conditions:
      CPT, prolonged exposure therapy (PE), or minimal attention (MA). Individuals assigned to
      receive CPT will attend therapy sessions twice weekly for 6 weeks. Each session will be 1
      hour long, except for sessions 4 and 5, which will be 1.5 hours long. CPT will focus on
      helping each individual to process accurate memories of the traumatic event and to work
      through any memories that cannot be completely ignored, nor completely integrated back into
      their thinking. Also included in CPT will be an exposure component, in which participants
      will be encouraged to recall the traumatic event and experience any emotions connected to it.
      Participants assigned to receive PE therapy will attend an initial 1-hour therapy session,
      followed by 4 weeks of additional sessions that will meet twice weekly. Each of these 8
      sessions will be 1.5 hours long. PE will entail oral exposure without modification of the
      participant's cognitions. Participants will discuss their traumatic experiences in detail
      during each session to aid in emotional processing. All PE sessions will be audio taped.
      Participants will listen to the tapes of their sessions on their own to further assist with
      emotional processing. Individuals assigned to receive MA will receive no therapy for the
      first 6 weeks. At the end of this initial phase, they will be assigned to receive either CPT
      or PE if they still meet diagnostic criteria for PTSD. Symptoms of PTSD, feelings of guilt
      and shame, and overall perception of self and surroundings will be assessed at baseline,
      post-treatment, and at follow-up visits at 3, 6, and 9 months post-treatment.
    
  