
    
      Study Procedure The Interventional angiographic suit will follow the standard hemodialysis
      related interventional procedure for PTA. Fistulogram will be performed prior to PTA. All
      enrolled patients should undergo 3 and 6-month follow-up fistulogram and information will be
      collected and recorded on the treated study vessel and pictures through angiographic image.
      These data will be recorded on clinical recording form using an excel program.

        1. Pretreatment evaluation 1.1 All procedures will be performed after obtaining written
           informed consent from patients. No specific pre-treatment regimen will be needed.

           1.2 After sterile preparation and draping, percutaneous access will be gained in an
           appropriately chosen hemodialysis graft after application of local anesthesia.
           Diagnostic fistulogram was performed to identify and evaluate the target lesion and any
           possible secondary lesions. In case of thrombotic occlusion of AVG, diagnostic
           fistulogram will be done after successful aspiration thrombectomy though a sheath.

           1.3 All lesions were characterized by location, length, and degree of stenosis. The
           degree of stenoses was evaluated in two orthogonal planes, and the greatest degree of
           stenoses was used for subsequent anatomic measurements. Anatomic measurements were made
           with use of a calibrated reference marker or software within the angiographic imaging
           system. The reference vessel was defined as an adjacent segment of normal vein or graft
           located adjacent to the target lesion. The degree of stenosis was reported as the
           maximum diameter reduction compared with the reference vessel diameter.

        2. PTA in venous anastomosis of AVG 2.1 Vascular sheaths will be used in all cases. 2.2
           Balloon diameter will be chosen at the operator's discretion, generally starting with a
           balloon 10% oversized compared with the adjacent normal vein or graft in both groups
           (Reference Vessel Diameter: RVD).

           2.3 Balloon length will be also chosen at the discretion of the operator: In general,
           4-cm- or 6cm-long balloons can be used for some long lesions.

           2.4 If patient requested the sedation, conscious sedation can be done. 2.5 After
           crossing the stenosis with a guide wire, the conventional balloon catheter was
           appropriately positioned across the lesion under fluoroscopic guidance. With the use of
           an inflation device with a pressure gauge, the balloon catheter was gradually inflated
           until the stenosis was eliminated.

           2.6 Randomization will be assigned after successful conventional balloon angioplasty in
           venous anastomotic stenosis of AVG. After conventional angioplasty, patients will be
           randomly assigned to undergo DEB angioplasty or to receive conventional balloon
           angioplasty for 3 minutes (upto norminal pressure).

           2.7 If the patient will be randomly assigned to the DEB group, an In.Pact® Drug-eluting
           balloon catheter (6, 7mm in diameter, ≦6cm in length) will be used in addition to
           conventional balloon angioplasty. A balloon diameter and length will be equal to that
           used in the conventional balloon angioplasty group.

        3. Procedure Materials PRODUCT SIZE LENGTHS Drug Eluting balloon In.Pact® 6,7mm 4, 6cm
           Conventional balloon Various conventional balloon catheter 6,7mm 4, 6cm

        4. Follow-up

             -  All patients will be followed after PTA. When patients visit hemodialysis unit 3
                and 6 months after PTA, the patient's record will be updated.

             -  All patients that visit hemodialysis unit will be brought to angiographic suit to
                undergo follow-up fistulogram and evaluate the re-stenosis.

             -  Clinical follow-up will be performed in hemodialysis unit, including checking the
                status of hemodialysis using a those circuits and general work-up.
    
  