
    
      Equinus is the most common deformity in children with cerebral palsy. Spastic equinus is
      typically defined as the inability to dorsa-flex the foot above plantigrade, with the
      hindfoot in neutral position and the knee in extended position. Approximately 90% of the
      deformities in cerebral palsy occur in the ankle and foot region alone with the incidence of
      equinus being around 75%. Spastic equinus exhibits poor muscle control and muscle weakness
      around ankle and foot, resulting in bone deformities and gait abnormalities. Non-operative
      conservative management of equinus is typically undertaken up until 8 years in order to
      prevent recurrent equinus or overcorrection by avoiding high-growth phase of child's
      development for surgical intervention. Despite these precautions, long term follow-up studies
      report up to 48% of recurrence rate post-surgery. Recurrence surgery not only increases the
      economic burden on the society but also has a debilitating impact on children and their
      families. Previous research is focused on extrinsic risk factors such as CP type, demographic
      parameters, and clinical gait parameters for surgical recurrence and none assessed the
      dynamic impact of intrinsic bone deformity on ankle joint and muscle mechanics. A primary
      reason for this recurrence could be a lack of understanding of bone deformity that might be
      forcing the child to adapt altered ankle joint and muscle mechanics (bone kinematics,
      cartilage contact parameters, muscle strain) during dynamic activities. In fact, the surgical
      treatment of fixed equinus does not consider any bone corrections and focus on muscle release
      or lengthening only. Being a dynamic pathology, it is critical to understand the in vivo
      effect of weak ankle joint musculature on joint mechanics and the resultant bone deformity.
      However, no such efforts have been made so far in the literature. With the advent of
      technology, researchers have developed and validated dynamic magnetic resonance imaging
      techniques to analyze in vivo muscle and joint mechanics. Processing this data enables
      researchers to analytically track bones without having to identify specific points or
      anatomical landmarks and thus provides the ability to track muscle motion as well as skeletal
      motion. Thus properties such as bone kinematics, cartilage contact mechanics, musculotendon
      moment arms, muscle strain and tendon strain are available from these analyses. These
      techniques can be successfully employed in equinus research to evaluate ankle joint and
      muscle mechanics in vivo.
    
  