
    
      This study proposes to examine the effectiveness of enhanced GI-targeted nutrition education
      on dietary behaviour and intakes among adults with type 2 diabetes.

      Adults with type 2 diabetes will take part in this study and will be randomly assigned to
      either the HEALD-GI program (intervention) or in usual care (control). To evaluate the
      effectiveness of the program, 66 eligible participants drawn from the Alberta's Caring for
      Diabetes Cohort will be randomized into two equal groups using a pragmatic randomized
      controlled trial design. The control will receive only standard printed copies of Canada Food
      Guide and Canadian Diabetes Association (CDA) GI resources. The intervention group will
      receive additional GI concept information including GI values of foods, low GI recipes,
      menus, and application through websites with chat rooms, online videos, and print materials.
      These will be reinforced through email, text messaging/phone calls, and postal mail. GI
      knowledge and skill, self-efficacy, dietary intakes (using 3-day food record), anthropometry
      (body mass), and clinical measures (glycated hemoglobin A1c, systolic blood pressure), will
      be assessed at baseline and three months post-intervention.

      The primary outcome will be change in GI related dietary behaviour and intake measured using
      3-day food records (baseline and 3 months). Secondary outcomes include: 1) body mass, 2)
      glycemic control (hemoglobin A1c), 3) systolic blood pressure.

      Significance:

      Sufficient evidence is needed regarding the best approach for increasing uptake of current
      Canadian Diabetes Association (CDA) evidence-based recommendation to include low GI foods in
      daily meal planning as an effective dietary self-care practice for glycemic control among
      people with type 2 diabetes. Findings from this study will help determine if, and how, the
      current approach to disseminating the CDA dietary recommendations pertaining to GI concept
      could be improved for better uptake using the most efficient and cost effective
      patient-centered approaches to nutrition self-management. Besides, evidence generated will
      contribute to addressing some of the controversies regarding the clinical usefulness of the
      GI concept.
    
  