
    
      Aging society is a global trend. In general, each additional five years for older than 65
      years old, doubling the prevalence of dementia, that means is constantly increasing in
      dementia patients. Dementia elderly often appear negative emotion, memory disorders, sleep
      disorder and agitated behavior. With the progression of dementia, many patients present
      "sundown syndrome", which particularly appear agitation, hallucinations, delusions in the
      evening or at night and even accompanied by delirium and confusion. When the patient
      increased nocturnal awakenings, and even lead to roam at night and confusion, resulting in
      stress for families and carers. Therefore, the purpose of this study will to examine the
      effects of white noise on agitation and saliva cortisol in elderly with dementia. The sample
      sizes was calculated (Power: 0.8, α level: 0.05, effect size: 0.5) by G-Power statistical
      software. The estimated number of samples will be 35 cases for each group and the loss
      following rate of 20% will be considered and then each group will recruite 42 cases. In
      total, 84 cases will be recruited to participate the study. Four dementia care centers
      located in central and southern Taiwan will be selected and were randomly assigned to the
      experimental group (two centers) and the control group (two centers). The experimental group
      will receive 20 minute white noise of the ocean and the sound of running water at 16:00 to
      17:00 for four weeks periods. The control group will receive usual care. Before the
      intervention and pretest, participants will be collected three days of saliva cortisol and
      observed agitation behavior for 10 days. After the four weeks of white noise intervention,
      post-test questionnaire, agitation behavior and saliva cortisol will be collected. The
      information collected will be entered into the computer SPSS 20.0 software for statistical
      analysis. White noise is a simple, convenient, non-invasive and effective intervention that
      hopes to improve the agitation behavior and saliva cortisol levels and improve quality of
      care for dementia elderly.
    
  