
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating and increasingly frequent neurological disorder
      whose onset is strongly correlated with advanced age. Between 2000 and 2017 deaths from AD
      have increased 145%, and AD has become the 6th leading cause of death in the USA.
      Unfortunately, in spite of immense research and clinical efforts spanning several decades,
      cures have been elusive. This has prompted searches for new mechanisms of disease and new
      targets of therapy. One such direction is inflammation: aging and many age-associated
      diseases are believed to be causally linked with a chronic inflammatory state. The brain is
      no exception, and the presence of inflammation in the AD brain establishes an environment
      that is hostile for the function and survival of neurons. While it is not yet clear whether
      inflammation is the root cause of AD, it is increasingly believed that alleviating these
      inflammatory processes might slow down the progression of the disease. This research study
      will test to determine if the inflammatory state can be alleviated with a class of drugs
      known as nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). NRTIs were developed to treat
      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) caused by infection with Human Immunodeficiency
      Virus (HIV). Investigators hypothesize that NRTI drugs, by inhibiting neuroinflammation, may
      be effective in the treatment of AD. The primary goal of this trial will be to assess safety
      and tolerability of Emtriva in a geriatric population of individuals diagnosed with mild
      cognitive impairment or early AD.

      This study will be conducted in subjects with early Alzheimer's disease (AD), including
      subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD. Subjects must be positive for
      amyloid pathology. Subjects must be 50 to 85 years old, and apart from the clinical diagnosis
      of early AD, in good health as determined by the Investigator based on their medical history.
      Participants must be HIV/HBV negative and pass all the screening assessments based on the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria.
    
  