
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To obtain prospective data describing standard pain management methods and outcomes in
           the hospice setting.

      OUTLINE: Data regarding pain and pain management is obtained from three sources: the patient,
      the caregiver(s), and the medical records.

        -  Patient assessment*: At baseline, patients provide demographic data and complete the
           Pain Assessment Form verbally via interview. The form addresses average pain, worst
           pain, pain relief, hours in pain, pain-related distress, and barriers to pain control.
           Patients are asked to rate pain control. Patients also complete the Pain Communication
           Survey to assess how they communicate with health care providers about their pain. After
           the baseline assessment is completed, pain is assessed by the research nurse through
           home visits* 3 times weekly and telephone interviews twice weekly. During each visit or
           telephone contact, patients are interviewed to complete the Pain Assessment Form.
           Patients are followed until the time of death.

      NOTE: *If a patient is not available for the scheduled home visit, the interview will take
      place over the phone; if a patient is hospitalized or transferred to the inpatient hospice
      facility, the patient interview will take place there.

        -  Primary caregiver assessment**: At baseline, primary caregivers complete a demographic
           survey, a Pain Assessment Form, the Pain Communication Survey, Caregiver Self-Efficacy
           in Pain Management Scale (CSEPMS), the Caregiver Pain Management Questionnaire (CPMQ),
           and the Stressful Caregiver Adult Reactions to Experiences of Dying (SCARED). Caregivers
           are then interviewed by the study nurse using the Pain Assessment Form as a guideline.
           Follow-up data from caregivers is obtained through a daily diary, interviews, and
           structured surveys. Primary caregivers complete the Pain Assessment Form daily and are
           instructed to provide their assessment of the patient's pain. In addition, caregivers
           are interviewed daily by a study nurse, who reviews the daily Pain Assessment Form and
           obtains detailed information regarding the adequacy of patient pain control, side
           effects of medication, barriers to pain control, and caregiver concerns and burdens.
           Primary caregivers also complete CSEPMS, CPMQ, and SCARED questionnaires at the end of
           weeks 1, 2, and 4 as part of follow-up. Primary caregivers are contacted after the
           patient's death to assess pain control at the time of death.

        -  Secondary caregiver assessment: At baseline, secondary caregivers complete the same
           baseline evaluation as primary caregivers over the phone. They complete the Pain
           Assessment Form weekly and the CSEPMS, CPMQ, and SCARED questionnaires at the end of
           weeks 1, 2, and 4. Secondary caregivers also undergo a post-mortem interview based on
           the Pain Assessment Form.

        -  Chart review: Chart review is conducted by the research Nurse after a patient's death.
           Cancer and cancer-related treatment are obtained and documentation about pain management
           is recorded. From the time of study entry, all staff notes are reviewed to document:
           pain assessment, calls to physicians or other support personnel (including pharmacy
           calls), identified barriers to pain control, and treatment modifications (including
           medications to treat side effects).

      NOTE: **Patients and primary caregivers are interviewed independently.
    
  