
    
      Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) present lower levels of physical
      activity (PA), which have been associated with adverse outcomes including increased
      healthcare utilisation and reduced survival. Thus, improving PA levels has become one of the
      main goals of COPD research.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is a cornerstone of COPD management with well-documented
      effects on exercise capacity and quality of life. However, its effects in increasing
      patients' physical activity (PA) levels are limited. Previous research has suggested that PR
      with PA monitoring and feedback may be a suitable approach to increase and/or maintain
      patients' PA levels.

      Patients with COPD will participate in a 12-week PR program plus a PA-focused intervention.
      Daily PA will be measured using activity monitors GT3X+ (ActiGraph, Pensacola, FL) on weeks
      (W) 1, 7 and 12 and feedback will be given to participants in the following weeks regarding:
      daily steps; time spent in sedentary, light and moderate-to-vigorous (MVPA) intensity
      activities.

      The impact of the intervention will be explored using a mixed-methods approach.

      Assessments will be conducted immediately before (W1) and after (W12) the PR program.
      Breathlessness, exercise capacity, functional balance, peripheral muscle strength and
      health-related quality of life will be assessed in both time points.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to characterise the sample. To analyse changes in outcome
      measures, data from the two time points will be compared. Correlations between PA data and
      health-related outcomes will be performed at W1 and using the change scores (i.e., W12-W1).

      Patients will also be invited to attend focus groups after the intervention to assess their
      perspectives about the use of activity monitors and the feedback given.

      This is a pilot study which will inform the main study (including the sample size
      calculation).
    
  