
    
      There is an increased risk of recurrence of Bipolar Disorder (BD) episodes or worsening
      symptoms in pregnancy after the discontinuation of mood stabilizers. Similarly, changes in
      medication concentration due to the physiological changes in pregnancy may effectively reduce
      the medication dose and thus its efficacy in pregnancy. Therapeutic dose monitoring has
      proven to have great utility in preventing seizure recurrence in women with epilepsy (WWE),
      specifically, dose monitoring of lamotrigine (LTG). Similar guidelines to that of women with
      epilepsy would benefit pregnant women with BD who are taking lamotrigine (LTG) in pregnancy.
      However, the pharmacokinetics as well as the utility of therapeutic dose monitoring of LTG in
      pregnant patients with Bipolar Disorder has not been well studied.

      This study is an observational protocol to explore the longitudinal pharmacokinetics (PK) of
      LTG during pregnancy and postpartum in 10 women with Bipolar Disorder. The correlation
      between changes in bioavailability and level-to-dose (L/D) ratios and increases in symptoms
      of depression, mania and anxiety and recurrence of syndromal BD episodes that fulfill
      Diagnostic and Statistics Manual of Mental Disorders (IV) (DSM4) criteria will be
      investigated.

      The primary aims of this study are 1.) To assess the impact of the dynamic physiology of
      pregnancy on the L/D ratio and bioavailability of LTG in women with BD. 2.) To evaluate the
      correlations between maternal and umbilical cord LTG serum levels. 3.) To explore the
      relationship between declining LTG L/D ratios during pregnancy, bioavailability and the
      increase in psychiatric symptoms and recurrence of syndromal BD. 4.) To explore the
      relationship between declining LTG L/D ratios during pregnancy, bioavailability and the
      recurrence of anxiety symptoms.

      Additionally this study will evaluate correlations between estradiol levels and change in LTG
      L/D ratios during pregnancy. To optimize the research yield from this investigation,
      participants will have the option to allow banking of cerebrospinal (CSF) fluid and DNA for
      future analyses.
    
  