
    
      Treatment of inflammatory rheumatic conditions with glucocorticosteroids is a mainstay in
      therapy. In rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematodes and
      polymyalgia rheumatica glucocorticosteroids show a prompt effect in regards of
      musculoskeletal symptoms.

      Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is an inflammatory rheumatic disease mainly affecting the spine.
      However peripheral joints, entheses and the eyes can also be affected. The rheumatic symptoms
      of AS patients typically show good and quick response to treatment with nonsteroidal
      antirheumatic drugs (NSAIDs). In contrast to rheumatoid arthritis there is no proof that
      disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) work. Surprisingly there is the common
      opinion, mainly based on personal experiences, that glucocorticosteroids in
      spondylarthropathies do not work. However there are no reliable clinical studies answering
      this question. In the literature of the last 20 years there are only single reports about the
      treatment of AS with highly dosed methylprednisolone (intravenous pulse therapy). The
      pretended lack of effectiveness of glucocorticosteroids surprises moreover as NSAIDs are very
      effective as well as local intraarticular steroid injections including the sacroiliac joints.
      In addition with magnetic resonance imaging acute inflammatory lesions can be visualized
      especially as subchondral edema in bone marrow. Besides about 70% of patients with active AS
      show elevated inflammatory serum markers such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and
      C-reactive protein (CRP). Moreover we could recently that a treatment of AS patients with the
      monoclonal antibody against TNFa (Infliximab) is highly effective. TNFa is a very important
      pro-inflammatory cytokine (Brandt et al 2000).

      For all these reasons it is very important and urgent to perform a study for the treatment of
      active AS with glucocorticosteroids using evaluated measuring instruments.
    
  