
    
      Aim of the study: In the planned prospective randomized study, oxidative stress will be
      investigated by analyzing VOCs (volatile organic compounds) in the exhaled breath in children
      undergoing open or laparoscopic surgery for appendicitis at the Department of Pediatric and
      Adolescent Surgery of the Medical University of Graz. A resulting better understanding of the
      effects of the surgical technique can a) be a pre-condition for an optimized surgical setting
      and b) possibly lead to recommendations of pre- or perioperatively antioxidatively active
      substances and c) be a base for future surgical procedures.

      Study design: This is a prospective randomized pilot study in children and adolescents
      undergoing surgery due to acute appendicitis. Patients with complicated appendicitis and
      those with an intraoperatively caused disorder will be excluded. The operation within the
      context of this study is exclusively conducted by specialists of the Department of Pediatric
      and Adolescent Surgery of the Medical University of Graz, who perform both - open and
      laparoscopic surgical techniques. 40 patients aged 6-18 years suffering from acute
      appendicitis are to be included. These are divided into 2 groups. Group 1 (n = 20) with
      laparoscopic and group 2 (n = 20) with open appendectomy.

      Recruitment and compensation of study participants: Parents/patients are made aware of the
      study by means of an information sheet and are provided with a declaration of consent if
      interested. Participants do not receive any compensation for participating in the study.

      Sampling of exhaled VOCs (volatile organic compounds) using NTME (needle trap
      microextraction) for measurement OS (oxidative stress): Number of samples: 2 samples each
      from exhaled breath at the times defined below (in total n = 12). The time of sampling: t1
      before anaesthetic introduction (n = 2); t2 after anesthetic introduction (n = 2); t3 15
      minutes after cut (n = 2); t4 30 minutes after cut (n = 2); t5 45 minutes after cut (n = 2);
      t6 after seam (n = 2).

      Analysis of exhaled VOCs for measurement OS: The exhaled breath samples taken are placed in
      an injector of a gas chromatograph into the inert carrier gas stream (He). The substances are
      assigned according to their retention time in the chromatogram and its mass spectrum. Unknown
      connections in the mass spectrum of exhaled breath is used as a basis for comparison with a
      reference database.

      Sampling of blood markers for measurement OS: a) sampling times for WBCs, CRP: t1 = 1 sample
      preoperatively (before anaesthetic introduction) and t2 = 1 sample after 24 h. b) sampling
      times for malondialdehyde: t1 = 1 sample before anaesthetic introduction and t2 = 1 sample
      after suture.

      Histopathological grading: The explanted vermiform appendix becomes the histopathological
      Refurbishment at the Institute of Pathology of the Medical University of Graz. There the
      classification is made according to the histopathological findings in 4 degrees of severity
      (acute focal appendicitis, acute suppurative appendicitis, acut gangrenous appendicitis,
      perforated appendicitis).

      Sampling WBCs, CRP: These are carried out within the scope of routine diagnostics due to the
      clinical presentation of the AA (acute appendicitis).

      Sampling VOCs: 2 breath samples are taken from each patient during expiration, taken from it.
      To collect the samples, the investigators use an automatic Sampling device connected directly
      to a capnometer. This system works with microextraction (NTME) and enables a automatic
      sampling of the alveolar air, i.e. in the plateau of the CO2 curve. The samples are sent to
      the Intitute of Rostock Medical Breath Analysis and Technologies (RoMBAT) as cooperation
      partner. This partner was selected because it already has extensive experience with the
      methodology and studies on oxidative stress during operations.

      Malondialdehyde (MDA) sampling: Malondialdehyde is analysed at the Clinical Institute for
      Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics at the Medical University of Graz means of
      ultra-modern GC-MS method. For this purpose, the patient is assigned to the two Measuring
      times 2 x 400 μl EDTA plasma taken. The second sample serves only as a safety measure if
      repeat measurements are necessary. The samples obtained must be deep-frozen at -80 °C within
      2 hours. . Subsequently (at the latest on the following day) the samples must be analyzed to
      the Institute.

      Planned evaluation: The statistical investigations are carried out with SPSS 23.0®. Graphical
      representation of the data is performed with GraphPad Prism 7®. To investigate whether the
      main target variables (VOCs) differ in the course between the two groups, linear models are
      used for repeated measurements with group (open versus laparoscopic appendectomy) as
      intermediate subject factor and time of measurement (t1 to t6) as internal subject factor. In
      the case of deviations from the normal distribution, transformations are taken into
      consideration. The secondary targets, i.e. the changes in the serum markers on theTimes t1
      and t6, are compared between the 2 groups (open versus laparoscopic appendectomy) by
      Mann-Whitney U-test (data not normally distributed) or independent T-test (with normal
      distribution). In order to establish relationships between the VOCs and the serum markers for
      oxidative stress at times t1 and t6 a correlation analysis is performed (depending on the
      data, Pearson or Spearman Rho). All statistical tests are carried out on two sides and all
      p-values are interpreted purely exploratively.
    
  