
    
      This is a prospective single center clinical trial of allergen-specific immune
      signature-guided dietary elimination therapy to assess the clinical effectiveness of this
      technique.

      Potential subjects will be approached regarding the study. If eligible and interested, then
      informed consent will be obtained and they will be enrolled in the study. If the subject as
      had an esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) at UNC with 3 month since enrollment, clinical
      biopsies from the EGD show active EoE and the subject continues to meet consensus guidelines
      for active EoE, and research biopsies were taken during that EGD that can be used for this
      study, then the subject will complete questionnaires and a blood draw only. The blood draw
      may be abbreviated if the subject had research blood drawn during the same recent EGD that
      can be used in this study.

      If subjects have not had an EGD with biopsies at UNC within 3 months prior to enrollment,
      then they will complete questionnaires, a blood draw, and be scheduled to receive a routine
      care esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) at UNC facilities with clinical and research biopsies.
      However, in some cases, samples that were obtained prior to this time frame can be used, as
      long as the samples were obtained when the EoE was active and there were no major changes in
      clinical status.

      During the routine care endoscopy, clinical biopsies will be taken for routine care purposes,
      and additional research biopsies will be collected for research purposes for diet elimination
      testing and to be stored for future research studies from the distal, mid, and proximal
      esophagus. Blood will also be collected during this visit, and questionnaires completed. If
      research biopsies are unable to be obtained during this EGD the subject will no longer
      continue in the study and will be considered a screen fail. If pathology from routine care
      biopsies does not confirm a diagnosis of active EoE, then the subject will no longer continue
      in the study and will be considered a screen fail. If subjects have had an EGD with clinical
      and research biopsies within 3 months prior to enrollment, then research biopsies taken
      during that EGD will be used for this study. As noted above, in some cases, samples that were
      obtained prior to this time frame can be used, as long as the samples were obtained when the
      EoE was active and there were no major changes in clinical status.

      After completion of the EGD (or collection of EGD records and previous biopsies if an EGD was
      previously completed), and confirmation of eligibility, subjects will be scheduled for a
      routine care nutrition counseling appointment. Two weeks prior to the routine care nutrition
      counseling appointment, subject will begin the dysphagia symptom questionnaire (DSQ). During
      the routine care nutrition counseling appointment, the subject will receive counseling on
      which foods to eliminate based on the novel assay results from the research biopsies.
      Subjects will also receive an allergy skin test during this visit. Results from the allergy
      skin test will not be used to drive food elimination diet.

      Subjects will follow their assigned food elimination diet for 6 weeks. At 6 weeks subjects
      will be scheduled for a routine care esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) with biopsies for
      clinical purposes. Two weeks prior to the 6 week EGD subjects will restart the DSQ. Data will
      be collected from the 6 week EGD but no research specific biopsies will be obtained during
      that visit. Research specific blood will be taken at this visit. Study participation is
      complete after completion of the 6 week EGD.
    
  