
    
      This is a prospective pharmacokinetic study in two groups of 10 adult patients with
      imatinib-resistant gastro-intestinal stromal cell tumor or metastatic renal cell carcinoma
      treated with sunitinib for at least one month.

      Patients are treated at the recommended United States Food and Drug Administration approved
      schedule of oral sunitinib administered at 25-50 mg per day for 4 weeks, in cycles of six
      weeks. Four weeks of treatment with sunitinib, 25-50 mg per day followed by a 2 weeks off
      period. In the absence of disease progression, administration of sunitinib will continue.

      Within one month of the start of the study, patients will be requested to refrain from
      drinking grapefruit and orange juice. The study will take place in 1 sunitinib treatment
      cycle of 6 weeks (4 weeks of treatment with sunitinib (week 1-4) and 2 weeks off period (week
      5 and 6). The grapefruit juice or orange juice will be administered 3 times per day for 1
      period of 3 days in the 4th week of treatment with sunitinib.

      The first sunitinib (total drug) pharmacokinetics day will be performed after steady-state
      sunitinib levels are reached, meaning at least 14 days after starting sunitinib 25 - 50 mg
      per day treatment (week 3 in the treatment cycle of sunitinib). On this first pharmacokinetic
      day a dose of midazolam 7.5 mg will be given at the same time as the sunitinib dose, to
      observe the effect of sunitinib on CYP3A4 capacity. Before the second pharmacokinetic day
      (day 28 of sunitinib treatment) the patient will drink 3 times a day a glass of grapefruit
      juice or orange juice for three consecutive day.Patients will be assigned either to a
      grapefruit juice or orange juice arm. On this second pharmacokinetic day the patient again
      will use a dose of midazolam at the sam time as the sunitinib dose, to observe the effect of
      grapefruit juice or orange juice on the metabolic capacity pf CYP3A4. The third
      pharmacokinetic day will take place at the end of week 6 of the treatment cycle, the second
      week of the 2 week off period. The patient will receive a single oral dose of midazolam
      7.5mg, followed by midazolam pharmacokinetics to determine the base-line CYP3A phenotypic
      expression. Pharmacokinetic parameters based on measurement in plasma samples will be
      compared between the treatment periods.
    
  