
    
      At present, there are no clear guidelines as to when antiretroviral therapy for human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection should be stopped in the setting of elevated liver
      enzymes. In large part, this is due to a limited understanding of the natural history of
      antiretroviral-related hepatotoxicity. Although several antiretrovirals have been reported to
      cause fatal acute hepatitis, more often they cause an asymptomatic elevation in transaminase
      levels, the optimal management of which is uncertain. This pilot study seeks to create a
      foundation for research on the impact of antiretroviral-induced liver injury by providing an
      estimate of the prevalence of hepatic fibrosis in a cohort of sixty HIV-infected patients who
      have chronically elevated transaminases while on antiretroviral therapy in the absence of
      chronic hepatitis B (HBV) or C (HCV) coinfection. Liver biopsy specimens will be evaluated
      for fibrosis by microscopic examination, the current gold standard for assessing the nature
      and severity of liver disease.[1] The presence of fibrosis, as well as other histopathology,
      will be described using a validated scoring system. Primarily, this will be a crosssectional
      study, but subjects will be offered the opportunity to participate in an extended follow-up
      period and undergo another liver biopsy. Individuals will not be excluded on the basis of
      alcohol abuse, insulin resistance, or lipodystrophy, but data will be collected on these
      potentially confounding variables. Noninvasive measures, such as transient elastography (an
      ultrasonic technique), will be assessed for their ability to predict fibrosis in this
      population. Correlations will also be sought with laboratory markers of fibrosis. The
      identification of fibrosis (and its precursors) in association with antiretroviral therapy
      may be very clinically relevant as it may slowly regress with cessation of the causal
      agent(s). If the causal agent is continued, however, cirrhosis may develop, the reversal of
      which is thought to be rare.
    
  