
    
      Preoperative fasting instructions are 6 hours for solid food, and clear fluid will be allowed
      up to 2 hours preoperative. Upon arrival to the operating room, routine monitors (ECG, pulse
      oximetry, and non-invasive blood pressure monitor) will be applied; intravenous line will be
      secured, and routine pre-medications (ranitidine 50 mg and midazolam 0.02 mg/kg slow IV) will
      be administrated. Baseline preoperative blood pressure will be recorded in the supine
      position as average of 3 reading with difference less than 5 mmHg.

      Fluid management:

      Before initiation of spinal anesthesia for all study patients, Electrical cardiometry device
      (ICON; Cardiotonic, Osypka; Berlin, Germany) will be applied to the patient through 4
      electrodes at the following sites: Below the left ear, Above the midpoint of the left
      clavicle, Left mid-axillary line at level of the xiphoid process and 5 cm inferior to the
      third electrode. Stroke volume variability (SVV) will be measured while patient maintaining
      standard calm breathing at a rate of 6-8 breath/minute before the intrathecal injection. The
      patient with SVV more than 13% with be considered fluid responder 16 and will receive fluid
      bolus of 5 ml/kg ringer acetate over 10 minutes. The fluid bolus will be repeated till SVV
      less than 13%, then spinal anesthesia will be performed. After induction of spinal anesthesia
      maintenance fluid as 2ml/kg/hour of ringer acetate will be commenced.

      Anesthetic management:

      Spinal anesthesia will be performed in the sitting position at level of second and third or
      third and forth lumber interspaces with a 25-gauge spinal needle. After confirming
      cerebrospinal fluid flow, 10 mg of 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine plus 25 mcg fentanyl will be
      injected. The degree of sensory block (cold test by alcohol gauze) will be assessed in the
      study with a goal of T6-8 dermatomal level block. If spinal anesthesia failed, the patient
      will be excluded from the study and will be managed according to the attending anesthetist
      discretion, local expertise and clinical practice.

      Vasopressor management:

      Vasopressor infusion will be started after obtaining CSF through the same line with IV fluids
      aided by a three-way stop-cock after induction of spinal anesthesia, patients will receive
      the vasopressor infusion according to the previous randomization Any episode of spinal
      induced hypotension (defined as mean arterial pressure < 80% of the baseline reading 30
      minutes after spinal block) will be managed by 5 mcg norepinephrine and the infusion rate
      will be increased by 20%. If the hypotensive episode persisted for 2 minutes, another bolus
      of norepinephrine will be administered.

      If bradycardia (defined as heart rate less than 50 bpm) with hypotension occurred, it will be
      manged with 0.5 mg of atropine IV. If bradycardia occurred with hypertension (MAP increase
      25% over the baseline), the vasopressor infusion will be stopped.

      If hypertension occurred (defined as increased mean arterial pressure by > 25% of the
      baseline reading), vasopressor infusion will be decreased by 50%. If hypertension persisted 2
      minutes after reduction of the infusion, the vasopressor infusion will be stopped. The
      vasopressor will be returned to 50% of the starting dose if there was further decline in
      blood pressure.

      The infusion will continue for 45 minutes after spinal anesthesia. If the patient developed
      hypotension after stoppage of the infusion, management will depend on the fluid status of the
      patient. If the cause of hypotension was blood loss, replacement will be done (3:1 of ringer
      acetate till transfusion threshold met then packed RBC is given with target haemoglobin
      ≥9gm/dl). If the hypotension was not related to blood loss, vasopressor will be re-initiated
      at the last dose before stoppage
    
  