
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease with genetic
      susceptibility. It is characterized by chronic synovitis and progressive joint destruction.
      There is synovial infiltration by inflammatory cells, activation of synovial fibroblasts, and
      production of a wide range of inflammatory cytokines. Sustained high disease activity results
      in a poor disease outcome so assessment of inflammatory activity in RA is of pivotal
      importance for the optimal treatment in these patients. Disease activity of RA patients is
      assessed by clinical examination, laboratory tests and radiographic assessment (e.g.
      ultrasonography). Laboratory assessment of RA activity is done routinely by measuring acute
      phase reactants such as an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP),
      which are elevated in most patients with RA. It has been demonstrated that more than 40% of
      RA patients have normal ESR or CRP (false negative results). Therefore, new serum markers
      that can more accurately reflect real inflammatory activity in RA patients are needed.
      Calprotectin (CLP) is a calcium binding leucocyte protein consisting of the heterocomplex of
      S100A8/ A9 (myeloid-related protein, MRP8/MRP14), as well as being a major
      monocyte/macrophage protein which has gained interest as a marker of inflammation in RA.
      Calprotectin has been identified as an important endogenous alarmin, one of the
      damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) molecules that acts as a ligand for the TLR4
      receptor and amplifies the inflammation cascade via NF-kB and p38 mitogen-activated protein
      kinase. Calprotectin levels are higher in the serum of RA patients compared with healthy
      subjects or patients with osteoarthritis (OA), Still, no cut-off levels have been identified
      to help in the diagnosis of RA. Calprotectin is involved in cartilage damage in OA. Synovial
      lining macrophages play a role in the OA process and in cartilage damage. Moderate
      calprotectin increase has been observed in the serum of OA patients compared with healthy
      controls also serum calprotectin levels were found higher in OA patients with synovial
      inflammation compared with those without.
    
  