
    
      Prostate cancer now accounts for one third of all new cancer diagnoses in men and
      approximately 30% of men will have external beam radiotherapy as their primary local therapy.
      Prostate motion during radiotherapy can be divided into interfraction and intrafraction
      motion. Interfraction motion has been well established and has been largely overcome by daily
      online image verification with either ultrasound, online CT or implanted fiducial markers,
      however motion during the radiation beam on time (intrafraction motion) is not corrected and
      can be the cause of significant errors in radiation dose delivery.

      Intrafraction motion: Movement of the prostate after initial treatment setup has been termed
      intrafraction motion. Estimates of the magnitude and frequency of this motion were initially
      made using continuous Magnetic Resonance (MR) imaging. Padhani et al reported 16% of patients
      had > 5mm anterior:posterior motion when imaged for 7 minutes with similar results reported
      in subsequent MR cine studies, Intrafraction motion can be secondary to organ motion such as
      bladder filling, respiration or moving rectal gas, or can be due to physical patient motion.
      With the availability of real-time prostate tracking, clinical data is available to quantify
      the magnitude and frequency of motion. An early report from Kupelian et al using continuous
      radiotransponder positioning7 described 41% of fractions with >3mm of motion and 15% > 5mm of
      motion for > 30 seconds. The risk of motion was noted to increase with longer treatment time.

      Our own data using offline autosegmentation of the fiducial marker position of 10 patients
      showed 38% of fractions >1mm, 4.7% of fractions >3mm and 1.7% of fractions >5mm
      instantaneously during treatment delivery of approximately 2.5 min 8.

      Significance of correcting for motion:

      If radiation dose is recalculated for each individual fraction and adjusted for intrafraction
      motion it is possible to estimate the real dose delivered to the target and compare this to
      the desired dose. This comparison gives a robust model of the potential benefit for real-
      time tracking and adjustment for the motion. Overview of kilovoltage intrafraction monitoring
      (KIM): Kilovoltage intrafraction monitoring is a novel real-time tumour localisation
      modality. It involves a single gantry- mounted kV x-ray imager (which is widely available on
      most linacs) acquiring 2D projections of implanted fiducial markers. As the treatment gantry
      rotates around the patient during treatment , the kV imager acquires 2D projections of the
      prostate . The fiducial markers are segmented using an in-house developed software package.
      3D positions are determined via maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) of a 3D probability
      density.

      In previous work (Ng et al, 2012) we have applied the KIM method with offline segmentation to
      calculate the 3D prostate trajectory after treatment. In the present study we are utilising
      online marker segmentation to enable live trajectory creation during treatment delivery with
      a processing time less than 1 second. With the circa real-time trajectories we are able to
      gate the delivery so to maximise dose to the tumour, or track with Multi-Leaf Collimators
      (MLC) to follow the prostate motion. The latter involves complex interaction with the beam
      delivery system and is not part of this study. The treatment can be gated based on a pre-set
      tolerance. Using our earlier data we modelled several gating criteria 3mm/5s, 3mm/10s and
      3mm/15s based on excursions along individual axes and also the radial excursion. Across the
      10 patients, a tolerance of 3mm/5s was shown to be efficient, introducing only 24 gating
      events (from 268 treatments) and safe, with the smallest time for excursion (5s).

      The KIM method does introduce extra radiation dose to the patient of approximately 65mSv per
      treatment localised to the prostate 8. Standard treatment doses for prostate radiotherapy are
      80 Gy. The amount of imaging dose will be dependent on the imaging field size, frame rate of
      acquired images, treatment field size, kV energy used and method of treatment delivery
      (Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy [VMAT], Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy [IMRT],
      Stereotactic Boost Radiotherapy [SBRT]).9 We will minimise the imaging dose from our previous
      study 8 by:

        -  reducing the field size to encompass only the fiducials and a small margin per patient
           so that the imaging dose is delivered inside the treatment volume (expect 20-40% dose
           saving);

        -  the beam quality is maximised to 125 kV;

        -  patient dimensions are limited as the larger patients create more scatter radiation
           (that decreases image quality) and absorb more radiation. This, combined with treatment
           field size as below, may allow us to use a lower frame rate for image acquisition, down
           from 10 fps to 5 fps, which will have a proportional effect on dose;

        -  patients with nodal areas for treatment are excluded as the treatment fields are larger
           and this reduces image quality. By excluding these larger patients we may be able to use
           5fps rather than 10 fps imaging combined with the patient dimension as above;

        -  VMAT is shown to require less treatment time than IMRT delivery, and SBRT is shown to
           require less total time than conventional fractionation (where total treatment time is
           proportional to imaging dose). We expect to see a dose reduction with the VMAT-SBRT
           protocol compared to VMAT of 20-40%.

      Together with the imaging dose, we need to consider and weight the gains from intrafraction
      monitoring and gated treatment. These gains include improving the accuracy of delivered dose,
      so that the planned treatment dose is delivered efficiently to the tumour, and the geometric
      accuracy that would allow reduction in the safety margin introduced to compensate for
      treatment. We have demonstrated significant improvements in tumour dose from 60% to 95% of
      the intended dose distribution by gating with 3mm/5s tolerance as shown in Figure 1.

      Verification of KIM clinical dynamic localization accuracy using kV/MV triangulation:

      In order to evaluate the dynamic localisation accuracy of the KIM method, 3D positions
      determined by KIM can be compared to kV/MV triangulation. kV/MV triangulation. Triangulation
      provides an independent measure of the prostate location.

      Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) and Quality Assurance (QA) protocol An FMEA has been
      performed identifying potential failure modes within the additional KIM workflow. The
      standard workflow has established quality assurance measures in place. All KIM failure modes
      have been mitigated in numerous layers by quality assurance measures, clear design of user
      interface, clear designation of staff roles, staff education, and exclusion criteria for
      patient selection.
    
  