
    
      Research Summary

      Purpose of Study This prospective, randomized, blinded controlled trial will be conducted to
      evaluate post-operative pain control and physical therapy outcomes in primary total knee
      arthroplasty (TKA) with the use of spinal analgesia and intra-operative posterior capsular
      injections of ropivicaine 0.5% in conjunction with a continuous femoral nerve catheter.

      We believe the results of this study will show an improvement in pain control and physical
      therapy outcomes compared to traditional methods of analgesia in post-op total knee
      arthroplasty. To the best of our knowledge, there are no studies in the literature using this
      combination of femoral nerve analgesia and posterior capsular injection.

      Certainly regional anesthesia methods such as femoral nerve blocks used alone or in
      conjunction with sciatic nerve blocks have improved patient pain outcome measures in total
      knee arthroplasty. Several studies have shown a beneficial effect of intra-articular
      analgesia after capsular closure. We believe our study design will combine the beneficial
      effects of the aforementioned methods, and ultimately improve patient pain, therapy effort,
      and safety through less narcotic use.

      Our goal is to share these results in a peer-reviewed journal, and at national orthopaedic or
      anesthesia meetings. The data collected will ideally improve care and safety in the
      post-operative total knee arthroplasty patient.

      Background and Significance Post-operative pain control in total knee arthroplasty is an area
      of great study in the orthopaedic surgery and anesthesia literature. The use of
      spinal/epidural alone or in combination with regional anesthesia is well studied in the
      recent literature. These techniques have significantly improved patient pain management,
      physical/occupational therapy outcomes, and shortened time to discharge.

      Additionally, intra-articular injection of local anesthetic after capsular closure has been
      studied recently. Several studies have demonstrated a beneficial effect of intra-articular
      local anesthetic on pain outcome measures (6, 8, 9, 10, 15). Although other studies have
      reported more equivocal results. The impact of capsular analgesia has on post-operative pain
      is intriguing. Decreased afferent pain perception by the capsular nerves from local
      anesthetic may improve outcomes, especially in sensory distributions where regional
      anesthesia is inadequate or not performed.

      Much study has centered on regional anesthesia, specifically the use of single shot or
      continuous femoral nerve blockade (4, 5, 11, 14, 16). Such studies have demonstrated a
      statistically significant decrease in total narcotic use, sedation scores, and visual analog
      pain scores. Femoral nerve blockade is now an accepted method of post-op pain control in the
      total knee arthroplasty patient.

      Further investigation has centered on the addition of sciatic nerve blockade to femoral nerve
      block (1-3, 7, 12, 13). Several studies demonstrate a further improvement in pain outcomes
      compared to isolated femoral nerve anesthesia. Sciatic nerve blocks can slow physical therapy
      efforts secondary to a dense motor blockade. Equivocal results have been reported in other
      studies due to this motor block, however, the sensory component appears to provide improved
      pain outcome measures.

      Femoral nerve blockade is a well-accepted modality for analgesia in total knee arthroplasty.
      However, femoral nerve block alone does not provide adequate anesthesia to the posterior
      aspect of the knee. We believe that intra-operative injection of ropivicaine 0.5% into the
      posterior capsule will provide analgesia analogous to the sensory component of a sciatic
      nerve block, while eliminating the limiting effects of the motor blockade. The combination of
      femoral nerve block and intra-operative posterior capsular injection will ideally yield
      improved pain management and physical therapy efforts above a baseline femoral nerve block.

      Design and procedures This is a prospective double-blinded, randomized trial consisting of
      two study groups: posterior capsular saline injection (control), and the experimental
      posterior capsular ropivicaine 0.5% injection group. All patients will receive spinal
      anesthesia and a continuous femoral nerve block. Each group will include 45 patients (n = 90
      patients).

      All patients will have an elective primary total knee arthroplasty performed. No revision or
      bilateral cases will be included. Exclusion criteria will include patients with a known
      allergy to ropivicaine or fentanyl, a known history of narcotic abuse or chronic pain, a
      known diagnosis of peripheral neuropathy or complex regional pain syndrome, or a significant
      impediment to physical therapy participation.

      Following the informed consent process, patients will receive a continuous femoral nerve
      block via catheter placed by experienced regional anesthesiologists at our institution. Each
      patient will also receive spinal anesthesia for intra-operative pain control. A standard
      midline skin incision with medial para-patellar arthrotomy will be performed followed by
      implantation of either a Next Gen (Zimmer/Warsaw, IN), or Natural Knee II (Zimmer, Warsaw,
      IN), or Posterior Femoral Component (PFC) Sigma (DePuy, Warsaw, IN) system. Prior to surgery,
      patients will be randomized to the saline or ropivicaine groups. Both groups will receive
      their respective injection prior to implantation of the components.

      The posterior capsule of the knee will be divided in to four quadrants, each receiving a
      saline or ropivicaine injection per randomization. Safety measures will include standard
      pre-injection aspiration to check for vascular blush and intra-operative Doppler ultrasound
      to identify vascular structures in the posterior knee. Additionally, the anesthesiologist
      will not be blinded, as he/she will be responsible for assuring the appropriate medication is
      used, and will be closely monitoring for cardiac arrhythmias in the unlikely event that an
      intravascular injection occurs. Post-operatively, a standard bulky dressing will be applied.
      All patients will be weight bearing as tolerated post-operative day 1. A fentanyl PCA will be
      initiated in the PACU, and will be continued until post-operative day 2. Dosing will be
      calculated based on lean body mass. Continuous femoral nerve blockade will continue until
      post-operative day 2 as well.

      Outcomes will include total PCA narcotic use, visual analog pain scale with a diagram to
      localize pain, and Ramsey sedation scores. This data will be collected at the following
      intervals: in the PACU, 4, 8, 12, and 24 hours post-operatively. We will also measure
      post-operative day 1 knee range of motion, total ambulation distance, and time to straight
      leg raise. A standard, Institutional Review Board (IRB) approved, data collection sheet will
      be utilized.

      We hypothesize that total post-operative narcotic use, visual analog pain scores, and Ramsey
      sedation scores will be significantly lower in the study group (posterior capsular
      ropivicaine 0.5% injection). Additionally, we anticipate the knee range of motion, total
      ambulation distance, and time to straight leg raise to be significantly improved as well.
    
  