
    
      PURPOSE:

      This pragmatic trial aims to improve health outcomes for children with neurodevelopmental
      disabilities (NDD) using a novel therapist-targeted, theory-driven, evidence-based approach
      to goal setting, the Enhancing Child Engagement in Goal Setting (ENGAGE) approach. This study
      includes an economic analysis and service utilization component and an implementation process
      analysis to evaluate cost-effectiveness and to support long-term sustainability.

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

      Primary question: Does ENGAGE improve children's engagement in therapy, goal-related
      performance (primary outcome), functional abilities, participation in home, school and/or
      community, and child and caregiver quality of life compared to the current standard of care?

      Secondary questions: 1) What goal, child, family and therapist factors mediate and/or
      moderate the effects of ENGAGE on the above intervention outcomes? and 2) Does ENGAGE improve
      cost effectiveness from the perspectives of parents and service delivery efficiency compared
      to the current standard of care?

      METHODOLOGY/IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY AND EVALUATION:

      Study design: A pragmatic, cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT) design will be used with
      therapists randomized to one of two groups; the ENGAGE intervention group or the usual care
      control group. The RCT will be a six-site trial with two groups (ENGAGE training
      absent/present) with two periods of post-intervention assessment (immediate post-treatment
      and 3-month follow-up). The trial will take place within established public paediatric
      rehabilitation sites in Alberta. An economic analysis consisting of a cost-benefit analysis
      from the perspectives of parents and a comparison of service utilization costs will be
      conducted in conjunction with the RCT. To facilitate more widespread implementation, a
      qualitative process evaluation will be conducted to delineate core versus peripheral
      components of the intervention, and therapist, child and parent perspectives on the
      contextual features that influenced implementation.

      Sample: The sample size will be 96 children (12 therapists as clusters per group and 4
      children per therapist) at six sites. Based on the investigators' pilot work, it is
      anticipated that child dropout from the pre-post intervention period will be minimal (i.e.,
      less than 5%). A target change score of 2.0, a clinically significant change on the COPM
      (primary outcome), with a standard deviation of 2.75 corresponds to an effect size of 0.723
      for the comparison of means. A sample size of 96 will result in an effect size of at least
      0.682 in the primary outcome (COPM performance rating) with alpha=0.05 and 80% power assuming
      an intra-cluster correlation (ICC) of 0.1 using a two-sided, cluster adjusted, t-test for the
      comparison of means. An ICC of 0.1 was selected based on results of a previous cluster RCT
      with children with cerebral palsy (ICCs between 0.08 to 0.13). Since therapist attrition is
      possible over the duration of the study, the sampling strategy was designed so that a cluster
      size of 11 would still provide 80% power to detect an effect size of 0.716, below the target
      effect size. Smaller effect sizes will be detectable if the ICC is smaller than 0.1. The
      sample size was adjusted from 88 to 96 to allow for an 8% loss to follow-up (1 therapist, 4
      children per group). The investigators do not anticipate retention issues for the baseline
      and post-intervention assessments (primary evaluation period). The probability of loss to
      follow-up may increase at the 3-month follow-up assessment. The estimate of loss to follow-up
      is based on the investigators' experience with trials with children with disabilities.

      Inclusion criteria are children who 1) are 5-12 years old, 2) are referred to PT and/or OT
      for a period of direct treatment, and 3) speak English. Further inclusion/Exclusion criteria
      can be found in the protocol in documents section.

      Recruitment: Over 18 months, children (n=96) will be sequentially recruited by 24 therapists
      from six paediatric Alberta rehabilitation sites (4 children per therapist).

      Randomization: A computer-generated, permuted-block randomization sequence using site as a
      stratification variable will be used to allocate 24 OTs and PTs across 6 sites to the ENGAGE
      or control group to ensure balanced groups.

      Study groups: Intervention Group - Therapists will receive training on our principles-based
      goal setting approach and strategies in the goal setting toolbox. Control group - The control
      group will comprise usual care. With the exception of the strategies outlined in ENGAGE,
      rehabilitation interventions used to achieve identified goals will not vary from usual
      practice. Consistent with a pragmatic trial, this approach will enable us to evaluate
      effectiveness of ENGAGE in typical clinical settings. .

      Treatment duration and intensity for both groups will differ based on nature of goals,
      treatment strategies, and family preference. It is anticipated that treatment block lengths
      will vary from 3-8 sessions over 2-8 weeks, representing typical clinical variation.

      Fidelity monitoring- Following the training, the strategies used by ENGAGE therapists will be
      tracked to evaluate treatment fidelity prior to recruiting participants. Feedback will be
      provided as needed to therapists as part of the implementation plan to facilitate ongoing and
      consistent use of the intervention strategies. Treatment frequency, intensity, intervention
      strategies, and feedback frequency and mechanisms will be documented by therapists at each
      treatment session. Co-interventions will be monitored for each participant. Recruitment and
      formalized data collection will begin once intervention therapists at the site achieve an
      acceptable level of fidelity defined as adherence to ENGAGE principles at least 90% of the
      time. For example, the extent children are involved in identifying their own goals will be
      monitored and how often therapists use feedback on goal-related performance at each treatment
      session. Practices will also be monitored in the control group using an open-ended form to
      prevent contamination from exposure to ENGAGE principles. Ongoing documentation of practices
      and monitoring will be used to evaluate the need for additional or different implementation
      support in the intervention group and to enable comparison of group practices.

      During ENGAGE training and throughout the study the investigators will reinforce that
      intervention therapists need to avoid discussion of principles and practices with the control
      group therapists. Therapists will complete a questionnaire about their typical practices with
      respect to goal setting at the beginning of the training session (intervention) and
      orientation (control). These responses will identify if the control group therapists deviate
      from their approach to goal setting used at baseline over the course of the study and allow
      for between group comparisons of strategy use.

      Data collection and Outcomes: Identical assessments will be conducted at 1) baseline
      (pre-treatment), 2) post-treatment (within 10 days), and 3) at 3-months post-treatment.

      Primary outcome measure is goal performance, satisfaction with performance, goal attainment
      (Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM)). All data will be entered into REDCap.

      An economic analysis consisting of a cost benefit analysis from the family perspective will
      be conducted in conjunction with this trial. Costs related to ENGAGE relative to typical care
      will be tracked using a therapy session questionnaire for both groups. In addition, total
      costs incurred per child during the intervention will be determined by multiplying therapist
      direct and indirect (e.g., documentation) time by a corresponding unit price. Mean cost per
      child will then be calculated for each group. Costs from the family perspective will be
      tracked using a parent questionnaire and outcomes will be parent and child quality of life
      measures.

      Analysis: Data and demographic characteristics will be described (e.g., means, standard
      deviations) for both groups. Change scores (post minus pre, follow-up minus post) will be
      summarized for each outcome, with COPM changes post intervention as the primary analysis
      (Question 1) and the other outcomes as secondary analyses. For each change score and outcome,
      a cluster adjusted t-test will be used to compare mean change score between groups (ENGAGE,
      control). A confidence interval will be reported for the difference between group mean
      scores. Mixed effects linear regression models on all outcomes will include group and time
      (fixed effects), a therapist random effect (to adjust for the clustering), and a child random
      effect (to adjust for repeated measures on each child). Time will be a categorical variable
      so that post and follow-up times can be compared with pre-treatment assessments. A time by
      group interaction will also be considered to assess the effects of group.

      Question 2: Mixed effects multiple linear regression models similar to the above will also be
      developed for each outcome with the additional variables of site, site by group as an
      interaction (to assess site effect) and other theoretically important variables (e.g.,
      cognitive abilities, age, parenting style) as covariates.

      Question 3: Mean cost per child and the mean effectiveness result per child for each group
      will be represented in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) - the ratio of the
      difference between groups in mean cost per patient to the difference in mean effectiveness
      using the two quality of life measures (CarerQol and KIDSCREEN) as outcomes. Extensive
      sensitivity analysis including probabilistic sensitivity analysis will be undertaken to test
      robustness of the results.

      Process evaluation: Semi-structured interviews will be conducted during post-intervention
      assessment with pairs of parent and child participants (n=24 pairs from the ENGAGE condition;
      n=12 pairs from the control condition), stratified by centre, child age and child diagnosis
      to ensure variability in the sample. Therapists (n=24) at each of the six sites will also
      participate in qualitative interviews to explore their experiences with the ENGAGE approach
      and the implementation process.The CFIR (Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research)
      framework will be used in conjunction with the Theoretical Domains Framework to sensitize the
      researchers to known barriers and facilitators to implementation. Interviews will be
      audio-recorded, professionally transcribed, and last approximately 45-60 minutes. Data will
      be analyzed using inductive thematic analysis. Journaling will be used throughout data
      collection and analysis to record preliminary themes/ideas about the data, experiences in the
      research process and reasoning around decisions in data collection and analysis, and to
      facilitate research reflexivity.
    
  