
    
      During this multi-center, randomized non-inferiority trial, eligible healthcare personnel
      entering rooms of patients on Contact Precautions (or other rooms in which hand hygiene (HH)
      is an expectation) and who agree to study participation will be randomized to either ideal
      standard (healthcare worker (HCW) will be directed by study personnel to remove gloves,
      perform hand hygiene and replace gloves at each HH opportunity), experimental glove-reuse
      (HCW will be directed by study personnel to use alcohol-based hand rub (ABHR) to cleanse
      gloves at each HH opportunity) or usual care (study personnel silently observe and record
      what the HCW does at each HH opportunity without direction to the HCW).Care for patients with
      C. difficile will be excluded as ABHR is not recommended.

      This study will be performed at the University of Maryland Medical Center, The R.Adams Cowley
      Shock Trauma Hospital, University of Iowa Hospitals and The Johns Hopkins Hospital.
      Healthcare workers on any patient units will be potentially eligible, but the investigators
      will strive for diversity across unit types (e.g. adult med-surg, general pediatrics, adult
      ICUs, emergency care areas and inpatient hemodialysis units). The investigators will use a
      stratified, block randomization scheme to ensure an equal number of participants from each
      participating unit and facility. The HCW, regardless of random assignment, may choose to
      remove gloves at any point (e.g. if gloves are heavily soiled or are compromised).

      All participants will be instructed on how to perform HH using the standardized WHO
      methodology and will also receive brief instruction regarding HH opportunities at the point
      of care using a WHO 5 Moments pamphlet. Participants will don gloves and enter the room to
      perform patient care activities as planned. Research staff will be in the room to monitor the
      HCW activity. Research staff trained using the WHO Hand Hygiene Monitoring Method will
      identify HH opportunities. At each opportunity, the participant will be instructed to stop
      current activity in the intervention and ideal standard group. Participants in the
      intervention group will be instructed to cleanse gloves using an ABHR in a standardized way
      and in a similar fashion to the WHO recommendations for HH. Participants in the ideal
      standard group will be instructed to remove gloves, perform HH using an ABHR, and don new
      gloves. The HCW will continue with planned activities and continue to cleanse gloves or
      perform HH according to study assignment for each opportunity until either the HCW has
      completed patient care or five HH events have occurred. Study staff will record what the HCW
      randomized into the usual care arm does at each HH moment. The investigators chose a maximum
      of five HH events because since most encounters will have five or fewer HH opportunities.

      After the final opportunity and after cleansing gloves and allowing them to dry (Intervention
      Group, glove reuse) after donning new gloves (Ideal Standard) or at moment 5 or before room
      exit which ever comes first (Usual Care Group) the non-dominant gloved hand will be sampled
      by directly imprinting the non-dominant gloved hand onto an agar plate. HCWs who have no HH
      opportunities while at the point of care (e.g. a nurse who enters to the room and interacts
      only with the intravenous pump and performs HH at exit) will be withdrawn from the study
    
  