
    
      The proposed randomized control trial will examine the efficacy of a brief behavioral
      treatment for reducing suicidal ideation and for increasing reasons for living in older
      Veterans at risk for suicide. Two common issues in older adults, functional disability and
      executive dysfunction, increase suicide risk and will be examined as moderators and mediators
      of treatment outcomes. The proposed study will examine Problem Solving Therapy (PST) using a
      protocol that teaches skills to address emotional and practical barriers to effective problem
      solving. The VA usual care practice of collaborative safety planning will be the control
      condition, herein referred to as enhanced usual care (EUC). For participant safety, Veterans
      enrolled in PST will also receive EUC. The study design is random assignment to the
      treatment, PST plus EUC, or the control condition, EUC only. Both the treatment and the
      control are evidence-based interventions delivered in six sessions. The study will occur at
      VA Palo Alto (primary site) and VA Syracuse/VA Canandaigua (secondary site).

      The assessments and treatments will be conducted entirely by phone. Longitudinal assessment
      of suicidal ideation and reasons for living will occur at eleven timepoints: baseline, after
      each of the six weekly treatment sessions, posttreatment (7 weeks), at 1-, 3-, and 6-month
      follow-up. The recruitment goal is 150 Veterans over a five-year period with 75 participants
      randomized to each treatment. Veterans must be 60 years or older, report suicide ideation,
      and meet diagnostic criteria for a depressive disorder, anxiety disorder, and/or
      posttraumatic stress disorder to be eligible. Veterans will be excluded and referred for
      other services if they have psychotic symptoms, bipolar disorder, severe OCD, or elevated
      symptoms indicative of borderline personality disorder; an alcohol/substance use disorder;
      severe or unstable medical conditions; recent head injury (past year) or history of a head
      injury with loss of consciousness for 24 or more hours; terminal illness; positive cognitive
      screen indicative of possible dementia; or if they are unable to participate in the study or
      follow-up sessions. Recruitment will occur through multiple strategies at VA, Vet centers,
      and in the community to ensure the feasibility of recruiting a total of 75 Veterans at each
      site. To meet this recruitment goal, the primary and secondary site will each enroll 2 to 3
      Veterans per month.

      Fidelity ratings of audiotaped treatment sessions will be made by independent raters on 20%
      of sessions. Mixed effects modeling will be used to estimate the effect of treatment versus
      the control for the outcomes of suicidal ideation and reasons for living. Models will covary
      for demographics, medical and psychiatric comorbidity, and psychotropic use. For the primary
      aim, models will determine whether PST plus EUC is associated with a larger treatment effect
      compared with EUC only for suicidal ideation and reasons for living. Secondary aims will
      determine if baseline functional disability and executive dysfunction moderate treatment
      outcomes, and whether a change in these two variables from baseline to posttreatment are
      significantly associated with (mediate) change in suicidal ideation and reasons for living.
      The tertiary aims will use qualitative methods to assess Veteran satisfaction with the
      treatment and control including the types of problems with which treatment helped them, and
      suggestions for improving it for future Veterans. The current VA/DoD Clinical Practice
      Guidelines (CPGs) for suicide do not list treatment options specifically for older Veterans
      despite the majority of VHA patients being 55 years or older. Thus, evidence-based outcomes
      from the proposed work have potential to inform the CPG recommendations for using PST with
      Safety Planning and/or Safety Planning alone with older Veterans. Dissemination of the
      treatment could be supported by expanding existing VA training infrastructure in problem
      solving based interventions.
    
  