
    
      Looking at the pathology of this disease shows that COVID-19 virus binds to the Angiotensin
      converting enzyme II (ACE II) which is located on the surface of different cells in the body
      and specially on the cells of respiratory system. This enzyme is responsible to turn
      angiotensin II into angiotensin1-7. It is also turns angiotensin I into angiotensin 1-9.

      When ACEII would be blocked by virus level of angiotensin II will be increased and this
      enzyme along with vasoconstriction, makes cells to manufacture TNF α and IL-6 which are
      responsible for cytokine storm and Lymphopenia. Also presence of virus and virus shell on the
      surface of the infected cells make immune system to attack to the respiratory system hence
      effect of angiotensin II inside the cell causes fibrosis of the respiratory cells. This
      inflammation and tissue damage make Acute Respiratory Distress syndrome (ARDS) which is
      lethal for patients. There is a dilemma in treatment of this infection. From one side it
      doesn't make sense to decrease the immune response hence it will make the infection worse.
      And from other side stimulation of the immune response because of respiratory inflammation
      can expedite process of lethal ARDS. A new strategy for treatment of this disease which
      consists of local anti- inflammatory and systemic immune stimulant drugs can be considered as
      a reasonable strategy.As immunostimulator, Levamisole can increase Lymphocytes and empower
      the immunity of the body. This drug can also bind to Papaine Like Protease(PL-pro) of the
      shell of the virus which is necessary for virulence of COVID-19. It also can decrease level
      of TNF α and IL-6, and as a chemical adjutant can introduce the virus to the immune system.
      In addition to Levamisole, Formoterol+Budesonide inhaler can be used in this protocol.
      Budesonide is a steroid and can suppress the immune reaction locally in the respiratory
      system. Formoterol is β2 agonist and can open airways. It also can bind to PL-pro and can
      neutralize the virus according to the published articles.
    
  