
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the disease-free survival of patients with node-positive or high-risk
           node-negative breast cancer treated with 2 different schedules of adjuvant doxorubicin,
           cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel.

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Correlate outcome with putative prognostic markers in patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms (arms V and VI) (arms I-IV closed 11/10/10).

        -  Arm I: (closed 11/10/10) Patients receive doxorubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day
           1 and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 2 or filgrastim (G-CSF) SC on days 3-10.
           Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses.

      Beginning 2 weeks after completion of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 and pegfilgrastim SC on day 2. Treatment repeats every 14
      days for 6 courses.

        -  Arm II: (closed 11/10/10) Patients receive doxorubicin IV on day 1, oral
           cyclophosphamide on days 1-7, and G-CSF SC on days 2-7. Treatment repeats every 7 days
           for 15 courses.

      Beginning 2 weeks after completion of cyclophosphamide, patients receive paclitaxel and
      pegfilgrastim as in arm I.

        -  Arm III: (closed 11/10/10) Patients receive doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and
           pegfilgrastim or G-CSF as in arm I.

      Beginning 2 weeks after completion of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 7 days for 12 courses.

        -  Arm IV: (closed 11/10/10) Patients receive doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and G-CSF as
           in arm II.

      Beginning 2 weeks after completion of cyclophosphamide, patients receive paclitaxel as in arm
      III.

        -  Arm V: Patients receive doxorubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and
           pegfilgrastim SC on day 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses. Patients
           receive doxorubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and pegfilgrastim SC on day 2.
           Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses.

      Beginning 2 weeks after completion of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 and pegfilgrastim SC on day 2. Treatment repeats every 14
      days for 6 courses.

        -  Arm VI: Patients receive doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and pegfilgrastim as in arm V.

      Beginning 2 weeks after completion of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 7 days for 12 courses.

      In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      In all arms patients with HER2/neu-positive tumors also receive trastuzumab (Herceptin®)
      weekly or every 3 weeks beginning concurrently with paclitaxel OR 3 months after the last
      dose of paclitaxel and continuing for up to 52 weeks.

      In all arms, patients with estrogen-receptor or progesterone-receptor positive tumors receive
      hormonal therapy beginning within 28 days of the completion of adjuvant chemotherapy or
      radiotherapy (if given).

      After finishing study treatment patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years and then
      once a year for up to 15 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3,250 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  