
    
      Synthetic cannabinoids (SCs) are new human-made mind-altering chemicals which are similar to
      chemicals found in the marijuana plant; they are recent to be used recreationally, especially
      by young adults[1]. This new generation of novel cannabinoid compounds has been developed to
      avoid drug control laws and routine cannabinoid blood tests[2].

      SCs are dissolved in ethanol or acetone and sprayed on plant material, which is then sold in
      packets as incense, herbal blends. These products are sold under a variety of names including
      "Spice," "K2," "Black Mamba," "Scooby Snax" and in Egypt is known as "Voodoo" and "Strox".
      The chemical constituents and concentrations of compounds vary between and within
      packages[3].

      Voodoo is one of these synthetic Cannabinoids that newly emerged in Egypt targeting the youth
      causing many reported cases of toxicity. This made the Egyptian Ministry of Health in 2014 to
      list it in drug schedule 1 and warned traffickers and users that they are now under criminal
      penalties[4].

      Hundreds of SC were categorized into many structural groups and can be detected by Gass
      chromatography such as adamantoylindoles, aminoalkylindoles, benzoylindoles,
      cyclohexylphenols, dibenzopyrans, naphthoylindoles, naphthylmethylindoles,
      naphthylmethylindenes, naphthoylpyrroles, phenylacetylindoles, tetramethylcyclopropyl ketone
      indoles, quinolinyl ester indoles, and indazole carboxamide compounds[5].

      Usually, 0.5 to 3 g of finely cut green/brown plant material is presented in colorful and
      professionally designed packets. Various herbs such as Pedicularis densiflora, Nymphacea
      caerulea, Leonotis leonurus, Leonurus sibiricus, Carnavalia maritima, and Zornia latifolia
      were declared as ingredients [6].

      Smoking is the most common reported route of administration of SCs, although oral, pulmonary
      (via vapourization) and rectal administration has been described[7].

      SCs interact with CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors and elicit cannabimimetic effects similar
      to Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the primary psychoactive constituent in cannabis[8].
      Although SC drugs mimic the psychotropic effects of cannabis, their undesired effects are
      unpredictable and more severe than those associated with cannabis[9].

      SCs can result in acute, chronic and withdrawal manifestations[10]. Similar to cannabis, the
      acute intoxication of SCs may induce manifestations such as relaxation, euphoria, perceptual
      alteration, altered sense of time, and mild cognitive impairments [11]. Other adverse effects
      include confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, agitation, irritability, nausea, vomiting,
      hallucinations, delusions, increased heart rate, hypertension, vertigo and mydriasis [12-14].
      Less common cardiac effects include chest pain, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest and
      acute kidney damage[15].

      Cases of synthetic cannabis abuse were associated with the manifestation of violence in Egypt
      and worldwide [16, 17]. These cognitive alterations increase the risk of road accidents if
      cannabis or SC users drive while intoxication[18]. Moreover, Psychoactive substances are
      often regarded as possible contributing causal factors in cases of violent injuries, sexual
      abuse, and homicides[15].
    
  