
    
      Morphea, also known as localized scleroderma, is a rare autoimmune fibrosing disorder that
      affects children and adults. Morphea causes significant morbidity through atrophy and
      fibrosis of the skin and underlying structures. Treatment can halt the progression of disease
      but cannot reverse disease damage, leaving children with disfiguring scars and sometimes
      functional impairment. Consequently, it is of extreme importance to intervene early in the
      disease course with effective therapies to limit morbidity.

      Circumscribed morphea is the second most common subtype in children, comprising approximately
      1/3 of pediatric morphea cases. It is a disfiguring disease that can cause pain and pruritus.
      There are no FDA-approved treatments and no consensus exists on the ideal therapy for
      circumscribed morphea, either in adults or children. Most physicians use topical medications
      for circumscribed morphea yet there is little evidence to support these therapies. Topical
      immune modulators such as tacrolimus, imiquimod, and calcipotriene have been investigated in
      small studies, though these trials were limited by very small sample sizes of 9-19 patients
      and lack of a control in most. Surveys have demonstrated that topical steroids are the most
      commonly prescribed medication, even though the only evidence to support their use comes from
      case reports. With insufficient evidence regarding topical therapies, providers have no
      guidance when making treatment decisions, practice patterns vary widely even amongst
      pediatric dermatologists, and children continue with preventable scars.

      The investigators specific aim is to identify effective topical therapy for circumscribed
      morphea. The investigators will utilize a comparative cohort study design to evaluate the
      comparative effectiveness of three topical medications: clobetasol ointment, calcipotriene
      ointment, and tacrolimus 0.1% ointment. The investigators will enroll subjects at CHW and
      other institutions to achieve the study enrollment necessary to power this study.
    
  