
    
      Our patient population will consist of postpartum women who were diagnosed with preeclampsia
      in the antepartum period. Our goal is to enroll ten patients in the treated group and ten
      patients in the control group. The treatment group will have a 2% buffered hypertonic saline
      solution infused at 30 mL/hr in addition to receiving magnesium sulfate for seizure
      prophylaxis. The control group will receive the currently practiced regimen of infusion of a
      Lactated Ringer's solution at 75cc/hr. Both groups will be monitored on our Labor and
      Delivery unit as is the norm for any patient on a magnesium sulfate infusion. They will
      receive routine nursing care and hourly collaborative team assessments by the nurses and the
      physicians for signs of magnesium toxicity. Urine input/output ratios are evaluated on an
      hourly basis and a lung examination is performed to assess for pulmonary edema. A pulse
      oximeter will be used to obtain an hourly assessment of the patient's oxygenation status.

      Both groups will have blood work evaluation every six hours for platelet count, electrolytes,
      liver enzymes, interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 (as markers of inflammation). We will collect
      information on patient symptoms regarding headache, visual changes and epigastric pain at
      4-hour intervals and obtain the patient's weight immediately postpartum as well as at 24-hour
      intervals. Magnesium sulfate infusions will be discontinued at 24 hours postpartum or later
      at the discretion of the treating physician. No antihypertensive medications will be withheld
      from either group. Blood pressure will be obtained in the patients at the current interval of
      60 minutes.

      Hypertonic saline will be infused until the patient is 24 hours postpartum. Our primary
      outcome variable is the ratio of fluid intake to urine output. Data will be collected during
      the length of stay on our Labor and Delivery unit before the patient meets criteria for
      transfer to our postpartum unit, and their overall hospital stay.
    
  