
    
      During the development of oral contraceptives (OCs) over the last decades, ethinyl-estradiol
      (EE) has been reduced under the hypothesis that lower EE doses lead to a better safety
      profile and specifically to a lower venous thromboembolism (VTE) incidence. However, the
      reduction of the EE dose led to a less favorable bleeding control.

      Though EE has been utilized within numerous OCs, efforts have been made to utilize estradiol
      (E2) and estradiol valerate (EV) which have lower impact on the hepatic system and
      subsequently on hemostatic parameters. Bayer Schering Pharma has developed a new EV based OC
      in a dosing regimen that combines both reliable contraception and acceptable bleeding
      profile.

      The INAS-SCORE study was designed as an international, prospective, controlled,
      non-interventional cohort study. The study was started in Europe and was extended to the US
      after the launch of the new regimen. New users of an OC (starters or switchers) are accrued
      by a network of prescribing physicians. Even in the event of high drop-out rates, a 3 to
      5-year follow-up of 50,000 women should be sufficient to document about 150,000 women-years.
      Baseline and follow-up information are collected via a self-administered questionnaire. All
      self-reported clinical outcomes of interest will be validated via health care professionals.
      Classification of reported outcomes as "confirmed" or "unconfirmed" will be checked via
      blinded, independent adjudication. A multifaceted 4-level follow-up procedure proved to
      ensure low loss to follow-up rates.

      The main clinical outcomes of interest for the short and long-term follow-up are
      cardiovascular events, primarily deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, acute myocardial
      infarction, and cerebrovascular accidents.

      Data analysis will be based on life-table methods. All analyses will make allowance for
      confounding, using multivariate techniques such as Cox regression.

      Study amendment:

      Follow-up was initially expected to last until 2014 for the United States and Europe.
      However, the European regulatory authorities were concerned about the low proportion of
      Qlaira users in the United States and requested that the primary analysis should be based on
      the European study arm only. However, this reduction in sample size results in a reduction of
      the statistical power.

      Therefore it was agreed upon with the European regulatory authorities to extend the follow-up
      period in Europe till 2016. This will ensure that the statistical power in the European study
      arm will be as high as the originally planned power for the complete study population
      (European and US study population combined). The total exposure in Europe will be sufficient
      to exclude a twofold risk of VTE and a threefold risk of ATE for Qlaira compared to 'Other
      COCs'.
    
  