
    
      Allergic rhinitis is a very common medical problem affecting adults and children alike. It
      has been estimated that 20% to 25% of the world's population suffer from allergic rhinitis,
      resulting in considerable morbidity - impaired quality of life. In the U.S., there is an
      estimated $2.4 billion annual medical cost associated with allergic rhinitis.

      In Taiwan, household dust mites (HDM) are primary allergens causing allergic reactions
      including allergic rhinitis. The incidence of HDM in Taiwan can be as high as 100%. Df, Dp
      and Blomia tropicalis (Bt) rank among the top 3 most common household dust mites.
      Antihistamines remain a major therapy for treatment of allergic rhinitis. Chinese herbs have
      long been used to treat different allergic and immunologic diseases. YU-PING-FENG-SAN (YPFS)
      with a formulation that contains 3 herbs [Huangqi (HQ), baizhu (BZ), and fangfeng (FF)] has
      been reported as one of the effective traditional Chinese medicines for the treatment of
      recurrent rhinitis.

      In 3 previous non-placebo controlled clinical studies in perennial rhinitis, it has been
      demonstrated that by adding Xingyi(XY) to a YPFS formula with CQ, BZ, and FF, additional
      efficacy benefits can be obtained.

      The aim of this double-blind, randomized, parallel group, placebo-controlled study is to
      assess the efficacy and safety of EWO1 in patients with moderate to severe perennial allergic
      rhinitis. After a 2-week placebo run-in period, patients who satisfy all of the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized 1:1 to receive either EWO1, or placebo for 28
      days. After the treatment-period, patients will be followed for 14 days to see if there is
      any rebound in rhinitis symptoms. The Primary efficacy endpoint is weekly combined symptom
      scores at the end of treatment. Besides, intent to treat analyses will be carried out for
      both efficacy and safety. A minimum of 60 patients will be randomized into this two-treatment
      parallel-design study.
    
  