
    
      Background:

      Surgical site infections (SSI) after spine surgery may occur in up to 12% of cases and can
      lead to increased morbidity, and healthcare costs. Numerous retrospective studies suggest the
      use of intrawound (subfascial) vancomycin powder in spine surgery to be protective against
      SSIs. Adverse events, such as seroma formation or neurotoxicity may be associated with the
      subfascial use of vancomycin powder in high doses in direct proximity to exposed neural
      structures. Only one retrospective study investigated the use of suprafascial vancomycin
      powder. The use of intrawound vancomycin powder is controversial and there is a paucity of
      well-designed prospective trials evaluating its efficacy and safety in spine surgery.

      Objective:

      The main objective of this Trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of suprafascially
      applied vancomycin powder in open instrumented spine surgery to prevent surgical site
      infections and inform a future phase-III trial.

      Methods:

      In addition to standard preoperative systemic antibiotic prophylaxis (SAP), patients in the
      treatment arm will receive 1-2 g of vancomycin powder (VP) applied above the closed muscle
      fascia (suprafascial) into the wound at conclusion of the surgery. Patients in the control
      arm will not receive additional intrawound vancomycin powder. All other intra- and
      perioperative procedures will be conducted according to standard of practice (SOP) at the
      respective Trial site. All patient follow-ups and assessment of the surgical site will be
      observational in nature and adhere to Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) of the Trial site.
      All patients will be followed up clinically with conventional radiographs after 6 weeks and 3
      months after surgery. At each follow-up, clinical assessment and inspection of the surgical
      site (the wound) will be performed by a blinded assessor (who was not present at index
      surgery). In cases of evident or suspected SSI standard blood samples and - if required to
      rule out or confirm a deep SSI - a MRI will be ordered.
    
  