
    
      The purpose of the research protocol is to perform a pilot study to determine the levels of
      25-hydroxy vitamin D (25OHD), the storage form of vitamin D, in subjects with chronic
      urticaria and angioedema. Vitamin D is recognized as a key element in the regulation of the
      innate and adaptative immune system, and deficiencies of vitamin D could play an important
      role with inflammatory skin conditions such as chronic urticaria and angioedema.

      Vitamin D deficiency has been implicated in contributing to the pathogenesis of skin
      inflammatory disorders including atopic dermatitis, rosacea and psoriasis. Deficiencies in
      vitamin D have recently been speculated to be associated with anaphylaxis diagnosis and
      treatment. The role of vitamin D in other allergic disorders such as allergic rhinitis is not
      clear. Chronic urticaria and angioedema (CUA) is a debilitating allergic disorder defined as
      recurrent urticaria and/or angioedema on a regular basis for greater than 6 weeks. The
      etiology of this disorder is largely unknown, but occurs predominately in females and can be
      associated with autoimmunity and thyroid disease. Vitamin D could potentially have an
      important role in the pathogenesis and treatment of CUA, but there are no studies to date
      examining the potential association of CUA and 25OHD levels.

      This pilot study seeks to recruit two groups of adult subjects (ages 19 and up): 1) Control
      allergy group: subjects with physician-diagnosed allergic rhinitis, and 2) Subjects with
      physician-diagnosed chronic urticaria and/or angioedema. Subjects in the 2 groups will answer
      a questionnaire to collect information regarding demographics, vitamin D supplementation,
      previous diagnostic tests, current medications, and also a validated Dermatology Life Quality
      Index (attached). Other information will be obtained as available from the medical record:
      weight, height, body mass index (BMI), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free thyroxine
      (T4), thyroid autoantibodies, urticaria autoimmune testing (autologous serum skin test,
      CD203c results), anti-nuclear antibody (ANA) and allergy skin prick testing. These stated
      tests are drawn for the evaluation of subjects with CUA. All subjects will have blood draw
      for 25OHD levels, and the levels will be compared between the 2 groups. It has been
      previously reported that approximately 15-30% of healthy populations are deficient in Vitamin
      D. There is no intervention component. Subjects will receive the 25OHD results, but no
      further follow-up is planned.

      The objective of this pilot study is to perform an exploratory analysis to determine if a
      possible relationship between 25OHD and CUA exists, and to determine power calculations for a
      larger study. Finally, information regarding Vitamin D may be beneficial in determining
      potential contributing factors and also in the treatment of subjects with CUA.
    
  