
    
      Auditory Processing Disorder (APD) is a disorder where the functions of the ear (outer,
      middle, inner) are normal but the person has difficulty identifying or discriminating sounds
      (1). For children with APD it is particularly difficult to hear when the listening conditions
      are not ideal. For example, when there is background noise it becomes really challenging to
      focus on the speaker. Two other factors that influence their hearing ability are
      reverberation and the distance from the speaker (2). Some symptoms reported for APD are
      listening difficulties in background noise, attention and memory problems, and
      distractibility (3,4). Children with APD have worse skills in speech perception in noise
      compared to typically developing children (5,6) and have also have poorer sustained auditory
      attention compared to children suspected of APD (7).

      Remote Microphone Hearing Aids (RMHAs) are a management approach recommended for children
      with APD. These are wireless listening devices that pick up the speaker's voice and transmit
      it to a receiver in the listener's ear. The use of this system helps improve the
      signal-to-noise ratio for children and bypasses the negative effects of background noise and
      reverberation in the classroom (2,8,9). There have not been many studies, though. That looked
      into the effects of RMHA on children with APD. Previous research suggests that children with
      APD after a prolonged use of RMHAs benefit from improved speech perception which is possibly
      linked to an enhanced auditory system (9). Adding to that, children with APD have shown
      improved speech in noise perception when using the RMHA, hence emphasizing the advantages of
      the device in discriminating speech in background noise (9,10).

      Sustained attention and the ability of children with APD to listen in spatialised noise after
      RMHA use has been examined by one study (10). It did not show improvement (unaided) in any of
      the two tests. However, this was a non-randomised trial that did not use a control group. As
      the central point of this study will be the use of the RMHA by children with APD for 6
      months, it is expected that the findings could add valuable information on the subject.

      Aim and hypotheses The aim of the study is to examine the effect of a 6-month RMHA use on
      self-reported listening in the classroom, speech perception in noise, speech perception in
      spatialised noise and on attention skills.

      Hypotheses:

      i. Children with APD who use RMHAs will show greater improvements in classroom listening,
      listening in noise and sustained auditory attention (unaided) after 6 months of RMHA use in
      comparison to the APD control group.

      ii. Children with APD who use the RMHA will not show greater improvements in listening in
      spatialised speech noise and divided and visual attention measures after 6 months of RMHA use
      in comparison to the APD control group.

      Research Design and Methodology Participants and Recruitment We recruited 26 children aged
      7-12 years. All children have been diagnosed and referred from the Auditory Processing
      Disorders Clinic at Great Ormond Street Hospital. The total sample size was decided using
      this power sample: N = 24 (total sample size) calculated using the F test for repeated
      measures between-within interaction ANOVA based on an estimated 0.5 effect size f(U), 80%
      power, at 5% significance, using 2 groups and 3 measurement points. Accounting for a 10% loss
      due to follow-up, the final study sample size comprised 26 children.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Diagnosis of APD based on clinical tests administered by qualified audiologists as per
           the clinic's diagnosis protocol.

        2. No neurological or pervasive disorder or developmental delay (e.g. Attention Deficit
           Hyperactivity Disorder, epilepsy, Autism Spectrum Disorder, Developmental Language
           Disorder, Down Syndrome).

        3. Non-verbal cognitive ability score of 85 or greater.

        4. Ages between 7-12 years.

        5. Native English speakers.

        6. No prior use of RMHAs. Subjects were semi-randomly assigned to each of two intervention
           arms. The two groups were stratified for age and balanced for gender.

      Children were given RMHAs to use at school and were compared to the control that did not use
      any intervention for the study period. Children were enrolled in the study for 6 months. All
      groups were tested before the start of the RMHA intervention, after 3 months, and at the end
      of the study (after 6 months).

      Explanation of each test:

        1. A hearing test (Pure Tone Audiometry approx. 10mins). To determine their hearing is
           normal.

        2. Non-verbal IQ test (Weschler test of non-verbal intelligence). To be performed by the
           PhD Student. (approx. 15mins). To assess determine whether their intelligence level is
           above normal.

        3. Listening in spatialised noise test (LiSN-S, approx. 15mins). To be administered through
           the use of headphones by the PhD student. To determine their listening in spatialised
           speech noise abilities.

        4. The Test of Everyday Attention for Children (TEACh). To be conducted as play type
           activities by the PhD student after receiving sufficient training by the clinical
           psychologist. (approx. 45mins possibly cut down to 30mins). To assess their attention.

        5. Two questionnaires to be filled by the children's parents.

             1. The Children's Communication Checklist-2 (CCC-2). A 70-item questionnaire which
                screens for communication problems (including language disorders and autism).

             2. The Children's Auditory Performance Scale (CHAPS). It assesses aspects of
                children's listening.

        6. One questionnaire to be completed by the children (Listening Inventory For
           Education-Revised [LIFE-R] for assessing their listening difficulty.

      Data analysis:

      Data were analysed in SPSS statistics software, using mixed ANOVA. Group was the
      between-subjects factor and time was the within-subjects factor.

      Ethical issues

      School and teacher involvement:

      The teachers of the children who received the RMHA were provided with an information sheet
      and consent form and were required to wear the microphone (which picks up the teacher's voice
      and transmits it wirelessly to the ear receivers in the child's ear) for the duration of
      lecture-based subjects. Remote microphone hearing aids are generally beingg provided (funded
      by the school budget) to some children after clinical recommendations and this is not an
      unusual situation within the school environment.

      We liaised with the teacher of the school to ensure that the school was aware that the
      student has been issued with the RMHA. A general guide for the system was made available in
      addition to information conveyed by the PhD student.

      Informed consent:

      The child's parents were given detailed written information and consent forms to sign. They
      were given up to a week to study and decide whether they wished for their child to
      participate in the study. They were only allowed to take part once they have understood the
      purpose and procedures of the study and they signed the consent forms. In addition, children
      were also given information sheets adjusted to their age. Written assent from children in the
      presence of their parents or carers was sought.

      Rights to withdraw from the study:

      This was outlined on both the information sheet and consent form and explained verbally
      during test visits. This information stated that participants were allowed to withdraw from
      the study at any point should they wished to. Withdrawal from the study did not involve any
      penalty or loss of benefit to them - this information was clearly underlined at the
      information sheet and verbally communicated.

      Data protection:

      Parents of the participants and the participants were informed that their information was
      anonymised and kept confidential. Data was anonymised prior to analysis by the use of
      participant codes. Storage of the data was in accordance with the data protection act 1998.

      Other issues:

      None of these tests were invasive or unpleasant, and they were conducted in comfortable sound
      levels (slightly higher than the usual conversational level).

      References

        1. Dawes P, Bishop DVM. Auditory Processing Disorder in Relation to Developmental Disorders
           of Language, Communication and Attention: A Review and Critique. Int J Lang Commun
           Disord [Internet]. 2009 [cited 2014 Apr 1];44(4):440-65. Available from:
           http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19925352

        2. Keith WJ, Purdy SC. Assistive and Therapeutic Effects of Amplification for Auditory
           Processing Disorder. Semin Hear [Internet]. 2014;35(1):27-38. Available from:
           https://www.thieme-connect.com/products/ejournals/html/10.1055/s-0033-1363522

        3. American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. (Central) Auditory Processing Disorders.
           Technical Report [Internet]. American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. 2005 [cited
           2019 Aug 6]. Available from: http://www.asha.org/policy/TR2005-00043/

        4. American Academy of Audiology. American Academy of Audiology Clinical Practice
           Guidelines. Diagnosis, Treatment and Management of Children and Adults with Central
           Auditory Processing Disorder [Internet]. American Academy of Audiology. 2010 [cited 2019
           Aug 6]. p. 1-51. Available from:
           http://www.audiology.org/publications-resources/document-library/central-auditory-proces
           sing-disorder

        5. Lagacé J, Jutras B, Giguère C, Gagné J-P. Speech Perception in Noise: Exploring the
           Effect of Linguistic Context in Children With and Without Auditory Processing Disorder.
           Int J Audiol [Internet]. 2011;50(6):385-95. Available from:
           https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21599614

        6. Rocha-Muniz CN, Zachi EC, Teixeira RAA, Ventura DF, Befi-Lopes DM, Schochat E.
           Association Between Language Development and Auditory Processing Disorders. Braz J
           Otorhinolaryngol [Internet]. 2014;80(3):231-6. Available from:
           http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25153108

        7. Allen P, Allan C. Auditory Processing Disorders: Relationship to Cognitive Processes and
           Underlying Auditory Neural Integrity. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol [Internet].
           2014;78(2):198-208. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.10.048

        8. British Society of Audiology. Practice Guidance. An Overview of Current Management of
           Auditory Processing Disorder (APD) [Internet]. British Society of Audiology. 2011 [cited
           2019 Aug 6]. p. 1-60. Available from:
           http://www.thebsa.org.uk/docs/docsfromold/BSA_APD_Management_1Aug11_FINAL_amended17Oct11
           .pdf

        9. Johnston KN, John AB, Kreisman N V, Hall III JW, Crandell CC. Multiple Benefits of
           Personal FM System use by Children with Auditory Processing Disorder (APD). Int J Audiol
           [Internet]. 2009 Jan;48(6):371-83. Available from:
           http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19925345

       10. Smart JL, Purdy SC, Kelly AS. Impact of Personal Frequency Modulation Systems on
           Behavioral and Cortical Auditory Evoked Potential Measures of Auditory Processing and
           Classroom Listening in School-Aged Children with Auditory Processing Disorder. J Am Acad
           Audiol [Internet]. 2018;19:1-19. Available from:
           http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/10.3766/jaaa.16074
    
  