
    
      1. participants

             1. eligible participants are randomly assigned to systemic strategy or selective
                strategy

                  -  participants allocated to systemic strategy will receive routine coronary
                     angiography before PTA without a previous non-invasive stress test

                  -  subjects allocated to selective strategy will undergo non-invasive evaluation
                     of possible myocardial ischemia by using dobutamine stress echocardiography
                     (DSE) or dipyridamole thallium 201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (dTS)
                     followed by coronary angiography if the test is positive for ischemia

             2. participants who are not willing to be randomized will be included in the
                registration group

        2. revascularization

             1. a staged approach (myocardial revascularization first followed by PTA) and
                simultaneous approach (percutaneous coronary intervention immediately followed by
                PTA at the same time if clinically suitable) are both allowed

             2. the duration from revascularization to PTA should be within 60 days

             3. percutaneous coronary intervention is performed at the time of coronary
                angiography, using bare metal or drug-eluting stents

        3. blood sampling, genotyping, and measurement of biomarkers and microRNA

           a. bood samples (20 mL) are obtained from peripheral arteries in all study subjects
           before PTA and 10 mL after PTA and are prepared and stored for enzyme-linked
           immunosorbent assay (ELISA), genotyping and measurement of microRNAs in plasma and
           peripheral blood mononuclear cells

        4. outcome follow-up a. clinical outcomes are obtained by chart review if the patient is
           still in the hospital and followed up by clinic visit, telephone call or direct contact
           with participants or subjects' family at 30 days after indexed PTA if the patient has
           been discharged from the hospital and every 6 months thereafter
    
  