
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare disease-free survival of women with node-negative breast cancer treated with
           adjuvant fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide vs doxorubicin and
           cyclophosphamide.

      Secondary

        -  Compare survival, recurrence-free interval, and distant recurrence-free interval in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare adverse events in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare quality of life, with regard to physical functioning, vitality, symptoms, and
           rates of post-chemotherapy amenorrhea, in premenopausal patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the effect of induction of post-chemotherapy amenorrhea on disease-free
           survival in premenopausal patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate post-chemotherapy amenorrhea and disease-free survival with hormone receptor
           status in premenopausal patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate changes in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) with self-reported
           physical functioning in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the efficacy of these regimens in patients with Human Epidermal Growth Factor
           Receptor 2 (HER2)/neu and/or topoisomerase-2-alpha gene amplification.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      hormone receptor status (estrogen receptor [ER] positive or progesterone receptor [PR]
      positive vs ER negative or PR negative) and type of prior surgery (lumpectomy vs total
      mastectomy). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm 1: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes followed by cyclophosphamide IV
           over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses.

        -  Arm 2: Patients receive fluorouracil IV, epirubicin IV over 15 minutes, and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6
           courses.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      All patients with ER- or PR-positive tumors receive hormonal therapy daily beginning within
      3-12 weeks after the completion of chemotherapy and continuing for at least 5 years.

      All patients who have undergone prior lumpectomy undergo whole-breast radiotherapy beginning
      as soon as possible after the completion of chemotherapy. Patients who have undergone prior
      total mastectomy may undergo chest wall radiotherapy at the investigator's discretion.
      Patients assigned to the partial breast irradiation (PBI) group of protocol NSABP-B-39
      undergo PBI according to protocol-specific guidelines.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on day 1 of course 4 of chemotherapy, and then every
      6 months for 3 years.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for up to 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,700 patients (1,350 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 3.75 years.
    
  