
    
      The Diverticular Inflammation and Complication Assessment (DICA) endoscopic classification
      has been recently developed for patients suffering from diverticulosis and diverticular
      disease.

      A recent multicentre, international, retrospective study found that DICA classification has a
      significant predictive value on the outcome of the disease in terms of acute diverticulitis
      occurrence/recurrence and surgery occurrence.

      The aim of the present study is to confirm the above mentioned results propectively Several
      centers, worldwide distributed, will be involved. A minimum of 281 patients will be required
      for the study. This calculation will be based on the assumption that a continuity-corrected
      chi-square test with a type I error of 0.05 and a type II error of 0.20 will be expected to
      detect a difference between a 4.3% prevalence of diverticulitis in patients with
      diverticulosis and 8.6% in DICA I patients.

      Only patients at the first endoscopic diagnosis of diverticulosis/diverticular disease will
      be enrolled. For each patient, we recorded: age; severity of DICA score; severity of symptoms
      at entry and during the follow-up; C-reactive protein (CRP) and fecal calprotectin test at
      the time of diagnosis and during the follow-up (CRP only for DICA 2 and 3 patients);
      comorbidities (if any); concomitant therapies (if any); therapy taken during the follow-up to
      maintain remission (if any); months of follow-up; occurrence/recurrence of acute
      diverticulitis; need of surgery.

      The study will take three year. The investigators aim at confirming that DICA classification
      is a valid parameter to predict the risk of acute diverticulitis occurrence/recurrence and
      the need of surgery in patients suffering from diverticulosis/diverticular disease of the
      colon. This could permit to select populations at higher or lower risk, having or not benefit
      from scheduled (and type) treatment able to reduce those risks.
    
  