
    
      Anaesthetic management:

      One hour before thoracic surgery, the patient-subjects received diazepam 0.15 mg kg-1 as
      premedication. After arriving at the operating theatre, standard monitoring system practices
      was applied, including heart rate (HR), systolic arterial pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial
      pressure (DAP), mean arterial pressure (MAP), and pulse oximetry (SpO2). Moreover, an
      intra-vein cannula was placed, and the infusion of multi-electrolytic fluid 5-10 ml kg-1 h-1
      was started. After pre-oxygenation, atropine 0.5 mg and fentanyl 3 µg kg-1 were given, and
      the induction of anaesthesia with thiopentone 5-7 mg kg-1 was started. Suxamethonium was
      administered for neuromuscular blockade, and bronchial intubation with a Robertshow double
      lumen tube was performed. The left bronchus was intubated for right lung surgery, and the
      right bronchus was intubated for left lung surgery. Tube placement was checked via
      auscultation and fiberscope. Anaesthesia was maintained with sevoflurane, additional fentanyl
      doses were used if needed, and neuromuscular blockade was obtained with vecuronium 0.1 mg
      kg-1. Additionally, 0.1 mg kg-1 dose of morphine was given subcutaneously for postoperative
      pain control. Patients were also ventilated with O2 (oxygen) and AIR (air) mixture, using the
      following settings: volume control intermittent positive pressure ventilation, FiO2 (oxygen
      fraction) 0.4, Vt (tidal volume) 6-10 ml/kg, and f (frequency) 12-15 /min. Furthermore, end
      tidal CO2 (carbon dioxide) was monitored due to normocapnia maintenance (4.0-5.3 kPa). At the
      end of surgery, intercostal blockade was brought about with 0.5% bupivacaine, with 5 ml for
      each nerve. Finally, the neuromuscular blockade was reversed with neostigmine 0.04 mg kg-1
      and with atropine 0.01 mg kg-1.

      After anaesthesia stabilisation, the unique control system was used, called the 'tidal volume
      divider'. This device was placed between the anaesthetic machine and the double lumen tube of
      the patient. This control system enables conventional ventilation (without any intervention
      from the control system, as the settings are defined on the ventilator), as well as
      independent ventilation with division of the tidal volume between the lungs in proportions of
      1:1, 2:1, 3:1, and 5:1. It also enables PEEP (selective positive end-expiratory pressure)
      application to each lung. With independent ventilation, settings such as frequency, tidal
      volume and inspiration time are defined by ventilator, and this system only controls the
      direction of tidal volume to each lung (as the control system is a flow divider) by using a
      differential pneumatic resistor. It also enables dependent and non-dependent lung ventilation
      in the lateral decubitus positions. Furthermore, the system monitors the expired volume,
      airway pressure and dynamic compliance of each lung. This device was described and tested on
      mechanical lung models with a variety of lung model mechanics (compliance, resistance) and
      ventilation parameters (frequency, tidal volume). It was also tested clinically for its
      safety during our previous study. The system was invented, developed and patented by a group
      of Polish engineers from the Nałęcz Institute of Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering,
      the Polish Academy of Sciences, Poland.
    
  