
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to see whether intra-nasal (IN) Ketamine (50 mg / ml) solution
      (Sandoz; Drug Identification Number (DIN) 02246796) administered via mucosal atomization
      device (LMA MAD300 Nasal TM; Wolfe Tory Medical Inc., San Diego, CA), in addition to usual
      care with nitrous oxide inhalation, to pre-hospital patients being transported by British
      Columbia Emergency Health Services (BC EHS) Basic Life Support (BLS) paramedics with moderate
      to severe pain (pain > 5/10 on a validated numerical rating scale or NRS) will improve pain
      relative to usual care plus placebo.

      Hypothesis:

      It is hypothesized that the addition of IN ketamine to usual care with nitrous oxide
      inhalation for adults experiencing moderate to severe intensity acute pain in the
      pre-hospital setting will result in a greater proportion of patients experiencing a 2-point
      or more reduction in verbal numerical rating scale (VNRS) pain score within 30 minutes, as
      well as improved patient-reported comfort, reduced nitrous oxide requirements, and improved
      patient and provider satisfaction compared to usual care alone.

      Background:

      Acute painful conditions make-up a large proportion of pre-hospital transports yet BLS
      paramedics have limited options to provide analgesia, and therefore, adequate and timely pain
      relief is often significantly delayed. Inhaled nitrous oxide is commonly used as a
      pre-hospital analgesic and is considered "usual care" for BLS pre-hospital providers. Nitrous
      oxide has been shown to be effective for analgesia in patients with moderate pain but its
      utility in severe pain is uncertain. No alternative treatments exist for BLS providers in the
      pre-hospital setting. Intra-nasal ketamine is a safe, well-tolerated means of providing
      analgesia and has been proven to work in the pre-hospital setting without the need for
      cardio-respiratory monitoring.

      Objectives:

      The objective of this study is to collect pilot data to compare the addition of intranasal
      Ketamine or an intranasal placebo in terms of efficacy and effectiveness in patients
      receiving usual care with nitrous oxide for moderate to severe pain.

      Secondary objectives will be to assess subjective improvement in pain, effect on nitrous
      oxide requirements, incidence of adverse effects, patient and provider satisfaction, and
      study recruitment potential. These data will inform future large-scale trial designs and will
      be used to validate a proposed 7-point patient-reported pain improvement scale.

      Research Methods:

      This will be a randomized double-blind pilot trial conducted in the pre-hospital setting in
      the lower mainland. The pilot series will constitute 40 patients (20 per group). The sample
      size for a larger randomized controlled trial will then be calculated using the effect size
      and variance of the accrued data.

      Statistical Analysis:

      A statistician will be contracted to independently oversee the analysis of study results. The
      intention-to-treat principal will be used to analyze all data. Data will be analyzed using
      descriptive statistics. Categorical data will be presented as frequency and percentage
      frequency of occurrence. Continuous data will be presented as medians with ranges and
      interquartile ranges (IQRs). Adverse effects will be described as frequency of occurrence
      with 95% confidence intervals. A p-value of 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  