
    
      Fabry disease is an X-linked recessive disease, affecting lysosomal storage with a variable
      phenotype characterized by the accumulation of glycosphingolipids in several tissues. It has
      been described more than 200 mutations in the alfa-galactosidase A (GLA) gene which cause
      Fabry disease. Nowadays, the treatment of Fabry disease consists of enzyme replacement
      therapy (ERT) which development has shown a reversal of abnormal accumulation of
      glycosphingolipids in different tissues and a clinical improvement or stabilization (1).
      Unlike classic systemic Fabry disease with multiple organ affectation, the cardiac variant of
      the disease is characterized by myocardial hypertrophy. Hence, cardiac Fabry variant is
      defined as a storage myocyte disorder mimicking the clinical features of the hypertrophic
      cardiomyopathy (HCM)(2).

      The gold standard for the diagnosis of Fabry disease is the electron microscopy evaluation of
      cardiac samples obtained from endomyocardial biopsy (2), although it has been published that
      the determination of the alfa-galactosidase activity in plasma of patients diagnosed of Fabry
      disease, followed by sequencing of the GLA gene in those individuals with low activity level
      is a good non-invasive diagnostic method which allows the identification of the disease
      carriers and the early start of the enzymatic replacement therapy (3).

      Due to the similarity between clinical characteristics of both diseases and to the
      extraordinary low incidence of the Fabry disease, the biopsy execution is rarely carried out
      for diagnosis. Hence, it has been speculated that a higher disease incidence should exist
      hidden among patients presenting with clinical symptoms of HCM. Several studies have
      evaluated the incidence of the Fabry disease among patients diagnosed of HCM, finding out
      that even 8-10% of these patients actually presented Fabry disease (4,5), although a bias in
      the patient selection can exist. In more recent studies including one carried out by our
      group with a higher number of patients, a lower incidence (between 1-3%) has been found
      (3,6). So, Fabry is a rare disease affecting 1/50000 individuals in the population (3).

      Extracellular matrix is a dynamic structure with an intense participation in the myocardial
      remodeling that occurs in different cardiovascular diseases (7). Alterations in the
      extracellular matrix could perform an important role in the diastolic dysfunction process
      linked to the myocardial hypertrophy. Collagen deposits increase left ventricular chamber
      stiffness and ventricular load during diastole is compromised. Collagen turnover is increased
      when compared to healthy controls, and synthesis is predominant over degradation, finding
      associated changes in metalloproteinase activity (MMP, which are the principal enzymes in
      charge of matrix degradation) and their inhibitors (TIMP) (8). Our group has recently
      published several papers about the relevance of the fibrosis in patients with MCH
      (9,10,11,12). The investigators found out that fibrosis, assessed by late Gadolinium
      enhancement in cardiac magnetic resonance, is related to ventricular remodeling, hypertrophy,
      ventricular tachycardia (10) and functional state of the patient (11) and that MMP-9 value is
      independently associated to fibrosis (9). There are also studies describing structural
      changes in the matrix associated to Fabry disease, where fibrosis presence is evident both at
      the interstitial level and replacing myocardiocytes loss (13). However, it has not been yet
      demonstrated whether the alteration in the interstitial matrix takes place due only to
      fibroblasts activation in response to humoral or mechanical factors without myocardiocytes
      loss or, on the contrary, it is associated to cellular death.

      The interest of apoptosis, or programmed cell death, is increasing in heart failure.
      Apoptosis can be activated by the interaction of cell surface death receptors (i.e. receptors
      of tumoral necrosis factor superfamily -TNFR- and Fas protein receptor), with its ligands
      (TNF-alfa and Fas ligand, FasL) (14), and by activation of the mitochondrial pro-apoptotic
      mechanisms, in response to unfavorable changes in intracellular environment (15). The
      subsequent development is regulated by the Bcl-2 protein group (16) and executed by the
      caspase family (17). During the apoptosis, Annexin 5, is produced in the myocytes and
      secreted to the interstitial space (18,19). Annexin 5 seems to contribute to the
      intracellular calcium management alteration, leading to the systolic dysfunction (20, 21).
      Myocardiocytes death via apoptosis could be a more common process that previously thought,
      with estimation of repair process that contribute to the interstitium expansion. GDF-15 is a
      member of the TGF-β superfamily, and a well establish marker of risk and prognosis in acute
      coronary syndromes. It has been recently proposed as a regulator of fibrosis and tissue
      remodeling processes probably by prevention of apoptosis (22). Apoptosis of myocardiocytes
      leads to the progressive ventricular wall slimming, as previously reported in MCH (23), and
      systolic dysfunction.

      Many of the molecules involved in apoptosis and ventricular remodeling can be detected in
      peripheral blood and are known as biomarkers. Biomarkers give information about normal
      biological processes or physiopathologic mechanisms and can be very useful in differential
      diagnosis or even in prognosis. Nowadays, there is a raising interest in the study and
      utility of biomarkers in cardiovascular disease, being more used in ischemic cardiopathy and
      heart failure (24-27). Unfortunately their study in HCM has been less developed, even less in
      Fabry disease. Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) is the most studied biomarker in HCM and has
      been related to the presence of heart failure symptoms (28-30), poor functional capacity (30)
      and left ventricular outflow obstruction (31-34). On the other hand ST2 has started very
      recently to be considered as a good biomarker for myocardial-specific response to stretch,
      with synergistic implications in prognosis with BNP (35).

      Our group is currently developing a project studying several biomarkers (myocardial stress,
      endothelial damage, hypercoagulable state) in order to explore different systems involved in
      ventricular remodeling in HCM (assessed by echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance)
      that could be very similar in Fabry disease.

      In Fabry disease, plasma or urine level of globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) is used as biomarker.
      This glycosphingolipid is stored in lysosomes in Fabry patients, although is has been shown
      that detected plasma or urine concentrations can vary, due to different mutations that do not
      provoke a complete loss of alfa-galactosidase activity. In addition, in heterozygous women
      plasma levels can be normal but there are some data suggesting high concentration in urine
      (36). On the other hand, it has been suggested that is lactosylceramide, a catabolic product
      of Gb3, who regulates the expression pattern of TNF-alfa and y ICAM-1, contributing to
      atherosclerosis development (37).

      The investigators dispose of a specialized cardiomyopathy clinic in each of the three
      hospitals: Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Arrixaca, Murcia, Hospital General
      Universitario de Alicante, and Hospital General Universitario de Elche. The investigators
      have already recruited 12 families with diagnosed Fabry probands and a total of 60 relatives
      clinically checked up within last 4 months. The investigators consider that the recruitment
      of patients has been successful and are ready to carry out the present project. However, the
      investigators would like to participate with other centres in order to share patients and
      mutated relatives without phenotypic disease expression.

      The aim of the present project is to study biomarkers of apoptosis, fibrosis and interstitial
      remodeling in peripheral samples of patients diagnosed with Fabry disease and relatives. Our
      objective is to establish whether exists or not myocardial affectation data in mutations
      carriers without phenotypic disease criteria. The investigators will also focus on different
      polymorphisms and their implication in the development of Fabry disease.
    
  