
    
      Risk stratification is challenging in latent genetically mediated sudden death syndromes,
      where the absolute risks are low but the loss of life is catastrophic in otherwise well young
      individuals. Countering this is the manifest drawbacks of liberal use of Implantable
      Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICDs) in this population, who may suffer harm from the
      limitations of ICDs with respect to repeated generator changes, lead/mechanical
      complications, non-target shocks and issues with body image and self esteem. This balance is
      struck with patients and clinicians in the inherited arrhythmia clinics daily.

      The Principal Investigator has a longstanding interest in cardiac monitoring and syncope,
      with extensive experience with cardiac monitoring technologies. Recently published data from
      the study team indicates that 69% of unexplained cardiac arrest patients had suffered
      syncope, presyncope, chest pain or palpitations, significantly greater than the 43% incidence
      in their first-degree relatives8. The prevalence of syncope was 34% in those patients with
      subsequently diagnosed inherited causes of cardiac arrest. This suggests an excellent
      opportunity to detect symptomatic and asymptomatic arrhythmias in patients to risk stratify
      patients and direct ICD resources to patients that are likely to benefit. Coupling of
      recording with remote monitoring of device-detected events enables a short time from detected
      arrhythmia to reporting and resultant clinical decision-making (base station in the patient's
      home transmits any acquired data daily).

      An intermediate risk population is seen regularly in the inherited arrhythmia clinic, based
      on a wide array of clinical features that are proven or suspected risk markers in patients
      who either prefer to avoid an ICD, or whose risk is insufficient to clearly warrant an ICD.
      The risk in these individuals is hampered by the relatively uncommon short-term risk of
      spontaneous arrhythmia that is detected by routine 24-48 Holter surveillance to assist as a
      "tie breaker", to favor more aggressive therapy with an ICD. This study will extend the
      monitoring period of intermediate risk patients to 3 years and enable detection of
      symptomatic and asymptomatic ventricular arrhythmia that would inform risk discussion with
      the patient and favor more aggressive therapy. The latter may involve incremental drug
      therapy, cardiac sympathectomy or an ICD.

      Loop recorder implantation (Reveal LINQ, Medtronic, Minneapolis MN), also called an
      insertable cardiac monitor (ICM) has the ability to analyze the beat to beat variability of
      cardiac cycles on a 2 minute ECG strip and stores the tracing for visual confirmation of any
      cardiac events. The device also provides the patient with the ability to activate the device
      manually and so facilitates analysis of heart rhythm during symptomatic events.

      The device is manufactured and will be provided by Medtronic Canada Ltd, 99 Hereford Street,
      Brampton, Ontario L6Y 0R3 +1 905-460-3800. The Medtronic Reveal LINQ is a programmable device
      that continuously monitors a patient's ECG and other physiological parameters. The device
      records cardiac information in response to automatically detected arrhythmias and patient
      activation. The form factor of the device has changed from that similar to a USB thumb drive
      that requires surgical implantation to that of a paper clip that can be injected in a
      minimally invasive environment including office based clean rooms. This device is small
      leadless and is inserted under the skin, in the chest. The device can be inserted by the
      physician in the office, saving precious healthcare resources.

      Potential Adverse Events include but are not limited to:

        -  Device rejection phenomena (including local tissue reaction)

        -  Device migration

        -  Infection

        -  Erosion through the skin
    
  