
    
      A total of 2500 adult cancer survivors will be enrolled in the 5-year study. The
      investigators will build capacity by expanding ACE training and programming to sites beyond
      the large urban centers. The investigators plan for implementation in 7 Alberta YMCAs and/or
      City Recreation facilities within 3 years, as well as to formally establish partnerships
      within AHS to build further capacity across the province within existing AHS programming
      (e.g., CancerControl Rehab Services, Alberta Healthy Living Program and Primary Care
      Network). Virtual and supported home-based options will be available as an alternative.

      Eligible and consenting participants will be screened for exercise safety, and following
      fitness testing will be triaged to appropriate exercise programming in their home or
      community. The exercise intervention will take place at the survivor's home, YMCAs and
      municipal fitness centres across the province. The supported home-based and community-based
      exercise program will be administered by exercise specialists who have undergone the ACE
      Cancer and Exercise: Training for Fitness Professionals course. Survivors will take part in a
      combination of aerobic, resistance, balance, and flexibility exercises delivered in a
      circuit-type class setting or group personal training format, twice weekly for an
      8-to-12-week period.

      Effectiveness outcomes include physical fitness, physical activity, quality of life, and
      healthcare utilization. These outcomes are known factors associated with the secondary
      prevention of cancer. The RE-AIM framework will be used to evaluate program reach,
      effectiveness, adoption, implementation and maintenance. The Alberta Quality Matrix for
      Health will serve as a framework to inform program sustainability beyond the funding period.
      Through this research, the investigators will better understand the effectiveness of the ACE
      program, and evaluate processes to support future implementation and sustainability.
    
  