
    
      For the proposed pilot study, a primary objective will be to determine the usability of and
      satisfaction with a virtual weight loss support program incorporating home-based
      goal-tracking technology (e.g., home weighing, activity monitoring). FitLinxx, Inc. has been
      selected to partner in the proposed research as they offer a weight scale (ActiScaleTM) and
      activity monitor (PebbleTM) that can transmit collected data to a secure patient portal
      website (ActiHealth.com) via state-of-the-art wireless data transmission technology. In
      addition to viewing their device data on this patient portal website, program participants
      will be able to communicate as desired with other weight loss surgery patients though a chat
      room feature on the patient portal website, and will also be invited to participate in
      activity and weight loss challenges on the website (e.g., weekly step count challenges,
      weekly percent excess weight loss challenges). E-mail will be used as a means of virtual
      social exchange between patients and providers, as opposed to the synchronous, face-to-face
      support groups at the hospital. The virtual patient support program and goal-tracking
      technology described above provide a novel, scalable and cost effective model of patient
      support that is associated with minimal patient burden.

      This will be a four-month pilot study of the virtual patient support program described above
      and will enroll a total of 24 pre-surgical patients recruited from the Weight Loss Surgery
      (WLS) program at Baystate Medical Center (BMC) who are scheduled to have weight loss surgery
      within four to six weeks of enrollment. The final target sample size is 18, which reflects a
      goal of six patients of each surgical type (e.g., roux-en-Y gastric bypass [RNY],
      laparoscopic gastric banding [LGB], laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy [LSG]), with three in
      each group randomized to receive the intervention and three randomized to the control group.
      Eligible patients must have a computer with Internet access in their home (to transmit device
      data and view the patient portal website), and must weigh less than 420 pounds at baseline
      (due to the 440-pound limit of our weight scale and to allow for some weight gain between the
      baseline research visit and the date of surgery). The sample size and recruitment period are
      feasible given the approximately 400 patients having weight loss surgery at Baystate every
      year (estimate based on figures from 2006-2010).
    
  