
    
      Objective: The Dark Adaptation Extension study allows us to continue with the follow-up of
      participants who were enrolled in the clinical trial, 11-EI-0147, Longitudinal Investigation
      of Dark Adaptation in Participants with Age-Related Macular Degeneration, investigating
      long-term changes in dark adaptation in participants with a range of age-related macular
      degeneration severity who have already been characterized and followed under that protocol.

      Study Population: Participants will be recruited from participants already enrolled in
      11-EI-0147. Participants will have varying degrees of severity of AMD (Groups 0, 1, 2, 3 and
      4). Group 0 (N=40) is defined as participants without AMD meaning no large drusen (>= 125
      microns) or advanced AMD in either eye. Group 1 (N=40) is defined as participants with large
      drusen (>= 125 microns) in the study eye and no large drusen or advanced AMD (choroidal
      neovascularization (CNV) or geographic atrophy (GA)) in the fellow eye. Group 2 (N=40) is
      defined as participants with bilateral large drusen (>= 125 microns) with or without retinal
      pigment epithelial hypo/hyperpigmentary changes. Group 3 (N=40) is defined as participants
      with large drusen (>= 125 microns) in the study eye and advanced AMD (CNV or GA) in the
      fellow eye. Group 4 (N=40) is defined as participants with findings of reticular pseudodrusen
      (RPD) in the study eye, without advanced AMD in the study eye, and any level of AMD in the
      fellow eye. RPD is defined as having (1) the presence of reticular inter-lacing patterns on
      at least one en face imaging method (color photography, autofluorescence or infrared) and (2)
      confirmation of previously described findings of hyper-reflective material located between
      the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and the photoreceptor ellipsoid zone on SD OCT in those
      areas. Up to 40 diabetic

      participants will be recruited.

      Design: This is a single center, exploratory, observational, longitudinal evaluation of dark
      adaptation response in AMD participants who have been followed over five years and will be
      followed over an additional five years to determine long-term evaluation of dark adaptometry
      (DA) change as a predictor for AMD progression and visual acuity (VA) loss. For the second
      five-year study period, participants will have six required study visits (baseline, 12, 24,
      36, 48 and 60), continuing on an annual basis following exit from 11-EI-0147, for a total
      follow-up period of 11 years across both protocols. The windows surrounding each study visit
      will be plus and minus 6 weeks, except for the baseline visit which will be plus and minus 8
      weeks.

      Outcome Measures: The primary objective will be to determine mean change, including
      distribution of change in dark adaptation response between baseline and months 12, 24 and 48
      in participants with varying degree of severity of AMD (Groups 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4). Primary
      outcome data collected at Month 48 will be compared to the initial baseline testing done in
      11-EI-0147 which will be 10-year data across both protocols. Dark adaptation parameters will
      be measured using the AdaptDxTM technology and also using the Medmont dark adaptation
      perimeter. The secondary outcomes include the mean change in dark adaptation and other
      characteristic parameters of the dark adaptation response from baseline at months 12, 24, 36,
      48 and 60 from the two methods, and the mean change in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of
      the study eye from baseline and months 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60.
    
  