
    
      The investigators aim to better understand and delineate the genetic syndrome DDX3X.

      This genetic disorder was described in 2015 by Lot Snijders Blok et al. (DOI
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.07.004:).

      Since this first publication of 38 female individuals carrying a pathogenic mutation DDX3X,
      15 more individuals have been reported.

      The investigators are seeking to better define the phenotype of individuals with pathogenic
      variants of DDX3X, to better understand intellectual functioning as well as the strengths and
      weaknesses of intellectual functioning by collecting standardized neuropsychological
      assessments already performed such as WPPSI/WISC and WAIS. For this purpose, the
      investigators will gather clinical and neuropsychological data already carried out in the
      context of care.

      Finally, the investigators will attempt to identify an epigenetic signature in this genetic
      disease. To this end, the investigators will collect genomic DNA from peripheral blood
      already collected for genetic analysis and send an anonymized batch of samples to our
      collaborator, Dr. Bekim Sadicovik. Dr. Bekim Sadicovik and his team will compare the
      epigenetic DNA methylation-type markers with the corresponding sex and age controls. If
      specific probes are abnormally methylated in DDX3X individuals, this will determine a
      disease-specific epigenetic signature. The investigators will then be able to propose an
      epigenetic signature for individuals with uncharacterized DDX3X variations (class 3, VUS).
      This method will make it possible to define whether the variation is responsible for the
      disease or not without going through functional analysis steps that are difficult to
      implement routinely.

      The expected benefits are a better understanding of DDX3X disease, keys to neuropsychological
      rehabilitation, a better understanding of human brain functions, the possibility of proposing
      an epigenetic signature for people in whom it is not possible to decide whether a variation
      in the DDX3X gene is pathological or not
    
  