
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is widely used as an effective treatment for end-stage
      osteoarthritis and other joint diseases of the knee and it improvements in surgical materials
      and techniques have greatly increased its effectiveness. However, TKA is an orthopaedic
      surgical method that has a substantial perioperative blood loss.

      Classical methods for reducing blood loss and transfusion rate include the use of a pneumatic
      tourniquet, intraoperative cell saver, hypotensive anesthesia, application of erythropoietin,
      autologous blood transfusion, plugging of the femoral canal, cementing, drain clamping,
      navigation and minimally invasive surgery.

      Tranexamic acid (TXA) an antifibrinolytic that develops its anti-haemorrhagic action by
      inhibiting fibrinolytic activities of plasmin has been used as an adjuvant to such measure
      and many studies with a level of evidence confirms its effectiveness in decreasing blood
      loss.

      Fibrinolysis is stimulated by surgical trauma blood loss and TKA may be related to increased
      fibrinolytic activity. TXA inhibits fibrinolysis by blocking the lysine-binding sites of
      plasminogen to fibrin. Plasmin, bound to tranexamic acid, has a considerably diminished
      activity with respect to fibrin compared to that of free plasmin. Also, it appears from
      various studies that, in vivo, tranexamic acid at high doses exerts a braking activity on the
      activation of the complement system. So, TXA reduces bleeding in the TKA and its functional
      repercussion has also been confirmed in assays for various dosages and routes of
      administration.

      In the literature, efficacy of intra-articular TXA has also been confirmed, but what is the
      right dosage is now unclear.

      The aim of this study was to observe postoperative bleeding with combined intravenous and per
      - os administration with two intra - articular doses (1 g and 2 g) of tranexamic acid
      (Sanofi-Aventis® Gentilly, France).
    
  