
    
      Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) of Veterans with Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) decreases
      mortality and improves treatment follow-up. However, outside of large and/or urban VA medical
      centers, there are shortages of providers with experience treating OUD and a license to
      prescribe buprenorphine. This has resulted in decreased access to MAT (buprenorphine/naloxone
      and injectable naltrexone) at rural CBOCs and increased overdose rates in rural areas. Some
      individual prescribers have used clinical video teleconferencing (CVT) to overcome geographic
      barriers and prescribe MAT to Veterans in CBOCs. However, while locally effective, these
      arrangements are not standardized and are not parts of larger VISN-wide or national VHA
      strategies.

      This proposal describes an effective program that the investigators propose to replicate and
      expand. The program involves increasing prescribing rates of MAT for OUD in CBOCs using
      telemedicine. The investigators propose to (A) develop materials and procedures for the
      dissemination of telemedicine delivery of MAT to Veterans at CBOCs and (B) implement
      telemedicine prescribing of MAT at rural CBOCs in Northern Maine that lack on-site MAT
      providers. MAT will be prescribed by the VISN 1 Telemental Health Hub, which already provides
      medication management, psychotherapy, and some MAT to sites in Northern Maine.

      In later years, the program will be expanded to other VISN 1 CBOCs, and to other TMH Regional
      Hubs that provide services to wide catchment areas in other VISNs. By building on an existing
      infrastructure connecting these TMH Regional Hubs to CBOCs and collaborating with other
      national initiatives (e.g. SCAN ECHO, PDSI, and academic detailing), telemedicine MAT will be
      rapidly disseminated to Veterans at CBOCs who are at high risk for illness, overdose, and
      premature death from opioids.

      The "Replicating Existing Programs with Blended (External and Internal) Facilitation"
      approach will be the study's implementation strategy. Existing programs of telemedicine
      MAT---including those by VA Maine and VISN 1 TMH Regional Hub prescribers---will be
      replicated. External Facilitation, an approach that has been effective in increasing
      intervention uptake in controlled trials, will be provided to rural CBOCs in Northern Maine
      by expert study investigators. Internal Facilitation will be provided by VA Maine primary
      care and pharmacy staff, who are already supporting programs in opioid prescribing safety in
      the VA Maine Healthcare System. Supporting this project are consultants and collaborators
      with expertise in implementation science, program evaluation, pain treatment, academic
      detailing, and telemedicine MAT. Data collected during implementation will inform program
      expansion. The primary measure of program outcomes will be the SAIL SUD16 measure of MAT use
      for Veterans with OUD.
    
  