
    
      This is a protocol for the development of personalized treatments from bench to bedside for
      rare CF mutations. The protocol will start with the current FDA-approved CFTR modulators and
      continue to add newly developed CF drug therapies to the potential treatment testing options
      as they are approved for market. This is a single-center study enrolling subjects with rare
      CFTR variants who are prescribed CFTR modulators by their treating physician. This decision
      may be based on the patient's genotype (e.g., a patient with a CFTR mutation known to respond
      to drug) or based on preclinical HNE model testing; regardless, the decision to start a
      modulator is made by the subject's physician, not by the study team.

      The N-of-1 design includes a basic research component using nasal brushings which will be
      expanded in the HNE Core Lab and tested with CFTR modulating drug therapies. Based on the HNE
      culture's reactivity to the tested CFTR modulating drugs, an N-of-1 trial will be initiated
      to test if this translates to therapeutic benefit.

      The CFTR modulating drugs that are currently FDA approved and will be tested in this study
      include ivacaftor and the combination drugs orkambi (ivacaftor/lumacaftor), symdeko
      (ivacaftor/tezacaftor), and trikafta (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor). All will be used in
      clinically prescribed dosages and within the FDA approved age ranges.

      For HNE testing, subjects will fall into two pools. The first will have already undergone HNE
      model testing with positive results. These subjects will proceed directly to N-of-1 testing
      without additional ex vivo studies. The second group will have been referred for N-of-1
      testing based on their CFTR genotype, having not previously undergone HNE testing. This group
      will have HNEs harvested at the initial visit, and HNE testing will occur in parallel to
      N-of-1 testing.

      For the N-of-1 portion of this trial, subjects will undergo a 14-day run-in period, followed
      by an observational 28-day block of non-treatment. This will be followed with a 14-day
      washout period, and then by a 28-day block of modulator treatment, with a final 14-day
      washout period and a 14-day follow-up period before study completion. Repeated assessments
      will occur at the beginning and end of each 28-day block. Participants will therefore be on
      study for approximately 112 days. This protocol will remain open indefinitely to develop
      treatment options for patients with new and not well defined forms of Cystic Fibrosis and
      CFTR disorders.

      At this time, CFTR modulator drugs can only be filled in specialty pharmacies, and is not on
      formulary at CCHMC. While the development of a specialty pharmacy was in process at CCHMC,
      this progress has halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Because the drugs cannot be filled
      internally, the Investigational Drug Service is unable to dispense them or provide placebo
      for blinded studies. Because understanding the individual response to these compounds and the
      relationship of that response to HNE models is critical, this study will move forward in an
      open-label fashion. If the CCHMC specialty pharmacy is successfully opened, we anticipate a
      revision to modify this protocol to a double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover, however,
      this is not currently possible. This change has been discussed with the funding agency (NIH /
      NIDDK), who are in agreement.
    
  