
    
      If couples decide to participate in this study, they will come visit the laboratory at a time
      that is convenient for them.

      Couples will be asked to participate in the following activities. These activities will be
      video recorded and recordings will be kept digitally on a secure password-protected server.
      Video recordings will be assigned a number, and names and identifying information will not be
      associated in any way with the video recordings. If couples do not want to be video recorded,
      they can not participate in this research.

        -  Upon arrival at the laboratory during both visits, the subject runners will explain the
           tasks to participants. The subject runners also will measure participants' heart rates
           and skin moisture. To do so the subject runners will place 9 sensors on each person's
           body: on the collar bones, the lower left rib cage, the upper and mid-chest, the upper
           and mid-back, and the palm of their nondominant hand. The sensors will be connected to
           small machines that participants will carry. Participants will still be able to move
           freely around the room.

        -  Partners will be asked to sit separately while they complete a questionnaire that asks
           about their relationship.

        -  There will either be:

             -  A short discussion where the subject runners will discuss their responses to their
                partner's behavior or the intentions behind their partner's behavior. A quarter of
                the research subjects in this study will complete a task where their responses to
                their partner's behaviors are discussed and another quarter of the subjects will
                complete a task where the reasons for their partner's behavior are discussed. Which
                type of discussion they have will be "randomly assigned", which means that a
                computer will generate this decision before they arrive for their visit.

             -  Or a short computerized activity where partners will look at a series of images and
                descriptions or will be asked to rate a series of images with facial expressions. A
                quarter of the research subjects in this study will complete a computerized
                activity where they will look at a series of images and descriptions and another
                quarter of the subjects will complete a computerized activity where they will rate
                a series of images with facial expressions. Which type of activity participants
                have will be "randomly assigned", which means that a computer will generate this
                decision before they arrive for their visit.

        -  Couples will complete a video-recorded problem-solving task, where they discuss some of
           the things that they would like each other to do, do different, or change.

        -  There will either be:

             -  A 10-minute break. Drinks and snacks will be provided during the break.

             -  Or a task where partners will rate what they felt and thought during their
                conversation with their partner while watching a video of their conversation.

        -  At the end of these activities, the subject runners will provide couples with the
           opportunity to discuss the visit and any other questions or concerns they may have. They
           will not be asked to participate in any additional visits or questionnaires after their
           second visit.
    
  