
    
      In Germany, the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic represents a crisis with massive effects on health and
      rehabilitation care. This crisis is not a short-term event but will also has longer-term
      effects on health care service/rehabilitation. Necessary adjustments due to hygiene and
      distance regulations include, for example, the reduction of group sizes and alternatives to
      conventional service provision (= digital services, McNeary et al., 2020). How such offers
      are perceived and accepted by patients and staff is crucial for the effect on the care.
      Systematic research into the pandemic from the patient and employee perspective, its
      consequences for procedures in rehabilitation clinics and for the implementation of the
      necessary therapies is required in a timely manner in order to better understand and mitigate
      the effects of the pandemic and to ensure the effectiveness of rehabilitation. This is the
      aim of this project with a focus on digital services and their subjective usefulness.

      Furthermore, the integration of such offers can mean that a therapist is not present during
      the entire therapy, but that rehabilitants first learn the basics of a topic in self-study.
      This is based on the principle of the "Flipped Classroom". (Rehab) Patients as well as
      employees of the clinics are involved in the piloting of the survey instruments and the final
      choice of outcome criteria as well as the derivation of possible applications (guidelines,
      recommendations for rehabilitants).

      The following questions will be empirically investigated:

        1. How are digital services evaluated regarding feasibility, acceptance and subjective
           usefulness in light of the current situation?

        2. Which characteristics of rehabilitants are related to the acceptance and subjective
           usefulness of digital offers?

        3. For which patients of rehabilitation is there a need for support in the use of digital
           services to achieve rehabilitation goals?

        4. Are there differences in perceived usefulness between services?

      The methodology uses a natural variation design within the Dr. Becker Clinical Group and the
      Paracelsus Clinic in order to investigate the issues at the highest possible scientific level
      and to achieve reliable results. The interventions consist of an online depression session as
      a "flipped classroom" and/or an online lecture with socio-medical content, which are combined
      in such a way that the differential effects can be evaluated. For this purpose, a control
      group is included that does not receive these two interventions (but receives a similar
      rehabilitation treatment to the intervention groups). Furthermore, all groups receive patient
      training before rehabilitation with the content of setting "treatment goals" as well as an
      invitation to pre- and post-surveys.

      The survey methods are online surveys (before the treatment=pre; end of treatment=post; by
      means of UniPark) or qualitative surveys of employees and the patients who did not
      participate in the pre-measurement.

      The main target variables are reported behavior and well-being (stress/burden of COVID-19
      disease or probability of disease, limitations, quality of life, anxiety or depression;
      pre-post comparison) as well as subjective need (pre) and benefit (post) of the digital
      services. The theoretical foundation for the selection of target variables and constructs is
      the Carry-Over Action Model. The sample includes all rehabilitands who undergo a
      psychosomatic rehabilitation in the hospitals. The planned sample size of the rehabilitants
      is N = 1,200; in addition, N = 30 employees will be interviewed about their perspectives by
      means of qualitative computer-assisted interviews (CATIs).

      The feasibility is given by the use of an existing care system with cover letters from the
      patients before the treatment. Possible disturbance variables such as affinity towards
      technology (which could lead to a lower participation rate among participants with little
      affinity towards technology) are controlled for and taken into account in the evaluation by
      conducting qualitative interviews. Gender and diversity are considered as covariates or
      moderators in the statistical models.

      All data of the participants will be treated in accordance with the data security regulations
      (DSGVO), good scientific practice and the ethical requirements. Furthermore, all patients are
      informed about the project, ethics and data protection in a generally understandable way by a
      cover letter from their clinic before the treatment. All project staff are obliged to comply
      with the ethics guidelines and to maintain confidentiality. The pre- and post-data of the
      patients are combined by means of a personal code, which does not allow any conclusion about
      the participant.

      The results of this study will show which digital implementation forms of therapy offers are
      feasible in terms of benefit and acceptance and can thus contribute to the further
      development of health care services and medical rehabilitation. This will create the
      necessary evidence base to include digital offers in the classification of therapeutic
      services and the therapy standards based on them and thus to establish them in routine care.
      Furthermore, a guideline for the future integration of these services into the health care
      services/rehabilitation process will be developed. Due to the standardized combination of
      analogue and digital therapy parts, therapy goals can be achieved more efficiently on the
      basis of the validated pedagogical concepts used and with the involvement of fewer human
      resources. This is not only relevant during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, but also with regard to
      the relevant shortage of qualified personnel.
    
  