
    
      Design: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of the therapy.

      The study will include patients of both genders aged 18 - 45 years with a diagnosis of
      functional dyspepsia according to Rome IV diagnostic criteria and the severity of dyspepsia
      symptoms of at least 6 points on the GIS scale (Gastrointestinal symptom score -
      Gastrointestinal symptoms scale).

      At the screening visit (Visit 1, from -14 to -1 days), after signing the patient information
      sheet (informed consent form) to participate in the clinical trial, patients complaints and
      medical history are collected, and an objective examination is conducted. The investigator
      assesses the severity of dyspepsia symptoms on a GIS scale. The patient undergoes an
      ultrasound examination of the abdominal organs, endoscopy and Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori)
      infection tests. With the previous intake of proton pump inhibitors, prokinetics,
      antispasmodics, antacids, bismuth preparations, the doctor evaluates the possibility of
      discontinuing these drugs at least 7 days before the patient's randomization. Women of
      reproductive age undergo a pregnancy test.

      On the day of randomization (Visit 2, Day 0) patient complaints are collected, an objective
      examination is conducted. The doctor evaluates the results of the conducted laboratory tests
      and instrumental methods of diagnosis, assesses the severity of symptoms of dyspepsia on the
      GIS scale, records changes in concomitant therapy.

      If the inclusion criteria are met and the absence of non-inclusion criteria is met, the
      patient is randomized into one of two groups: patients of group 1 receive Kolofort for 8
      weeks; Group 2 patients receive a placebo according to the study drug regimen. The patient
      fills out questionnaires to evaluate the Nepean Dyspepsia Index (NDI) and Quality of Life
      (SF-36).

      Patient treatment lasts 8 weeks, during which 3 visits are made to the investigational site .
      At Visit 3 (Week 2 ± 3 days), complaints are collected and an objective examination of the
      patient is carried out. The doctor monitors the prescribed and concomitant therapy, assesses
      the safety of therapy and the degree of adherence to treatment (compliance). During visit 4
      (Week 4 ± 3 days) and 5 (Week 8 ± 3 days), the doctor obtains patients complaints, records
      objective examination data, monitors prescribed and concomitant therapy, assesses the safety
      of the treatment and the patient's degree of adherence to the studied therapy (compliance) .
      GIS, NDI questionnaires are filled in.

      Additionally, at visit 5, the patient fills in the SF-36 scale, the doctor fills in the
      Clinical Global Impression-Efficacy Index (CGI-EI).

      In one center (Clinic for Propaedeutics of Internal Medicine, Gastroenterology and Hepatology
      named after V. Kh. Vasilenko of the First Moscow State Medical University named after IM
      Sechenov), a hydrogen breathing test (H2 test) will be conducted on Visit 2 and Visit 5 to
      evaluate an additional effectiveness criterion .

      During the study period, concomitant therapy is allowed, with the exception of the drugs
      indicated in the section "Prohibited Concomitant Treatment".
    
  