
    
      Objectives and background Hypothesis: The central hypothesis is that testicular cancer has a
      fetal origin and that exposure to Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals (EDCs) plays a pivotal role
      in the programming of this disease via disruption of the natural in utero estrogen/androgen
      balance and dysregulation of the epigenetic control of gene expression within a critical
      masculinization time window of testicular differentiation in the developing male fetus from
      gestational weeks 8-14. There will be no (new) medical intervention, no new collection of
      biological material and no other strain on the mothers or sons who have already submitted the
      biological material.

      Objectives: The overall objective of this proposal is to provide unique evidence relating
      pre-natal EDC exposure to the risk of testicular cancer in male offspring. The project will
      focus on exposures taking place in fetal life directly quantified using serum and amniotic
      fluid samples collected from mothers while they were pregnant with the young men now aged 21
      to 40. Additionally, the investigators will use dried heel blood spots collected from the
      newborn sons within 5 days after birth. Only ten studies have investigated environmental risk
      factors and testicular cancer. These were small and addressed ongoing adult EDC exposure
      (often after diagnosis); not reflecting exposure levels at the critical time window in early
      life. This project will focus on exposures taking place in fetal life and hereby for the
      first time address the endocrine disruption hypothesis with respect to testicular cancer in a
      large epidemiological study. The specific aims are to investigate the risk of testicular
      cancer following in-utero exposure to EDCs including DDE
      (1,1-bis-(4-chlorophenyl)-2,2-dichloroethene) (major metabolite of DDT), perfluorinated alkyl
      substances, phthalates, triclosan and cotinine (nicotine metabolite). These compounds are
      selected due to ubiquitous environmental occurrence, detection in humans with evidence of
      transfer over placenta and their endocrine disruptive properties. Thus, the successful
      completion of this study will have an important impact on the epidemiological evidence in
      reproductive male health.

      Background: Although a rare cancer in the general population, testicular cancer is the most
      common malignancy in men aged 20-40 years worldwide, representing around 60% of all cancers
      diagnosed for men in this age group. The incidence of this cancer has increased several folds
      in all industrialized during the 20th century. The reasons for this trend remain largely
      unknown and cannot be explained by established risk factors including cryptorchidism,
      Caucasian ethnicity or personal/family history of the cancer. Environmental exposures to
      chemicals disrupting natural in-utero hormone balance within a critical time of testicular
      differentiation in the developing male fetus may play a role and this is supported by the
      evolution of the incident rates between first and second-generation migrant populations. In
      addition, the large geographical variations in incidence in different European countries and
      the possible increase of environmental exposure to endocrine active xenobiotics within the
      same period in industrialized countries also support this. Given the peak incidence of this
      cancer in young men and the fact that testicular cancer (both seminomas and non-seminomas) is
      shown to develop through a common precursor -the carcinoma-in situ cells of fetal origin; the
      role of early exposures, during critical time windows of testicular differentiation has also
      been hypothesized. This is part of a hypothesis called the testicular dysgenesis syndrome,
      proposing a common origin of male reproductive disorders within fetal life resulting from
      disturbed programming of the development of male reproductive organs as a result of endocrine
      disruption from exogenous compounds.

      Challenges and obstacles The rarity of testicular cancer in the population, the long lag time
      between the presumed sensitive period during fetal development and clinical appearance and
      the to date lack of appropriate animal models for testicular cancer have hindered the
      understanding of the factors involved in the development of this cancer. Therefore, there is
      a need for research with reliable data based on exposure assessment quantified in biological
      pre-natal samples, which are considered the golden standard for exposure assessment. There is
      an evident gap in knowledge regarding evidence to support or refute the role of EDCs in the
      fetal origin of testicular cancer. Based on quantification of EDC exposures in biological
      samples collected during pregnancy and ascertainment of outcomes in high quality, complete
      nationwide Danish registries, this study will provide unprecedented data on risk of
      testicular cancer following pre-natal exposure to EDCs.

      Unique biobank (already established). All Danish women are offered a free screen for
      congenital diseases and chromosomal defects in offspring in the first trimester of their
      pregnancy, consisting of an ultrasound scan and amniotic fluid/blood sample. Samples from
      128,702 of the screened pregnant women were stored for research purposes in the Danish
      National Biobank, in the period from 1976-2004. Within 7 days of birth all live born children
      born to these women had heel-blood sampled and stored as dried blood spots at the same Danish
      National Biobank. This heel-blood collection is part of the national Danish screening for
      congenital diseases.

      The unique infrastructure of Danish registries. In Denmark, information on births, deaths,
      immigration and emigration, disease incidence, education and social conditions has been
      collected in nationwide registries for several decades and high-quality data with complete
      coverage of the whole population is available, offering great possibilities for nationwide
      epidemiological studies of health effects related to environmental and lifestyle exposures
      that are not be feasible in most other countries. In each registry persons are each
      identified by a unique number, called a CPR-number. This number has been given to all
      residents of Denmark since the establishment of the Danish Civil Registration System (CRS)in
      1968 and allows accurate linkage between registries. Using this infrastructure, the
      investigators can identify: (i)Study participants by linking mothers that provided blood and
      amniotic fluid to their live-born sons that provided heel-blood at birth. Using the mother's
      CPR-number that is linked to her samples in the Danish National Biobank at Staten Serum
      Institute the investigators can trace the CPR-number of her son in the Danish Medical Birth
      Registry (MBR). The MBR contains information on all live-and stillbirths in Denmark since
      1973, as well as information on congenital defects including cryptorchidism of the live-born
      sons. Further, the MBR contains information on weight, height, age and ethnicity of mother as
      well as the age, ethnicity and CPR-number of the father. (ii) All sons that have developed
      cancer in later life with accuracy and complete coverage. Using the Danish Cancer Registry
      (DCR), which is a population-based registry containing data on the incidence of all cancers
      since 1943, known for accuracy and complete coverage, the investigators will identify all
      cases of testicular cancer amongst the live-born sons (22 to 45 years old). (iii) Family
      history of testicular cancer with accuracy and complete coverage. Using the DCR and the
      father's CPR-number the investigators will trace family history of testicular disease, a
      known risk factor for testicular cancer in offspring [72]. All other cancers will be
      ascertained for the case-controls. Included controls are free of all cancers and cases with
      another cancer prior to testicular cancer onset will be excluded.

      Expected scientific and public health impact of this proposal. The overall scientific
      contribution of the proposed project is to provide human data to scientists, enabling them to
      corroborate or refute whether fetal exposure to EDCs are associated with increased risk of
      testicular cancer in offspring. Currently there is little that pregnant women (and others)
      can do to avoid EDC exposures, which most often are "invisible" pollutants in food,
      cosmetics, indoor climate, air and water. If the study refutes associations this could ease
      concern and if an association is corroborated the evidence could assist governments and
      environmental protection agencies in introducing new policies that can protect vulnerable
      populations in home settings, schools and workplaces or implement education programs for
      pregnant women such that they can take sensible measures to reduce their exposure.

      Methods The project will make use of maternal (serum, amniotic fluid) and newborn (dried
      heel-blood) samples stored at the Danish National Biobank (cf. biobank). Design (Nested
      case-control).

      Three controls are matched to each case. Controls are free of any cancer and matched by
      maternal-and paternal-age, calendar month of blood sample, ethnicity and age and address at
      time of cancer diagnosis. This information along with family history of testicular cancer,
      history of any cancer in case-control population, and other a-priori determined potential
      confounding variables will be obtained from nationwide registries Exposure assessment (Fetal
      exposure to EDCs). Two sub-contractors will perform all chemical analyses of maternal levels
      of selected EDCs in bio-samples.

      Metabolomics profiling. The Metabolomics Research Group at the Danish Center for Neonatal
      Screening at Statens Serum Institut will perform the analysis of the dried blood spot
      metabolome. A punch of 3.2 mm diameter of the neonatal dried blood spot of each child will be
      used for extraction. Using analytical and computational workflows previously introduced and
      applied by the group, a wide range of several thousands of endogenous as well as exogenous
      metabolites will be measured. Data will be preprocessed, and mass spectral features will be
      annotated to chemical structures using computational metabolomic workflows provided through
      the community-driven Global Natural Products Social Molecular networking (GNPS) platform. The
      resulting metabolite profiles will be used for statistical analysis to identify metabolites
      that are differentially expressed across cases and controls using diverse in-house algorithms
      in R and python. Outcome ascertainment (testicular cancer). Using the CPR-number the
      investigators will link the sons to the DCR to extract data on the first occurrence of
      testicular cancer. Controls are cancer and cryptorchidism free. Cases diagnosed with any
      cancer prior to testicular cancer will be excluded. The project duration is 60 months.

      Statistical analysis Population. The investigators expect 175 testicular cancer cases (both
      seminoma and non-seminomas as these have a common fetal precursor) within this population of
      sons. Each case will be matched with three controls giving a total population of 700 men.

      Statistical analyses. Logistic regression models will be used to estimate risk and 95%
      confidence intervals (CIs) relating compound concentrations with risk of testicular cancer.
      Analyses will be done for individual compounds, compound groups where relevant (total PFASs
      and total phthalates) and compound mixtures. Data will be analyzed with and without
      adjustment for a-priori determined potentially confounding variables including mothers BMI at
      time of the son's birth, history of testicular cancer and cotinine serum levels (marker of
      smoking) adjusted for gestational sampling week.

      Metabolomicsprofiling. Overall variation in the metabolome related to testicular cancer will
      be assessed using multivariate statistical methods such as principal coordinates analyses and
      permutational multivariate analyses of variance (PERMANOVA).
    
  