
    
      Background:

      -National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) investigators are
      studying the natural history and treatment of diverse conditions of the head and neck
      affecting hearing, balance, smell, taste, swallowing, voice and speech at the National
      Institutes of Health (NIH). These studies require the collection of biospecimens for research
      purposes.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary: To create a biorepository of diseased and normal tissue specimens for research
           purposes. The samples will be obtained:

             1. (Part 1) From surgical waste materials from participants of all ages in NIH
                protocols who have head and neck disorders, as well as from patients treated at the
                Johns Hopkins Suburban Hospital Head and Neck Surgery Clinic (JHSH), and the Johns
                Hopkins Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery Clinic Bethesda (JHOCB), Johns Hopkins
                Hospital (Broadway, Baltimore), George Washington University Hospital (WUH),
                MedStar Georgetown University Hospital an archived lung and laryngotracheal tissue
                from outside institutions.

             2. (Part 2) Participants aged 3 and older may have collection of blood, saliva, and/or
                oral swabs. Participants, aged 18 and older, may undergo oral mucosal biopsies and
                skin biopsies, taken from subjects with head and neck disorders

        -  Secondary:

      The specimens will be shared with the NCI Frederick Patient-Derived Xenograft (PDX) team
      other approved protocols or may be used under this protocol to conduct analysis of cellular,
      molecular, genetic and genomic biology of normal processes and disorders. These laboratory
      studies may support development of future protocols that include new therapeutic agents,
      novel treatment approaches, and new prognostic and diagnostic models for subjects with
      disorders of the head and neck affecting human communication.

      -Eligibility:

      -- Subjects must be diagnosed with a disorder of the head and neck region

      Design:

        -  Up to 1000 subjects will be enrolled.

        -  Part 1. Participants of all ages with head and neck disorders will be asked to share
           waste material from surgical procedures to create a biorepository of diseased and normal
           specimens for research. The participants will be enrolled prior to the surgery or they
           may be enrolled retrospectively and asked to share pathology specimens and slides
           previously collected that are no longer required for their medical care.

        -  Participants will be recruited from surgical protocols at the National Institutes of
           Health (NIH) Clinical Center or from subjects being treated at JHSH or the JHOCB.

        -  Part 2: Participants aged 3 and older who have agreed to share surgical waste material
           may be asked to provide additional blood, saliva, and/or oral swabs. In addition, oral
           mucosal or skin biopsies may be obtained from adult participants aged 18 and older.

             -  No investigational or experimental therapy will be given as part of this protocol.
    
  