
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine and describe the safety and feasibility of nivolumab plus ipilimumab as
      neoadjuvant therapy. (Arm 1) II. To examine and describe the safety and feasibility of
      IL13Ralpha2-CAR T cell plus nivolumab as adjuvant therapy. (Arms 1 and 2) III. In arms
      determined to be safe and feasible, a selection design based on two Southwest Oncology Group
      (SWOG) two stage designs will be used to assess which arm(s) goes on for further study based
      on survival rate at 9 months.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe persistence, expansion and phenotype of endogenous and IL13Ralpha2-CAR CAR T
      cells in tumor cyst fluid (TCF), peripheral blood (PB), and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF).

      II. Describe cytokine levels (PB, TCF, CSF) over the study period for each arm. (Arm 1 or Arm
      2).

      III. Estimate disease response rates. IV. Estimate time to progression. V. Estimate median
      overall survival (OS).

      VI. In study participants who have completed the adjuvant dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)
      period:

      VIa. Estimate the mean change from baseline in quality of life using the European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core
      (QLQ-C)30 and EORTC QLQ Brain Cancer Patients (BN-20) survey scale, domain and item scores
      during and post treatment.

      VIb. Assess if the area under the curve (AUC) for CD3 T cells, IFNgamma and IP-10 for the DLT
      period is greater in one arm versus (vs.) the other.

      VII. In study participants who undergo an additional biopsy/resection or autopsy:

      VIIa. Evaluate CAR T cell persistence in the tumor tissue and the location of the CAR T cells
      with respect to the injection, and VIIb. Evaluate IL13Ralpha2 antigen and PD-L1 levels on
      tumor tissue pre and post CAR T cell therapy.

      VIII. Use biomathematical modeling of tumor growth to evaluate benefit of treatment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over
      90 minutes on day -14. Patients then receive IL13Ralpha2 CAR T cells infusion over 5 minutes
      via Rickham catheter (intracranial intraventricular [ICV]/intracranital intratumoral [ICT])
      every week and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every other week. Treatment repeats weekly for up
      to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After cycle 4,
      patients may receive additional CAR T cells weekly and nivolumab IV every other week or
      monthly at the discretion of the principal investigator and oncologist.

      ARM II: Patients receive IL13Ralpha2 CAR T cells infusion over 5 minutes via Rickham catheter
      (ICV/ICT) every week and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every other week. Treatment repeats
      weekly for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      After cycle 4, patients may receive additional CAR T cells weekly and nivolumab IV every
      other week or monthly at the discretion of the principal investigator and oncologist.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 3, 6, and 12
      months, and then annually for 15 years.
    
  