
    
      Background

      Mitochondrial diseases are a group of genetic disorders. The prognosis for patients with
      mitochondrial myopathies varies greatly, depending largely on the type of disease and the
      degree of involvement of various organs. This situation can lead into malnutrition and worse
      the outcome. In the literature there are no data, which deal with malnutrition or nutritional
      intake in patients with mitochondrial myopathy. Sorensen et al. assessed the malnutrition
      risk in European hospitals and showed that 45% of patients with neurological illness
      (neurological vascular disease excluded) are at high risk of malnutrition. Furthermore, the
      patient at risk exhibited higher rates of complications and mortality. These findings suggest
      that malnutrition play an important role in the clinical outcome of this patient's
      population, reflecting the investigators' many years of experience. In several case reports,
      it was shown that malnutrition itself could aggravate myopathy. Sometimes there are
      challenging symptoms facing patients with mitochondrial myopathy that interfere with
      obtaining balanced and healthy nutrition, such as fatigue, muscle weakness, dysmotility,
      dysphagia, nausea and vomiting, ataxia, and reflux. In addition, in the investigators'
      clinical experience, they see many patients who describe that some specific food intake would
      even modify their symptoms.

      This is an observational cohort study, and the investigators expect a total sample size of 30
      patients and 20 healthy age- and sex-matched controls. The entire study will be conducted
      during the period from first of October 2014 till End of March 2015.

      The investigator is a pharmacy student (master level) interested in clinical nutrition. She
      will collect the data und do all measurements along with the support of the clinical
      nutrition research team of the University Hospital of Bern. The investigator will contact the
      patients individually and arrange a suitable timetable for the interview and examination.
      Sex, age, current medical conditions, current myopathy symptoms, current gastrointestinal
      symptoms, unintentional weight loss, eating and drinking habits, living and social situation,
      daily activity, medications (in particular those drugs that interfere with the mitochondrial
      metabolism as valproic acid, statins, and certain antibiotics like aminoglycosides, etc.)
      smoking, alcohol intake, and main diagnosis will be recorded. The investigators will preform
      the following measurements: basic demographic data, structured patient interviews, dietary
      questionnaire, nutritional risk screening, quality of life, physical functioning, body
      composition, energy expenditure, blood and urine analysis. The study will be conducted in
      accordance with the ethical guidelines of the 1957 Declaration of Helsinki, and informed
      consent will be obtained from all participants. The healthy volunteers and patients will not
      be exposed to any risk due to this study.

      Objective

      The aim of this study is to assess the nutritional intake and the nutritional state of
      patients with mitochondrial myopathy compared to healthy controls. The investigators expect
      to be able to provide general nutritional advice (nutritional counselling) to increase the
      ingestion of balanced/healthy food and the energy intake, and therefore they expect to
      improve health and well-being in this population.

      Methods

      Questionnaire, indirect calorimetry, bioimpedance analysis BIA, Hand grip test,
      Anthropometrics and 7-days food recall protocol
    
  