
    
      Palliative care is an interdisciplinary field that aims to relieve emotional, spiritual and
      physical suffering and improve quality of life in patients with serious, life-limiting
      illness and their families. Unfortunately, palliative care is often introduced too late in
      the course of care to maximize its potential benefits, in part because healthcare providers
      and patients alike lack the knowledge and self-efficacy to initiate conversations about
      advance care planning (ACP). ACP is an important component of palliative care in which
      patients, families and providers discuss and plan for the patient's desired treatment goals,
      including preferences for care and who can make decisions on the patient's behalf if needed.
      Integrating ACP into treatment early, before serious, life-limiting illness advances to a
      late stage, can improve patient and caregiver quality of life, length of survival, and health
      care cost. Primary care is an ideal setting for early integration of ACP, as primary care
      providers routinely diagnose and care for patients in the early stage of serious,
      life-limiting conditions, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Alaska Native and
      American Indian (AN/AI) people have disproportionately high prevalence of many serious,
      life-limiting conditions, including cancer, coronary heart disease, and liver disease. Yet,
      AN/AIs use ACP and other palliative care services significantly less than the overall
      population. The reasons for this disparity are unclear, and AN/AIs are among the most
      underrepresented groups in palliative care studies. Previous research indicates that when
      given the opportunity, AIs will engage in ACP, and our preliminary data suggest strong
      support among ANs for developing culturally congruent ACP interventions in primary care
      settings. The need for timely and effective ACP is growing in AN/AI communities and there is
      a pressing need for culturally-congruent, patient-centered palliative care interventions for
      AN/AIs as tribal health systems manage rising numbers of AN/AI individuals with serious,
      life-limiting illnesses. The aims of this collaborative, community-engaged, clinical study
      are to: 1) conduct focus groups with 40 key stakeholders (patients, caregivers, providers,
      administrators) in two tribal health systems to tailor an existing ACP communication
      intervention for AN/AIs with serious, life-limiting illness; 2) evaluate the cultural
      relevance and usability of the tailored ACP communication intervention among 20 AN/AI
      patients using cognitive interviews; and 3) compare the impact of the tailored intervention
      on frequency of ACP discussions, as well as quality of and satisfaction with ACP
      communication between 30 AN/AI patients receiving individualized information to prompt ACP
      discussions with providers and 30 AN/AI patients receiving usual care, with information to
      prompt a discussion. Implementing effective, appropriate ACP is a high priority at
      Southcentral Foundation (SCF) and First Nations Community HealthSource (FNCH), two tribal
      health systems serving large, diverse populations of AN/AI people in Alaska and New Mexico.
      This study will develop and evaluate a culturally congruent, patient- centered ACP
      intervention at these sites and produce evidence for a large, multi-site clinical trial of
      the intervention that could improve patient and caregiver outcomes in this diverse population
      of more than 5 million Americans.
    
  