
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate hematologic response in patients receiving epoetin
      alfa (PROCRIT®) therapy for persistent chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression (anemia) after
      completion of chemotherapy administration as compared to patients who do not receive weekly
      epoetin alfa (PROCRIT®) immediately after cessation of chemotherapy. Further, the duration of
      treatment necessary to achieve these endpoints will be studied. A No/Delayed epoetin alfa
      (PROCRIT®) treatment control (whereby patients in the control group will receive epoetin alfa
      (PROCRIT®) if their Hb decreases to < 10g/dL during the study) will be used to establish the
      frequency and magnitude of changes in clinical end points that may occur when epoetin alfa
      (PROCRIT®) treatment is not continued (or started) for patients with residual
      myelosuppression after chemotherapy administration has ended. A 2:1 randomization will be
      used to give every patient a greater chance to receive immediate treatment (66.6% epoetin
      alfa (PROCRIT®) treatment vs. 33.3% No/Delayed epoetin alfa (PROCRIT®) treatment). The study
      will be powered to show differences between the two groups in hematologic response.

      In this study, the hematologic response is defined as the proportion of patients who are
      transfusion-free and are able to maintain their mean Hb level at >= 11 g/dL during the study
      without a Hb drop to <= 10 g/dL and/or transfusion.

      The study hypothesis was that immediate epoetin alfa (PROCRIT®) treatment would be more
      effective in treatment of anemia than No/Delayed epoetin alfa (PROCRIT®) treatment in
      patients with cancer and persistent chemotherapy-induced anemia. Patients will be randomized
      2:1 to receive epoetin alf or no epoetin treatment. The starting dose will be 40,000 Units
      weekly (QW) or the dose they were on prior to the study (30,000-60,000 Units QW). If the Hb
      level decreases to <= 10 g/dL, PROCRIT will be initiated at a dose of 40,000 Units QW.
    
  