
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients with metastatic colorectal
           adenocarcinoma treated with leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil with vs without
           oxaliplatin or capecitabine with vs without oxaliplatin.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these fluorouracil-based vs
           capecitabine-based regimens.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the failure-free and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects and adverse events associated with these regimens in these
           patients.

        -  Compare the limited health assessments of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the health economics associated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment
      arms and receive 12 weeks of therapy.

        -  Arm I (MdG regimen): Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and
           fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up
           to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with disease progression during or within 8 weeks of the completion of this regimen
      may cross over and receive second-line therapy on arm II.

        -  Arm II (OxMdG regimen): Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and
           oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day
           1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with disease progression during or within 8 weeks of the completion of this regimen
      may receive second-line therapy or supportive care off-study.

        -  Arm III (Cap regimen): Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-15.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with disease progression during or within 8 weeks of the completion of this regimen
      may cross over and receive second-line therapy on arm IV.

        -  Arm IV (OxCap regimen): Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral
           capecitabine twice daily on days 1-15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with disease progression during or within 8 weeks of the completion of this regimen
      may receive second-line therapy or supportive care off-study.

      All patients are then re-evaluated at least every 6 weeks and begin another 12 weeks of
      therapy at any evidence (e.g., clinical, radiological, or tumor marker) of disease
      progression. Patients with chemo-sensitive disease may repeat alternating 12-week therapy
      sessions and evaluation periods indefinitely.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at 12-14 weeks, at 24 weeks, and then every 3 months
      thereafter.

      Patients are followed every 3 months.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 460 patients (115 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 2 years.
    
  