
    
      Suicide remains a serious public health problem as the 4th leading cause of death among
      individuals 15-44 years old and the 2nd leading cause of death in the military. Developing
      effective interventions for suicide behavior has been a stated goal of the National Strategy
      for Suicide Prevention. To date, only a limited number of controlled studies have examined
      the efficacy of psychosocial interventions in reducing suicide behavior. Preliminary findings
      from the University of Pennsylvania (Brown et al., 2005) indicate that outpatient cognitive
      therapy reduces the likelihood of repeat suicide attempts by approximately 50%. Yet the
      efficacy of this promising new intervention has not been tested in other medical settings or
      in other specific at risk groups.

      We propose an adaptation of Beck and colleagues cognitive therapy suicide protocol for
      implementation, feasibility, and pilot testing at an inpatient psychiatry setting for
      specific delivery to military service members and their family members with a recent suicide
      attempt. Suicide attempt behavior is one of the most powerful risk factors for repeat suicide
      behavior as well as eventual death by suicide. Delivering a brief and possibly potent
      psychotherapeutic intervention during a patient's inpatient hospitalization aims to directly
      target individuals at high risk for future suicide behavior, i.e., young adult, mostly males
      with a recent suicide attempt, under direct stress of a military career. We expect that the
      adapted intervention, titled Post Admission Cognitive Therapy (PACT), will show promise in
      reducing the likelihood of post-hospitalization suicide attempt behavior as well as
      psychological risk factors associated with suicide such as depression, hopelessness, suicide
      ideation, and posttraumatic symptoms. Our proposed design is a randomized controlled pilot
      trial with blinded outcome assessments.

      Specific Aims: (1) To develop and evaluate a new manual of Post-Admission Cognitive Therapy
      (PACT) as a targeted inpatient treatment for individuals admitted for a recent suicide
      attempt to a military hospital. (2) To assess the feasibility of the study's assessment
      procedures by monitoring the completion rate of outcome measures during face-to-face as well
      as follow-up phone and web-based administrations. (3) To evaluate the degree of change and
      variability of response to Post-Admission Cognitive Therapy in comparison to Enhanced Usual
      Care at post-intervention and follow-up (1-, 2-, and 3-Month) on subsequent suicide attempt
      behavior (primary outcome) as well as on levels of depression, hopelessness, and suicide
      ideation (secondary outcomes). (4) To examine in a preliminary manner whether improvements on
      primary and secondary outcome measures are associated with enhanced problem solving abilities
      which is viewed as a potential mechanism of change in cognitive therapy for the reduction of
      suicide behavior.

      Study Design: We plan to randomize 24 patients hospitalized at the Walter Reed National
      Military Medical Center for a recent suicide attempt to one of two conditions: (1)
      Post-Admission Cognitive Therapy + Enhanced Usual Care (PACT+EUC) or (2) Enhanced Usual Care
      (EUC). Individuals who are over the age of 18, able to communicate in English and willing to
      provide informed consent will be recruited. The PACT+EUC condition will consist of six 60-90
      minute individual cognitive therapy sessions administered preferably over 3 days. The EUC
      condition will consist of the usual care patients receive at an inpatient facility during
      their hospitalization in addition to assessment services provided by independent evaluators
      who work directly with our research team. The primary outcome variable is the number of
      subsequent suicide attempts. We expect that patients in the control condition will reattempt
      suicide at an earlier date and at a higher frequency as compared to patients enrolled in the
      intervention condition. Secondary outcome measures include the severity of depression,
      hopelessness, and suicide ideation. Patients in both conditions will be assessed on the
      dependent measures at baseline and at 1-, 2-, and 3- month follow-up intervals. Data analyses
      will provide estimates of the statistical power of PACT relative to EUC over time via the
      usage of repeated observation data. Our preliminary effect size estimates will be used for
      future sample size calculations to conduct a larger randomized controlled trial to
      definitively determine the efficacy of PACT.
    
  