
    
      The aim of the study was to assess whether administration of gabapentin and
      methylprednisolone as "pre-emptive analgesia" in a group of patients above 65 years of age
      would be effective in complex pain management therapy following total knee arthroplasty
      (TKA).170 patients operated on due to unilateral TKA will be double-blinded randomized into
      two groups: the study and the controls. Exclusion criteria are: clinical situation that 1/
      restricted glucocorticoid administration: diabetes type 1 and 2, CRP levels above normal
      values (≥5 mg/l), chronic steroid treatment, peptic ulcers treated in the past 30 days and
      2/and the chronic pain in the course of gonarthrosis, high intensity requiring use opioids.

      The participants of the study will be subjected to the standardized procedure of subarachnoid
      anesthesia with subsequent unilateral femoral nerve block at the operated side, followed by
      the surgical procedure - unilateral TKA. The study group will receive as "pre-emptive"
      analgesia a single dose of 300 mg oral gabapentin and 125 mg intravenous methylprednisolone,
      while the others placebo. Prior to anesthesia induction, the patients receive: anti-infection
      prophylactics intravenous cephazolin 2.0 g, for hemostasis control - tranexamic acid 1.0 g,
      an anti-emetic agent - ondansetron 8 mg. Fluid supply (crystalloids) will be standardized: 12
      ml/kg in the first hour of surgery and 6 ml/kg in the following hours, packed red blood cells
      if blood loss exceeded 600 ml and hemoglobin concentration <10g/l during the time of
      operation. Pain management will be carried out based on the results of the NRS scales at
      rest. Every 6 hours NRS will be checked and intravenous PCA (patient-controlled analgesia)
      oxycodone hydrochloride, if pain was ≥4 points NRS or intravenous paracetamol, metamizole, if
      the pain was 2 - 4 NRS points will be administered, all pain medications will be calculated
      for 1 kg of body weight. In keeping with the ERAS (Enhanced Recovery After Surgery) protocol,
      on the day of surgery the patients will receive orally fluids and meals, will be mobilized
      and rehabilitated.

      The study was approved by the institutional review board (nr 1072.6120.11.2020). Oral and
      written informed consent to participate in the study will be collected from all participants
      of the study. The statistical analysis of the groups will be performed to asess the
      demographic dates, life parameters, general condition in keeping with the ASA (American
      Society of Anesthesiology), POSSUM (Physiologic and Operative Severity Score for the
      enUmeration of Mortality and Morbidity) score, total dose of analgesic medications
      administered parenterally calculated for 1 kg of body mass in response to value of NRS at
      rest on day 0, time of administration the first dose, and duration of peripheral nerve block.
      On the day of surgery and on subsequent days, determinations will be made of glycemia levels
      and inflammatory markers: C-reactive protein (CRP) and leukocytosis levels.
    
  