
    
      To make the T cells the investigators will take blood from the patient or from the previous
      bone marrow transplant donor and stimulate it with growth factors to make the T cells grow.
      To get the CD5 antibody and CD28 to attach to the surface of the T cell, investigators insert
      the antibody gene into the T cell. This is done with a virus called a retrovirus that has
      been made for this study and will carry the antibody gene into the T cell. This virus also
      helps investigators find the T cells in the patient's blood after they are injected. Because
      the patient will have received cells with a new gene in them the patient will be followed for
      a total of 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene transfer.

      When the patient is enrolled on this study, they will be assigned a dose of CD5 chimeric
      receptor-T cells Several studies suggest that the infused T cells need room to be able to
      proliferate (grow) and accomplish their functions and that this may not happen if there are
      too many other T cells in circulation. Because of that, the patient will receive two
      chemotherapy medications prior to receiving the CD5 chimeric receptor-T cells.

      One medication is called cyclophosphamide and the other fludarabine. The patient will receive
      3 daily doses of each drug, ending at least one day before the patient receives the chimeric
      receptor-T cells. These drugs will decrease the numbers of the patient's own T cells before
      the CD5 chimeric receptor T cells are infused and also will help decrease the number of other
      cells that may interfere with the chimeric receptor-T cells working well. Although we do not
      expect any effect on the patient's tumor with the doses that the patient will receive, these
      drugs are part of many regimens that are used to treat leukemia or lymphoma.

      The patient will be given an injection of cells into the vein through an IV at the assigned
      dose. The injection will take from 1 to 10 minutes. Before the patient receives the
      injection, they may be given a dose of Benadryl and Tylenol. The treatment will be given by
      the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist
      Hospital.

      The patient will be followed in the clinic after the injection for up to 3 hours, and the
      patient will have to remain locally for at least 3 weeks after the infusion. If the patient
      experiences any side effects, they may have to be hospitalized for evaluation and management.

      If after a 4-6 week evaluation period after the infusion, the patient has achieved a complete
      response (measured by bone marrow or radiology scans), the patient's primary oncology doctors
      may decide the patient should proceed to bone marrow transplant, at which time the patient
      will be removed from the treatment portion of the study.

      Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests:

      Physical exam and History; Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function;
      Pregnancy test for female patients who are of child bearing potential; Measurements of the
      patient's tumor by scans and/or bone marrow studies

      The patient will also receive standard medical tests during treatment and after:

      Physical exams and History; Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function;

      Graft versus Host Disease assessments:

      Measurements of the patient's tumor by scans and/or bone marrow studies 6-8 weeks after the
      infusion and then per standard of care.

      To learn more about the way the CD5 chimeric receptor-T cells are working and how long they
      last in the body, extra blood will be drawn. The total amount on any day is about 10
      teaspoons (50 mL) or no more than 3 mL per 2.2 pounds body weight in children. This volume is
      considered safe but may be decreased if the patient is anemic. This blood may be drawn from a
      central line if the patient has one. Blood will be taken before the chemotherapy drugs,
      several hours after the T cell infusion, at 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks (optional), 4 weeks, 6
      weeks and 8 weeks (optional) after the infusion, at 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, at 1 year,
      every 6 months for 4 years, then yearly for a total of 15 years. We will also test blood to
      check for signs of viral infection at the following time points: within 1 to 2 weeks prior to
      chemotherapy drugs, prior to T cell infusion, then at weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 for all
      patients, and months 3, 6, 9, 12 for patients who do not proceed to bone marrow transplant.
      The total blood drawn during participation in this study will not exceed 280 teaspoons.
    
  