
    
      Glaucoma is the second major cause of blindness in the world, lagging only behind cataract.
      However, unlike cataract, blindness caused by glaucoma is irreversible. Early diagnosis of
      the disease and progression monitoring is thus essential for proper treatment in order to
      avoid irreversible blindness. The most common screening exam for glaucoma diagnosis and
      monitoring is the eye fundus evaluation where Cup-to-Disc ratio (CDR) among other parameters
      are assessed. This kind of evaluation is performed by ophthalmologists based on their visual
      perception, requiring not only specific training but also some significant amount of time of
      eye examination.Objective measurement of CDR involves high cost equipment which in turn
      requires some specific training in order to use them. Currently, the Optical Coherence
      Tomography is used as the gold standard for CDR measurement. An OCT exam uses a high cost and
      complex equipment that most of the time is not affordable for low-income people. This study
      proposes a portable electronic device that captures eye fundus images, analyzes these images,
      performs CDR calculation and allows storing these images for further analysis. This low cost
      and portable device was developed to be used in several health services (public or private)
      and has low energy consumption, easing its mobility. Moreover, using this device is easy, not
      requiring any significant learning effort from ophthalmologists. In developing countries
      where screening programs for early diagnosis of glaucomatous neuropathy are adopted, an
      ever-growing number of researchers are putting a significant amount of effort to develop
      cost-benefit solutions that can reach low-income people and remote areas.

      Objective: This study compared CDR measurements from the portable electronic device (PED)
      developed by Centro de Informatica da Universidade Federal de Pernambuco to CDR measurements
      provided by OCT.

      Methods:This study was a non-inferiority trial with masked data analysis. Individuals ranging
      from 18 to 60 years from both genders that met the pre-defined criteria were included. This
      study was carried out in Recife at Clinica Oftalmologica Zona Sul and at Centro de
      Informatica-UFPE. Using both equipment, 5 vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR) evaluations were
      performed for each eye of the individuals, under midriatic conditions. Evaluations were done
      by examiners who did not know previously results obtained from other equipment. Data was
      collected by the main researcher of this research. This study was approved by the ethics
      committee before it started and all research members signed the TCLE agreement. The
      statistical test employed in this study was Pearson Correlation test.
    
  