
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Loss of limb profoundly impacts a person's health, productivity, independence, and quality of
      life. However, state-of-the-art medical and prosthesis technologies fall short of offering
      seamless human-device communication to those who require limb amputation. Ongoing,
      interactive efforts to advance amputation surgery techniques and develop novel "bionic"
      prostheses and prosthetic control systems are underway in an effort to address this
      interfacing challenge and thereby improve clinical outcomes within the population of
      amputees. We recently reported on the results of a first-in-human trial in which a prototype
      bionic prosthesis was tested in a recipient of a modified transtibial amputation. The
      modified amputation procedure involved the surgical construction of agonist-antagonist
      myoneural interfaces (AMIs) within the residual limb, where each AMI comprised two muscles -
      an agonist and an antagonist - connected in series. To enable the force produced by one
      muscle to cause stretch of its partner, "pulleys" were also constructed from the medial and
      lateral tarsal tunnels, including segments of each tunnel's native tendons, that were
      procured from the distal amputated limb and affixed to the residual limb tibia. The two AMIs
      were constructed via coaptation of the tibialis anterior and lateral gastrocnemius muscles to
      either end of the tendon portion passing through the proximally positioned tarsal tunnel, and
      coaptation of the tibialis posterior and peroneus longus muscles to either end of the tendon
      passing through the distally positioned tunnel. Following rehabilitation, this first
      recipient of the "AMI transtibial amputation" tested the feasibility of using his surgically
      constructed AMIs to control a prototype bionic prosthesis. The bionic prosthesis allowed
      motion in two degrees of freedom through independent actuation of powered ankle and subtalar
      joints, and the control algorithm allowed electromyography (EMG)-modulated control over
      prosthetic joint position and joint impedance.

      Functional testing involved linking the proximal and distal AMIs within the participant's
      residual limb to the prosthetic ankle and subtalar joints through the use of surface EMG
      electrodes, intramuscular fine-wire electrodes, and functional electrical stimulation. The
      results of performance testing in this first AMI recipient suggested that AMIs can provide a
      biological tissue interface that can potentially offer a person with an amputation intuitive
      motor control of the affected limb and a bionic prosthesis while also enabling
      proprioception. The unique biomimetic tissue architecture of the AMI recapitulates a dynamic,
      mechanically functional muscle-tendon-muscle linkage that inherently provides
      mechanoreceptive biological sensors. Consequently, the AMI tissue architecture inherently
      preserves natural, bi-directional communication between surgically reconstructed limb
      musculature and the central nervous system, thereby building on and offering advantages over
      previously described neural interfacing approaches such as targeted muscle reinnervation
      (TMR), regenerative peripheral nerve interfaces (RPNIs), and peripheral nerve interfaces.
      Additionally, the surgical design implemented in the AMI transtibial amputation preserves the
      native innervation and vascularization for each nerve and muscle component, thereby offering
      a more robust, viable surgical construction than either TMR or RPNI, which instead rely upon
      the less robust regenerative processes of reinnervation and revascularization for long term
      viability. Long term functionality of the AMI is facilitated by the incorporation of
      autologous tarsal tendon and tunnel components, eliminating the need for either allogeneic
      grafts or synthetic implant materials. By providing a platform for robust efferent decoding
      of movement intent, as well as usable afferent feedback from a prosthetic joint, the AMI
      transtibial amputation paradigm has the potential to reinstate the human central nervous
      system as the primary mediator of prosthetic joint control.

      STUDY OVERVIEW:

      The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy of the AMI transtibial
      amputation.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      This study calls for twenty-two healthy, active participants with transtibial amputations: an
      experimental group of participants who received AMI transtibial amputations, and a control
      group of participants who received standard transtibial amputations. Each participant in the
      control group is prospectively matched to a participant in the experimental group to the
      degree possible based on time since amputation, body habitus, age, and biological sex. As the
      population of lower limb amputees consists of participants of all genders and ethnicities,
      and since it is not practical to attempt to match all aspects of this variation in the
      context of a small study, this study aims to reflect the variation in the population of
      amputees to the degree possible.

      EXPERIMENTAL SESSIONS:

      Biomedical data are collected from study participants in the Biomechatronics space within the
      MIT Media Lab in Cambridge, MA. Experimental group participants attend five or six sessions,
      with four sessions lasting approximately 4 hours each and the other one or two session(s)
      lasting up to 8 hours. Control group participants attend four sessions lasting approximately
      4 hours each.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      Surgically constructed AMIs within the amputated residuum can afford an improved independent
      control of joint position and impedance in a multi-degree-of-freedom prosthesis while also
      reflecting proprioceptive sensation from each prosthetic joint onto the central nervous
      system.

      SPECIFIC AIM 1: Motion Control in Free Space

      Aim 1 investigates if AMIs can improve voluntary free-space prosthetic control. Experimental
      and control group participants' capabilities for prosthetic control are evaluated and
      compared based on EMG and biomechanical measurements obtained during free-space voluntary
      movement tasks. In Aim 1A, data are collected using surface EMG sensors to characterize
      muscle activation, create maps specific to individual participants, and inform sensor
      requirements for subsequent aims. The data are obtained from a large number of EMG sensors
      that are distributed over participants' lower limbs. The participant is asked to move the
      phantom and/or biological foot through the ankle and subtalar joint spaces during data
      collection. Aim 1B explores if AMIs can improve motion control of a prosthesis that allows
      independent actuation of powered ankle and subtalar joint motions and EMG-modulated control
      over prosthetic joint positions and stiffnesses. Surface EMG data are obtained using a small
      number of sensors that are placed on participants' lower limbs at locations informed by the
      results of Aim 1A. Joint state data are collected from sensors on the prosthesis and other
      noninvasive sensors. Participants are asked to move their phantom ankle joints, in some cases
      mirroring specified motions of their unaffected limbs, in order to control the prosthesis.
      Performance tasks include pointing the prosthetic foot toward a specified position and
      stiffening the prosthetic joint to hold that position for a specified time interval.

      SPECIFIC AIM 2: Terrain Adaptation

      Aim 2 determines if AMIs can improve voluntary and involuntary (reflexive) prosthetic terrain
      adaptations. Experimental and control group participants' capabilities for prosthetic control
      are evaluated and compared based on EMG, biomechanical, and kinematic measurements that are
      obtained as they walk and traverse various terrains in a motion capture space. Surface EMG
      data are obtained using a small number of sensors that are placed on participants' lower
      limbs at locations informed by the results of Aim 1. Biomechanical data are collected from
      sensors on the prosthesis and sensors embedded in the terrain equipment. Kinematic data are
      collected wirelessly using a twelve-camera motion capture system. To facilitate kinematic
      data collection, reflective markers are affixed to the participant's clothes or skin to
      enable visualization and tracking of anatomical landmarks. Participants perform level ground
      walking and terrain adaptation tasks. One task involves navigating an obstacle presented in
      the participant's path during level ground walking. The task involves eversion of the
      prosthetic subtalar joint such that the lateral edge of the prosthetic foot contacts a
      vertically offset block while the medial edge of the prosthetic foot remains at the base
      height. Other tasks involve either descending or ascending stairs in sequential steps.

      SPECIFIC AIM 3: Human-Device Communication

      Aim 3 explores if AMIs can enable new possibilities for bi-directional human-device
      communication and provides data toward developing closed-loop prosthetic control strategies.
      Experimental group participants' capabilities to control prosthetic motion and their
      associated proprioceptive perceptions are investigated. EMG, ultrasound, biomechanical, and
      psychometric data are collected in the presence of varying levels of functional electrical
      stimulation (FES). The FES delivers a periodic stream of electrical pulses to target muscles
      in the participant's affected and unaffected limbs, causing contraction. One performance task
      involves an experimental pedal-pushing set-up. The participant is blindfolded and asked to
      plantar flex the phantom ankle joint, which causes the prosthetic ankle joint to press down
      on a foot pedal against mechanical resistance. Participants are also asked to plantar flex at
      varying effort levels and, in accordance with prosthetic sensor data resulting from each
      effort level, FES is applied to specific target muscles. Another task involves applying FES
      to specific target muscles in the affected limb and asking the participant to describe the
      perceived motions and forces and mirror these in the unaffected limb. In addition to
      participant responses, data are collected from fine-wire electrodes, surface EMG and other
      noninvasive sensors including an ultrasound imaging probe, and sensors on-board the
      prosthesis. Fine-wire FES and EMG electrodes are included in this study to reduce crosstalk
      that would interfere with the implementation of the prosthetic control strategy. The fine
      wire electrodes are placed by an experienced clinician in an acute setting; they do not
      remain in the limb. FES settings are kept within historically safe limits at all times. The
      FES begins at low intensity and is slowly increased until either the participant reports that
      a limit of comfortable stimulation has been reached or the historically safe limit is
      reached. The lower of these two values is established as a hard-stop reference for the FES
      setting.
    
  