
    
      Office Visit

      At the enrollment Office Visit, the exams will be conducted in the following order:

        1. Patient will be informed concerning the study and sign the Informed Consent Form (ICF)
           prior to conduct of any study procedures

        2. The following data will be collected for each study subject:

             1. Subject's DOB (if allowed) or age

             2. Gender

             3. Number and type of injections and last injection date

        3. Refraction correction

        4. Snellen BCVA on both eyes on the day of the visit.

        5. Eligible eyes of the subject will be scanned, non-dilated, with a Zeiss Cirrus OCT
           device with one (1) acceptable volume scan of each eye being obtained.

      Scanning pattern to be used:

        1. Macular cube, 6X6mm, 128 B-scans per volume scan

        2. OCTA macular cube, 3x3mm, 245x245 pixel NOTE: Any planned treatment for NV-AMD should be
           administered after completion of all study-related scans 6. Eyes of the subject that
           meet all screening criteria will be enrolled. NOTE: ~50% of the enrolled subjects should
           have at least one eye with active CNV (SRF and/or IRF) at the time of enrollment 7. The
           following data will be collected for the study eye(s):

      a. Qualifying diagnosis for the study eye from the subject's medical record b. From the
      subject's medical record, the presence of other ophthalmic conditions including but not
      limited to: i. Cataract ii. Glaucoma iii. Dry Eye iv. Other macula findings, e.g., epi
      retinal membrane, macular hole, vitreo-macular traction (VMT) Following confirmation of
      subject eligibility, subject will be placed in a room with the NVHO device which has been set
      up by a technician.

        1. The technician will register the subject using the touchscreen of the NVHO device.

        2. The subject will perform a self-tutorial, without any help from the clinic's staff. The
           training flow begins with demonstration clips followed by a practice phase. The training
           flow will be followed by a self-scan that the system uses as a calibration session.

        3. Following completion of the training and calibration session, the clinic technician sets
           the device for testing flows. The subject will perform four (4) unsupervised self-scans
           on each study eye with a rest period of ~5 minutes between self-scans.

        4. At the end of each self-scanning, and during the 5-minute resting period, image results
           will be automatically uploaded to Notal Health Cloud.

           NOTE: Remote telephone technical support provided by the sponsor will be available to
           study subjects throughout the study including the initial set up, tutorial and
           calibration, if needed.

        5. Once the subject completes the testing session in its entirety, the subject will be
           asked to complete a subject user questionnaire about their experience as a user of the
           NVHO device and proposed naming options for the device.

        6. Collect AEs, if applicable.

        7. Exit the subjects from the study.

        8. Self-scan data will be backed up on the NVHO device. Commercial Cirrus OCT data will be
           copied to an external drive and sent to a Notal repository. Study visit data and subject
           questionnaires responses will be entered into a Sponsor-provided CRF and sent to a Notal
           repository.
    
  