
    
      Transplantation is the preferred treatment option for patients with kidney failure. Compared
      to dialysis, patients who receive a transplant have a substantial reduction in the risk of
      death, an improved quality of life, and decreased health care costs. The demand for kidneys
      has resulted in long waiting lists for deceased donor kidneys. Therefore, living kidney
      donations have been on the increase over the years in order to meet this demand for kidneys.
      Living donation also has the added benefit of a shorter waiting time, increased graft success
      and increased recipient survival compared to deceased donor transplantation.

      Aside from the advantages for the recipient, living transplantation is a complex medical
      practice which we must conduct in a safe and ethical manner. The premise for accepting living
      donors is that the "minimal" risk of short and long-term medical harm realized by the donor
      is outweighed by the definite advantages to the recipient and potential psychosocial benefits
      of altruism to the donor. The short-term potential medical consequences for living kidney
      donors have been well established. Yet, the long-term implications of living kidney donation
      are far less certain. Potential medical risks include hypertension, proteinuria, reduced
      kidney function, premature cardiovascular disease and death. Estimates of these outcomes vary
      substantially in the literature. As well, the potential long-term medical risks are also
      communicated inconsistently across transplant community. It is accepted that most living
      donors experience increased self-esteem, feelings of well-being and an improved quality of
      life after their altruistic act. However, some donors have negative psychosocial outcomes
      which require further clarification. There is also a financial burden to the donor from the
      donation process. Concerns about future life, disability and medical insurance have been
      raised. These issues will be addressed through this research study on the long term
      implications of donation.
    
  