
    
      All pediatric patients undergoing open heart surgery at our institution will be randomized
      based on the last digit of their identification number (even or odd numbers) to undergo
      pre-operative whole blood harvesting (PBH). Informed consent will be obtained from the
      parents at the time of surgical informed consent acquisition.

      After scrubbing and draping of the patient the first set of blood samples will be obtained
      for baseline.

      Circuit priming will be performed using plasmalyte , and the prime will be adjusted to have a
      calculated bypass hematologic 27%, taking into consideration the amount of blood harvested.

      Once the patient is connected to the CPB circuit, harvested blood will be taken from the
      venous line before its passage through the oxygenator, while crystalloids from the circuit
      will be infused through the arterial line in order to maintain adequate blood pressure. Once
      the amount of 15cc/kg of blood is harvested, CPB will be initiated and the operation will be
      carried out in the usual manner. Blood will be kept at room temperature (18°C), gently
      stirred (not shaken).

      At the end of the operation, veno-venous ultrafiltration will be performed, targeting a
      duration of 10 minutes. The harvested blood will be administered at the end of
      ultrafiltration in conjunction to the administration of protamine. Blood samples will be
      obtained at various time points. Complete blood count, coagulation profile (PT/PTT), and
      platelet function tests will be performed. Pre-operative and operative characteristics will
      be recorded .

      In the intensive care unit, the patient will be continuously followed until his discharge
      from the hospital and post-operative parameters will be recorded. Blood and blood product
      administration will be based on our ICU protocol and at the discretion of the attending
      physician. Generally, blood will be administered to single ventricle patients if their
      hemoglobin levels will be below 12 mg%, while in the 2 ventricle patients a threshold of 9mg%
      will be set. Administration of blood products will be performed if there will be signs of
      clinical bleeding with overt signs of coagulopathy (INR > 2, fibrinogen < 100, platelets <
      50,000).
    
  