
    
      In pregnancies complicated by red cell alloimmunization, the fetus may suffer from chronic
      progressive hemolytic anemia. Severe fetal anemia leading to hydrops and fetal demise can
      occur as early as 17 weeks' gestation, while in other pregnancies the only manifestation of
      the disease is neonatal hyperbilirubinemia. The standard of care in the management of these
      pregnancies is to select patients at risk of fetal anemia using information about their
      obstetric history, and serial maternal serum antibody measurements. The selected patients are
      followed closely, usually in referral centers with a special interest and expertise in
      managing this now relatively rare disease. Ultrasound evaluation of fetal condition, with
      emphasis on signs of fetal hydrops, is performed regularly. In addition, serial amniocentesis
      is done to assess amniotic fluid bilirubin (deltaOD450) values. This spectrophotometric
      method estimates the level of bilirubin in the amniotic fluid, which correlates with the
      severity of the hemolytic process.

      Although this diagnostic test, introduced by Liley in 1961, has served fetal medicine
      specialists well for almost 40 years, the invasive nature of the method is considered a
      serious disadvantage. Furthermore, its reliability has been questioned, especially when used
      in the second trimester. In the past decade, noninvasive alternative methods to predict the
      degree of fetal anemia have been developed.

      The most promising of these new diagnostic tests is Doppler measurement of fetal blood flow
      velocities. Fetal blood flow velocity has been shown to correlate linearly with the degree of
      anemia. Recently, middle cerebral artery (MCA) peak flow velocity measurements have been
      reported to reliably predict presence or absence of fetal anemia.

      The aim of this study is to compare the performance of this new noninvasive diagnostic test
      with the standard test, amniocentesis for amniotic fluid deltaOD450 values. In an
      international multicenter setting, a large cohort of consecutive Rh-alloimmunized pregnancies
      will be studied prospectively. Both diagnostic tests will be performed simultaneously in all
      patients, and compared with the "gold standard", fetal blood sampling (FBS) to assess the
      actual hemoglobin concentration.
    
  