
    
      Detailed Description:

      Non-thyroidal illness syndrome (NTIS), also referred to as euthyroid sick syndrome (ESS) or
      thyroid allostasis in critical illness, tumors, uremia and starvation (TACITUS), is a complex
      endocrine condition that may occur in critically ill patients. It is associated with
      significantly increased morbidity and mortality.

      NTIS is characterised by three components that may occur single or in combination:

        1. central hypothyroidism (transient thyrotropic insufficiency)

        2. impaired protein binding of thyroid hormones and

        3. reduced formation of T3 and increased conversion to rT3 (low-T3-syndrome).

      Despite of long lasting research to some of its details NTIS is still poorly characterized in
      an integrative view. Additionally, it lacks a clinically usable classification.

      Given the fact that patients with NTIS are faced with poor prognosis, several studies have
      been conducted in the past evaluating the question of possible treatment. However, they
      didn't yield unambiguous results, maybe due to the fact that these studies did not
      differentiate among the distinct components of NTIS.

      Therefore, this study is intended to develop a clear-cut definition and classification of
      NTIS in order to set a foundation for future therapeutic studies.

      This study recruits critically ill patients treated in medical and surgical intensive care
      units of the Bergmannsheil University hospitals for evaluation of integrative thyrotropic
      control and follow-up. From these data the correlation of individual prognosis with
      laboratory-defined components of NTIS will be determined.

      This project is intended to:

        1. deliver a prognostical aid by providing a differentiated classification,

        2. to contribute to a standardised, rational and inexpensive diagnostical procedure and

        3. to lay the foundation for future therapeutic trials by identifying subgroups that may
           benefit from therapy.
    
  