
    
      Common hepatobiliary and pancreatic procedures include repair of lacerations, drainage of
      abscesses, and resection of primary or metastatic neoplasms. Care of patients undergoing
      hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgeries in the perioperative period is often challenging
      because of coexisting medical problems and debilitation found in many patients and because of
      the potential for significant operative blood loss. Hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgeries
      have been associated with high mortality and morbidity rates, but recent advances in
      anesthetic and surgical management have significantly reduced the operative risk.

      Studies have shown that intraoperative optimization of cardiac output by repeated volume
      loading reduces postoperative morbidity and shortens hospital stay following abdominal
      surgery. However, unnecessary intravenous fluids may be deleterious, and intraoperative fluid
      restriction has been shown to improve clinical outcomes. During major hepatobiliary and
      pancreatic surgeries, intravascular volume expansion is constantly required but the safety
      margin of fluid management is quite narrow. The thought of fluid responsiveness has been
      progressively used in order to improve the fluid management of critically ill patients. Over
      the past two decades, many studies have been performed searching for the best index to
      predict fluid responder in a variety of clinical situations. recent studies have shown that
      what is called dynamic indexes of fluid responsiveness such as stroke volume variation (SVV),
      pulse pressure variation (PPV) and others are obviously superior to the more commonly
      measured static preload variables e.g. pulmonary artery occlusion pressure and central venous
      pressure.

      Plethysmography variability index (PVI) is a dynamic variation parameter that automatically
      and continuously calculates the respiratory variations in the plethysmographic waveform
      acquired by the pulse oximeter. The PVI is presented as a safe and useful parameter for
      evaluating the fluid responsiveness of perioperative patients who underwent major abdominal
      surgery and for critically ill patients. Several studies have shown that PVI may predict
      fluid responsiveness in patients undergoing noncardiac surgeries as well as those under
      mechanical ventilation in the intensive care unit. However, the accuracy of the PVI is
      unclear for hepatobiliary and pancreatic operations that may have major cardiovascular
      changes and/or hyperdynamic circulation. Also, there are still limited studies investigating
      the direct relationship of PVI and cardiac preload status.

      PVI is based on the respiratory variations in the pulse oximetry plethysmographic waveform
      amplitude and various factors that affect lung mechanics, including tidal volume (VT) could
      also influence PVI values and It is presumed that the effect of tidal volume reaches
      significance at >8 mL/kg Several studies have shown that dynamic indicators of fluid
      responsiveness do not reliably predict fluid response during low tidal volume ventilation
      whereas there is currently a growing trend towards a reduction in tidal volume, not only in
      ICU patients with acute lung injury but also in patients with healthy lungs undergoing
      surgery.

      The 'tidal volume challenge' is a novel test proposed to improve the reliability of dynamic
      indexes in predicting fluid responsiveness in patients receiving low tidal volume
      ventilation. In a recent study testing the tidal volume challenge on some dynamic indexes, it
      is found that the changes obtained by transiently increasing tidal volume (tidal volume
      challenge) are superior to dynamic index itself in predicting ﬂuid responsiveness during low
      tidal volume ventilation. However, no studies use this novel test to know the reliability of
      PVI in predicting fluid responsiveness in patients receiving low tidal volume ventilation.

      This study will be performed on adult patients undergoing hepatobiliary and pancreatic
      operations after obtaining approval of the Ethical and Scientific Committee of Fayoum
      University Hospital and National Liver Institute and written informed consent from the
      patients or their surrogates to participate. This study will be conducted at the National
      Liver Institute Hospital, Menoufia, Egypt.

      Anesthetic technique:

      On the day of surgery, intravenous access will be obtained. Demographic and anthropometric
      data will be recorded. All patients will be monitored by standard routine monitoring which
      includes a 5-lead electrocardiography, a non-invasive blood pressure, pulse oximetry,
      capnography, fractional inspired oxygen concentration (FiO2) and core temperature (using a
      nasopharyngeal probe). After preoxygenation, general anesthesia will be induced with Propofol
      2 mg/kg IV, Fentanyl 1 µg/kg IV and Rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg IV followed by the endotracheal
      intubation. Maintenance of general anesthesia with a mixture of Sevoﬂurane with 50% oxygen in
      the air (GE Datex-Ohmeda S/5 Anesthetic Delivery Unit System). Mechanical ventilation will be
      performed in all patients on a semi-closed system adjusted to keep SaO2>95% and end-tidal CO2
      between 35 mmHg and 40 mmHg.

      A 7 F triple lumen central venous catheter will be inserted in the right internal jugular
      vein by ultrasound guidance. The central venous catheter will be connected to a pressure
      transducer, and the pressure trace will display continuously. The left radial artery will be
      cannulated, Pressure transducer will be placed on the midaxillary line and fixed to the
      operating table in order to keep the transducer at an atrial level during the study protocol.
      All transducers will be zeroed to atmospheric pressure for measuring invasive arterial blood
      pressure. An indwelling urinary bladder catheter will be inserted to monitor urinary output.
      Head and extremity wraps and warmer systems in the form of forced warming system (Model
      750-Bair Hugger Temperature Management Unit, Arizant Healthcare Inc, USA) will be applied to
      maintain body temperature. A trans-esophageal Doppler (TED) probe (Cardio QP EDM™; Deltex
      Medical, Chichester, UK) will be greased with a lubricating gel and passed nasally into the
      mid-esophagus until aortic blood ﬂow signals will be best identified. Four skin electrodes
      (iSense electrical cardiometry skin sensors; Osypka Medical) will be applied on the neck and
      thorax per manufacturer recommendations on patients and electrical cardiometry monitor
      (electrical cardiometry monitor, ICON Cardiotronics, Inc., La Jolla, CA 92307; Osypka Medical
      GmbH, Berlin, Germany) will be connected to the sensor cable. These systems enable the
      continuous monitoring of stroke volume (SV), stroke volume Index (SVI), heart rate (HR),
      cardiac output (CO), cardiac index (CI), thoracic fluid content (TFC), systemic vascular
      resistance(SVR), corrected flow time (FTc) and stroke volume variation (SVV).

      The Masimo Pulse Co-Oximeter probe (Masimo SET Rainbow R2-25r and R225a, Masimo Corp.,
      Irvine, CA, USA) will be placed on the index finger of the patients and will be covered with
      a shield to eliminate light interference, as recommended by the manufacturer. The PVI and
      perfusion index (PI) variations will be automatically measured using the Masimo monitor
      (Masimo Radical-7, Masimo Corp., Irvine, CA, USA) with PVI software. PVI is an automatic
      measure of the dynamic change in PI that occurs during a complete respiratory cycle.

      All throughout surgery packed red blood cells (300 ml) will be transfused when hematocrit
      percentage will be <25%. Fresh frozen plasma (unit of 200 ml) will be administrated when a
      Partial thromboplastin time>70 s, Fibrinogen <2 g/dl, or International Normalized Ratio (INR)
      >2. Patients will be extubated either in the operating room or post-operatively in intensive
      care unit.

      Intervention protocol Initially, demographic data of patients including age, sex, height,
      actual body weight, predicted body weight (PBW), smoking history, comorbid diseases,
      operative time will be recorded.

      After resection phase of tumours, baseline hemodynamic and respiratory variables including
      CI, CO, SV, SVI, SVV, SVR, HR, mean arterial pressure (MAP), central venous pressure (CVP),
      plateau pressure (Pplat), compliance of the respiratory system (Crs), TFC, FTc, PI and PVI
      with an 6 ml/kg tidal volume ventilation (PVI6) will be recorded. After baseline measurement,
      VT will be increased from 6 ml/kg to 8 ml/kg of predicted body weight for one minute and the
      above-mentioned hemodynamic variables, including PVI with 8 ml/kg tidal volume ventilation
      (PVI8) will be recorded. The tidal volume will be decreased back to 6 mL/kg PBW and after one
      minute measurements will be recorded. After these hemodynamic measurements, volume expansion
      will be performed for 10 min using an infusion of balanced crystalloid solution (6ml/kg of
      predicted body weight). The same hemodynamic parameters will be measured under ventilation
      with a VT of 6 ml/kg 5 min after volume loading. Thereafter the absolute (ΔPVI6-8,) and
      percentage change (%ΔPVI6-8) between the PVI at 6 mL/kg PBW (PVI6) and at 8 mL/kg PBW (PVI8)
      i.e. after performing a "tidal volume challenge" will be calculated. The change in PVI after
      giving the fluid bolus (ΔPVIfb) will also be calculated.

      No more than two tidal volume challenges can be performed in any patient. Doses of vasoactive
      medications and PEEP will be kept constant.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS version 24.0 (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA). Data
      are presented as mean (SD), median [interquartile range (IQR)], or number of patients (%).
      Changes in continuous variables from 6 to 8mL/kg PBW will be compared using paired t-test or
      Wilcoxon signed rank sum test, and group comparisons between responders and non-responders
      will be made using independent t-test or Mann-Whitney U test, as appropriate. Distribution
      normality will be assessed using the Shapiro-Wilk test. Categorical variables will be
      analyzed using chi-square test or Fisher exact test.To test the abilities of dynamic preload
      indices to predict fluid responsiveness, areas under the receiver operating characteristics
      (ROC) curves of the responders will be calculated and compared using the Hanley-McNeil test
      [area under the curve (AUC)=0.5, no better than chance, a useless test with no prediction
      possible; AUC=0.6-0.69, a test with a poor predictability; AUC=0.7-0.79, a fair test;
      AUC=0.8-0.89, a test with a good predictability; AUC=0.9-0.99, an excellent test; AUC=1.0, a
      perfect test with the best possible prediction]. A value of optimal threshold will be
      determined for each variable to maximize the Youden index [sensitivity + (specificity - 1)]
      For the sample size calculation, Statstodo computer program is used to calculate the sample
      size requirement for comparing two ROC curves with expected areas under the curves of 0.65
      (PVI6) and 0.90 (ΔPVI6-8), assuming an α error of 0.05 and power of 90%, a minimum of 40
      patients will be needed to detect an AUC difference of 0.25 when assuming the number of
      responders is similar to that of non-responders. The investigators expect data loss to be
      20%, so 48 patients needed to be enrolled in this study
    
  