
    
      In women diagnosed with high-risk or borderline, non-malignant breast lesions, is
      vacuum-assisted percutaneous excision (VAPE) comparable to open standard surgical excision
      with respect to efficacy, safety, cosmesis and patient satisfaction?

      With the increase in breast imaging for screening there has been corresponding rise in
      detection of high-risk/borderline, non-malignant breast lesions that require surgical
      excision to confirm diagnosis and rule out underlying malignancy. Image-guided
      vacuum-assisted percutaneous excision (VAPE) could offer an alternative to standard open
      surgical excision for complete excision of these lesions with a possible improvement in
      patient satisfaction and cosmetic outcomes and decreased complications.

      In this single-centre, non-inferiority designed prospective randomized, open label controlled
      trial, women over 18 years who are found to have a borderline or high-risk, non-malignant
      breast lesions on core needle biopsy will be considered eligible. Exclusion criteria will be
      women with a greater than 25% lifetime risk of breast cancer, patients whose pathology and
      imaging are discordant, and those with extensive calcifications extending over 2cm, a mass
      larger than 2 cm, or lesions with high-risk features. Informed consent will be obtained and
      patients will be randomized to standard surgical excision or VAPE. They will then be followed
      with imaging as appropriate.

      The primary outcome measure is the incidence of complete removal of the lesion. The secondary
      outcome measures are patient satisfaction, cosmetic outcomes and complications such as
      bleeding and infection.

      This trial is the first randomized controlled trial to investigate the role of VAPE compared
      to standard surgical excision as a means of completely excising borderline or high-risk
      breast, non-malignant breast lesions. The investigators hypothesize that VAPE will show
      comparable efficacy and may even have improved safety, cosmesis and patient satisfaction.
    
  