
    
      Need for Skin Bolus during Radiotherapy for Cancers that Involve the Skin Using standard
      megavoltage (MV) radiotherapy to treat tumors that involve the skin is technically
      challenging as without modification, the high-energy radiotherapy machines under-dose the
      superficial tissue. This is a problem, as this may lead to an inadequate radiation dose being
      delivered to the skin, thus compromising tumor control. To compensate for this, a flexible
      polymer material ("bolus") measuring 5-10mm in thickness is placed over the skin during
      radiotherapy.

      There are many types of boluses used internationally from rubber to candle wax slabs. The
      bolus allows the radiation dose to build up so that a sufficient dose is deposited at the
      skin. Use of bolus for cancers involving the skin is considered the standard of care when
      using conventional MV radiotherapy.

      Challenges of Using Conventional Bolus Many standard boluses are slightly flexible, but are
      not able to follow significant changes in the underlying contours. When a bolus is not able
      to follow an individual's unique 'peaks and valleys' in contour, it can lead to air gaps
      between the bolus and the skin. An air gap, which is easily seen during imaging, can also
      vary on a day-to-day basis due to slight changes in positioning of the bolus prior to
      radiotherapy treatment. The varying air gaps can affect how much radiation dose is getting to
      the skin, and can potentially lead to under-dosing of the cancer cells in the skin. Even
      small air gaps (i.e. 5mm in thickness), can cause a 5% error in dose, which exceeds the safe
      tolerance for treatment.

      Areas where this can be a problem are where the patient's anatomy undergoes significant
      topographical changes in a small area. Examples of this include the ear, nose, top of head.
      Patients with metastatic cancer can also have large lymph nodes or masses that are growing
      towards the skin that can be difficult to accommodate with standard bolus materials.

      3D-Printed Bolus One method to overcome challenging anatomy for cases that require skin bolus
      for radiotherapy is the use of 3D-printed bolus. This technology uses data acquired from a CT
      scan of the affected area. The patients contour can then be used to create an individualized
      bolus that matches the patient contour for the treatment field. This technology has been
      demonstrated to improve fit (less air gaps) and decreased radiotherapy treatment time. The
      bolus used in this study was rigid.

      Trial design and Rationale Other than the chestwall study, the literature on 3D-printed bolus
      for radiotherapy has focused on the dosimetry and feasibility of using this technology.
      However, it is used in an ad hoc method in many centers, using various workflows. There are
      no studies examining which type of bolus provides the best radiotherapy plan, is the easiest
      to use at the radiation therapy machines or which is preferred by patients.

      To fill this gap, this study will aim to answer a few questions. It will compare the use of
      rigid 3D-printed bolus (most commonly used and reported in the literature) versus a flexible
      silicone 3D-printed bolus. Both types of bolus will be used to treat patients with cancers
      involving the skin. This will allow comparison of radiotherapy plans for each patient between
      the two types of bolus where each subject is his/her own control. The study will also collect
      data about real-time set-up using each bolus and feedback from radiation therapists (deliver
      radiation treatments) about the ease of use of each. Lastly, patients will complete a short
      survey to provide feedback about comfort with use of each type of bolus and to determine if
      one type of bolus is favored over the other.

      This data will be instrumental is determining the standard of care of the use of 3D-printed
      bolus as it will assess two types of bolus in three domains: ability to help generate an
      adequate radiotherapy plan, ease of use by the specialists that deliver the radiotherapy
      (radiation therapists) and patient reported feedback.
    
  