
    
      Background:

      With recent advances in diagnoses and classification of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies
      (IIM), an increasing number of newly diagnosed cases of IIM is expected. These patients are
      vulnerable to the development of Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP) due to impaired
      mobility related to musculoskeletal involvement and the relatively high doses of
      glucocorticoid (GC) required for disease control. Reduced bone mineral density is prevalent
      among IIM patients shown in the previous local study: osteoporosis and osteopenia are seen in
      23.7% and 47.4% of IIM patients respectively. 10% of patients on long term GC treatment
      sustain a fracture and up to 30-40% of patients are found to have radiological vertebral
      fractures. Compared to GIOP, the treatment for patients with osteopenia is less well
      addressed in current guidelines for the management of GIOP. Treatment is usually indicated in
      patients with a previous history of prior low energy fracture and high fracture risks
      determined by FRAX score. However, IIMs remain a rare disease entity and IIMs patients are at
      particularly high risk for osteoporosis and its complications due to a relatively high dose
      of steroid use and functional impairment from the disease. Therefore, traditional fracture
      risks assessment tool might not be able to fully assess the fracture risks in this subgroup
      of patients.

      Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody against receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B
      ligand (RANKL) and its use is associated with a reduced risk of vertebral, non-vertebral and
      hip fracture in post-menopausal women. A recent randomized controlled trial has shown that
      denosumab is more efficacious than risedronate in the improvement of BMD in GIOP patients.
      Denosumab has been confirmed efficacious in GIOP patients but its efficacy in high-risk
      osteopenia patients are not well studied. On the other hand, zoledronic acid is licensed for
      the treatment of GIOP and trials found zoledronic acid improve bone mineral density at the
      lumbar spine or femoral neck at 12 months of treatment. Current evidence comparing the
      efficacy between denosumab and zoledronic acid is lacking.

      In this prospective study, the investigators aimed to assess the efficacy of denosumab and
      zoledronic acid in the treatment of IIMs patients with reduced bone mineral density.

      Study methods This is a prospective open-label controlled trial. All IIMs patients followed
      up in Kwong Wah Hospital are invited to participate in this study. Eligibility, inclusion,
      and exclusion criteria are described in details in subsequent sessions. All included patients
      will have dual-energy X-Ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan performed at baseline. All
      participants will continue calcium (1000mg daily) and vitamin D supplementation (at least 800
      international unit daily). Patients with osteopenia or osteoporosis in a baseline DEXA scan
      will be randomized by computer-generated blocks in 1:1 ratio into receiving denosumab
      (treatment group) or zoledronic acid (controlled group). Denosumab is given at 60mg
      subcutaneously every 6 months, following the FDA approved dosage. Zoledronic acid is
      administered intravenously at 5mg yearly. DEXA scan will be repeated after 12 months of
      treatment.

      All participants will be interviewed and examined at the time of recruitment and at
      subsequent follow-up visits. Patients enrolled in the study will attend follow-up visits at
      least every 4 months with monitoring of adverse events associated with denosumab or
      zoledronic acid use. In case of severe adverse events, treatment will be terminated, and
      patients will be withdrawn from this study.

      Demographic data including age, sex, ethnicity, body weight and height, menopausal status,
      parity, smoking and drinking history, and comorbidities will be recorded. Diagnosis and
      classification of IIM according to Bohan and Peter criteria (14) and duration of the disease
      will also be documented. Details of treatment regime including dosage of GCs at time of
      recruitment, cumulative GCs dosage, concomitant immunosuppressants, and medication history
      will be recorded. Personal history of previous vertebral or osteoporotic fracture and
      avascular necrosis will be screened. Complications related to IIMs which included
      interstitial lung disease, dysphagia and malignancy and Health assessment questionnaire
      disability index (HAQ-DI) at baseline will be documented. Blood results including serum
      albumin level, C reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and creatine
      kinase (CPK) will be measured at baseline and upon follow-up visits.

      BMD results are recorded in terms of absolute value, T-score (Number of standard deviations
      above or below mean results of young adults) and Z-score (Number of standard deviations above
      or below mean results of the age-matched population). Radiographs of the thoracic and lumbar
      spine will be performed at enrolment and at the completion of the study to look for vertebral
      collapses. Vertebral collapse is defined as a loss of at least 25% height of vertebrae.
      Fractures and new vertebral collapse during the study period will be documented.

      IIMs disease activity at baseline is measured by physician's and patient's global assessment
      by visual analog scale, manual muscle testing 8 (MMT8) and Myositis Disease Activity
      Assessment Visual Analogue Scale (MYOACT).

      BMD at the lumbar spine (L1-4), hip and femoral neck are measured by DEXA scan using Hologic
      Discovery DXA system (Model: Discovery W, Hologic, Bedford, USA) The reference ranges for
      T-score for Male and Female are derived from a database from the University of Hong Kong,
      using matched Hong Kong Male and female data. The technicians responsible for reading DEXA
      images are blinded for the details of the study.

      Patients are invited to join this study from August June 2019 to December 2019. Baseline DEXA
      scan and randomization will be performed within 1 month of study enrolment. Participants
      would receive 12 months of treatment and DEXA scan will be repeated within 1 month upon
      completion of treatment. The study and subsequent analyses will be completed by March 2021.

      For the estimation in sample size, the mean baseline BMD in GIOP patients from local data is
      0.87 g/cm2 with a standard deviation of 0.085 g/cm2. The expected increase in BMD after 12
      months of denosumab treatment is 8% compared to placebo whereas zoledronic acid is associated
      with a 6-7% increase in BMD when compared to placebo. Sample size calculated is 23 patients
      in each group assuming 5% type I error and 80% power.

      For statistical analysis, descriptive statistics for demographic and clinical data are
      expressed as mean +/- standard deviation if they are normally distributed or as median and
      range otherwise. Independent Student's t-test is used for analyzing continuous variables with
      normal distribution and Chi-square test for categorical variables. Differences in BMD between
      the two groups is compared with paired t-test. After adjustment of confounding factor,
      analysis of covariance method (general linear model) will be done. Covariates adjusted
      include age, sex, BMI, smoking and drinking status, duration of menopause in female patients,
      duration of GC and cumulative dosage of GC. For assessing risk factors associated with
      reduced BMD, associations between the continuous variables and BMD is assessed by Pearson's
      correlation test. Univariate analysis followed by multiple linear regression model is used to
      identify the independent variables for BMD. A P-value of < 0.05 is considered as
      statistically significant. SPSS 25 will be used for statistical analysis.

      This study is approved by the local ethical committee - Research Ethics Application (Kowloon
      Central/Kowloon East) and is conducted in full accordance with the Helsinki Declaration.
      Written consent is obtained from all participants. Serious adverse events will be reported to
      the research and ethics committee.

      This is an investigator-initiated study not supported by any pharmaceutical company. The
      authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.

      Outcome measures will be described in subsequent sessions.
    
  