
    
      Emotional dysregulation (ED) is a multidimensional construct including lack of awareness and
      clarity about experienced emotions, nonacceptance of emotional distress, impulsivity,
      inability to pursue goals when emotionally distressed, and lack of regulatory strategies
      (Gratz and Roemer, 2004).

      The background of the present study is threefold:

        1. Adolescence is a heightened risk period for the onset of a wide range of mental
           disorder. Targeting emotional dysregulation (ED) in adolescence could be particularly
           relevant, indeed, there is a strong association between ED and dysfunctional behaviours
           such as substance-related problems (Barahmand et al., 2016; Simons et al., 2017),
           suicidal ideation (Miller et al., 2017; Rajappa et al., 2012), and self-harm behaviors
           (Peh et al., 2017).

        2. Emotion regulation is a modifiable skill, and school-based prevention programs could be
           effective for the development of socio-emotional skills, and the improvement of
           psychological well-being (Taylor et al., 2017).

        3. Stressful experiences, especially those occurring early in life, enhance the
           vulnerability for a spectrum of psychiatric disorders, via targeting both the
           Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) axis system and the immune/inflammatory system
           (Lopizzo et al., 2015; 2017). Moreover, there is evidence that individuals exposed to
           early traumatic experiences exhibit difficulties in regulating their emotional responses
           (Jennissen et al., 2016). For this reasons, longitudinal studies focused on the
           association between HPA axis activity and the later development of psychopathology are
           of great interest because they may be helpful to identify possible risk factors for
           mental illness. However, only few studies analyzed the neurobiological correlated of ED
           in adolescents (Goodyer et al., 2000; Halligan et al., 2007).

      The main aim of the present study aims to evaluate the impact of an intervention based on
      Dialectical Behavior Therapy for Adolescents (DBT-A) (Rathus & Miller, 2015, Mazza, et al,
      2016) that will be delivered to the class of students during school-time. A total of 426
      students attending the third year of high school (10th grade; 16-19 years) will be recruited.
      In order to optimize the representativeness of the sample, different type of school (i.e.
      professional institute; technical institute; arts, scientific and classical high schools)
      will be invited to participate to the study. Moreover, the randomization will be carried out
      in each school in order to control potential confounding variables associated to a specific
      type of school. Outcome will be assessed post-intervention, 3 and 6-month follow-up.

      The second aim of the present study is to identify clinical and biological markers associated
      to ED. To this purpose, a clinical sample of youth outpatients (16-19 years) with mental
      disorders will be recruited and will be compared to the students of the community sample. All
      the participants will be evaluated through a comprehensive assessment including both clinical
      variables and biological variables. Clinical assessment will cover different domains:
      sociodemographic data, emotional dysregulation, psychopathological symptoms, social
      functioning, childhood trauma, stressful life events during previous year. Biological
      evaluations will be conducted to measure cortisol levels during the day (awakening, noon and
      evening) and the inflammatory profiles. Data about biological parameters will permit to
      investigate whether alterations in biological features related to stress response and
      inflammation can underlie ED and the vulnerability for psychopathology. Moreover, the same
      set of biomarkers will be evaluated at the end of the intervention in order to evaluate
      whether clinical improvements can occur via le modulation of these pathways.
    
  