
    
      The proposed study will adapt and test a low resource school-based intervention to prepare
      students with ADHD for the transition to high school-a point of vulnerability for youth with
      ADHD. The resulting intervention will be delivered as a peer-delivered orientation to high
      school (1-2 weeks for 4 hours a day) with weekly peer-delivered support during the first 16
      weeks of the ninth grade year. Intervention development will involve scaling down an
      intensive Summer Treatment Program for adolescents with ADHD, using its core components
      (i.e., daily skills training and repetition, parent coaching in contingency management,
      engaging recreational activities) to bolster a promising peer-delivered school-based
      intervention for ninth graders with ADHD. The resulting intervention (summer STRIPES) will
      target three mechanisms that are critical markers of high school success: (a) intrinsic
      motivation, (b) extrinsic motivation, and (c) executive functions (EFs). Y01, will use a
      stakeholder informed process to iteratively adapt the intervention with input from two
      partnering high schools (i.e., administrators, counselors, teachers, parents, students) and
      content experts (Sibley, Langberg, Sasser, Aaronson). Two manuals that are individualized for
      each school will emerge. A total of 72 rising ninth grade students with ADHD will be
      recruited in Y02 and Y03 (36 per year; 18 per school) from two high schools randomly assigned
      (within school) to receive summer STRIPES or enhanced school services as usual (SSU plus). A
      school staff summer STRIPES sponsor at each school will oversee training and supervision peer
      interventionists with support from investigators. Peer interventionists will receive a
      three-day training and weekly supervision. Study assessments will occur at baseline and three
      follow-up points throughout the ninth grade year. To test the intervention's preliminary
      effectiveness, the study will examine treatment effects on GPA, class attendance, and
      disciplinary incidents. Preliminary effectiveness will also be measured through indices of
      engagement (parent, adolescent, peer attendance, ratings of satisfaction, perceived utility,
      and therapeutic alliance) and school fit (treatment fidelity, peer attitudes toward
      treatment). To detect whether therapeutic mechanisms (intrinsic motivation, extrinsic
      motivation, EFs) are engaged by summer STRIPES, the investigators will test for group
      differences on multi-method indices of these mechanisms, as well as the extent to which
      hypothesized mechanisms affect meaningful change on study outcomes. This project represents
      the first attempt to utilize a peer-delivered model for ADHD intervention in a high school
      orientation context. If summer STRIPES participants show meaningful improvements in
      functioning and engagement and school fit are strong, an R01 will be planned to fully
      evaluate the effectiveness of this approach. To inform this future trial, attention will be
      given to developing an optimal measurement battery, treatment delivery model, and recruitment
      strategy for rising ninth graders.
    
  