
    
      Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) use in patients with motor neurone disease (MND) who develop
      respiratory failure can improve symptoms and survival. Initiation of NIV can be difficult for
      patients and those who do not adequately adhere to the regime fail to gain benefit. This
      study will evaluate the use of EncoreAnywhere: a system which collects data on NIV use and
      effectiveness from the NIV machines and transmits it to the MND care team for review.

      This study is a pilot, feasibility study. It is a randomised controlled trial comparing the
      use of EncoreAnywhere with usual care. Up to 40 patients with MND about to start NIV will be
      recruited. All patients will have the EncoreAnywhere system installed on their NIV machine
      for the first three months of NIV use. Half the patients will be randomised to the
      intervention arm which will allow the MND care team to review the information sent from the
      device regularly during the study. Data will be collected from the other patients but not
      reviewed by the clinical team. All patients will receive usual care.

      Data will be collected by three methods. Data collected from the EncoreAnywhere system will
      examine adherence and effectiveness of ventilation. The main outcome of interest is adherence
      to NIV at three months. Data will be collected from patients (patient symptoms and quality of
      life) using questionnaires (at baseline, one and three months) and collected from information
      recorded in the patients' notes as part of usual care. Data will also be collected to examine
      feasibility e.g. recruitment and retention rates. A subset of patients will be invited to
      undergo overnight oximetry at 1 and 3 months to examine NIV effectiveness.

      The aims of the research are to establish the level of adherence and effectiveness of NIV
      during initiation and factors that may impact on adherence and effectiveness and also
      evaluate the feasibility and impact using EncoreAnywhere on the Sheffield MND team working
      pattern, the clinical and cost implications for a full service.
    
  