
    
      Xeroderma Pigmentosum (XP) is a rare autosomal recessive inherited condition caused by
      defective Nucleotide Excision Repair. Patients may develop skin cancers from childhood
      onwards, ocular damage, and neurological deterioration. The clinical management of XP relies
      on minimising exposure of the skin to Ultraviolet radiation (UVR), which is the only means of
      preventing skin cancer and eye disease. Reduction in UVR exposure is achieved by a
      combination of lowering overall exposure and rigorously photoprotecting when outdoors. This
      involves wearing protective clothing and application of factor 50 sunscreen to any exposed
      skin. Evidence from new research carried out by our team, indicated that photoprotection was
      inadequate with room for improvement. The clinical consequence of this sub-optimal
      photoprotection is higher incidence of skin cancers, including malignant melanoma, which
      require surgery and can be life threatening.

      The investigators have designed a personalised adherence intervention, using a systematic
      approach called Intervention Mapping, to target the determinants of UVR reaching the face.
      The intervention will not require advanced therapeutic skills and has been designed to be
      delivered by a range of healthcare professionals. It will be tailored to the predictors of
      photoprotection, relevant for each person, and will be delivered via seven one-to-one
      sessions between the intervention facilitator and patient. Sessions 1 and 6 will be delivered
      face to face in the home and the remaining sessions will be conducted via telephone calls or
      skype sessions, depending on the preference of the participant. The facilitator will use a
      range of behaviour change techniques to target each determinant relevant to each individual,
      alongside generic components to promote habit and planning which will be delivered to all.
      Personalised text messages, sunscreen application video and activity sheets will also be
      used. The intervention facilitator will use the collaborative conversational style of
      Motivational Interviewing.

      The primary objective is to test the efficacy of a personalised adherence intervention to
      reduce the level of UVR reaching the face by improving adherence to UVR protection advice.

      Primary objective

      1. To compare the mean daily dose of UVR (SEDs) reaching the face between the intervention
      group and control group over a 3 week period in June to July (follow-up 1) Secondary
      objectives

        1. To compare the mean daily dose of UVR (SEDs) reaching the face between the intervention
           group and control group in August to September 2018 (follow-up 2)

        2. To compare photoprotection practices between the intervention group and control group in
           June to July (follow-up 1)

        3. To compare photoprotection practices between the intervention group and control group in
           August to September (follow-up 2)

        4. To investigate with-in group changes in photoprotection practices pre and post the
           intervention up to 9 months follow-up

        5. To compare between group differences in mean mood, habit formation, goal priority and
           self-efficacy for managing barriers between the intervention group and control group in
           June to July (follow-up 1)

        6. To compare between group differences in mean mood, habit formation, goal priority and
           self-efficacy for managing barriers between the intervention group and control group in
           August to September (follow-up 2)

        7. To investigate with-in group changes in quality of life, emotional wellbeing, habitual
           behaviour, self-efficacy, personalised psychosocial drivers, self-rated adherence pre
           and post the intervention up to 9 months follow-up

        8. To qualitatively explore psychosocial "mechanisms of change" related to the intervention
           from the perspective of the participant

        9. To qualitatively explore the acceptability and feasibility of the intervention from the
           perspective of the participant

       10. To identify the health economic cost of the intervention

      Design The study will test the efficacy of the intervention using a randomised controlled
      trial (RCT) design. It is a "delayed RCT", the intervention group will receive the
      intervention in year 1 (2018) and be compared to the control group. The control group will
      receive the intervention in 2019. It would not be possible to complete the intervention and
      measurement in both groups during the same season, when UVR levels are comparable. The UVR
      dose to the face will be measured at baseline (21 days in March -April 2018) and will then be
      assessed at two follow-up periods of 21 days in 2018 (June to July; August to September) and
      two follow-up periods in 2019 (March, June to July) (delayed intervention group only).
      Psychosocial constructs and photoprotection practices will be assessed at baseline, at the
      start of each follow-up period (self-report questionnaires) and during these follow-up
      periods (daily measures on the UVR protection diary). 9 months after baseline (December 2018,
      2019) self-report questionnaires will be completed. A process and acceptability evaluation
      will be conducted using qualitative interviews. A health economic evaluation of the
      intervention will be assessed by completion of questionnaires to assess health-related
      quality of life and service use in December 2018, 2019. The study is a main trial. There is
      no pilot or feasibility study due to the small population from which the sample will be
      obtained (adults with XP in UK without cognitive impairment).

      Procedure Eligible patients will be identified from the patient list, XP Service at Guy's and
      St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust and sent an invitation letter. The investigators will send
      out the information sheet and request that the patient contact the research team if they wish
      to participate. This will be followed up with a phone call answer any questions they might
      have and see if they wish to participate. Those wishing to take part will be visited by a
      member of the research team to complete the consent process and deliver study materials.
      Participants will complete the baseline assessment which involves wearing a UVR monitor
      called a dosimeter, completing a UVR protection diary for a 3 week period (March-April 2018)
      and questionnaires. The dosimeter is then worn continuously during the day March to September
      2018. Participants are then randomised to receive the intervention in 2018 or 2019.
      Participants receiving the intervention in 2018, will then take part in the first 6 sessions
      of the intervention across 12 weeks. All participants then repeat the baseline measurement
      protocol. The intervention group will then receive a booster intervention session and both
      groups will complete a second follow-up assessment period. Intervention participants will
      then take part in a qualitative interview. At 9-months post baseline all participants will
      complete self-report questionnaires. If a participant is randomised to receive the
      intervention in 2019, they will repeat the procedure excluding the second follow-up
      assessment period and will wear the dosimeter from March to July 2019.

      Data management To protect the anonymity of the participants, once consent has been given,
      participants will be given a unique identifier. Data recorded on paper will be stored at the
      XP research office at King's College London., in locked cabinets in a locked room. Data
      entered electronically will be stored in password protected files accessible via a drive only
      accessible to the XP Research Team.

      Progress will be monitored by the Trial Steering Committee, Independent Steering Committee
      and our funder NIHR.

      Sample size The target sample size is 24 accounting for potential attrition of 20%. Based on
      the primary outcome being the between group difference in mean daily UVR dose to the face
      across a period of 21 days in June to July, the target sample size of 20 individuals
      (excluding dropouts) leads to a total of 210 daily observations for the 10 participants
      randomised to each arm. In previous research, the mean daily UVR dose to the face was .27 SED
      (SD=.14) with a within-person correlation of ICC=.31. Adjusting for the design effect due to
      the dependence of assessments within individuals, and accepting a liberal 10% alpha and 20%
      beta level due to the rare nature of the condition, this sample size would have 80% power to
      detect a reduction of .10 SED in mean UVR dose to the face. In terms of standardised mean
      difference this relates to an effect size of d=.73, which is considered to be a large effect.
      Given the tailored nature and expected intensity of the intervention, expecting such a
      difference does not seem unreasonable though it must be accepted that power would not be
      sufficient to detect smaller but still clinically meaningful differences. Where the target
      dose to the face is 0 SED, a reduction of .1 SED relates to around a 30% overall reduction in
      UVR dose to the face. To allow for an estimated attrition rate of 20% the target total sample
      size is 24.

      Analysis for primary objective The treatment effect on the primary outcome of daily UVR dose
      to the face during over 21 days between June and July and secondary outcome of daily UVR dose
      to the face during over 21 days between August and September will be estimated using
      generalised linear mixed models. Given the skewed distribution of UVR dose to face a
      logarithmic transformation will be applied. A random intercept will account for the repeated
      assessments of UVR dose to the face within individuals across 42 days. Group will be entered
      as an indicator variable along with a time period indicator (i.e. early vs late summer), any
      stratification factors used in the randomisation (e.g. complementation type) and baseline
      mean daily UVR dose to face. Two baseline levels of mean daily UVR dose to face will be
      included in the analysis as covariates; mean daily UVR dose to face collected in previous
      study (21 days between June and July 2016) and pre-intervention mean daily UVR dose to face (
      21 days between March and April 2018). Given the rare nature of the condition, the
      investigators will accept a higher than usual false positive rate and will accept the
      treatment is efficacious where the p-value for the group coefficient is p<.1 (i.e. 10%
      critical alpha level). The analysis will follow the intention to treat principle with
      individuals analysed within the groups to which they were randomised irrespective of whether
      they received or persisted with the intervention. Sensitivity analysis will consider
      treatment effects in a per-protocol analysis of those completing the intervention.
    
  