
    
      Interventions:

      Using neolix file (Ori kam SAS,France)

      Control:

      Using Protaper next files (Dentsply ,Maillefer , Switzerland)

      Treatment in all cases will be completed in one session as follows:

        -  Full medical and dental history using a schematic dental chart will be obtained from all
           patients treated during this study. Each tooth will be evaluated for vitality
           (sensitivity) of pulp tissues using electric pulp tester (Kerr, Analytic Technology
           Crop, Redmond, WA).

        -  Patient will be anesthetized; teeth will be isolated with rubber dam.

        -  Make access and working length will be determined using an electronic apex locator (Root
           ZX, J.Morita USA, Irvine, CA.) then confirmed with intraoral periapical radiograph, to
           be 0.5-1 mm, shorter than radiographic apex.

        -  Cleaning and shaping will be done using crown down preparation technique with rotary
           files either

             1. neolix file , first file used is C1 file size 25 taper 12% as orifice opener and
                for coronal flaring for 2/3 of canal length the A1 file size 25 taper 8% in narrow
                or curved canals if size 10 K file (Mani ,Japan ) is loose or pass easily in the
                canal , but in case of K-file size 20 loose in the canal so we choose large file
                size 40 taper 4% either of them to the full working length to the full working
                length with (X-Smart, Dentsply Maillefer, USA.), with speed 300-500 rpm and torque
                1.5 N.cm or

             2. protaper next in sequences by using Prepare straight line access to canal orifice.
                The ProTaper SX file may be used. Explore the canal using small-sized hand files,
                determine working length, verify patency and confirm a smooth, reproducible glide
                path. Always irrigate and if necessary, expand the glide path using small-sized
                hand files or dedicated mechanical glide path files. Path Files P1 and P2 are
                recommended. In the presence of NaOCl, brush and follow the glide path, with the
                PROTAPER NEXT™ X1 (017/04) file, in one or more passes until the working length is
                reached. Use PROTAPER NEXT X2 (025/06), exactly as described for PROTAPER NEXT X1
                file, until the working length is passively reached. Gauge the foramen with a size
                025 hand file and, if this file binds at length, the canal is shaped and ready for
                disinfection. If the size 025 hand file is loose at length, then continue shaping
                with the PROTAPER NEXT X3 (30/07) and, when necessary, the PROTAPER NEXT X4
                (040/06) or PROTAPER NEXT X5 (050/06), gauging after each instrument with the 030,
                040 or 050 hand files, respectively. During canal shaping, irrigate, recapitulate
                with a small-sized hand file after each sequential PROTAPER NEXT instrument, then
                re-irrigate. in an endodontic motor according to the manufacturer instructions
                (X-Smart, Dentsply Maillefer, USA.), with torque 2.0 N.cm and speed 300 rpm.

        -  The rotary files will be introduced inside the canal using EDTA gel "MD-Chelcream, META
           BIOMED CO.,LTD, Korea".

        -  The canals will be thoroughly irrigated using 3 ml of 2.5% Sodium hypochlorite between
           every subsequent instrument. After instrumentation of the canals, paper points will be
           used for drying.

        -  Obturation will be carried out using gutta percha cones (25/0.6 or 40/0.4) Or Protaper
           next cones according to instrument used and canal size with resin sealer (ADSEAL, META
           BIOMED CO., LTD,Korea).After obturation a cotton pellet will be placed in the pulp
           chamber and the access cavity will be closed with a temporary filling to avoid coronal
           leakage. ((MD-Temp, META BIOMED CO., LTD, Korea).

        -  The patient is given a Numerical Rating Scale and asked to rate his pain level at 6, 12,
           24 & 48 hours after obturation.
    
  