
    
      Ventricular repolarization, measured by the duration of the heart rate corrected QT interval
      (QTc), is influenced by sex hormones. A QTc above 460msec predisposes to the risk of
      torsades-de-pointes (TdP); ventricular arrhythmias that can lead to sudden death.

      From puberty to menopause, QTc is longer in women than in men (~10-15msec difference) and
      varies in women according to the menstrual cycle (~5-10msec). This explains the increased
      risk of TdP in women compared to men. During the menstrual cycle, the risk is highest for
      women during the follicular phase compared to the luteal phase. The investigators have
      recently shown that estradiol determines an increase in QTc elongation and progesterone
      shortens it. In addition, high gonadotropin levels (FSH or LH) are associated with QTc
      prolongation. Hypergonadotropic hypogonadisms (low progesterone and high gonadotropins) are
      therefore hormonal situations that promote QTc prolongation.

      Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) affects 1% of women under 40 years of age and is
      characterized by hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. POI is associated with hormonal deficiencies
      responsible for amenorrhea and infertility. Management is based on the prescription of
      hormone replacement therapy (HRT). Epidemiological studies have shown that these patients
      would be at increased risk of cardiovascular mortality. HRT will be based on the combination
      of an estrogen and a progestin and will lead to a variable decrease in gonadotropins,
      depending on the steroid hormones/doses used. Our team, after structuring one of the largest
      international cohorts of patients with POI, is interested in the effect of this pathological
      hormonal situation and its HRT on ventricular repolarization to define whether this is a
      population at risk for long QTc. Indeed, ECG follow-up is recommended and many drugs
      (cardiovascular or not), are to be avoided, or even contraindicated in situations at risk of
      long QTc.
    
  