
    
      Caesarean rate in most countries are increasing year by year. A report shows that the
      caesarean section rate for government hospitals in Malaysia was 10.5% in 2000 and 11.0% in
      20011 and it rises to 25% of total delivery in Hospital Raja Permaisuri Bainun, Malaysia in
      year 2018. Nowadays, about 7% of all surgical procedures worldwide are caesarean section and
      the majority of them are performed with neuraxial blockade, ie epidural anesthesia, spinal
      anesthesia, or a combined spinal-epidural anesthesia (CSE).

      Nausea and vomiting are common intraoperative and postoperative complications in women having
      caesarean section under neuraxial anesthesia.Compared to the plethora of literatures about
      PONV, little attention has been paid to nausea vomiting occurring during or after regional
      anesthesia. These techniques gain increasing attention.

      Current literature review indicates a high incidence of IONV during CS under spinal
      anesthesia up to 80%4. The etiology of intraoperative and postoperative nausea and vomiting
      (IONV and PONV) is multifactorial. Pregnant women are already likely to suffer from nausea
      and vomiting because of the pregnancy itself. According to Apfel's score predictive of PONV
      score that consists of four ascertained risk factors (female, non-smoker, opioid use,
      previous PONV events or motion sickness), parturients often meet at least two of these
      criteria with their gender and non-smoker status.

      Despite the practice of prescribing antiemetic prophylaxis medication, the incidence of
      nausea and vomiting in CS patient is still up to 30-50%6. The efficacy of antiemetic drugs is
      limited and their administration is not free from side effects. Nausea and vomiting not only
      causes dehydration, electrolyte imbalance and adversely affects wound healing, but also leads
      to increased wound pain, discomfort, and anxiety among post partum patient. This may further
      lead to increased medical expenses and extended hospital stay, leaving patient with the
      overall negative surgical experience. Hence, the idea of multimodal therapy in prophylaxis of
      IONV and PONV arises.

      Non-pharmacological techiniques such as acupuncture, acupressure,and transcutaneous acupoint
      electrical stimulation of the pericardium 6(PC6) Neiguan point have been studied for the
      prevention of PONV. The increasing popularity of these modalities is, in part, due to their
      low cost, simplicity, and in obstetrics, concern about placental transfer and secretion in
      breast milk of drugs.

      It is hypothesized that PC6 electroacupunture stimulation will reduce the incidence of IONV
      and PONV and reduce the usage of antiemetic drugs in post partum patient.
    
  