
    
      Parenteral Nutrition (PN) acts as an intravenous source of both macronutrients and
      micronutrients when enteral feeds are not possible. Intravenous fat emulsions often
      supplement PN and provide a dense source of non-protein calories and essential fatty acids.
      Although PN is life-sustaining, it is associated with a myriad of life-threatening
      complications including Parenteral Nutrition Associated Cholestasis (PNAC). Children
      dependent on PN for an extended period of time are high risk for liver failure.

      The etiology of PNAC remains poorly understood. Neonates with congenital and acquired
      gastrointestinal disorders are at high risk for PNAC and its subsequent complications.
      Examples of these gastrointestinal disorders include gastroschisis, volvulus, atresias,
      dysmotility and malabsorption disorders, pseudo-obstruction, and Hirschsprung's disease.
      These disorders often render the gut non-functional for extended periods of time. As a
      result, these patients become PN-dependent and develop PNAC.

      Specific PN components have been implicated in the pathogenesis of PNAC. More recently,
      standard intravenous fat emulsions have been labeled as one of the main culprits contributing
      to PNAC. Standard intravenous fat emulsions are dosed as high as 4 g/kg/d and are derived
      from soybean and/or safflower oil, which are rich in omega-6 fatty acids and phytosterols and
      contain a paucity of omega-3 fatty acids. It is unclear if the dose or high omega-6 fatty
      acid:omega-3 fatty acid ratio and phytosterols is responsible for the development of PNAC.

      The primary specific aim of this study is to determine if PNAC is related to the amount of
      standard intravenous fat emulsion administered to neonates with congenital/acquired
      gastrointestinal disorders. The investigators hypothesize that the PNAC is unrelated to the
      dose of intravenous fat emulsions. To test this hypothesis, neonates with congenital/acquired
      gastrointestinal disorders will be randomized to low dose standard soybean based parenteral
      fat, 1 g/kg/d, or standard dose soybean parenteral fat, 3 g/kg/d. Secondary outcomes include:
      mortality rate, length of stay, and anthropometric measurements at 28 days of life and at the
      end of the hospital stay, which is expected to be an average of 5 weeks.
    
  