
    
      Randomization:

      A local study nurse will use a web-based randomization system (permuted random blocks of two
      or four patients) to allocate consenting patients. Medical and research staff and
      investigators will be blinded to randomization scheme.

      Study Duration and Follow-up:

      All patients will be assigned to either a therapeutic or prophylactic platelet transfusion
      for a 6-month period. This period of time will allow us to assess our primary feasibility
      outcomes of enrollment, compliance with transfusion protocols, and completion of bleeding
      evaluations and quality of life questionnaires by patients.

      Patients in both groups will have their CBC measured at least weekly while on study. More
      frequent monitoring of the platelet count may be performed at the discretion of the treating
      physician. The research team will clinically assess patients within 1 week (+/- 3 days) of
      randomization, and monthly thereafter. Patients will be asked to report any non-cutaneous
      grade 2 or greater bleeding immediately to their treating physicians and the study team. All
      the self-assessments of bleeding will be reviewed at each patient visit to ensure that all
      clinically relevant bleeding episodes have been captured.

      Patients whose platelet count recovers to greater than 20 x 109/L for at least six weeks will
      be taken off the weekly platelet count monitoring as reflects clinical practice. They will
      continue to be monitored for the duration of the study. If their platelet count falls to 10 x
      109/L or below then they will be restarted on the monitoring and previous transfusion
      protocol.

      Data Collection:

      Baseline Data - The following clinical and laboratory data will be collected at the time of
      enrolment: (1) demographic data, (2) diagnosis including date and disease stage, (3) prior
      chemotherapy, (4) ECOG performance status, (5) comorbidites, (6) previous platelet and red
      cell transfusions, (7) red cell transfusion history, (8) prior bleeding events, (9) quality
      of life (EQ5D) (10) routine bloodwork

      Transfusions:

      All platelet and red cell transfusions will be recorded including date and number of units.
      For platelet transfusions, the type of platelet product (e.g. apheresis or buffy coat) and
      ABO compatibility will recorded. Additionally, the indication for all transfusions
      (prophylactic or to treat bleeding) will be obtained from the attending physician.

      Bleeding Assessment:

      Participants will be asked to complete a simple bleeding questionnaire on a daily basis which
      has been previously tested and used in outpatients with thrombocytopenia. Patients will
      receive a short training session and written material on how to complete the form. A bleeding
      assessment will be performed at all study follow-up visits (interview, physical exam and
      review of daily bleeding forms). Bleeding events will be assigned a bleeding grade by the
      study personnel. A final bleeding grade will be assigned by an adjudication panel of 2
      blinded physicians who will independently assign bleeding scores. Any discrepancies in
      bleeding scores will be resolved by consensus.

      Quality of Life:

      Quality of life will be measured using the EQ-5D. The EQ-5D is a validated tool for
      measurement of health-related quality of life there is a precedent for its use in transfusion
      medicine trials. Quality of life assessments will be performed at baseline and at all
      subsequent patient visits.
    
  