
    
      Study population and design:

      A randomized double blind controlled clinical trial will be conducted at the Endocrine clinic
      (KFHU) on 900 of patients with T2DM. This sample size was calculated at confidence interval
      of 95%. for the total diabetic outpatients in Endocrine clinic at KFHU during the period
      October 2020-May 2021.

      All subjects living in the 3 catchment areas (Dammam. Khobar and Dhahran) in the eastern
      province before inclusion were selected.

      Intervention All subjects participated in this study will be randomly (double-blind) allotted
      into three groups (each group N=300) to which the three waters were supplied in similar
      bottles marked A "tap water", B "Low Mg bottle water (50mg/l)" and C " high Mg bottle water
      (100 mg/l)". These doses have been chosen according to the guideline of WHO.

      All patients will be asked to consume at least one liter of water/day. When preparing coffee
      and tea, ordinary tap water could be used. The intervention will be lasted for lasted 3
      months. None of the participants will be changed their normal dietary habits during the
      trial.

      The mean values of all the studied parameters will be checked before starting the protocol
      for standardization of the protocol situp of the participants. Moreover, the diary magnesium
      intake will be calculated by a dietitian and all the influential factors such as, demographic
      factors, baseline 25(OH)D, Vit D and calcium intake, Oestrogen use and sun exposure will be
      controlled and monitored during the research.

      Inclusion criteria:

      All patients with type 2 on any diabetic treatment aged 20-85 years old with hypomagnesemia
      (less than 0.6 mmol/L (1.46 mg/dL).

      Exclusion criteria:

      Type 1 diabetic patients, pregnant women, patients who use of immunosuppressive,
      corticosteroids, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory, patients who have renal dysfunction or
      doing dialysis,

      Sampling and data collection:

      All participants will be seated in air-conditioned rooms and had 10-15 min of rest before
      measurements were taken. After signing the consent form, the demographic and clinical data of
      all subjects will be record including: address, education level, smoking, age, sex; and body
      weight and height were measured to calculate body mass index (BMI). The average of three
      consecutive blood pressure readings with intervals of 5-min rest will be obtained, using an
      electronic sphygmomanometer. All measurements and indicators will be taken at the base line
      and after three months of intervention.

      Blood and urine samples Blood samples will be taken before and after the intervention to
      determine the serum concentration of serum magnesium, Calcium, Phosphorus, Vit D, creatinine,
      Urea, Lipid profile, Uric acid, Liver function test, Fasting blood glucose, HbA1c, fasting
      C-peptide levels, fasting insulin levels and insulin sensitivity. The HOMA-IR will be
      calculated according to the following formulas: HOMA-IR = (glucose mg x insulin level)/405.
      Blood samples will be collected before and after the intervention period. A sample of urine
      will be collected to measure Microalbuminuria. The analysis will be performed at the central
      laboratory, KFHU.

      Research ethics:

      Ethical approved and performed under the guideline of the research ethics committee of Imam
      Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Saudi Arabia and written consent will be obtained from all
      subjects.

      Statistical analysis:

      The data was entered into an SPSS. The data analysis will be divided into two steps:
      Descriptive statistics and analysis of variance. The quantitative data will be represented in
      the form of proportions (%) and of means with standard deviations. The one-way ANOVA will be
      used to measure the changes between groups.

      Funds details:

      This project will be supported by The Saline Water Conversion Corporation Research Institute
      at Al-Jubail, KSA.
    
  