
    
      Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a serious, debilitating illness that affects persons of
      all ages, races, and socioeconomic backgrounds. Despite the availability of new and effective
      treatments over the last 20 years, recent evidence continues to demonstrate high rates of
      inadequate antidepressant medication treatment in practice settings. Practitioners vary
      widely in how they assess treatment outcomes, including symptoms, function, side-effect
      frequency and burden. In contrast to other chronic medical conditions such as diabetes
      mellitus, back/neck problems, or hypertension, clinicians treating patients with depression
      do not routinely evaluate measurement-based care (MBC) treatment parameters. MBC provides an
      essential framework for physicians to approach depression treatment consistent with their
      approach for other common disorders. MBC is an effective means to provide patient-centered
      care for MDD, personalizing treatment decisions based on patient progress and their ability
      to tolerate the medication.

      A key barrier to patient adherence with MBC treatment is that the approach requires patients
      to return to the clinic for several follow-up visits. The necessity of treatment visits
      varies widely among patients. Thus far, physicians using MBC for the treatment of MDD do not
      have a complete set of tools that are practical to use and allow treatment to be truly
      personalized patient-centered care.

      One solution to this problem is to use an enhanced electronic personal health record, such as
      the MyChart system. This system could be easily modified to include the central elements of
      MBC for depression to allow for the systematic assessment of a patient's depressive symptom
      severity, antidepressant tolerability, and adherence to treatment in a timely fashion. This
      information would be available to allow the physician to provide patient-centered care by
      utilizing standardized assessment to personalize treatment for depression. The proposed
      electronic-MBC (e-MBC) addresses a critical gap in depression treatment by providing
      regularly-scheduled drug monitoring and continuity of care, in the face of limited patient
      and clinic resources.

      Information technology (IT) systems have been effectively integrated into the medical
      treatment of patients but have yet to have substantial impact at the point-of-care. Applying
      e-MBC methods allows physicians to utilize existing information technology systems to improve
      depression treatment at the point-of-care. The key features of the proposed e-MBC approach
      are that it can be seamlessly integrated into standard clinical practice, and requires no
      additional IT knowledge or training to be effectively utilized by physicians and clinical
      staff.

      In this pilot study the investigators will compare standard treatment (office based
      antidepressant management) to a group receiving scheduled electronic MBC assessments via an
      enhanced personal health record system (e-MBC). To date, no one has published feasibility
      studies evaluating the use of personal health records for measurement-based care of
      depression patients.
    
  