
    
      In the current era of increased resistance to extended spectrum cephalosporins and
      penicillin/beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations, carbapenem antimicrobial agents are
      frequently the antibiotics of "last defense" for the most resistant pathogens in serious
      infections. However, the recent dissemination of serine carbapenemases (e.g. KPC) in
      Enterobacteriaceae within many hospitals worldwide now poses a considerable threat to
      carbapenems and other members of the beta-lactam class of antimicrobial agents.

      Infections caused by Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) are associated with high
      mortality rates and have limited treatment options. The loss of the carbapenem class of
      antimicrobial agents for treatment of Enterobacteriaceae (the most frequently occurring
      pathogens in the hospital setting), Acinetobacter baumannii, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa
      represents a critical setback in modern patient care.

      As a result of the current lack of an optimal treatment for patients who have infections due
      to a CRE, physicians manage these patients with the limited anti-infective options available,
      including aminoglycosides, polymyxin B, colistin, tigecycline, or various combinations of
      these. There are limited efficacy data available for many of these therapies when used to
      treat serious CRE infections, particularly in combination, but with limited or no alternative
      therapies currently available, such treatments have become the Best Available Therapy despite
      the toxicities associated with many of them.

      Vaborbactam is a novel beta-lactamase inhibitor that has inhibitory activity against many
      serine beta-lactamases and was optimized for inhibition of the KPC beta-lactamase and the
      potentiation of carbapenems against Enterobacteriaceae. Vaborbactam is being developed for
      use with meropenem (a broad spectrum injectable carbapenem antibiotic) to address the
      challenges of treatment of serious infections caused by pathogens increasingly resistant to
      available treatments.

      Vabomere, (meropenem-vaborbactam) administered as a fixed combination by intravenous (IV)
      infusion, is being developed to treat serious gram-negative infections, such as complicated
      urinary tract infections (cUTI), acute pyelonephritis (AP), hospital-acquired bacterial
      pneumonia (HABP), ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia (VABP), and bacteremia, including
      those infections caused by bacteria resistant to currently available carbapenems.
    
  