
    
      The investigators use the Browne method to estimate the number of patients required for the
      study. It was applied simple randomization of 40 patients in two groups, the first one
      consists of 20 patients for the Lichtenstein repair and the second group of 20 patients for
      Onstep repair.

      The Onstep procedure was performed by a surgeon skilled in the technique as described in the
      original article by Rosenberg and 3DMAXTM mesh by Bard was used. The technique is simple, the
      duration of the surgery is short and consists of a series of standardized steps. It combines
      an anterior with a preperitoneal approach, consisting of making a lateral incision to the
      rectus abdominis muscle and above the inguinal canal. It is dissected to a plane between the
      external and internal oblique fascia, the spermatic cord is dissected and sac reduction is
      performed, either directly or indirectly. The transversalis fascia is incised and the
      preperitoneal space is dissected. The mesh is preformed laterally to reinforce the deep
      inguinal ring and medially accommodates in the previously dissected preperitoneal space. The
      mesh was fixed to the Cooper's ligament, the pubic tubercle and the rectus abdominis muscle
      with 2-0 polypropylene suture.

      The Lichtenstein technique was performed by different surgeons and regular polypropylene mesh
      was used.

      The validated questionnaire in spanish and the visual pain scale were applied in the office
      at 1 week and by phone at 1 month, 3 and 6 months after surgery by two evaluators who did not
      know the surgical technique used. Statistical analysis of the results of the survey and
      visual pain scale in patients operated with the Onstep and Lichtenstein technique was
      performed with Student's t test and Fisher's exact test.

      For the validation of the Inguinal Pain Questionnaire in our population the English-Spanish
      translation of the IPQ was carried out. Then the translation from Spanish to English was made
      by a person with English proficiency adjusting the initial translation. All postoperative
      patients with unilateral inguinal plasty, older than 16 years, with Lichtenstein or
      laparoscopic technique (TEP and TAPP), performed by different surgeons were included. The
      survey was applied in Spanish and numerical scale of pain to 21 patients who met the
      inclusion criteria, operated at the Central Hospital "Dr. Ignacio Morones Prieto", a week and
      a month after surgery. The first survey was conducted in the first week after surgery, the
      second was applied by telephone 4 weeks later, both performed by evaluators familiarized with
      the survey and unrelated to the knowledge of the surgical technique used. Analysis of the
      survey data was carried out using Cronbach's alpha for internal validation, re-test with the
      Spearman's rho to compare the variability of the responses with time and finally, the answers
      of the survey were compared with the score of the numerical scale of pain.
    
  