
    
      1) NGAL (Neutrophil Gelatinase Associated Lipocalin): in the cardiovascular system , NGAL and
      endothelial cell apoptosis , atherosclerosis , and abdominal aortic aneurysm associated with
      thrombosis of a relationship. Heart and kidney complications in common a number of studies
      have demonstrated that NGAL in acute heart failure , cardiac catheterization / angiography
      management, and diagnostic usefulness of acute coronary artery disease and heart surgery ,
      and how to make NGAL may pathological processes in the cardiovascular play a role. In the
      past studies have also demonstrated in sepsis (sepsis), cardiopulmonary around to support
      cardiac surgery, caused by acute renal developer injury and renal transplant patients and
      other studies confirm this early detection of serum creatinine more acute kidney injury . So
      we tried to make the results in this study .

      (2) Cystatin C: Chronic kidney disease is a cardiovascular morbidity and mortality risk and a
      significant global health problem. Has been used to estimate renal function , serum
      creatinine, can be used instead . In several studies have shown to be more sensitive than
      that for predicting eGFRcreat serum creatinine or adverse events. This parameter also showed
      greater diagnostic sensitivity for the detection of mild renal damage . Cystatin C and
      metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular risk factors is also a correlation study confirmed (M.
      Magnusson et.al, 2013). Therefore , Cystatin C is emerging as a new biomarker for
      cardiovascular disease.

      (3) Galectin-3: has proven to be a marker of myocardial fibrosis, Lars Gullestad , who in
      2012 also found that Galectin-3 is mainly predictive of ischemic etiology . elderly patients
      with systolic heart failure death. And approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
      help in the prognosis of patients with heart failure in 2011 . Research has also pointed out
      that , Galectin-3 and there is a positive correlation between renal injury , and the
      correlation is not affected by whether the patients suffering from heart failure while
      affected.

      (4) Copeptin: Copeptin was considered non -specific stress response of the marker , and may
      also have been proposed various non- cardiovascular monitoring and early warning and
      cardiovascular diseases ( coronary artery disease, heart failure and acute ) , etc., in a
      previous study , including patients with acute myocardial infarction was found with Copeptin
      related , and there Copeptin associated left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and also
      the follow-up patients found to have a direct correlation with left ventricular volume, and
      is considered poor prognostic factor of death.

      (5) MR-Pro ANP (midregional-Pro atrial natriuretic peptide): discovery and diagnosis of heart
      failure can be predicted in 1984, is a major discovery in the field of biological indicators
      of heart , but also a milestone, Elif Elmas et al found that when the 2011 MR-Pro ANP in
      patients suffering from cardiovascular disease as a diagnosis of myocardial fibrosis new
      biological indicators. Past research has also pointed out that can be used to predict lower
      respiratory tract infections and pneumonia, long and short-term mortality, Alzheimer's
      disease, and can diagnose sepsis and bacterial shock and prognosis prediction .

      (6) sST2 (somatostatin2): Excessive sST2 may cause abnormal cardiac hypertrophy , fibrosis,
      and heart failure . Clinically, symptoms of heart failure with a high concentration of the
      patients diagnosed with sST2 severity determined correlations to predict increased risk of
      complications. Past research indicates measured values sST2 patients suffering from
      cardiovascular disease increased Jie phenomenon, and found that the measured values sST
      severity of cardiovascular disease 2 was positively correlated, has now been approved for use
      in patients with cardiovascular disease and new biomarkers predictive value of heart failure
      and death , but for the progress of heart failure severity change , changes in the measured
      value for sST2 correlation someone has not been confirmed.
    
  