
    
      This study will be conducted as a prospective, randomized, longitudinal, double-blinded trial
      at a single ambulatory surgery centre with 3 groups of 20 children. Group 1 will receive oral
      acetaminophen (15 mg/kg) 1 hour pre-operatively and high-dose intravenous dexamethasone (0.5
      mg/kg, max. dose 10 mg) immediately after induction of anesthesia. Group 2 will receive oral
      acetaminophen elixir (15 mg/kg) 1 hour pre-operatively and low-dose intravenous dexamethasone
      (0.15 mg/kg, maximum of 8 mg) immediately after induction of anesthesia. Group 3 will receive
      an oral placebo 1 hour pre-operatively and low dose intravenous dexamethasone (0.15 mg/kg,
      maximum of 8 mg) immediately after induction of anesthesia. Dose of dexamethasone is a
      potential confounder if patients in the low-dose dexamethasone groups weigh enough to obtain
      the maximum dose (8 mg). We expect this occurrence to be rare, as dexamethasone will be dosed
      for ideal bodyweight, but subgroup analysis by actual dose received will be performed to
      compare the two dosing regimens (0.15mg/kg and 0.5 mg/kg).

      In addition to these medications, patients will receive the standard peri-operative care at
      our centre, which consists of intra- operative ondansetron at the discretion of the
      anesthesiologist, and standing orders for acetaminophen (15 mg/kg) and ibuprofen (10 mg/kg)
      around the clock. Patients older than five years also receive morphine elixir (0.1 mg/kg
      rounded down to the nearest 0.5 mg) p.r.n (when necessary) at the discretion of the nurse.
      Thus, patients of all three groups will receive adequate post-operative symptom control. The
      Pediatric Otolaryngologist (Dr. Josee Paradis, Dr. Julie Strychowsky, or Dr. Murad Husein)
      who is the patient's physician and will be performing the tonsillectomy, will initially
      approach the participant and substitute decision maker (SDM) to describe the study. If the
      patient and SDM agree to consider the study, the study will be described in more detail and
      study consent/assent will be obtained by a research assistant or a physician (who is not the
      primary physician). We will recruit a convenience sample of 60 patients aged 3-13 years
      scheduled for tonsillectomy to be performed by the principal investigator or co-investigators
      (J.P., M.H. or J.S.). For children aged 3 to 6 years, SDM informed consent will be obtained;
      for children aged 7 to 12 years, SDM written consent and child assent will be requested; for
      children 13 years of age, written consent will be obtained from a SDM and from the child. The
      patients will be randomized to one of the three treatment groups by a computerized
      randomization table. Data from the tonsillectomy procedure, including whether analgesia was
      needed intraoperatively, and in the post-anesthesia care unit, will be recorded.
      Self-reported pain intensity will be scored on the Oucher tool, a number and picture scale
      validated in children age 3-13. A research assistant or nurse will be trained to obtain
      Oucher reports at the patient's bedside at specific post-operative events, which correspond
      to time points. The Oucher tool is simple to learn and takes minimal time to administer. The
      first pain report will be obtained once the patient wakes from anesthesia (15 - 45 min post-
      operation), then upon transfer to step-down care (1 - 2 hrs hour post-operation), then at 3
      hours post-operation, and finally upon discharge (or at 5 hours post-operation, if the
      patient is not anticipated to be discharged by this time). Many of the details surrounding
      the operation will be gathered in post-hoc review of the patient's chart by the research
      assistant. If the patient is transferred from the PACU to the day surgery unit (i.e.
      discharge is anticipated before the end of the day), the information from the entire stay in
      the day surgery will be collected. If the patient is admitted to the floor (i.e. staying
      overnight in the hospital for observation), information will be collected from the first 4
      hours after admission. The information gathered from the chart will include complications of
      surgery, whether or not the patient had post-operative bleeding requiring a change in
      management, and also whether or not the patient had post-operative bleeding that required an
      operating room procedure. Time to first oral fluid intake, as well as amount of oral intake
      (measured in quantity of popsicles) in the post-anesthesia care unit and total oral intake
      before discharge will also be gathered from the patient's chart, as well as the time to first
      administration of morphine, the dose of morphine required, and the frequency of
      post-operative vomiting until time of discharge. For home pain management, all patients are
      advised to take acetominophen (15mg/kg) every 6 hours as needed, alternating with ibuprofen
      (10mg/kg) every 6 hours as needed. At discharge (average 5 hours post-operation),
      parents/guardians will be provided with a package including the Pediatric Quality of Life
      Inventory with questions about oral intake and activity, as well as a space to record any
      incidents of vomiting, the Oucher tool to evaluate the patient's pain severity, and a
      medication log to keep track of the pain medication (over the counter or prescribed) that the
      patient has taken. Parents/guardians will be given a measured cup to record quantity of oral
      fluid intake for the day. Parents will be asked to fill out the first questionnaire at
      discharge (average 5 hours post-operation) time point, and they will be encouraged to raise
      any questions or concerns they have about how to complete the questionnaires. Subsequently,
      these instruments will be completed by parents/guardians (relationship to patient will be
      noted on each form and they will be encouraged to have the same parent/guardian complete the
      form each time) on post-operative days 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 before bedtime. The research
      assistant will contact parents/guardians and patients by telephone on the first postoperative
      day to follow-up with any questions or concerns about the survey. On the last weekday before
      the patient's follow-up appointment, a reminder call will be made to ask the parent/guardian
      to bring their completed questionnaire to the appointment. On the 14th post-operative day
      patients will attend a follow-up visit where they will be assessed and their completed forms
      will be collected. If the patient had any emergency department visits related to the
      procedure, the research assistant will consult the hospital database to obtain information
      about the emergency department visit, including date, chief complaint, and management.
    
  