
    
      Lung disease are the most common condition in pediatrics and also the primary cause of death
      among children less than 5 years old(Chen Shui-Wen et al.,2015).

      Chest X ray consider as the first line to evalute the chest disease (Kim O et al. ,2000), in
      identified the pulmonary opacities (Ozkaya A et al., 2018),but there is limitation in the
      interpretation of the location and nature of an area of increase opacity on chest radiographs
      particularly in young infants with varied configuration of thymus and differentiation between
      pulmonary , pleural and mediastinal lesions is not always easy(Barillari A et al .,2011),so
      the thoracic computed tomography is recommended as diagnostic gold standard to follow up
      pediatric chest X ray opacities and masses(Lameh A et al. ,2019),but not consider as first
      line of radiological evaluation because each chest computed tomography gives to patient an
      effective dose of eight msv equivalent to four hundred chest X ray (Prithviraj D.,2014), also
      high cost ,and longe waiting times for imaging (Lameh A et al .,2019).

      Chest sonography consider as first line investigation in evaluation of diaphragmatic ,pleural
      and chest wall lesions due to lack of superficial adipose tissue in pediatric patients (Goh
      Y, et al. ,2016),but undervalued for lungs lesion for many years ,because the ribs ,sternum
      and aerated lungs had been considered obstacles to ultrasound waves (Dietrich C, et al.,
      2015). However improvements in technology have lead to production of higher-resolution
      transducers and techniques such as tissue harmonic imaging, which lead to improved spatial
      resolution and deeper tissue penetration of ultrasound waves (Lameh A et al. ,2019),also the
      pathological processes as inflammations ,trauma or neoplastic within the chest wall ,pleural,
      and lungs result in profound changes in tissue composition and improved acoustic transmission
      and allow for adequate lungs sonographic evaluation(Dietrich C, et al., 2015).

      Chest sonography serves as a powerful complementary diagnostic tool with advantage of easy
      availability ,rapid ,radiation free (Dietrich C, et al., 2015), repeatable and inexpensive
      methods, determining the high diagnostic accuracy in detecting pediatric chest lesions (Lameh
      A et al .,2019).

      Causes of pediatric chest X ray opacity:

      Radio-opacities are more common and significant compared to increased radiolucency , can be
      caused by many different pathologies and present with different patterns (Gelaw S.,2015), as:

      Consolidation:

      Caused by replacement of the air in distal airways and the alveoli by fluid or soft tissues.
      Radiological, this is seen as opacity of any size and mostly homogenous, it has no volume
      loss, has the tendency to coalescence, has ill-defined margins, non-segmental distribution,
      irregular shape, air bronchogram (Gelaw S.,2015).

      By ultrasound its similar in echogenicity and echotexture to liver and spleen. Bronchograms
      present within the solid appearing area of echogenicity as multiple bright dot like , and
      branching linear structures represent air in bronchi and scattered residual air in
      alveoli(Barillari A et al. ,2011).

      Differentiate from atelectasia by presence of dynamic air bronchogram (Barillari A et al
      .,2011).

      Collapse (atelectasis):

      This may affect the whole hemi-lung or sub-division of the lungs, such as the lobes ,
      segments or subsegments of the lung. Radiological, it causes opacity and signs of volume
      loss(Gelaw S.,2015).

      It is important to to differentiate focal areas of cosolidation from those of collapse ,since
      collapse may be associated with a foreign body inhalation or other extrinisic obstruction
      (Arthur R.,2003) . By chest ultrasound atelectasis similar in echogenicity and echotexture to
      liver and the air broncograms appear crowded and parallel (Barillari A et al.,2011).

      Interstitial opacities:

      This is the common presentation of chronic diffuse interstitial lung diseases (Gelaw
      S.,2015).

      Lung ultrasound is an emerging tool in diagnosis of interstitial lung diseases by evaluation
      number of B lines ,pleural irregularities and nodules or consolidation (Falcetta et al.,
      2018).

      Pleural/chest wall opacities:

      Pleural opacities, such as pleural mass lesion, pleural thickening or calcification or mass
      arising from soft tissue or bony chest wall (Gelaw S., 2015) , in the pleural effusion is
      challenging to differentiate between the pleural effusion and consolidation by the X ray
      especially in hemithorax (Prina E., 2014).ultrasound provides detailed information about the
      nature of pleural fluid and allows one to determine whether a fluid collection is amenable to
      aspiration (Kim O et al., 2000).

      Nodular opacities or mass:

      These are rounded increased opacities that can be caused by different pathologies.
      Radiological , these can be seen on any location, with sizes ranging from pinpoint to mass
      (it is called mass if >3 cm), solitary or multiple (such as miliary nodules, if multiple
      small nodules ≈2 mm in diameter), can have different shapes; and margins can be smooth,
      umbilicated or lobulated. The outline can be sharp, ill-defined or speculated (Gelaw
      S.,2015).

      Ring opacities:

      These are annular opacities with central radiolucency usually due to cavitations of
      pre-existing lesion, but also can be caused by bullae, benign air cyst, loculated
      pneumothorax or fibrocystic changes (Gelaw S.,2015).

      Linear opacities:

      These are thin or thick (band shadow, if 5 mm or more) linear shadows. The most common
      abnormal linear opacity is a scar. Post-primary tuberculosis commonly heals with fibrosis
      presenting with irregular linear opacities with or without volume loss (Gelaw S.,2015).
    
  