
    
      Anaemia is one of the most common micronutrient deficiencies worldwide and 50% of anaemia
      occurrences were reported to be caused by iron deficiency. The national prevalence of anaemia
      in Malaysia was 24.6%, which was higher in women (35.5%) compared to men (14.3%). Combatting
      anaemia/iron deficiency requires cohesive approach, as its occurrence is suggested to be
      multifactorial. Iron supplements have been widely used, whilst, either dietary pattern
      modification or iron fortification may be implemented at population levels. Despite numerous
      approach implemented, the problems are still prevalent. There is recently emerging evidence
      of the utilisation of vitamin D, as iron absorption enhancer that acts on suppression of
      hepcidin. However, there is scarcity of randomised controlled trial, investigating the effect
      of the vitamin D supplementation administered routinely, aiding as an iron absorption
      enhancer, on iron status especially in the general population, not only in Malaysia but
      worldwide.

      This is a placebo controlled, double-blind randomised controlled trial, designed to
      investigate the effect of an 8-week vitamin D3-fortified fruit juice supplementation on
      haematological indicators and hepcidin response in a cohort of marginally-low iron stores
      Malaysia childbearing-aged women. The study is divided into 2 phases which includes Phase 1
      when potential participants will be screened, randomised and Phase 2 where all the eligible
      participants will consume either vitamin D3-fortified fruit juices containing 4000 IU (100
      mcg) (vitamin D) or placebo-fruit juices (placebo) daily for the duration of 8 weeks. At each
      4-week interval, 10 ml fasted blood sample will be collected, as well as information on
      dietary habit and anthropometric measurement. Mixed model repeated measures analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) will be performed to determine the effect of intervention and the
      interaction with time points for all iron status and vitamin D status blood biomarkers. The
      clinical aspects of anticipated findings in the present study may be particularly applied to
      the recovery of iron status in iron deficient population, through the use of vitamin D
      supplementation in food fortification as a novel iron absorption enhancer.
    
  