
    
      There is some uncertainty with respect to the optimal dietary treatment of type 2 diabetes.
      In addition to energy balance, macronutrient composition, dietary fiber and glycemic load,
      increasing evidence suggests that the direct endocrine effects of food may be important.

      In this trial, the intervention is based on two diets. The healthy diet with grains and dairy
      is based on whole grains, low-fat dairy, fish, shellfish, fruit, vegetables, legumes, eggs,
      nuts and refined vegetable oils rich in monounsaturated fatty acids (this is called "healthy
      diet A"). The healthy diet without grains and dairy is based on fish, shellfish, lean meat,
      fruit, vegetables, root vegetables, eggs and nuts, but excludes grains, legumes, refined
      vegetable oils, dairy products and salt (this is called "healthy diet B"). Both diets were
      classified as very healthy using validated nutritional software, and are considered healthy
      regarding macronutrient composition, fiber, mineral and vitamin intake according to the
      official Spanish dietary guidelines. The macro and micronutrient ratios, fiber content and
      glycemic load in healthy diet A and healthy diet B have been set to be equal.

      The goal is to include 15 patients (>18 years) with medical diagnosis of type 2 diabetes,
      with or without medication, and increased waist circumference (≥80 cm for women and ≥94 cm
      for men), to a cross-over trial during two periods of 4-weeks separated by a 6-week washout
      period.

      Lunch will be served in a hospital kitchen for control of nutrient intake, while the rest of
      meals will be eaten at home according to specific directions.

      The working hypothesis of this study is that food choice has beneficial effects on the
      control of glucose beyond macro/micronutrient composition, fiber content, glycemic load and
      weight loss.

      This study will provide information on whether food choice and diet quality has greater
      impact than macro/micronutrient composition, fiber content, glycemic load and weight loss in
      glucose control in patients with type 2 diabetes, and the need to conduct a long-term trial
      testing our hypothesis.
    
  