
    
      Urgency urinary incontinence (UUI) and fecal incontinence (FI) are two highly prevalent
      pelvic floor disorders which negatively impact quality of life (QOL). Among women with
      urgency urinary incontinence (UUI), 8-20% also suffer from FI.

      Initial management of both UUI and FI consists of behavioral therapies with or without
      pharmacologic management. First line management of FI includes diet, fluid and fiber intake
      adjustments (Grade A), antidiarrheal medication (Grade B) and exercises to strengthen and
      enhance awareness of the anal sphincter (Grade C). If symptoms fail to improve with these
      measures by 8-12 weeks, further investigations should be considered before moving to more
      invasive management options such as bulking agents, sphincterplasty or sacral nerve
      stimulation.

      In addition to fiber and antidiarrheals, medications with antimuscarinic effects such as
      hyoscyamine and tricyclic antidepressants are often used in the treatment of FI and IBS-D.
      Antimuscarinic medications function in this setting by blockade of colonic muscarinic
      acetylcholine receptors causing smooth muscle relaxation, decreased gut motility and
      prolonged colon transit time.

      In patients with overactive bladder (OAB) with UUI, anti-muscarinic medications or a
      β3-adrenoreceptor agonist medication can be added to behavioral therapy as first line to
      optimize symptom control and QOL (Gormley 2015). In patients being treated for UUI,
      constipation is often viewed as an unwanted side effect of antimuscarinic medications, with
      varying constipation rates observed among the different medications. Non-selective
      antimuscarinic medications such as fesoterodine (Toviaz ®) and tolterodine (Detrol ®) may be
      less likely to cause constipation, whereas newer M2 or M3-selective agents such as
      darifenacin (Enablex ®), solifencin (Vesicare®) or trospium (Sanctura ®) may be more
      constipating. Darifenacin is notable for the highest constipation rates- up to 15% for the
      7.5mg dose, and up to 21% for the 15mg dose.

      While there is no current evidence for one specific antimuscarinic medication use in patients
      suffering with dual incontinence (specifically UUI and FI), many providers use the more
      constipating antimuscarinic medications as treatment in this setting. Patients with
      loose-stool-predominant FI may benefit from the constipating side effects by slowed colonic
      transit time, firmer bowel movements and thereby improved bowel-related QOL. Only one study
      has previously examined the effect of antimuscarinic medication for OAB on bowel-related QOL.
      In this descriptive study, 90 patients who were treated with antimuscarinic medication for
      OAB were followed to measure change in ePAQ (electronic Personal Assessment Questionnaire)
      score. Investigators reported significant improvement in bowel-related QOL three to six
      months after treatment. Authors did not specify pre-treatment diagnoses, symptoms or details
      of the antimuscarinic treatment.

      While anecdotally antimuscarinic medications are an effective first line medication in
      patients with dual incontinence, more evidence is needed. The goal of our study therefore, is
      to observe the effect of standard of care antimuscarinic therapy for UUI on fecal
      incontinence symptoms in women with dual incontinence. Investigators will compare patient
      reported fecal incontinence symptoms before and after treatment in women with dual
      incontinence who elect to undergo standard of care medical management for UUI with the
      antimuscarinic medication darifenacin.

      Hypothesis: In patients with dual incontinence, treatment of urgency urinary incontinence
      with darifenacin 7.5mg will improve FI symptom severity at 8 weeks Primary Aim: To
      characterize change in FI symptom severity (change in Vaizey score) after darifenacin
      treatment in patients with dual incontinence at 8 weeks

      Secondary Aims:

      Secondary Aim #1: To characterize post-treatment change in FI frequency using 7-day bowel
      diaries, change in quality of life (change in Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life (FIQOL)
      total and subscale scores), and characterize treatment improvement using the Patient Global
      Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) measure Secondary Aim #2: To describe compliance and
      adverse effects of antimuscarinic medication in patients with dual incontinence.

      Secondary Aim #3: To describe effect of antimuscarinic medication on OAB symptom bother and
      quality of life in patients with dual incontinence, using the OAB questionnaire short form
      (OAB-q SF)
    
  