
    
      The efficacy of antiretroviral treatments in sub-Saharan Africa has been demonstrated in
      cohort studies and pilot trials. The treatment regimens tested in these studies were derived
      from those used in pre-marketing trials conducted in industrialized countries.

      However, the choice of antiretrovirals for national programs in poor countries is largely
      based on drug availability through the Access program, together with cost and supply
      considerations, rather than on field evaluations of recommended strategies.

      Concomitantly with the development of antiretroviral access programs in the southern
      hemisphere, first-line treatments in industrialized countries have tended to become simpler,
      thereby improving their convenience and reducing the incidence and severity of their adverse
      effects. These simplified treatments involve fewer tablets and intakes, fixed-dose
      combinations, and also radically new strategies such as boosted protease inhibitor and
      tenofovir. These simplified strategies are being extensively evaluated in industrialized
      countries.

      Long-term economic benefits will be a determining factor in the adoption of these strategies
      by poor countries.

      Methods:

      We will conduct a phase-III unblinded randomised trial focusing on the early virologic
      efficacy, tolerability and immuno-virologic efficacy of four simplified antiretroviral
      regimens given for 96 weeks to previously untreated HIV-1-infected patients in Senegal and
      Cameroon. The following four simplified treatments will be tested: TDF/FTC/NVP, LPV/TDF,
      TDF/FTC/AZT and TDF/FTC/EFV. The required number of patients (n=120) is compatible with the
      short-term recruitment capacity of two clinical investigation centers in Senegal and
      Cameroon.

      Objective:

      The goal of this trial is to demonstrate that these new treatments are as effective as a
      reference triple-agent regimen (TDF/FTC/EFV) in driving plasma viral load below the detection
      limit early during treatment. The principal objective is to identify simplified treatments
      capable of driving viral load below 50 copies/mL at week 16 in at least 50% of patients. If
      successful, the initial treatments will be continued and re-assessed at 96 weeks.

      Study design:

      120 patients previously unexposed to antiretroviral drugs will be recruited over a one-year
      period in two treatment centers in Dakar (Infectious Diseases department of Fann University
      Hospital) and Cameroon (Yaounde Military Hospital and Principal Hospital)

      Expected results:

      This study is fully in keeping with WHO/UNAIDS recommendations on antiretroviral treatment
      simplification in poor countries. These new treatments must be evaluated in the countries
      concerned, given the often very advanced stage of HIV disease at diagnosis, intercurrent
      health disorders, and local socioeconomic conditions.

      This trial is not designed to compare these new treatments with one another, but rather to
      select the most promising treatments for future use. These preliminary results will help with
      the choice of treatment strategies for cohort studies and large-scale randomized trials.
    
  