
    
      In this study, the investigators aim to examine the effect of mental health literacy
      Web-based education initiative on the knowledge level, help-seeking, and stigmatization of
      students and parents.

      This study is a randomized controlled experimental study. The research population consists of
      students and their parents will be studying in two schools located in Izmir province in
      western Turkey. Fifty people were assigned to the experimental and control groups formed
      separately from parents and students for the sampling, and a total of 200 people were planned
      to be included.

      The study will be conducted between February 2021 and February 2022. Students between the
      ages of 12-18 who voluntarily agree to participate in the study and their parents will be
      included in this study. Another criterion is that all sampled groups can access and use the
      internet Those who have a visual, perceptual, or auditory problem and cannot access or use
      the internet will not be included in the study.

      Psychometric evaluation of scales:

      Mental Health Literacy Scale for Children and Adolescents (MHLS): This scale, developed by
      Rozbruch and Friedberg (2018), consists of 5 items. The Cronbach alpha coefficient calculated
      for the internal consistency of the scale is .84. The scale is a three-point Likert-type
      scale consisting of two items multiple choice, one item open-ended, two items 8
      sub-dimensions (Parents, Friends, Clergyman, Psychologist, Counselor, Psychiatrist, Family
      Doctor, Teacher) (not suitable - not sure - suitable) has the option to answer. The lowest
      value that can be taken from the scale varies between 0 and the highest value: 6. (question
      1: 1 point, question 3: 2 points, question 4: 2 points, question 5: 1 point) Turkish
      adaptation of the scale was made by the researchers Parental Mental Health Literacy Scale
      (MHLS): It was developed by O'Connor, Casey (2015) et al for the 18-60 age band. Cronbach's
      alpha coefficient calculated for the internal consistency of the scale is .87. The scoring of
      the MHLS is created as a result of the summation of all items, and there are also items
      scored backward. As the scale score increases, the MHL level increases. For the scale with 35
      questions in total, 5 and 4 Likert-type gradings were used. For 4-point Likert-grade answers:
      absolutely unlikely (1 point), unlikely (2 points), probable (3 points), absolutely probable
      (4 points); For 5-point Likert-grade answers: strongly disagree / strongly reluctant (1
      point), disagree / unwilling (2 points), indecisive (3 points), agree / willing (4 points),
      strongly agree / strongly willing (5 points). Items of the scale to be scored in reverse are
      10, 12, 15, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28th items.

      The maximum score that can be obtained from the scale is 160, the minimum score is 35.

      Attitude Scale for Seeking Psychological Help-Short Form (ASPH-S): This tool, which aims to
      measure attitudes towards getting psychological help (ASPH-S), is a revised and abbreviated
      version of ASPH, developed by Türküm (1997). As a result of the factor analysis performed for
      the construct validity of the ASPH-S scale, it was determined that it consists of a
      two-factor structure that includes positive (12 items) and negative (6 items) seeking
      psychological help, explaining 52.6% of the total variance. The Cronbach's alpha coefficient
      calculated for internal consistency of the scale consisting of 18 items is .90. Test-retest
      reliability for stability over time. It was found to be 77. The score that can be obtained
      from the scale is between 18 and 90, and the low score indicates that there is no need for
      help. The scale, which consists of 5 Likert-type categories, is scored as Fully Agree,
      Strongly Agree, Undecided, Somewhat Agree, and Never Disagree. (Fully Agree = 5, Strongly
      Agree = 4, Undecided = 3 Somewhat Agree = 2, Not at all = 1) 6 items of the scale are
      calculated by scoring in reverse. These items are: 2, 8, 12, 13, 16, 17.

      Self-Stigma in Seeking Psychological Help Scale (SSSPHS): The scale developed by Vogel et al.
      (2006) consists of ten items. The scale is a 5-point Likert type one-dimensional scale. The
      scale was adapted to Turkish by Kapıkıranlar (2013). Cronbach alpha value is calculated for
      the internal consistency of the scale. Is 71. Confirmatory factor analysis of the
      one-dimensional scale was performed. The internal consistency of university students (17-33)
      was calculated as .91, and the test-retest reliability with an interval of two months was
      calculated as .72. Some items of the scale are scored reversely, and high scores indicate the
      high level of self-stigma in asking for help. Some items of the scale are scored inversely,
      and a high score indicates a high level of self-stigma in asking for help.

      Ethics Committee approval was obtained from Dokuz Eylül University Health Sciences Institute.
      (2019 / 23-23) The permit of the institution will be obtained from İzmir Provincial
      Directorate of National Education Strategy Development Unit. Informed consent will be signed
      by the parents of the student in conducting the study.

      Dependent Variable: Adolescent/Adult Mental Health Literacy knowledge level, Attitudes
      towards Seeking Psychological Help, Self-Stigma in Seeking Psychological Help score averages

      Independent Variable: Mental Health literacy education (Student and Parent) Primary outcomes:
      Adolescent/Adult Mental Health Literacy knowledge level Secondary outcomes: Attitudes towards
      Seeking Psychological Help, Self-Stigma in Seeking Psychological Help score averages
    
  