
    
      In the first part of the proposal, we will determine the cellular responses to various
      microenvironmental factors (such as lactosis, acidosis, hypoxia, glucose deprivation) in
      cultured epithelial cells (commercially obtained) making use of DNA microarray analysis. From
      the analysis of these microarray assays, we will obtain the gene signatures reflecting how
      cells respond to these environments stresses. These gene signatures will be used to analyze
      and annotate the gene expression patterns in the tumor samples and whether hyperthermia will
      affect the physiological parameters and the corresponding gene signatures.

      In the second part of the proposal, we will work with Dr. Dewhirst to perform gene expression
      study of cervical cancer samples from a phase III, multicenter, randomized clinical trial
      (IRB 4516-05-2R2). The subjects will de-identified and we will not obtain directly the PHI of
      the subjects in this trial. Subjects will be randomized to chemoradiotherapy alone or
      chemoradiotherapy + hyperthermia. For subjects randomized to hyperthermia, heat treatments
      will be administered concurrently with chemotherapy once weekly during the course of external
      beam radiation. In the hyperthermia suite, catheters will be placed in the cervical os,
      vagina and rectum for internal temperature monitoring. Hyperthermia will be given externally
      to the pelvis and abdomen using the BSD Sigma 60 ,Sigma Eye or Sigma Ellipse systems. Initial
      power will be limited to less than 1500 watts with phase and amplitude adjusted for equal
      surface electric fields in each quadrant of the applicator. Heating will continue for 60
      minutes after average cervical os or interstitial temperatures of 40째C have been achieved, or
      for a maximum total duration of 90 minutes, whichever is longest. The bolus temperature will
      be 37째 at initiation of power and will be reduced as necessary for patient comfort and/or to
      help maintain oral temperature of 38.5C. Power will also be reduced or treatment will be
      stopped at the patient request, or due to intractable pain, nausea or vomiting, if normal
      tissue temperature rises to 44째C, pulse > 160, BP > 180/100 or < 90/50, altered mental
      status, or systemic temperature > 38.5째C.

      A. The research materials will include the tumor biopsy obtained before and after HT
      treatments to be used for gene expression studies as well as for the IHC and ISH studies to
      the findings from our microarray analysis. We will also obtain the information on the tumor
      physiological parameters information measured in these tumors.

      B. The data of the tumor physiological parameters measured and the response to treatments and
      other clinical outcomes of these patients will also be acquired.

      C. Only the physicians taking care of the patients will have access to the patient identifies
      and other Protected Health Information (PHI). All information will be de-identified and
      remain anonymous during the studies.

      D. The specimens will be collected when the patients undergo medical care for their
      respective diseases. No new materials or data will need to be collected specifically for this
      proposal. These biopsies and physiological measurements are included in the original proposed
      clinical trials.
    
  