
    
      -  All sites were monitored randomly every year. Trained monitors were designated to
           monitor the process, compliance of enrollment criteria and accuracy of original data by
           visiting every site.

        -  In order to make sure the accuracy of data collected, we make some restrictions (range
           or format) and reminding functions in the electronic Case Report Form (eCRF).

        -  Detail information of each variable has been pre-defined. Staffs were trained before
           data entry.

        -  Standard Operating Procedures: Case data were collected by printed Case Report Form
           (CRF) and entered into a web-based data center (http://103.31.202.60/subFW/). Hospitals
           that did not complete eCRF would send printed CRF to data center. Trained clinicians or
           staffs were asked to enter these data into the web-based eCRF. Following variables were
           included in the database: (i) demography and characteristics of patients: age, gender,
           medical history, life style, precipitating factors of HF, laboratory tests, ECG, chest
           X-ray and comorbidities diagnosed at discharge. Physical examination, echocardiography,
           laboratory tests were performed at both admission and discharge; (ii) Heart failure
           management included pharmacological treatments (before admission, during hospitalization
           and at discharge), and nonpharmacological treatments (including coronary
           revascularization, implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, cardiac resynchronization
           therapy, pacemakers, and surgical or transcatheter valvular therapies, electrical
           conversion, intra aortic balloon pump, continuous renal replacement therapy, and
           invasive mechanical ventilation).The causes of in-hospital death included sudden death,
           cardiac death and non-cardiac death. All patients were followed up after discharge in
           outpatient department, or via electronic hospital records, or conversations with
           patients or patients' families by telephone. Outcomes for post-discharge included death
           (sudden death, cardiac death and non-cardiac death), and rehospitalization for heart
           failure deterioration, acute coronary syndrome, cardiac shock, syncope, and cardiac
           transplantation were recorded and entered into the web-based database. Information about
           physical examination, laboratory tests, ECG, chest X-ray, echocardiography, and costs
           and use of medications were collected at each follow-up visit.

        -  Sample size: A total of 15000 patients with heart failure were planned to be recruited
           from hospitals based on classification of economic-geographic regions in China, and a
           minimum number of patients were expected to enroll according to the number of
           hospitalized cases for each hospital. By September 2015, data from 13687 patients have
           been collected.

        -  Plan for missing data: Validated data was used to describe the clinical characteristics
           and treatment of patients without considering those missing. As for September 2015, the
           missing data on most of variables accounts for no more than 10% of all patients (n =
           13687). Furthermore, variables obtained in multiple Logistic regression models (10318)
           for death were from over three quarters of (75.4%) of all patients. Simple and multiple
           imputation methods were not used in this study because of a large number of patients has
           been validated for analysis.

        -  Statistical analysis plan: Clinical characteristics, treatments, and outcomes were
           described by using means ± standard deviation or interquartile range (IQR) for
           continuous variables, and absolute numbers and percentages for categorical variables.
           The comparison of subgroups were performed by Student t-test or ANOVA for symmetrical
           continuous, Mann-Whitney U or Kruskal-Wallis H test for nonsymmetric continuous, and χ2
           tests for categorical variables. Logistic regression was used to select potential risk
           factors for outcomes. Candidate variables associated with mortality in univariable
           Logistic regression analysis (P ≤ 0.20) were proceeded with multivariable analysis.
           Variables with significant P values (P < 0.05) were retained in the final multivariable
           model. Logarithmic transformation was performed to normalize the distribution of
           variables with skewed distribution. All P values of less than 0.05 from two-sided tests
           were accepted as statistically significant.
    
  