
    
      Aim 1: To compare the safety and efficacy of 5% Betadine to artificial tears in reducing
      viral load in patients with adenoviral conjunctivitis.

      Aim 2: To compare the efficacy of 5% Betadine to artificial tears in reducing patient
      reported bothersomeness of ocular symptoms.

      "Pink eye" (adenovirus conjunctivitis Ad-Cs)is a common ocular condition, with afflicted
      patients comprising as much as 2% of a general practitioner's practice. Partly due to the
      ability of adenovirus to remain infectious in the desiccated state for weeks at room
      temperature, Ad-Cs is more contagious than other forms of conjunctivitis and it can be spread
      via both ocular or respiratory secretions. Owing to the highly contagious nature of this
      condition, Ad-Cs outbreaks occur where people congregate: schools, military units, nursing
      homes, workplaces, community and health-care facilities. With respect to the latter, the
      nosocomial spread of the condition is a significant public health issue as 17% of 145 cases,
      44% of 192 cases and 85% of 132 cases were reported to originate at the place of eye
      examination. The infection spreads from the first affected eye to the fellow eye in a
      majority of patients, and secondary transmission of viral conjunctivitis to members of the
      same household is estimated to occur at a rate of 20%. Outbreaks of Ad-Cs spare no
      nationality, age, gender or social class and because of the epidemic potential of some
      adenoviral serotypes, Ad-Cs is a reportable condition in Germany and Japan. A treatment that
      decreases the duration of the infectious period could have substantial impact in reducing the
      spread of Ad-Cs outbreaks.

      To insure timely completion of recruitment, especially since outbreaks are seasonal and
      episodic, the study has recruited 6 participating clinical sites nationally. To attain the
      overall sample target of 50 randomized patients, about 200 pts with pink eye will need to be
      screened. Each clinic will screen 30-40 patients and randomize 8-10 over a 12 month period.

      Patients who present with presumed acute Ad-Cs, who are 19 years of age or older and report
      symptom onset of 4 days or less in the first affected eye will be invited to undergo
      eligibility screening.

      Over a 12 month recruitment period, 10 Clinical Centers will screen at least 200 patients who
      present with presumed Ad-Cs, to enroll a target sample of 50 eligible patients. 10 Clinics
      include Illinois College of Optometry, Ohio State University, Northeastern State University
      and University of Alabama at Birmingham, Brooke Army Medical Center, University of
      California, Berkeley, Massachusetts Eye and Ear, New England College of Optometry, University
      of Illinois and Washington University School of Medicine. These clinics provide geographic
      diversity and multi-ethnic representation (including African American, Asian, Caucasian,
      Hispanic and Native American groups). Because patients with pink eye are more likely to see
      an optometrist than an ophthalmologist, PI's of Clinics are optometrists.

      Patients who consent to participation:

        -  Participant completes eligibility screening about 30 minutes - confirmation of age and
           symptom duration, a symptom survey, an eye examination;

        -  AdenoPlus(TM) test to confirm adenoviral conjunctivitis (Screening/Baseline Form);

        -  Participants who test positive by AdenoPlus(TM) are "fully eligible" and a tear sample
           will be taken for qPCR testing.

      Fully eligible participants

        -  Will be randomized using masked packets identified by serial numbers containing the
           randomized treatment with either artificial tears or Betadine 5%;

        -  "Treating" unmasked study certified clinician will administer treatment as randomized;

        -  Participants will rate the discomfort of treatment to assess treatment tolerability and
           asked to guess whether they received artificial tears or Betadine 5%.

      Follow-up visits will be scheduled for 1, 4, 7, 14 and 21 days after randomization. Each
      follow-up visit is about 30 minutes.

        -  Participants will rate the discomfort of treatment to assess treatment tolerability on
           day 1 post treatment;

        -  Masked clinician/technician will ask the 10-question pink eye ocular symptom
           questionnaire;

        -  Masked clinician will perform the eye examination;

        -  Masked clinician/technician will take conjunctival tear sample for analysis of viral
           load by qPCR.

        -  Participants who miss f/up visits will be asked to complete the symptom checklist by
           telephone or by secure REDCap data entry.

      All study-related encounters with potential study participants will be conducted in private,
      closed-door, "Red Eye" examination room in the clinical center. All study certified personnel
      will ensure patient confidentiality at all times. The minimum amount of information needed
      for the study will be collected from study participants. All research study data are coded as
      to clinic site and patient ID and do not include personal health data. Personal health data
      are kept physically separate from research study data. All data are kept in HIPAA compliant
      office spaces. All study data will be collected and maintained using a secure, password
      protected web-based data capture program (REDCap).

      The study drug, Betadine 5% is FDA approved for topical ocular surface application to the
      cornea, conjunctiva and palpebral fornices and is used in this study at the recommended dose,
      age group, duration and method of application. Risk is minimized by limiting administration
      to a single, one-time, in-office application. A study certified optometrist/technician
      instills artificial tears or Betadine 5% in the study eye. If there are immediate untoward
      reactions, the patient is in a fully equipped and staffed eye care facility where appropriate
      expertise and treatment are available. Participants are closely monitored with follow-up eye
      examinations at 1, 4, 7, 14 and 21 days after treatment.

      Potential nosocomial infections are minimized by asking the patient to use hand sanitizer
      before entering the examination room. Patient signs only the consent form and all other
      surveys are administered by the clinician/technician. We will observe strict adherence to
      current CDC disinfection protocol for Ad-Cs. Patients reporting marked symptoms will be
      withdrawn from the study and managed according to standard clinical care guidelines.
    
  