
    
      The goal of this Fast-Track STTR project is to optimize and test a novel arm restraint in
      older critically ill patients that increases mobility; reduces agitation, use of sedative
      medications, and delirium; and exhibits high satisfaction and acceptability among hospital
      staff, family members, and patients. Older critically ill patients are often immobilized with
      wrist restraints to prevent self-removal of tubes and lines and are sedated to reduce
      agitation caused by their restraints and endotracheal (breathing) tube. This sedation and
      immobility lead to complications, including delirium and muscle weakness, that are
      independently associated with long term cognitive impairment, reduced physical functioning,
      and mortality. Specifically, the incidence and duration of delirium in the ICU are strongly
      and independently associated with long-term cognitive impairment that is similar to
      Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias.

      Healthy Design is developing the novel ExersidesTM restraint that allows arm mobility but
      prohibits hands from reaching oral/nasal endotracheal and feeding tubes or intravenous lines.
      Because it permits mobility, ExersidesTM may reduce agitation and the need for sedatives. In
      preliminary pilot testing, ExersidesTM has demonstrated very encouraging results. The
      objectives of this STTR Fast-Track project are to optimize ExersidesTM and evaluate it in a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) in older critically ill patients at high risk for delirium
      and associated long-term cognitive impairment. The multidisciplinary investigator team has
      expertise in critical care, extensive experience in conducting ICU RCTs, and a history of
      successful collaboration.

      Phase I of the STTR, during which the novel restraint device was modified based on feedback
      from healthy volunteers and a single-center prospective pilot study was performed in 8 older
      patients with acute respiratory failure, has already been completed. The Phase I pilot study
      has demonstrated that 1) the revised ExersidesTM prototype is safe and 2) the RCT proposed in
      Phase II is feasible.

      Therefore, Phase II of the STTR will now occur. In Phase II, a multi-site within-patient
      crossover RCT in older critically ill patients requiring restraint will be conducted to test
      the following outcomes in ExersidesTM versus traditional wrist restraint: 1) Mobility
      assessed by actigraphy (primary outcome); 2) Agitation, delirium, and medication use
      (secondary outcomes); and 3) Satisfaction with and acceptability/perceptions of the device
      (secondary outcomes). Successful completion of this project will result in an ExersidesTM
      restraint that is ready for final optimization in preparation for commercialization, and is
      suitable for larger clinical studies to demonstrate effectiveness reducing long-term
      cognitive impairment in older ICU patients.
    
  