
    
      The enrolled patients should be prescribed with several examinations when admitted to
      hospital consisting of CT, MRI, MRCP, ECT, PET/CT and other laboratory tests. All
      preoperative examinations must indicate that enrolled individuals should be diagnosed as
      unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma. In addition, repetitive ERCP manipulations are needed
      in order to obtain positive results by brush cytology. Of course, all enrolled patients
      should be adherent to the fundamental principles of liver transplantation.

      We employed I-125 radioactive plastic stents (patent No: ZL 201610116321.3) to conduct
      brachytherapy. Each stent composed of a drainage tube with a stab at both ends that had a
      stabilizing effect. Two opposite channels were made in the wall of stents paralleling the
      drainage lumen, with irradiation window in the lateral wall of the channel. The diameter of
      the channel is a bit smaller than that of the radioactive seeds, so as is the length and
      width of irradiation windows. The stents are so designed to immobilize seeds and radiate
      properly. The radioactive I-125 seeds were 4.5 mm long and 0.8 mm thick, and their half-life
      was 60.1 days. The nasobiliary radiography was performed to determine the length of
      involvement of bile duct.Corresponding radioactive seeds are then put in appropriate location
      with biliary stents by ERCP procedure.

      About a month later, external beam radiotherapy was administrated to a target dose of 30Gy in
      30 fractions, 1.5Gy twice per day. Concomitantly, Intravenous capecitabine was given at 1.0g
      bid for two weeks, which is repeated after 14 days until transplantation.

      Immunosuppressive therapy was provided with tacrolimus, mycophenolate and corticosteroids.
      Corticosteroids were withdrawn a week later. Chemotherapy was continued 1 month after OLT
      with expected 3 courses.
    
  