
    
      Respiratory problems are a significant burden to patients of all ages suffering from the most
      different pathologies and to their respective families, with enormous economic costs. Thus,
      respiratory therapies, physical (such as airway clearance therapy) or chemical (such as
      medication or inhalation therapies) are of increasing importance. However, little is known
      about the effectiveness of respiratory therapies due to the lack of accuracy, reliability and
      sensitivity of the current outcome measures used. Adventitious lung sounds (i.e., wheezes and
      crackles) have been shown to be objective, reliable measure and a sensitive indicator of
      minor alterations in airway geometry. Using wheezes' and crackles' analysis, the detection
      and characterization of the severity of the lung disease may be performed before any other
      measure. However, studies assessing the responsiveness to change of the ALS have never been
      conducted and are deemed necessary to assess if ALS are an appropriate outcome measure to
      overcome the problems recognized in the other clinical measures.

      Therefore the main aim of this project is to assess and interpret the responses of lung
      sounds to respiratory interventions. To achieve this aim, high resolution computed tomography
      (HRCT), which is the gold standard to assess lung diseases, will be performed.

      The specific aims of the study are:

        1. to explore ALS as indicators of severity and recovery of lung disease comparing acoustic
           data from the lungs with lung HRCT images and with the other measures i.e.
           breathlessness, oxygen saturation and lung function data )pre/post respiratory
           treatments);

        2. to explore ALS data as indicators of sputum movement comparing acoustic with imaging
           analysis;

        3. to explore respiratory physiotherapy effectiveness in patients with LTRI.

      The plan is to recruit approximately 100 voluntary patients with LRTI attending to casualty
      at a central hospital. This study will enroll adult patients diagnosed with LRTI according to
      the international guidelines. The age and pathology of the participants have been chosen
      because i) adult patients are easier to collaborate; ii) there is some characterization based
      on ALS of adult patients allowing future comparisons; iii) this pathology normally benefit
      from medical and respiratory physiotherapy treatments as soon as the diagnose is made, but in
      Portugal do not often received respiratory physiotherapy. Furthermore, these patients will be
      able to cooperate with the data collection, namely with the imaging techniques, which is
      fundamental to assess the responsiveness to change of a measure.

      Patients will be recruited via the physician, who will provide brief explanation of the
      study. Then, the researcher will contact interested participants to provide more detailed
      information and obtained the consent forms. Patients' who agree to participate will be
      randomly assigned to the conventional treatment group or the conventional treatment plus
      respiratory physiotherapy group (approximately 50 patients in each group).

      Baseline data will be collected within the first 24 hours of patients' visit to the hospital.
      The researcher will collect some clinical information, socio-demographic, anthropometric,
      breathlessness and peripheral oxygen saturation of all participants. A multi-channel system
      with 7 microphones (attached to the patients' chest) will be connected to a laptop and will
      be used to record the lung sounds data. Patients will then lie down in supine on the machine
      plinth and a HRCT scan of the chest will be acquired. Lung function and exercise tolerance
      data will then be recorded.

      Patients in the experimental group will receive daily medical treatment and respiratory
      physiotherapy 3 times a week, during 2 weeks (average time to treat the LRTI). Respiratory
      physiotherapy will consist of breathing retraining and chest clearance techniques, exercises
      for thoracic mobility, expansion and flexibility, cardiorespiratory exercise training and
      education about the disease. This program will be adjusted to each individual needs. After
      this period all measurements will be repeated. Furthermore, all measures with the exception
      of the chest images will also be performed before/after each respiratory physiotherapy
      session to monitor the intervention. Each session will be conducted in property equipped
      rooms and will last approximately 60 minutes.

      To identify change in the lung sounds, statistical techniques (e.g. ALS, intra-class
      correlation coefficient, Bland and Altmand 95% limits of agreements and smallest real
      difference) will be used. The relationship between the images and the sounds will be explored
      and defined analytically and quantitatively. To analyse changes in outcome measures, data
      from the two groups will be compared at baseline and 3 weeks after the intervention.

      The data analysis will be undertaken using proprietary software packages (e.g.Matlab, SPSS)
      and will include the generation of descriptive statistics, and the use of existing and custom
      routines for hypothesis testing and signal processing and analysis.
    
  