
    
      Chronic headache is a disabling neurologic condition that affects 2-3 % of the general
      population. According to Headache Classification Committee of the International Headache
      Society, the chronic headache is defined as of at least one headache episode for 15 days a
      month, with at least eight days a month on which their headaches and associated symptoms meet
      diagnostic criteria. It is a neurologic condition characterized by attacks of headache,
      hypersensitivity to visual, auditory, olfactory, and cutaneous stimuli, nausea and vomiting.

      Chronic migraine is common, often affects people during their most productive years of life,
      exerts substantial individual and societal costs, and is associated with numerous comorbid
      disorders. Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) has been involved in the development of
      chronic headache. In most of cases, IIH and chronic headache have been associated with a
      stenosis of the internal jugular vein (IJV). Some studies have shown that IJV compression
      aggravates the severity of migraine and has a possible role in the pathophysiology of
      migraine. Moreover, patients with migraine have less compliant IJV, which makes them
      susceptible to cerebral venous hypertension; these veins are more likely to develop and
      transmit venous hypertension caused by the increased venous blood volume during IJV
      compression. So, it cannot be excluded that an obstruction of the venous blood flow can lead
      to an increase in intracranial venous pressure and, consequently, a state of latent
      intracranial hypertension which justifies the chronicity of the headache. Moreover, the
      absence of alteration of the intracranial venous blood flow and the elevated intracranial
      pressure are found in about half of patients with chronic primary headache.

      Based on this, among the risk factors of migraine chronicity, IIH has been evaluated like a
      risk factor for headache chronicity to overlap of clinical manifestations, such as persistent
      or high frequency headache, allodynia and to share of some factors (female sex, obesity and
      sleep disorders) and to the common therapeutic response to topiramate. In patients with
      chronic headache and IIH, a stenosis at the junction of the transverse and sigmoid sinuses
      has been recognized through venography but, recently, the role of isolated non-thrombotic IJV
      stenosis in IIH has gained a vested interest. Recent studies suggest that non-thrombotic
      stenosis of IJV may worsen the headache clinical severity, suggesting a possible causative
      role in the pathogenesis of chronic headache. It is demonstrated that the intervention of
      percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) was associated with a sustained improvement in
      clinical symptoms of patients with persistent headaches and concomitant obstructive disease
      of the IJV.

      Balloon angioplasty and endovascular stenting of dural venous sinus stenosis in patients with
      IIH is a newer and actively debated treatment and has recently gained popularity. Initial
      studies indicate that it reduces headache in 60-88% of patients but carries 2% risk for
      significant morbidity and mortality.

      For these reasons, given the promising risk- benefit ratio, these two therapeutics options
      have become an accepted treatment modality characterized by a low patency and clinical
      improvement rates.

      Bavera et a in a prospective investigation involving 366 patients who underwent PTA and were
      subsequently interviewed by an independent assessor and followed up for 4 years, found
      improvements respectively in 98.6% of patients with headache and in 98.5% of cases with
      associated chronic fatigue. This latter symptom was also investigated longitudinally using
      two validated scales and an independent non-blinded assessor, who reported significant
      improvements one year after the procedure.

      Furthermore, there is abundant evidence linking headaches with obstruction of the cerebral
      venous drainage pathways suggesting that PTA might be an effective intervention for patients
      suffering from persistent headaches. The endovascular treatments of non-thrombotic IJV
      stenosis like balloon venoplasty and stenting have been proven to provide a significant
      short-term improvement of IIH and related headache and a good efficacy profile with no
      immediate increase of risk, but data on long-term outcome are not satisfactory due to the
      high rate of recurrence. This suggests that PTA might be a useful intervention for treating
      patients with persistent headaches and concomitant obstructive disease of the IJV and that a
      more adequate treatment may be more appropriate rather than restenosis or recurrence. Venous
      stenting has emerged as an attractive therapy with the potential of addressing the
      intracranial pressure elevation-associated clinical issues from etiological level,
      particularly after medical failure. The complications of stenting such as ipsilateral
      headache, restenosis, intra-stent thrombosis have been demonstrated in the settings of
      intracranial sinus obstruction, but very few studies investigated the role and efficacy of
      IJV stenting in the treatment of intracranical hypertension and headache. In a recent study,
      the investigator found a subset of patients with presumed IIH with isolated IJV stenosis,
      which improved significantly their clinical symptoms (headache, tinnitus) after stenting of
      the IJV. The current design of stents for the venous system, however, shows improved and
      continuous radial force and resistance to compression. The increasing diameter of vessel
      toward the heart requires an oversized stent diameter to avoid migration, and this could
      determine the loss of the physiological compliance of the vein.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the safety profile of an innovative venous-oriented
      device (Petalo CVS) in the treatment of patients with non-thrombotic internal jugular vein
      stenosis and chronic headache resistant to best medical therapy. This innovative device
      (Petalo CVS) has already been evaluated in an animal model in a pre-clinical study to test
      the safety and efficacy and has been documented a favourable safety profile of Petalo CVS.

      The device Petalo CVS has been designed with full consideration of the collapsible nature of
      the vein, which is responsible for great variation in venous capacity with little change in
      venous pressure. Petalo CVS was developed considering the delicate and elastic properties of
      the venous wall. It has a tubular concave shape with 4 support modules joined by transverse
      bridges. The modules are oriented longitudinally and extend along the entire length of the
      device's body. The concavity of the four modules is oriented toward the vein wall. The
      support modules are internally empty, without bridges or other internal elements, to minimize
      the metal structure. Two transversal bridges join the support modules in the central part of
      the body, leaving the extremity of the modules free and open. The joined bridges enhance the
      conformability of the device and reduce the radial force. The concave shape of the support
      modules was studied to reduce the contact between the device and vein wall, with the aim of
      decreasing inflammatory. In particular, Petalo CVS was evaluated in an animal model. Twelve
      healthy pigs weighing 90kg were used to test it. The devices were implanted into the IJVs
      using a femoral vein percutaneous approach. The safety profile including the success rate of
      device releasing, anchoring, and positioning was evaluated immediately. Fracture, migration,
      primary patency, and endothelial response were assessed at 1, 2, 3, and 6 months after the
      study procedure. A total of 32 devices were successfully released in both IJV. No procedure
      -or device- related complications were reported, and all pigs successfully completed the
      different scheduled follow-up periods. The primary patency rate was 100%, and no fracture or
      migration of the device into the brachiocephalic trunk was reported. Histological examination
      revealed only minimal lesions with minimal or absent inflammatory reaction surrounding the
      incorporated metallic rods. So, this porcine model study showed a promising safety and
      efficacy profile of Petalo CVS.

      This suggests that the particular shape and configuration of this device will assure a low
      rate of complications and satisfactory long-term outcomes.

      Risks of venous stenting of internal jugular vein in patients with chronic headache are not
      well known. However, the expertise of the research group in the endovascular procedures and
      the shape and configuration of this device will probably determine a low rate of
      procedure-related complications. Long-term complications, such as thrombosis of the stent,
      are not well known, but the investigator's preliminary data on the animal model are
      encouraging.

      It has been demonstrated that Petalo CVS promoted only minimal response of the vein wall,
      with a primary patency of 100% and the patency of the target veins was maintained without the
      need of any specific anticoagulant therapy.

      Moreover, it is possible that not all patients with chronic headache will be suitable for
      venous stenting, due to unfavourable anatomy of internal jugular vein. Previous studies
      demonstrated that younger patients with transversal endoluminal defects are more likely to
      experience a significant improvement in IJV outflow after venous angioplasty, whereas in
      older patients with IJV hypoplasia or longitudinal endoluminal defects, angioplasty is likely
      to have only a limited effect. In these patients it is likely that venous stenting will have
      a limited efficacy and the procedure will be evaluated on a case-by-case analysis.

      In general, it is expected a negligible rate of procedure-related complications such as
      collapse and migration to the heart.
    
  