
    
      Postoperative Delirium or PD and Postoperative Cognitive Dysfunction or POCD are syndromes of
      central nervous system dysfunction that significantly complicate the recovery of a proportion
      of elderly patients following surgery.

      Delirium is typically a transient syndrome characterized by a de-novo appearance of several
      pathognomonic behaviors, including disorientation, decreased attention span, sensory
      misperceptions, a waxing-and-waning type of confusion, and disorganized thinking. PD
      typically occurs on postoperative days 1 to 3 and is associated with prolonged hospital
      stays, increased risks for morbidity and mortality and significant health care expenditures.

      The neuroendocrine stress response to surgery, including the immediate postoperative period,
      remains an important potential etiologic factor. In particular, our data suggests that stress
      in the immediate postoperative period is poorly controlled by all anesthetic techniques and
      the normal diurnal variation in cortisol is suppressed in subjects who develop POCD.

      Dexmedetomidine is a highly selective alpha 2A agonist currently approved for sedation in the
      ICU. Dexmedetomidine produces analgesia, sympatholysis, and a light sedation characterized by
      easy arousal. Its action converges on the endogenous substrates for natural sleep to produce
      their sedative action, an effect that could prove beneficial to elderly postoperative
      patients.

      We hypothesize that treatment with dexmedetomidine will diminish both PD and POCD. The
      essential proposition is that modulation of perioperative stress can ameliorate perioperative
      delirium and cognitive dysfunction.

      Based on both the concept of cognitive reserve as well as clinical experience, there is
      concern that patients with preoperative cognitive impairment are particularly vulnerable to
      POCD. In general, such patients have been excluded from previous studies. This study is
      unique in that we will assess all participants for mild cognitive impairment prior to
      surgery. Assessment of the impact of preexisting cognitive impairment is a secondary aim. A
      broad goal of this interdisciplinary project is to evaluate POCD, which is primarily an
      anesthesia concept, in the more general context of dementing illness as explored by geriatric
      psychiatry.
    
  