
    
      Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) is characterized by bloating, gas, distention,
      and diarrhea due to colonization and an excessive amount of bacteria in the small bowel.
      Distal SIBO is the presence of excessive amounts of bacteria in the distal jejunum and/or
      ileum. Diagnosis of SIBO requires either duodenal aspirate with culture analysis or more
      commonly with breath hydrogen/methane testing. Hydrogen breath testing often uses either oral
      glucose or lactulose solutions. If bacteria are present in the small bowel they will ferment
      glucose or lactulose, producing hydrogen or methane as a byproduct. These gases are absorbed
      into the bowel, and then eliminated via pulmonary expiration. By detecting a rise in breath
      H2 and CH4 values compared to baseline, SIBO can be diagnosed. However, after oral ingestion,
      the majority of the glucose substrate is absorbed in the duodenum and proximal jejunum.
      Therefore, Glucose breath test (GBT) is good for the detection of proximal SIBO, but misses
      distal SIBO.

      Investigators have recently shown that glucose administration into the distal duodenum
      through upper endoscopy has a higher positive yield for SIBO in patients with negative oral
      GBT. However, it is unclear if the rise in breath H2 or CH4 is because of glucose
      fermentation by bacteria in the distal small bowel or from fermentation by bacteria in the
      colon, i.e. false-positive test. Study objective here is to administer a radio-labeled
      glucose solution into the duodenum via an endoscopically placed nasoduodenal tube, and then
      determine if the rise in breath hydrogen and/or methane correlates with the location of the
      isotopic glucose solution in the bowel by simultaneous nuclear imaging. Results of breath
      testing will also be compared with duodenal aspirate/cultures taken at the time of endoscopy.
      Clinical response to treatment will be assessed on follow up.
    
  