
    
      Research Design and Methods The proposed 5-year study is a randomized, controlled trial of
      screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment (SBIRT) for alcohol, cannabis and
      stimulant use in mental health treatment settings. These 3 substances have been chosen as the
      focus for the proposed study because (a) in the US alcohol and cannabis are the most common
      substances used by individuals with serious mental illness in the general population1 and (b)
      stimulant use (in particular, methamphetamine) is a significant public health threat in the
      US. 31,32 The SBIRT model will be tested in a two-group design in which eligible participants
      (N=750) will be randomly assigned to either the SBIRT intervention condition (N=375) or to a
      control condition (N=375) that offers an informational leaflet. The participants will
      comprise male and female mental health patients who have a positive pre-screen for being at
      risk of having or developing a substance use disorder. The performance site for the study
      will be publicly-funded mental health clinics in Ventura County, California. All participants
      (intervention and control groups) will receive mental health care as usual and their
      participation in the study will in no way reduce the level of usual care they receive.

      The SBIRT condition will include the WHO's Alcohol, Smoking, and Substance Involvement
      Screening Test (ASSIST) and its accompanying brief intervention that uses motivational
      interviewing techniques to provide feedback, emphasize personal responsibility, give advice,
      provide a menu of options, convey empathy, and promote self-efficacy.33,34 All participants
      in the SBIRT condition will complete the ASSIST as an interview. Based on the results of the
      ASSIST, participants who score in the moderate-risk range for alcohol, cannabis or a
      stimulant will immediately receive a 15-minute brief intervention. Participants who score in
      the high-risk range for one of these substances will receive the brief intervention and a
      referral to a substance abuse treatment facility for further assessment and rehabilitative
      care. Referral to treatment will be an active intervention and is described below in
      'Description of Study Conditions'. We expect that few patients will score in the low-risk
      range on the ASSIST because the pre-screen for the study (described below in 'Recruitment of
      Participants and Randomization') should exclude most of these individuals. In the event that
      any individuals enroll in the study and score in the low-risk range on the ASSIST, their data
      will be excluded from analysis and they will not be counted toward the target enrollment for
      the study.

      The baseline assessment will occur prior to randomization. Research assistants will
      administer the assessments in-person at each clinic. Clinical social workers (English and
      Spanish speaking) will conduct the SBIRT intervention with patients. Follow-up assessments
      will occur at 3-, 6- and 12-months post baseline.

      Project Timeline Table 1 summarizes the main study activities across the 5 years of the
      project. The research and clinical facilities are in place, but a start-up period of 6 months
      will be needed to complete the IRB application and approval process, develop data collection
      templates, train staff and finalize the study protocols and procedures. As shown below in
      Table 1, subject recruitment will begin in month 7 and extend for 36 months. The timetable
      for the project is based on an enrollment of 30 participants per month. This rate of
      recruitment is feasible based on consultations with the mental health treatment sites and
      will allow for recruitment of 750 participants into the study. As Table 1 shows, the timeline
      provides adequate time to collect 12-month follow-up data and conduct data analysis.

      Table 1: Project Timeline Months 1-6: Training & start-up activities Months 7-42:
      Recruitment, SBIRT intervention, & follow-up activities. 30 Participants recruited/month
      (N=1080) Months 43-54: Complete follow-up activities Months 55-60: Data Analysis, Report
      Writing
    
  