
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability, potential efficacy of high
      dose intravenous vitamin C (HDIVC) therapy for patients with COVID-19 and decreased
      oxygenation. COVID-19 is a rapidly evolving pandemic with numerous prediction models
      suggesting potential shortages in ventilators, ICU beds, and high rates of hospital
      mortality. Case-series suggest sepsis and the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) are
      driving hospitalizations, morbidity (ICU beds, ventilator use, organ failures), and
      mortality. A therapy is urgently needed to be given early in the disease course in order to
      attenuate the infectious and inflammatory process, reduce risk of intubation, and reduce
      progression of organ failure and ARDS. By administering HDIVC at the first objective sign of
      worsening oxygenation, documented by change in peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2)
      to fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO2) ratio (S/F) or decreased SpO2 at baseline (mild hypoxia
      group), HDIVC may reduce the inflammatory process and development of respiratory failure
      requiring intubation. We will also enroll patients already in respiratory failure on
      ventilators (severe hypoxia group) and document safety and tolerability in both cohorts. By
      calculating ventilator and ICU-free days, we can potentially signal clinically relevant
      endpoints that could be used in larger trials needed to answer a crucial therapeutic
      question-can early administration of HDIVC in COVID-19 lead to faster recovery or improve
      outcomes? Moreover, we will document change in inflammatory markers that are elevated in
      COVID-19 (d-dimer, CRP, LDH, liver enzymes, and ferritin) to develop a mechanistic
      understanding and risk stratification of response to HDIVC infusion. Ultimately, if HDIVC is
      deemed safe and tolerable in hospitalized COVID-19 subjects, a larger clinical trial will be
      indicated. AVoCaDO will produce safety and tolerability data to test HDIVC in a multi-center,
      rapid, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of subjects with COVID-19.
    
  