
    
      Background:

      This is a pharmacodynamic study aimed at evaluating the efficacy of CBT-1(Registered
      Trademark) as a modulator of Pgp-mediated drug efflux in patient tumors and normal tissues.
      The study will build on over a decade of experience with 99mTc-sestamibi imaging and
      rhodamine accumulation and efflux in normal circulating CD56 plus cells as surrogates for Pgp
      function. CBA Research, Inc., has carried out Phase I and II testing of CBT-1(Registered
      Trademark) as a drug resistance reversal agent, but has not yet confirmed that the inhibitor
      is able to block drug efflux.

      Objectives:

      Evaluate the impact of CBT-1(Registered Trademark) on the hepatic accumulation and retention
      of 99mTc-sestamibi in patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumor malignancies.

      Evaluate the impact of CBT-1(Registered Trademark) on P-glycoprotein-mediated efflux from
      CD56 plus peripheral mononuclear cells.

      Eligibility:

      Patients over 18 years of age who have histologic confirmation of relapsed/refractory cancer,
      following at least once standard treatment regimen, for whom there is no known standard
      therapy option capable of extending life expectancy. Patients must have an Eastern
      Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 2 or better, and have hematologic,
      renal, hepatic, and metabolic parameters suggestive of adequate organ function.

      Design:

      Patients will be treated according to CBA Research Phase II trial of CBT-1 and Taxol.
      Patients will begin protocol treatment with orally administered CBT-1(Registered Trademark)
      in two or three divided doses daily for 7 days. On day 6, 135 mg/m^2 paclitaxel will be
      administered by intravenous infusion over 3 hours. Prior to the initiation of
      CBT-1(Registered Trademark), and on Day 6, patients will undergo blood sampling for the
      rhodamine assay in CD56 plus circulating mononuclear cells. In addition, patients will
      undergo imaging of tumors and normal tissue with the 99mTc-sestamibi radionuclide scan. These
      two assays have shown convincing inhibition of Pgp-mediated drug efflux in past studies with
      Pgp inhibitors such as tariquidar and valspodar. Twelve patients are planned for enrollment
      to this study, which is powered to determine a difference between the control scan and the
      post-treatment scan but not to compare CBT-1(Registered Trademark) with previous inhibitors
      tested in the intramural program.
    
  