
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Although the patient-centered medical home is widely recommended to promote cost-effective
      healthcare1-6, it has not been shown in systematic reviews to improve clinical outcomes or
      reduce medical costs.3,4 Medical homes have greatest potential value for high-risk patients,
      including chronically ill children whose care is often fragmented, costly, and ineffective.
      However, the justifiably stringent requirements for practice guidelines and the necessity to
      control health care costs require compelling evidence of cost-effectiveness before
      undertaking all that will be required to disseminate the patient-centered medical home for
      high-risk chronically ill children throughout the U.S. For this reason we propose a
      randomized trial to assess whether an enhanced medical home providing comprehensive care is
      cost-effective in preventing serious illness (death, pediatric intensive care admission, or
      hospital stay >7d) among high-risk chronically ill children in our center. Our study obtained
      expedited approval by our Institutional Review Board (IRB) as a quality improvement (QI)
      study.

      METHODS

      After verbal informed parental consent is obtained (as allowed by our institutional review
      board for a minimal-risk QI trial to increase access to care), children are randomized (using
      sealed, opaque, sequentially numbered envelopes) to usual care or comprehensive care after
      stratification by maternal education (high school graduate or not) and predicted risk of
      hospitalization (50-74%; >75%).

      Comprehensive Care involves care for acute and chronic problems from an ethnically diverse
      team of pediatricians and pediatric nurse practitioners (PNPs) who are highly trained and
      experienced in treating these complex, fragile children and available at all hours by phone
      and 40 hours/week in a special high-risk children's clinic. This clinic serves as a novel
      medical home where both primary and specialty services are provided in the same clinic at the
      same visit. The clinic is also staffed by a nutritionist and social worker and attended
      monthly by a dedicated subspecialist in pediatric gastroenterology, in neurology, and in
      allergy/immunology. A pediatric infectious disease specialist helped develop measures to
      reduce, promptly diagnose, and effectively treat infections. These subspecialists are
      available by phone for consultation at all hours. Acute problems presenting before 5 pm are
      seen that day; those occurring on weekends or nights are seen the next weekday in the
      morning. At any hour an emergency department (ED) visit or hospitalization is needed, our
      staff discusses the child with the responsible MD and schedules prompt follow-up visits.
      Multiple measures, e.g., recording and staff review of phone calls; daily checks of ED and
      hospital logs; detailed review of all care before hospitalizations; parent surveys; and
      active input of our Parent Advisory Board, are used to promote highest quality of care.

      Usual Care is provided in the offices of private pediatricians or our general pediatrics
      clinic staffed by faculty-supervised residents. Chronic problems are treated in our
      subspecialty clinics. After-hours calls from parents to our center are taken by
      faculty-supervised pediatric residents or faculty unlikely to know the child. Children
      referred to our emergency department had no automatic follow-up appointment.

      Statistical analyses and stopping rules: Intent-to-treat analyses will be performed using
      Poisson regression models with robust standard error estimators (to account for within family
      correlation and estimate relative risk) fitted to the number of children with a serious
      illness, intensive care unit admission, hospitalization > 7 days, or death. Negative binomial
      regression models will investigate group differences in the total number of such outcomes.
      Models will be adjusted for baseline risk, maternal education, and length of follow-up. A
      p<0.05 is considered statistically significant. Bayesian analyses will be performed to
      estimate the probability of reduced serious illnesses and of reduced costs (assuming a
      neutral prior probability of relative risk = 1.0; 95% credible interval = 0.5-2.0
      [encompassing the largest likely effect size for major outcomes observed in randomized
      trials]). We planned to enroll 400 patients to identify a one-third reduction in total
      patients who developed serious illness (alpha error = 0.05; power = 0.80; projected serious
      illness rate with usual care = 38%). Under predefined stopping rules, enrollment would cease
      whenever Bayesian analyses performed annually from the end of the second year identified a
      >95% probability that comprehensive care is cost-effective.

      Economic evaluation: Hospital costs (including costs for observation stays) will be estimated
      from a health system perspective by multiplying hospital charges (obtained from hospital's
      claims data and Medicaid billing records) by department-specific cost-to-charge ratios
      specified in the hospital's annual Medicare Cost Report. Outpatient costs for usual care will
      be estimated using standard methods based on relative value units. Outpatient costs for
      comprehensive care will be estimated using total clinic expenditures to include costs for
      start-up, longer patient visits, extra (unbillable) services, and low patient to staff ratios
      not addressed by relative value units. Costs will be inflated to 2014 U.S. dollars based on
      the Consumer Price Index for medical services. Cost differences between treatment groups will
      be assessed using generalized linear models with log-link and gamma distribution, adjusting
      for maternal education, hospitalization risk, length of follow-up, and within-family
      correlation.

      The investigators will consider the program to be cost-effective if it reduces the total
      children with a serious illness without increasing total clinic and hospital costs, reduced
      these costs without increasing the total children with a serious illness, or reduced both.
    
  