
    
      Fractures of the calcaneus comprise 2% of all adult fractures. These fractures make up 60% of
      all tarsal injuries, the majority of which are closed, displaced intra-articular fractures.
      Despite the injury's prevalence, dispute over the appropriate method of treatment remains
      ongoing. Several studies have shown that an open, surgical approach is superior to either a
      non-surgical or percutaneous approach with regard to restoring proper alignment and structure
      of the hindfoot, depending on the severity of the displacement, and provided that certain
      patient conditions do not preclude surgery. Adequately restoring hindfoot structure is
      paramount to good clinical outcome; not only is proper alignment integral for fully
      recovering physiological functionality, but also in preventing further complications such as
      subtalar arthritis that present commonly in malunited calcaneal fractures.

      Though literature may show that open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) techniques
      provide a better long term outcome of severely displaced intra-articular fractures,
      proponents of both non surgical and percutaneous approaches argue that the superiority of the
      outcome may be mitigated by the fact that open surgical procedures are laden post operatively
      with numerous wound complications. These complications include, but are not limited to, both
      deep and superficial infections resulting in slough, dehiscence, necrosis, and erythema in
      and around the surgical site. Managing infections of the surrounding soft tissue and
      vasculature of the calcaneus following operative treatment indeed seems to present a great
      challenge to treating physicians, with wound healing complications present in 2-25% of cases.

      A necessity for surgical wound repair is adequately vascularized tissue, which can be
      difficult to come by during closure of the wound due to the undermining and displacement of
      soft tissue during surgery. Sufficiently perfused soft tissue can also be difficult to
      differentiate from tissues that are inadequately vascular based on traditional clinical
      criteria such as color, warmth, and dermal bleeding. The degree of this avascularity can
      depend on many factors relating to the patient, necessitating studies be conducted
      identifying what factors place a prospective patient at a higher risk for developing wound
      healing problems post operatively. Studies of this nature thus far have noted that factors
      such as age, sex, height, weight, Bohler's angle, tobacco usage, and pre-existing conditions
      such as diabetes, vascular disease, and immune deficiencies may be indicative of increased
      likelihood for developing post surgical complications. Another risk factor of particular
      interest is the timing of surgery after the incidence of injury. Current literature regarding
      treatment of hindfoot injuries shows a moderate degree of uniformity, advocating a delay in
      operative measures until the soft tissue swelling around the injury has had time to subside:
      a window of approximately 7-14 days after injury. Additionally, in their investigation of
      Bohler's angle as a predictor for wound healing complications, Shuler and colleagues noted
      the pre and post operative Bohler's angle differential to be a significant predictor of
      developing infections, postulating that the increase in heel height during surgery may
      concomitantly increase soft tissue tension substantially enough to disrupt proper blood
      supply to the surgical site during healing. These findings lend tremendous support to the
      idea that blood perfusion in soft tissue plays a significant role in predicting wound healing
      complications. However, to our knowledge, the use of angiography to correlate pre and post
      operative soft tissue perfusion patterns with post operative complication in patients
      undergoing ORIF of fractured calcanei has never been investigated.

      Indocyanine green (ICG) angiography has been utilized in a myriad of other fields of medicine
      to evaluate perfusion in different tissues. It has been used in cardiac surgery to asses
      bypass patency, in microsurgery to assist in free tissue transfers, and in plastic surgery to
      assess areas of future necrosis during mastectomy operations. Recently, ICG angiography has
      been used in general surgery to detect ischemic tissues and aid surgeons in determining the
      appropriate extent of debridement necessary prior to wound closure in laparotomy procedures.
      Though its utility in other disciplines of medicine are currently being further developed and
      understood, the implications of ICG angiography in orthopaedic surgery have gone
      unrecognized. We postulate that soft-tissue perfusion patterns elucidated by ICG angiography
      in the heels of patients that have incurred calcaneal fractures may be predictive of wound
      healing complications that develop after surgery. This information could allow surgeons to
      greatly reduce the complication rate of open reduction procedures on calcaneus fractures by
      early utilization of appropriate, patient specific prophylactic measures, and could provide
      an additional contraindication to this operation for patients whom otherwise were not aware
      they are at an elevated risk.
    
  