
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if it is feasible to administer a regimen of cisplatin/radiotherapy in
           HIV-infected women with locally advanced cervical cancer (LACC) on antiretroviral
           therapy (ART).

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of concomitant chemoradiotherapy with cisplatin
           in HIV-infected women with LACC who are also receiving concomitant ART.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) of HIV-infected women with LACC
           Stage IB, II, III, or IVA who receive weekly cisplatin concomitant with radiotherapy and
           ART. (Exploratory)

        -  To describe the quality of life (QOL) of enrolled participants via assessments before,
           immediately after, and at 3 and 9 months after completion of therapy, using QOL metrics
           that have been validated in similar populations. (Exploratory)

        -  To describe the effects of treatment on participants' CD4 counts, HIV viral load, and
           concurrent AIDS-defining conditions. (Exploratory)

        -  To describe cervical cancer recurrence patterns in HIV-infected participants with LACC
           defined as loco-regional and/or distant recurrences. (Exploratory)

        -  To determine 1-year overall survival and causes of death (i.e., cancer-related,
           HIV-related, or other). (Exploratory)

        -  To collect serum, cytology, and tissue for future studies specific to cervical and anal
           disease. (Exploratory)

        -  To evaluate the effects of weekly cisplatin concomitant with radiotherapy on adherence
           to ART. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Participants receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 (6
      weeks total). Participants also undergo whole pelvic radiotherapy (WPRT) 5 days a week for 5
      weeks followed by intracavitary brachytherapy.

      Participants complete the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)
      Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-30 and the Cervical Cancer Module (QLQ-CX24) at baseline
      and periodically during study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for 12
      months.
    
  