
    
      Hyperammonemia associated with several rare inherited disorders frequently causes mental
      retardation, developmental disabilities and death. The overall goal of this study is to
      investigate the short-term efficacy and safety of the orphan drug, N-Carbamyl-L-glutamate
      (Carbaglu®, abbreviated as NCG), for the treatment of hyperammonemia in rare inherited
      disorders: carbamyl phosphate synthetase I (CPSI) deficiency, NAGS deficiency, ornithine
      transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency, propionic acidemia (PA) and methylmalonic acidemia (MMA).

      The primary aims are:

        1. To investigate whether 3-day treatment with NCG can improve or restore ureagenesis
           capacity in patients with NAGS, CPSI or OTC deficiency using as surrogate markers: [13C]
           label incorporation into urea and plasma levels of ammonia, urea and glutamine. In
           addition, to determine whether treatment with NCG in OTC deficiency increases the
           production of a nitrogen containing intermediate, orotic acid, as a mechanism for
           eliminating nitrogen in lieu of urea.

        2. To investigate whether ureagenesis capacity is deficient in patients with PA and MMA and
           whether 3-day treatment with NCG can improve or restore ureagenesis capacity in all or
           some of these patients.

        3. To evaluate the safety of short-term (3-day) treatment with NCG in the above patients
           using clinical and laboratory parameters.

      The hypothesis is that ureagenesis capacity as evidenced by [13C] incorporation into urea is
      deficient in each of these five disorders and that treatment with NCG will improve or restore
      ureagenesis in patients affected by them. The study will be conducted in the General Clinical
      Research Centers (GCRC) of the Children's National Medical Center, Washington, D.C. and the
      Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Patients (1 day to 70 years of age) with any of the five
      disorders are eligible for the study. They will all be tested in a short-term trial using
      surrogate markers (incorporation of [13C] label from Na-acetate into urea, and plasma levels
      of ammonia, urea and glutamine) before and immediately following 3 days of treatment with
      NCG. The patients will also be evaluated for short-term safety of NCG using clinical and
      laboratory parameters. The results of this study will provide important efficacy data, which
      should help to bring Carbaglu®) to the US market for the benefit of patients with any of
      these orphan diseases found to be responsive to NCG in this trial.
    
  