
    
      Rationale:

      At present, the gold standard for pain control during first trimester abortion is the
      combination of a paracervical block with moderate intravenous (IV) sedation. Paracervical
      blocks are routinely done with lidocaine, with or without epinephrine or vasopressin.
      Moderate sedation is commonly achieved using fentanyl 50-100ug IV and midazolam 1-2mg IV. The
      issue with the use of IV opioids for sedation is the need for continuous cardio-respiratory
      monitoring, due to the risk of cardio-respiratory depression or collapse. This therefore
      limits the ability of some centers to provide the best form of pain control for their
      participants undergoing first trimester surgical abortion. For instance, our center currently
      uses a paracervical block plus a combination of oral medications (morphine and lorazepam),
      which has been found to be inferior to a paracervical block plus IV sedation. All
      participants without contraindications to NSAIDs are pre-medicated with naproxen as
      recommended.2 The investigators also have access to nitrous oxide/oxygen 50:50 (Entonox) to
      use as an adjunct, however this has not been found to significantly improve procedural or
      post-operative pain.

      In the past, ketamine was used for pain control during first trimester abortion. Ketamine is
      a dissociative agent and does not carry the same risk of cardio-respiratory depression as
      intravenous opioids. Ketamine was felt to be ideal for first trimester surgical abortion -as
      the medication has uterotonic properties, which could result in less blood loss. Doses of
      0.5mg/kg IV were typically used. However, the use of ketamine for first trimester surgical
      abortion decreased dramatically after the 1970-1980's due to reports of adverse events
      including emergence phenomena (nightmares), nausea, and vomiting. In fact, only one study
      published during this time did not find negative emergence phenomena in participants exposed
      to ketamine. More recently, a systematic review concluded that ketamine was an inferior agent
      when compared to propofol for pain control during first trimester surgical abortion. However,
      propofol, a general anesthetic requiring continuous cardio-respiratory monitoring, should not
      be placed in the same anesthetic category as ketamine. Furthermore, propofol is only
      available in a limited number of settings offering first trimester surgical abortion.

      Over the last 10 to 15 years, ketamine has become an increasingly commonly used dissociative
      agent for procedural sedation in the emergency department. The benefits of its use include
      the simultaneous provision of both sedation and analgesia, while maintaining airway reflexes
      and respiratory drive. Intravenous ketamine use in the emergency department has been shown to
      yield high success rates (94% to 100%). In addition, of all the drugs commonly used in this
      setting, ketamine has one of the highest safety profiles and lowest rates of complications.

      The investigators are interested in re-visiting whether ketamine would be an appropriate
      choice of anesthetic for first trimester surgical abortion. If ketamine is found to be
      superior to IV fentanyl, it would potentially increase access to optimal pain control in
      settings where continuous cardio-respiratory monitoring is not available. Furthermore, in the
      current era of opioid misuse, it is important that providers look for alternative forms of
      pain management when appropriate. In fact, the Society for Family Planning recently put out a
      call to action for more research on alternative options to control pain short of moderate or
      deep sedation.

      Study Setting:

      This study will be conducted at the Women's Clinic at Kingston General Hospital in Kingston,
      Ontario, Canada. Women from Kingston and the surrounding areas are referred to this clinic
      and can self-refer for therapeutic abortion.

      Study Drugs:

        -  PO Morphine

        -  IV Fentanyl

        -  IV Ketamine

        -  PO Placebo

        -  IV Placebo

      Administration of Study Drugs:

      Once written informed consent is received the care provider will determine opiate
      sensitization stratum and write orders for the appropriate amount of oral morphine to be
      dispensed to the participant.

      The next sequential randomization envelope for the appropriate stratum will then be
      retrieved. Within the randomization envelope there will be two envelopes, one for nursing
      staff and one for the anesthetist. Drug dispensing will be done in two stages.

      Nursing staff will open their envelope to determine from which drawer they are to dispense
      the oral morphine dose ordered by the care provider (A, B or C). Two will be placebo and one
      will be oral morphine, but nursing staff will be blinded to group assignment.

      The anesthetist will open her envelope prior to the procedure to determine group assignment.
      She will be responsible for the mixing and administration of all IV medications and will not
      be blinded to group assignment. All other study staff, clinical staff and the participant
      will remain blinded to group assignment.

      Nursing staff will be responsible for dispensing and administering all other standard
      medications including dimenhydrinate, naproxen, lorazepam and misoprostol.

      For all participants the anesthetist will prepare IV medications according to participant
      group assignment, ketamine, fentanyl or normal saline only. The syringes will be labelled
      with the participant's name and hospital identification number. The syringes will be used for
      IV drug administration during the procedure. Naloxone and/or midazolam will be administered
      as needed at the discretion of the anesthetist.

      Standard Script:

      Prior to starting the procedure, the physician administrating sedation during the procedure
      will inquire into some of the participant's favorite places and/or ideas, as this will be
      used to individualize guided imagery for each participant during the procedure. An example of
      such guided imagery during the procedure may include the physician asking the participant to
      feel the sand on her feet at her favorite beach, to hear the waves landing on the shore, and
      to feel the warmth of the sun on her skin. In addition to guided imagery performed during the
      procedure, the voices in the room will be minimized only to necessary communication in a calm
      gentle tone, and soothing music will be played quietly in the background. The guided imagery
      and room setup will be used for all participants, regardless of the study drug that they
      receive.

      Consent Process:

      Once the participant registers at the Women's Clinic, she will be asked by the nurse at
      intake if she would be interested in participating in the research study. If she is
      agreeable, the surgeon will proceed with the consent process.

      If the participant consents to participate in the study, the surgeon will administer a
      questionnaire to obtain a thorough medical history, collect information on participant
      demographics and determine whether the participant is opiate naïve or opiate sensitized.

      Randomization:

      Participants will be randomized to one of three treatment arms following receipt of written
      informed consent.

      Allocation Sequence Generation:

      The allocation sequence will be generated by an epidemiologist in the Department of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology at Queen's University. Randomization will be blocked and
      stratified. Stratification will be based on the participant's current opiate usage to ensure
      that participants who are opiate sensitized are evenly distributed between the groups. Unique
      allocation sequences will be generated for each stratum. Random block sizes of 3 and 6 will
      be used for each of the sequences. For both sequences, participants will be allocated in a
      1:1:1 ratio, with equal chance of being assigned to all three groups. An appropriate
      statistical program will be used to generate the two allocation sequences.

      Randomization Process:

      Randomization will be done with consecutively numbered opaque envelopes. Research staff will
      assemble these envelopes based on the two allocation sequences. The envelopes will be clearly
      labelled with the stratum (opiate sensitized or naïve). Within each envelope there will be
      two envelopes, one for nursing staff and one for the anesthetist. A sheet within the envelope
      for the nursing staff will indicate from which drawer they are to dispense the oral morphine
      (A, B, C). This will be done to ensure that nursing staff remains blinded to group
      assignment. A sheet inside the envelope for the anesthetist will indicate arm allocation (PO
      morphine, IV ketamine, IV fentanyl). The envelopes and sheets will be identical, except for
      the number and strata label on the outside and text on the sheet inside, to minimize the
      chance of accidental unblinding.

      Upon receipt of written informed consent, the care provider will determine whether the
      participant is opiate sensitized or naïve and write an order for an oral morphine dose. The
      participant will be randomized by selecting the next envelope in the sequence of the
      appropriate stratum based on the consecutive numbering. Nursing staff will open their labeled
      envelope to determine from where to dispense the oral morphine. The anesthetist will open her
      envelope to determine the participant's group allocation and dispense the appropriate IV
      medications. Both envelopes will then be sealed and place in the participants chart. The
      envelopes will only be opened in the case of emergency unblinding or by study staff for data
      entry at a later date.

      The Procedure:

      The participant will undergo her procedure with the pain control regimen based on the
      randomization. The anesthetist will maintain a drug administration log throughout the
      procedure, including the use of any reversal agents. The total amounts of drugs mixed, used
      and wasted will be recorded in this log. Only the anesthetist will have access to this log in
      order to maintain blinding. It will be sealed and kept in the participants chart after the
      procedure is complete. It will only be opened if emergency unblinding is required or by
      research staff for data entry at a later date.

      Once the procedure is complete, the nurse and/or surgeon will administer the immediate
      post-operative pain assessment. The surgeon will record their assessment of intra-operative
      pain management and their guess as to group assignment. Any adverse events or medication side
      effects during the procedure will be recorded by the clinical team (nurses and surgeons).

      The Recovery Room:

      In the recovery room, the clinical team (nurses and surgeons) will record any side effects or
      adverse events. Length of stay in recovery will be recorded in minutes by the nursing staff.
      The participant will be administered a final pain assessment by nursing staff prior to
      discharge. The participant will also be given a self-administered questionnaire with
      questions about participant satisfaction, likelihood of using the same pain regimen at a
      future procedure, and their guess regarding their group assignment.

      Follow-Up:

      The participant will be contacted by a member of the research team within 2-4 weeks of the
      procedure. This will be done by telephone. The participant will be asked a series of
      questions relating to satisfaction, complications that may have arisen following discharge,
      the likelihood of using the same pain regimen at a future procedure, and their guess
      regarding their group assignment.
    
  