
    
      Study design This was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial among
      children with a presumptive diagnosis of acute migraine in the ED. The study was approved by
      the institutional IRB and written informed assent and consent were obtained by the patient
      and a parent respectively, prior to enrolment.

      Study setting All patients were treated in the ED of the CHU Ste-Justine, a tertiary care
      pediatric hospital with approximately 70 000 visits annually. For over 10 years, the members
      of this ED have been using a standardized protocol for the treatment of migraine. (7) This
      protocol suggests the administration of prochlorperazine and diphenhydramine, to decrease the
      rate of akathisia, if the patient is 8 years of age or more and presents with severe migraine
      (unable to perform normal activities) or status migrainosus (migraine that last more than 72
      hours) to be followed by a few day-course of naproxen. Unfortunately, there was a shortage of
      prochlorperazine at the moment of the study, so a decision was made to use metoclopramide
      instead, another dopamine (D2) receptor antagonist known to be effective in the treatment of
      migraine in adults. (15) To minimize the impact of this research on the clinical management
      of patients, it was decided that migraine would be treated according to the standardized
      local protocol depending on the availability or not of prochlorperazine. This means that the
      treating physician did use the prochlorperazine protocol when possible and metoclopramide if
      not. This was accounted for in the randomization to insure balance distribution between
      groups. While using dual intervention decreased the homogeneity of the participants, it
      improved drastically our external validity.

      Participants Inclusion criteria Patients were eligible if they were between 8 and 17 years of
      age and if they were presenting a diagnosis of acute migraine requiring treatment with an
      intravenous rescue therapy (either metoclopramide or prochlorperazine) because of the
      severity of the migraine according to the treating physician. In a prior study, the same
      group of pediatric emergency physicians had their migraine diagnosis confirmed by a pediatric
      neurologist in 64 of 68 patients.(16) Exclusion criteria Patients were excluded if they had a
      known allergy to any study drugs or a component or absolute contraindication to receiving
      corticosteroids such as: active untreated infections, systemic fungal infections, cerebral
      malaria, respiratory tuberculosis, hypertension, heart failure, renal or hepatic impairment,
      GI diseases, myasthenia gravis, diabetes, cataracts, glaucoma, seizure disorder, thyroid
      dysfunction, and thromboembolic tendencies. Also, patients who were already on
      corticosteroids were not eligible. Finally, patients who were initially recruited but who did
      not respond to the abortive migraine therapy (no modification in the pain level) were not
      randomized to receive the intervention or placebo. Information about these patients was kept
      but it was not included in the primary analysis.

      Intervention/procedure As mentioned, all participants received a standardized treatment
      consisting of metoclopramide (0.5 mg/kg IV, maximum 10 mg, q 1h prn, maximum of 3 doses) or
      prochlorperazine (0.15 mg/kg IV over 2-3 minutes, maximum 10 mg) and diphenhydramine (0.5
      mg/kg IV, maximum 25 mg). The intervention of interest was the administration of
      dexamethasone 0.6 mg/kg IV (max 24 mg) before departure from the ED. The control group
      received a similar looking placebo (NaCl 0,9% IV) with the same volume. All patients received
      a perfusion of D5% NaCl 0.9% at basal requirements during their stay in the ED and were
      discharged on a 48-hour course of naproxen (Naprosyn® 5 mg/kg/dose BID, max 500 mg) provided
      by our pharmacy.

      Primary Outcome The primary outcome was the incidence of relapse following discharge from the
      ED and up to 48 hours after metoclopramide or prochlorperazine initial administration.
      Relapse was defined as either occurrence of any headache pain, regardless of its severity,
      after a pain free status, or any increase in the pain intensity in participants who left the
      ED with residual pain.

      Secondary outcome The secondary outcomes was the mean level of pain using the VAS at 24 and
      48 hours following the initial administration of metoclopramide or prochlorperazine, the use
      of any rescue medication after ED discharge, the return rate to the ED, or the visit to a
      health care professional within 7 days including hospitalization. Also, the associated
      symptoms (i.e. nausea, vomiting, photophobia and sonophobia), the adverse events after
      parenteral corticosteroids (heartburns, constipation, personality changes such as
      irritability, and sleeping problem) and the following risk factors for migraine relapse were
      evaluated: headache duration, past history of headache, presence of familial history of
      migraine, age, sex, rescue medication at home prior to ED visit, prophylaxis at home prior to
      ED visit, past history of neurology consultation, past history of CT scan, maximal pain
      intensity, pain intensity on arrival to ED and at discharge, duration of sleep in ED, quality
      of sleep in ED, treatment in ED, treatment at discharge, compliance with medication after
      discharge, time to return to school, time to return to normal activities, number of hour of
      sleep after discharge of ED, and quality of sleep at home after ED discharge.

      Study protocol All eligible children for whom the treating physician prescribed the migraine
      protocol in the study setting were invited to participate in the study before administration
      of the first medication (either metoclopramide or prochlorperazine). Baseline demographic
      data, vital signs, characteristics and duration of the headache were recorded on a standard
      data form. Patients were asked to complete a standardized questionnaire during the ED stay
      with the help of their parents if needed. At time 0, prior to any treatment, patients rated
      their headache severity on a 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS), on a 0 to 10 verbal numeric
      scale (VNS) and on a 4-point verbal numeric scale (VNS) as 0=no headache, 1=mild headache,
      2=moderate headache or 3=severe headache. The participants were also asked to rate their
      headache on a 4-point functional disability scale as 0=no disability (i.e. able to function
      normally); 1=mild disability (i.e. able to perform all activities of daily living but with
      some difficulty); 2= moderate disability (i.e. unable to perform certain activities of daily
      living); 3= severe disability (i.e. unable to perform most to all activities of daily living,
      or requiring bed rest). The participants then received the standard abortive migraine therapy
      previously detailed. Patients rated their headache severity on the three scales previously
      mentioned 2 hours after the abortive medication was given or as soon as they woke up (if they
      fell asleep) and they were asked to report any associated symptoms (i.e. nausea, vomiting,
      photophobia and sonophobia) and adverse effects (severity, seriousness, time of onset and
      resolution). The same assessment was repeated at discharge. Patients were discharged
      according to the clinical decision of the ED physician. In the uncommon situation where a
      participant was hospitalized because he did not respond adequately to the abortive
      intervention, this patient was excluded from the study and was not offered the intervention.
      The rationale behind this procedure was that dexamethasone was given to decrease migraine
      recurrence but it could not be effective if the migraine did not regressed. Just before
      discharge and the removal of the intravenous access, the research nurse took the next
      available study package according to the status of the patient (absence or presence of
      residual pain at discharge and abortive medication used) and administered the intervention,
      either the study drug or the placebo. All patients were discharged on a 48-hour course of
      naproxen provided by our pharmacy to facilitate compliance at a dosage of 5 mg/kg twice a day
      for 48 hours. The participants were also given a headache diary to fill out and a stamped
      envelop with the standardized questionnaire used by the research assistant for follow up in
      case the phone interview would not happen. The participants were instructed to answer the
      questions of the diary once a day for the first 48 hours after discharge and then on day 4
      and 7 and to then return the diary in the stamped envelop. To facilitate compliance with the
      headache diary, patients were contacted by telephone at 24-48 hours and one week later to
      remind them to complete and return the diary and they were also asked the same questions by
      the research assistant on the phone.

      Randomization and blinding The hospital pharmacist created the randomization table using
      computer generated sequence using block randomization of variable sizes. Stratification was
      performed according to the absence or presence of pain at discharge and also depending on the
      abortive medication used (prochlorperazine or metochlopramide). The pharmacist coded the
      study medications in advance. Either dexamethasone (10 mg/mL) or normal saline (placebo) was
      placed into each respective syringe and labeled with a code number. Once consent for study
      enrolment was obtained, the next consecutive study package was used. Blinding was assured by
      dexamethasone and placebo having the same appearance and being administered in the same
      volume.

      Compliance and quality control Because the intervention was limited to a single dose of
      intravenous medication, compliance was almost perfect. However, we did ensure that the dose
      was effectively given to the participants according to their charts. Several precautions were
      taken in order to minimize potential biases. A screening log was maintained to record the
      number of patients screened, excluded, missed, or not randomized for any other reason. The
      diagnosis and reason for exclusion (ineligible or refused patients) was recorded in order to
      help us in detecting any selection bias. We also implemented a number of study manoeuvres
      aimed at minimizing measurement biases, including (a) designation of a research pharmacist
      (not a team member) to prepare the medications according to the randomization list, and (b)
      documenting the use of any major co-intervention, such as the use of other analgesia.

      Statistical analysis All data were entered in an Excel database (Microsoft Inc., Richmond,
      WA) and analyzed with SPSS v17 software (SPSS Inc., Chicago, Illinois). To assess balance
      across arms, baseline demographic (i.e. gender, age) and clinical data of patients were
      compared between arms. In the very unlikely event that a substantial imbalance is found,
      additional analyses, in addition to the one proposed below, were carried out to assess the
      potential confounding effects of this imbalance. The primary analysis was performed among all
      study participants who received the study medication using an intention-to-treat principle.
      This was the comparison of the proportion of relapse in the 48 hours following intervention
      between the 2 groups using chi-square analysis. A secondary analysis compared relapse
      proportion at one week. Another secondary analysis used a student t-test to compare mean VAS
      for pain at 24 hours, 48 hours and 7 days following intervention. Finally, use of rescue
      medication, unplanned visit to a healthcare setting and side effects were compared using a
      chi-square statistics.

      Sample size requirement A previous study done in a pediatric emergency department had
      reported that approximately 50% of children successfully treated for migraine in our study
      setting had a relapse in the following 48 hours.(7) Based on this, the minimal clinically
      significant difference was defined a-priori by our group of pediatric emergency physicians to
      be a decrease of that relapse rate to 25%. Assuming these numbers, a total of 58 patients
      were required in each group for a power of 0.80 with an alpha of 0.05.
    
  