
    
      Hypothesis: Patient empowerment and team-based care augmented by the JADE program with
      features of risk stratification and decision support improves multiple risk factor control in
      Asian type 2 diabetic patients with chronic kidney disease. Attaining multiple treatment
      targets reduces all diabetes-related endpoints in these high risk patients.

      Objectives: To use the JADE program which 1) includes task delegation and change in workflow
      augmented by 2) a web-based portal consisting of features of risk stratification, feedback,
      recommendations and decision support to set up a DKD registry in order to 1) document control
      of risk factors and care standards in real practice in Asian type 2 diabetic patients; 2)
      empower doctors and patients to make informed decisions and 3) use a team approach to treat
      to multiple targets and reduce all diabetes related clinical outcomes.

      Study design: This will be a multicentre randomized translational program to compare the
      effects of usual care (UC) versus empowered care (EC) versus team-based, empowered care (TEC)
      on risk factor control and clinical outcomes in 3000 patients with DKD in Asian countries.

      Intervention: All patients will undergo a comprehensive assessment (CA) guided by the
      templates in the JADE portal at baseline and at month 12. All patients will also
      self-administer a set of questionnaires for assessing quality of life (EQ-5D-3L, WHOQOL-BREF,
      and a Time Trade-Off (TTO) question) and psychological distress (PHQ-9 and DASS-21) during
      the CA at baseline and at month 12.

      During the 12 months between the 2 CAs:

        -  Patients in the UC group will receive UC in accordance to the practice of the health
           institution.

        -  Patients in the EC group will receive a JADE summary report with personalized risk
           prediction, treatment targets and decision support with explanation from the doctor and
           nurse. In addition to receiving UC in accordance to the practice of the health
           institution, the nurse will telephone the patient 3-monthly to remind them to adhere to
           treatment, provide support and empower them to discuss with their doctors about their
           treatment needs and any concerns.

        -  Patients in the TEC group will be followed by a doctor-nurse team at least 3 monthly to
           achieve multiple targets, but tailored to patients' risk profile. The patients will
           receive telephone reminders and also be given a JADE follow up report 3-monthly.

      Outcome: The primary composite endpoint is attainment of treatment goals and/or control of
      risk factors. The secondary composite endpoint is all-diabetes related clinical endpoints.
      The tertiary changes are behavioral changes, psychological well-being and quality of life.
    
  