
    
      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

      This will be a randomized controlled clinical trial aimed at determining the comparative
      effectiveness of chlorhexidine-alcohol and iodine-alcohol preoperative skin preparation for
      preventing surgical site infection at cesarean section.

      The investigators will use broad inclusion criteria and analyze all the main outcomes by the
      intent-to-treat principle. This approach will allow a more conservative estimate of
      differences between groups and allow a better estimate of effectiveness and public health
      implications of practice change rather than a pure estimate of efficacy alone.

      Randomization and Treatment: Enrolled patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio using
      computer-generated randomization sequence to the two skin preparation methods.

      Blinding: Blinding both patients and physicians to the antiseptic used for skin preparation
      (double-blinding) would be ideal. However, it is not feasible in this trial. First, most
      patients can determine whether they were assigned to chlorhexidine or iodine, as the two
      antiseptics are of different colors and leave a stain on the skin (pink or brown,
      respectively). Second, physicians are often in the operating room when the skin is being
      prepared for cesarean section and will know which antiseptic is used. We will minimize
      systematic bias by using the same standard procedures of skin preparation, skin culture and
      assessment of outcomes. All diagnoses of surgical site infection will be verified by chart
      review using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Nosocomial
      Infections Surveillance System criteria. The principal investigator will verify the diagnoses
      without knowledge of the group to which the patients were assigned.

      PRIMARY AIM:

      Outcome measures-Primary outcome-Proportion of subjects with surgical site infection
      (superficial incisional [skin, subcutaneous layer] or deep incisional [fascia, muscle])
      within 30 days of cesarean delivery. Surgical site infection will be based on diagnosis by
      the treating physician and verified by chart review in accordance with the CDC Nosocomial
      Infections Surveillance System definitions.

      Secondary outcomes-Length of hospital stay, number of office visits and re-admissions for
      infection-related complications, endometritis, positive culture from wound culture, skin
      irritation and allergic reactions.

      Methods-Subjects will undergo cesarean delivery based on the technique selected by the
      surgeon. The circulating nurse will record information on key variables known to be related
      to surgical site infection: antibiotic administration (type and timing), type of cesarean
      section (scheduled or emergent), status of membranes (ruptured or unruptured), duration of
      surgery, depth of subcutaneous layer (closed or not closed) and skin closure method
      (subcuticular suture or staples) on data collection forms.

      Demographic (age, race, socioeconomic status), obstetric (parity, gestational age, indication
      for cesarean section, cervical dilation at time of cesarean section, presence of
      chorioamnionitis, surgical complications) and neonatal (birth weight, Apgar score, cord pH)
      data will be abstracted from the patients chart.

      Subjects will be contacted once, up to 30 days from delivery, to assess symptoms of
      cesarean-related infections. Patients who report symptoms will be directed to follow up in
      the emergency department or with their physician to be evaluated for surgical site infection.
      Wound swabs will be taken for aerobic and anaerobic cultures in all subjects who present at
      Barnes-Jewish Hospital with wound infection. Medical records will be obtained from treating
      physicians to determine the diagnosis at each postoperative office visit or readmission
      within 30 days of cesarean section.

      Statistical Analysis: Data analyses will be based on the intent-to-treat principle. The
      primary outcome (proportion of subjects with surgical site infection) and the other
      categorical variables will be compared across groups using the chi-squared test. Fisher's
      exact test will be used for variables in which expected numbers in any of the cells in 2 x 2
      tables is <5. We will calculate 95% confidence intervals around the differences in
      proportions and the relative risk of surgical site infection.

      Distribution of continuous variables will be evaluated by visual inspection of histograms and
      the Kolmogorov-smirnov test. Normally distributed variables will be compared using the
      unpaired t-tests. If variables are not normally distributed, log transformation will be used
      in an attempt to achieve normal distribution. If the data is still skewed after log
      transformation the Mann-Whitney U test will be used to compare groups.

      It is anticipated that baseline characteristics will be similar in the two groups. In the
      event that the groups are unbalanced with regards to variables significantly associated with
      the primary outcome, supplemental analyses will be performed using stratification on the
      individual variables and multivariable logistic regression adjusting for multiple covariates.

      Planned subgroup analysis will be performed for: i. scheduled and elective cesarean sections,
      iii. obese and normal weight women, iii. Subcuticular and staple closure, and iv. women with
      and without chronic medical conditions (diabetes, chronic hypertension, renal disease).
      Interaction tests will be used to determine if the effectiveness of the skin preparation
      methods differ across these subgroups. Tests with p <0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. Analyses will be performed using Stata version 10.0 (Stata Corp., College
      Station, TX).

      Sample Size Estimation: The sample size estimation for the primary aim is based on an assumed
      baseline surgical site infection rate of 8% and an anticipated clinically significant 50%
      reduction in surgical site infection. To have 80% power to detect 50% difference in a
      two-tailed chi-squared test with α of 0.05, a total of 1084 subjects will need to be
      randomized. To accommodate a 10% drop out rate, 1, 192 subjects will be enrolled (596
      chlorhexidine, 596 iodine).

      SECONDARY AIM #1:

      To test the hypothesis that preoperative chlorhexidine-alcohol skin preparation at cesarean
      section significantly reduces bacterial contamination at the surgical site compared to
      povidone-iodine Primary outcome-Proportion of subjects with surgical site skin contamination
      after antiseptic preparation. Contamination will be defined as ≥5000 total colony-forming
      units per milliliter on aerobic or anaerobic culture.

      Secondary outcomes-Types of bacteria cultured before and after skin preparation, concordance
      of bacteria at surgical site following preoperative skin preparation with bacteria in
      postoperative surgical site infections.

      Methods-Two skin swabs will be taken transversely across the suprapubic area, 2 finger
      breadths above the symphysis pubis immediately before, and 5 minutes after skin preparation.
      These swabs will be cultured under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. To ensure that the
      groups at high risk for surgical site infections are well represented, we will ensure that
      obese women, diabetics and women undergoing emergent cesarean deliveries are adequately
      sample and randomized.

      Statistical Analysis-Data analyses will be based on the intent-to-treat principle. The
      primary outcome (proportion of subjects with surgical site skin contamination after skin
      preparation) and the other categorical variables will be compared across groups using the
      chi-squared test. Fisher's exact test will be used for variables in which expected numbers in
      any of the cells in 2 x 2 tables is <5. Tests with p <0.05 will be considered significant. We
      will also conduct stratified analysis based on the different risk groups. Finally, we will
      calculate 95% confidence intervals around the difference in proportions and relative risk of
      skin contamination after antiseptic skin preparation. Analyses will be performed using Stata
      version 11.0 (Stata Corp., College Station, TX).

      Sample Size Estimation-The sample size estimation for secondary aim #1 is based on the
      primary outcome of skin contamination following skin preparation. A meta-analysis of data
      from non-obstetric surgical procedures suggest a contamination rate of 39% after preoperative
      skin preparation with iodine and a rate of 18% after the use of chlorhexidine [17]. On the
      basis of an assumed contamination rate of 39% in the iodine group and 50% difference in skin
      contamination as clinically significant, a total of 168 subjects will be needed (84
      chlorhexidine, 84 iodine) to have 80% power in a two-tailed chi-squared test and α of 0.05.

      SECONDARY AIM #2 The outcome for secondary aim#2 is attributable cost saving (if any),
      defined as the difference in total costs between women with preoperative iodine and
      chlorhexidine skin preparation.

      Methods/Data Analysis-A cost-benefit decision analysis model will be developed depicting the
      decision of whether to use chlorhexidine or iodine for a patient undergoing cesarean section.
      The cost of implementing each strategy will include the purchase costs of the antiseptic
      agents. For each antisepsis strategy, the patient would then have a probability of
      subsequently developing surgical site infection based on results of the randomized trial
      under the primary aim. We will calculate cost incurred by patients who did and did not
      develop an infection.

      Costs will be obtained from the Barnes-Jewish Hospital cost accounting database for the
      surgical admission and any readmission to the hospital and office visits within 30 days after
      cesarean section. Cost savings, if any, will be the difference between the costs in the two
      groups. The cost-benefit analysis will be performed using TreeAge Pro 2009 (TreeAge
      Software).

      Sample Size Estimation-No formal sample size estimation is made for secondary aim #2. The
      cost-benefit analysis will be based on outcomes among the subjects enrolled under secondary
      aim #2.
    
  