
    
      Paracetamol is the commonest poison seen in the United Kingdom and is present in
      approximately 40% of patients admitted with self harm. Current treatment involves use of the
      antidote acetylcysteine in patients deemed at risk of potential liver damage. This is given
      by intravenous infusion over a period of 20.25 hours. This regimen was designed in the 1970s
      and is empirical, in that a large loading dose of the antidote is administered followed by 2
      decreasing concentrations. It is cumbersome to calculate and dilute within the ward and
      therefore subject to error in preparation. The initial infusion is associated with a
      significant rate of adverse reactions, in particular nausea and vomiting and anaphylactoid
      reactions. The latter are particularly troublesome and occur in up to 15% of patients
      treated. Therapy is discontinued and there is often confusion as to whether it can be
      restarted in a timely manner.

      Studying antidotes in the management of poisoning is challenging not least because of the
      patient population and of the limited time available to make decisions and gain consent. This
      will be the first major clinical trial of antidote therapy in this poisoning in the UK in 30
      years.

      The final objective of this work is to develop a therapeutic regimen of acetylcysteine that
      does not cause such a high rate of adverse reactions and is also easier for nurses to make
      up.

      The present study focuses on the potential use of ondansetron, an anti-emetic, prior to the
      administration of acetylcysteine. It will also allow preliminary data to be collected on a
      new approach to giving acetylcysteine using a modified 12 h regimen, which includes a slower
      initial intravenous infusion.

      The primary trial outcome will therefore inform on the efficacy of ondansetron pre-treatment
      as an anti-emetic in this situation. In addition valuable data on the incidence of adverse
      effects caused by the modified acetylcysteine regimen, and changes in liver function and the
      inflammatory response to paracetamol liver injury caused by paracetamol within this modified
      acetylcysteine treatment will be obtained.

      In addition an opportunity will be taken in a convenience sample of 40 patients to study the
      pharmacokinetics of acetylcysteine in this group using the standard and modified regimens.

      A factorial design is being used to answer the key clinical questions. In total a maximum of
      250 patients will be recruited and it is anticipated the data from 200 will be available for
      final analysis.

      The demographic of this patient group is essentially Caucasian English-speaking and at this
      stage we do not propose to recruit non-English-speaking subjects.
    
  