
    
      NanoSense is a data collection study to develop a multi-sensor algorithm to predict worsening
      Heart Failure (HF). Subjects who meet the eligibility criteria and agree to participate in
      the study will enter the informed consent process in which the subject will be informed about
      the research study, the voluntary nature of the research and all attendant risks and
      benefits. Once the subject has been informed and all question answered, the subject will be
      asked to sign an informed consent document (approved by the local Institutional Review
      Board). At enrollment, data about subject demographics, cardiac disease history, and
      comorbidities will be collected. The subject vital signs, blood labs (as available; if an
      N-terminal pro b-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) is not available, one will be ordered
      to coincide with the next lab samples), HF medications and HF assessment measurements will be
      made and recorded. Subjects will be given a diary to record daily weights, diuretics changes,
      and weekly HF status. The subject will be fitted with a Nanowear Wearable Congestive Heart
      Failure System (WCHFS) and educated on the use of the system with attention to proper fit and
      changing or charging the battery daily depending on the type of battery used. Subjects who
      have a pacemaker or Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) will undergo pacemaker/ICD
      interrogation while wearing the device to assure that there are no electrical signals
      detected that may interfere with pacemaker or ICD function.

      The subjects will be asked to wear the device for approximately 12 hours daily including 2
      hours prior to sleep and 2 hours after awakening. The follow-up period will be 90 days. At
      visit 2, the clinical assessment will be repeated and recorded. The device will be retrieved
      from the subject. In the event that a subject is unable to travel to the investigator's site,
      the subject will be asked to mail the device back to the sponsor with use of a prepaid
      mailing package that will be delivered to the subject. Data may be obtained by phone if the
      subject is unable or unwilling to return for visit 2.

      A final contact will be made to the subject at 30 days following visit 2 to determine whether
      there were any adverse effects that were not previously recognized that may be related to
      their participation in the study.
    
  