
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) occurs in response to a traumatic event or events. It is
      most likely to occur following an event involving perceived personal threat, such as rape or
      physical assault. PTSD is clearly a public health problem that causes a great deal of
      suffering and accounts for a significant portion of health care costs. This study will
      examine whether two sessions of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-assisted psychotherapy
      can be safely administered to participants with PTSD, and whether MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy, when compared with placebo-assisted therapy, will reduce PTSD symptoms after
      each session and two months after the second session.

      MDMA is a substance possessing unique effects that make it well suited to intensive
      psychotherapy. MDMA has been hypothesized to represent a new class of drugs, called
      entactogens, that produce feelings of closeness to others, empathy, well being, and
      insightfulness. Currently, MDMA is scheduled (illegal) and cannot be used outside of research
      studies like this one. Anecdotal reports of therapy conducted before MDMA was made illegal
      suggest that MDMA-assisted psychotherapy may benefit people with PTSD.

      This study will examine MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in twenty people ages 18 to 70 with PTSD
      either related to crime victimization or combat, when combat-related PTSD lasts no longer
      than five years, and that has not gotten better after psychotherapy and treatment with an
      SSRI (selective serotonin uptake inhibitor, such as Paxil).

      This study lasts three to four months. Participants attend up to fourteen (14) ordinary
      (non-drug) psychotherapy sessions with the investigators as well as two eight hour long
      experimental (MDMA or placebo) sessions and one MDMA session. People taking part in this
      study cannot take any psychiatric medication during the study period. People will either get
      125 mg MDMA or placebo "by chance," as by coin-toss, with twelve of twenty (60%) getting MDMA
      during each experimental session, and eight of twenty (40%) getting placebo. Two to two and a
      half hours later, if you and the investigators agree it is alright, you will take a second
      supplemental, dose of MDMA or placebo. The supplemental dose will be half the size of the
      first dose. The same investigators conducting non-drug therapy sessions conduct the
      experimental sessions. All participants are required to stay the night at the clinic after
      each experimental session. Participants meet with the investigators for a non-drug assisted
      therapy session the day after each experimental session. A third MDMA session in this
      placebo-controlled stage of the study will only be for people who received MDMA in the first
      two sessions.

      PTSD symptoms are measured at the start of the study, four days after each experimental
      session, and finally two months after the second experimental session. People are tested on
      memory and problem solving when they first enter the study and again two months after the
      second experimental session. PTSD symptoms are measured to see whether there are any changes
      in symptoms during the study, and tests of thinking, memory and problem-solving are meant to
      spot any changes that could be due to MDMA or MDMA-assisted therapy.

      Participants who recieved MDMA who complete the final evaluation, and upon discussion with
      the investigators, will undergo a third MDMA session. The third session will happen
      approximately two months after the second experimental session This session is "open label,"
      meaning that they and the investigators will both know they are receiving MDMA. It will be
      followed by one psychotherapy session a day after this session and two additional
      psychotherapy sessions in the following weeks. PTSD symptoms will be measured again two
      months after the third MDMA session.

      Participants who received placebo and complete the final evaluation two months after the
      second experimental procedure will be given an opportunity to take part in an open-label
      continuation of the study where they will receive an initial dose of 125 mg MDMA and a
      supplemental dose of 62.5 mg MDMA in up to three experimental sessions scheduled three to
      five weeks apart. Participants in this open-label continuation will act as their own
      controls. The open-label continuation lasts three months and will involve nine more visits
      with the investigators, including the two experimental sessions.
    
  