
    
      Although research has demonstrated the efficacy of various psychological and pharmacological
      treatments for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)1, health professionals have limited information
      about how to determine which specific treatment regimens lead to optimal outcomes for
      specific IBS populations 2,3. A prevalent syndrome, with high healthcare costs, IBS is a
      debilitating chronic functional bowel disorder with increasingly interconnected psychosocial
      and gastrointestinal afflictions4. In general, IBS sufferers have not been found to respond
      consistently to a single medication or class of medications5. In the wake of the failures of
      medical therapies, many psychological interventions, adjunct to standard IBS treatments, have
      been examined1,6 such as Blanchard and Scharff's 2002 review of 12 random controlled trials
      that found strong evidence for the utility of hypnotherapy, cognitive behavioral therapy
      (CBT), and brief psychodynamic psychotherapy in helping to alleviate IBS symptoms7.
      Similarly, in a more recent study involving a meta-analysis of seventeen studies, with
      randomized trials comparing classes of psychological interventions, found that these
      psychological treatments also play a role in improving quality of life of IBS suffers1. Among
      these psychological interventions, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), a prescriptive therapy
      that specifically targets faulty thinking patterns, has been found to be quite effective in
      many empirical investigations. Recent evaluations of CBT interventions have found the therapy
      to have a direct effect on global improvements of IBS symptoms and quality of life8. Despite
      its demonstrated effectiveness, however, CBT does not work for all patients3,6,8. The
      successes of medical therapy alone compared to a treatment regimen combining psychological
      and pharmaceutical interventions have been greeted with mixed results- leading to the
      unnecessary waste of health resources in the course of treatment3,6. To decrease medical
      costs, as well to foster optimal treatment for IBS patients, there is a need for a better
      method of identifying which patients will most benefit from specific treatment options s
      (i.e. conventional medical treatment versus standard treatment and CBT)2,3.
    
  