
    
      The purpose of this study will be to investigate the acute and chronic effects of laser PBM
      (λ: 808 nm) on muscle performance in physically active elderly women. For this purpose, the
      participants will be enrolled in two trials: Trial 1: Initially, all participants (n =
      20/group) will be submitted for a 1-wk familiarization period (3 non-consecutive sessions) of
      functional tests (i.e., standing balance, gait speed, and chair stand tests) from short
      physical performance battery (SPPB), knee flexion-extension exercise (3 sets of 10-12
      repetitions), maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), balance test on a force
      platform, and one-repetition maximum (1RM) test for knee extension exercise. Thereafter,
      participants will be randomized to receive 1 of 2 treatments (active or placebo laser) on two
      occasions (T1 and T2), separated by a 7-day washout period. During T1 and T2, participants
      will receive their respective treatments and then perform the muscle performance tests,
      separated by 10 minutes, in the following order: SPPB, MVIC, and repetitions-to-failure.
      After the last test, the participants will be instructed to reported the perceived exertion
      by OMNI scale, and a blood sample will be collected for measurement of blood lactate levels.
      Differences between groups will be assessed using a 2-tailed paired t-test. The significance
      level will be 0.05. Trial 2: participants will be randomized into two groups (n = 20/group):
      active laser or placebo laser. Both groups will be submitted for a 10-wk resistance training
      program (2 x/week) involving unilateral knee extension exercise. The following variables will
      be assessed from pre-to post-training: anthropometric, muscle thickness from vastus lateralis
      muscle using ultrasound, MVIC, 1RM, repetition-to-failure, and balance variables on a force
      platform. Shapiro-Wilk and Levine tests will be used to test the normality and homogeneity of
      the measurements, respectively. Two-way ANOVA (group x time) tests for repeated measures will
      be performed to assess changes over time and between groups for all dependent variables.
      Violation of sphericity will adjust using Greenhouse-Geser correction. The Bonferroni
      post-hoc test will detect specific differences between groups. When appropriate, the
      percentage of change (∆%) will be reported according to the following equation: ∆% =
      [(pre-average post average) / pre-average mean] × 100. Values will be express as mean ±
      standard deviation. O significance level α will be 0.05.
    
  