
    
      Rationale of Study Based on the preponderance of evidence provided so far, Ghana is not on
      track for MDG 4 & 5.31 Despite increased antenatal care attendance in the health
      facilities,and the number of pregnancy delivered by skilled health care workers,neonatal and
      maternal mortality have not seen the needed decline.

      Maternal deaths and neonatal deaths are caused by a complex interaction of economic,
      financial, social, cultural and clinical factors. Clinical factors are related to access to
      and quality of antenatal care, skilled attendance at delivery and emergency obstetric care.
      With over 90% of pregnant women receiving antenatal care from a health professional,it is
      believed that if adequate care is offered to these women, birth outcomes will be improved.
      Gaps identified in the quality of care given to pregnant women include poor quality of
      clinical decision guiding provider decisions on management choices.

      Considering this we propose an evidence-based intervention facilitating easy access to
      maternal and neonatal guidelines for routine and emergency obstetric and antenatal/neonatal
      care for frontline providers, in public facilities. For the purpose of this intervention, we
      have chosen as a reference guideline the national Safe Motherhood protocol,an elaborate tool,
      that provides detailed state-of-the-art guidelines for maternal and newborn care, starting
      from prenatal care, through antenatal, delivery, postpartum, and newborn care. We chose text
      messaging based on the Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) system as a low-cost,
      easily-accessible and instant way of requesting needed information in standard and emergency
      situations by the health care provider to enhance clinical decision making.

      Objectives Primary objective

        -  To assess the quantitative effect of USSD-based text messaging of standard protocols for
           maternal and neonatal care on the incidence of neonatal mortality Secondary objectives

        -  To assess the quantitative effect of USSD-based text messaging of standard protocols for
           maternal and neonatal care on the incidence of maternal mortality

        -  To assess the quantitative effect of USSD-based text messaging of standard protocols for
           maternal and neonatal care on the incidence of neonatal morbidity

        -  To assess the quantitative effect of USSD-based text messaging of standard protocols for
           maternal and neonatal care on the incidence of maternal morbidity

        -  To assess adherence of health care providers to clinical guidelines for maternal
           antenatal care

      Study design A cluster randomized controlled trial49 design will be used to examine the
      effect of CDMSS in the form of USSD-based text messaging of standard protocols for the
      management of maternal and neonatal care to providers, on neonatal and maternal mortality in
      the Eastern region, Ghana. This research is planned to commence in January 2015 and end in
      June 2016. Each of the districts in the region will be the cluster unit of randomization.
      This design was adopted in order to avoid contamination both at the patient and health
      professional levels, which may occur as a result of social interaction.

      After randomization, a baseline study will be conducted in the districts and facilities to
      collect data on district and facility characteristics, while baseline measures of the chosen
      outcomes will be obtained from the District Health Information Management System - 2 (DHIMS -
      2) which has been shown to provide accurate estimates of neonatal health indicators.50 This
      will take place from November to December 2014. The baseline study will be followed by the
      intervention study that will run for a period of 18 months. During this period monthly
      monitoring, including data collection of the outcome measures will be carried out by the
      study team. In addition, a quality of care study, done by assessment of provider adherence to
      the guidelines sent through the SMS text messaging will be conducted in 2 selected districts
      each from the intervention and control districts, through a record review of a random sample
      of clients seen during the period. The process of implementation of the intervention will be
      documented. At the end of the intervention period, a post intervention evaluation will be
      carried out at the district and facility level.
    
  