
    
      Background

      The transfusion of blood products is occasionally complicated by acute lung injury (ALI),
      which can progress to the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Such
      transfusion-related acute lung injury, abbreviated TRALI, has been defined by both a National
      Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) working group, and by a Canadian consensus
      conference (CCC), as new ALI occurring during or within six hours after a transfusion [1-2].
      This definition is based entirely on clinical and radiological criteria and includes [2-4]:

        1. ALI, as defined by [4]:

           A. The sudden onset of respiratory distress symptoms (dyspnea). B. Hypoxemia: as defined
           by a ratio of partial pressure of arterial oxygen to the fraction of inspired oxygen
           (PaO2/FiO2) below 300mmHg, or oxygen saturation (SpO2) below 90% on room air, or other
           clinical evidence of hypoxemia C. Bilateral infiltrates on frontal chest X-ray, without
           cardiomegaly. D. No clinical evidence of left atrial hypertension (congestive heart
           disease).

        2. No preexisting ALI before transfusion.

        3. During or within 6 hr after transfusion of any blood product.

        4. No temporal relationship to an alternative risk factor for ALI. All types of blood
           products have been associated with TRALI, however, the plasma-rich components, such as
           fresh frozen plasma (FFP), whole blood, packed red blood cells (PC) and platelets, have
           been most frequently implicated [3, 5-10].

      Prolonged storage of transfused products, use of FFP, and the presence of an underlying
      condition such as recent surgery, cytokine treatment, thrombocytopenia, massive blood
      transfusion, hematologic malignancies or cardiovascular disease requiring cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CABG) surgery, and active infection have been reported as risk factors for the
      development of TRALI [11-18].

      The pathogenesis of TRALI involves the presence of anti-leukocyte antibodies and/or
      biologically active lipids from cell membrane fragments (and cytokines) in the donor's blood,
      triggering an inflammatory response within the recipient's pulmonary microvasculature, which
      in turn leads to lung injury [2,13,16,19-27].

      The incidence of TRALI is not well established [28]. Nevertheless, using the NHLBI/CCC
      definition of TRALI, several retrospective studies reported the incidence of TRALI to be one
      case for every 1000-2400 units transfused [29-30]. This incidence estimate of 0.04% to 0.1%
      (or up to 0.85% among transfused patients) is comparable to other estimates from earlier
      studies that used older case definitions [6,12,31]. The only prospective cohort clinical
      surveillance study to use current diagnostic guidelines for TRALI reported an 8% incidence of
      TRALI in their intensive care unit (ICU) [32]. These data suggest that passive reporting
      systems greatly under-estimate the number of TRALI cases.

      Even though underdiagnosed, TRALI is currently the leading cause of transfusion-related
      mortality in the United States [1,7,11]. The estimated mortality rate for recognized TRALI is
      5%-8% [20]. However, most survivors recover completely with appropriate supportive care and
      can receive additional blood products in the future [11,20].

      Due to the lacking epidemiology, and the increasing significance of TRALI as a major
      transfusion-associated complication, we stress the need for additional prospective
      surveillance studies.

      Taken together, we wish to conduct a prospective observative study in order to evaluate the
      incidence of TRALI among patients undergoing elective orthopedic-oncology procedures. This
      patients' population receives blood product transfusions frequently, and may thus provide an
      adequate cohort for such study.

      Study Objectives This work aims to study the prevalence of TRALI-associated morbidity and
      mortality in patients undergoing elective orthopedic-oncology procedures, and are transfused
      with blood products in the perioperative period.

      In addition, we wish to evaluate whether:

      A.The incidence of TRALI is higher in patients operated for malignancies (versus benign
      neoplasms) B.The incidence of TRALI is higher in patients treated with
      C.chemotherapy/radiation prior to surgery (versus non-treated) The incidence of TRALI is
      increasing with older blood products

      Methods Study design An informed consent will be obtained from all orthopedic-oncology
      patients scheduled to have an elective surgery, except for those who require minor procedures
      (e.g., biopsies) which normally do not require transfusions. Diuretics and oral hypoglycemics
      will be discontinued the day prior to surgery, as dictated by the routines in our patients.

      Peri-operative management Anesthetic and surgical management as well as blood product
      transfusion will adhere to standard practice.

      Postoperatively, the patients will be transferred to the post-anaesthesia care unit and later
      to the orthopedic-oncology department, unless otherwise indicated.

      In the postoperative period, departmental routines will guide blood product transfusions,
      pain management and fluid therapy.

      Monitoring of patients who received transfusions

      Every patient that receives blood products will be included in the study, whether it occurred
      pre-operatively, intra-operatively or post-operatively as long as they are hospitalized. For
      these patients we will document:

      A.General demographics, including chronic diseases, medications and treatments (e.g.,
      chemotherapy/radiotherapy).

      B.Blood product information, including type, dosage and storage age. C.Intra- and
      post-operative data, including operative time, volume of crystalloids (and colloids) given
      during surgery and afterwards, urine output, the need for vasopressors, inotropes or
      diuretics, re-intubations, transfer to ICU and hospital length of stay (LOS).

      For each unit of blood product transfused, we will commence patient monitoring for the next 6
      hours. If several units are given in a sequel we will monitor the patient since the beginning
      of the first transfusion until 6 hours after the last transfusion. Monitoring will include:

        1. Clinical symptoms of dyspnea.

        2. PaO2/FiO2, or SpO2 on room air if arterial line is not obtainable - every 2 hours or
           when indicated by clinical signs.

           2.1. If PaO2/FiO2< 300mmHg, or SpO2< 90% on room air, or clinical signs of lung injury
           occur - chest X-ray will be obtained and diagnosed by two radiologists.

        3. Hb (gr/dl) will be assessed according to the physician's decision.

      Study size In the orthopedic-oncology department of Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center
      approximately 550 patients are operated annually, about 20% of whom receive transfusions.
      Accordingly, the study is planned for 5 years. Therefore the anticipated sample size is
      approximately 550 patients.
    
  