
    
      The loss of blood by haemorrhage or routine phlebotomy as performed during blood donation by
      healthy volunteers, has large effects on systemic iron homeostasis. The relative shortage of
      erythrocytes after blood loss is compensated for by increasing the production of new red
      cells by the bone marrow. As iron is needed for effective haemoglobin synthesis, the
      transport of iron to the bone marrow needs to be increased. This is accomplished by the
      suppression of hepcidin production in the liver. Hepcidin is the central regulator of iron
      homeostasis. It can regulate serum iron levels effectively by downregulating iron channel
      ferroportin on iron exporting cells. Hepcidin production is increased in response to
      inflammation en high systemic iron content, and is suppressed by increased erythrocyte
      production, hypoxia, anemia, and low systemic iron content. Therefore, blood loss leads to
      hepcidin suppression, increased release of iron into the circulation and decrease of iron
      stores.

      Alterations in iron metabolism can have immunomodulatory effects. The intra cellular iron
      content in macropahges and monocytes, has shown pro-inflammatory effects in several
      investigations. Hepcidin is reported to have pro-inflammatory effects in some reports, and
      anti-inflammatory effects in others.

      Although phlebotomy is routinely performed in blood donors, and seemingly does not have
      significant health risks, it is highly relevant to know what the effect of phlebotomy is on
      immunity. Alterations in immunity due to phlebotomy could have beneficial effects, like the
      suppression of the low grade inflammatory process that contributes to atherosclerosis, but in
      theory could also contribute to a suppressed innate immune response that could increase the
      risk of infection. This is not only relevant for blood donors, but also for patients
      suffering from blood loss and for daily clinical practice in which blood is routinely drawn
      of patients for laboratory determinations.

      Objective: To assess the ex vivo cytokine production of whole blood during 28 days after
      phlebotomy (routine withdrawal of 500 ml of blood).

      Study design: Intervention study in 10 healthy male volunteers.

      Study population: 10 healthy male volunteers in the age of 18-35 years.

      Intervention (if applicable): Withdrawal of 500 mL of blood at the blood bank (Sanquin,
      Nijmegen, The Netherlands).

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

        -  Ex vivo cytokine production of whole blood, drawn on day -1, 0, 1, 3, 5, 7, 14, 21, 28.

        -  Hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cell count and differential

        -  Hepcidin

        -  Iron parameters (serum iron, transferrin saturation, ferritin)

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      10 healthy young male volunteers will be included in this study. The study consists of 10
      visits: 1 screening visit and 9 follow-up visits. The screening visit consists of a medical
      history questionnaire. On day 0, Phlebotomy of 500 ml of blood will be performed at the
      Sanquin blood bank, Nijmegen according to normal procedures. Risks associated with phlebotomy
      are, discomfort during puncture, light-headedness, orthostatic hypotension, vasovagale
      response, and hematoma at the puncture site.

      On day -1, 0, 1, 3, 5, 7, 14, 21 and 28, a volume of 7 mL of blood will be drawn by
      venapuncture. Associated risks are discomfort during puncture , vasovagale response, and
      hematoma at the puncture site.
    
  