
    
      Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is one of the top ten cancer types in the US. One-third of RCCs
      are metastatic and associated with a poor 5-year survival rate of 8%. Metastatic RCC is
      usually treated with targeted therapy or immunotherapy which is costly (>$10,000 per month)
      and has low response rate (<30%). Effective identification of the most appropriate drugs for
      a patient relies on noninvasive imaging to assess early response to the drugs. However,
      current practice by anatomical imaging such as computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) can only assess the response at two months after initialing targeted therapy.
      This approach exposes many patients to highly toxic, high expensive treatment without any
      benefit for months and delays initiation of other effective therapies.

      The investigators hypothesize that functional perfusion imaging by positron emission
      tomography (PET) can enable RCC response assessment as early as at 1-2 weeks given that RCC
      is highly related to angiogenesis and most targeted drugs for RCC are antiangiogenic.
      However, clinical options for functional renal imaging are very limited. While dynamic
      contrast-enhanced CT or MRI can be used for perfusion imaging, their use is restricted
      because 30% of RCC patients have chronic kidney diseases with renal dysfunction and are at
      higher risk for contrast-induced nephropathy and nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. Existing PET
      radiotracers (e.g., 15O-water) for perfusion imaging are short-lived and generally
      unavailable for clinical use. This project explores parametric PET perfusion imaging using
      the widely accessible 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). 18F-FDG PET is conventionally used for
      metabolic imaging and has been rarely used for imaging kidneys because physiological
      excretion of 18F-FDG into renal pelvis contaminates image quality for renal tumor assessment.
      The investigators explore the potential of the metabolic radiotracer 18F-FDG for perfusion
      imaging by employing four-dimensional (4D: 3D space plus 1D time) dynamic scanning and tracer
      kinetic modeling, leading to parametric imaging of FDG perfusion kinetics without being
      affected by 18F-FDG excretion. The parametric PET method can potentially identify RCC
      response and assess drug efficacy with 1-2 weeks of treatment as compared to 2 months by
      current anatomical imaging methods.
    
  