
    
      QSPainRelief-patientCNS is one of three clinical studies that will be conducted as part of
      the QSPainRelief project funded by the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation
      program (grant agreement 848068; http://qspainrelief.eu).

      Chronic pain is a complex disease affecting about 20% of Europeans, and up to 60% of patients
      with chronic pain do not experience adequate pain relief from currently available analgesic
      combinational therapies and/or suffer confounding adverse effects. Of the many conceivable
      combinations, only a few have been studied in formal clinical trials. Thus, physicians have
      to rely on clinical experience when treating chronic pain patients. The vision of the
      QSPainRelief project is that alternative novel drug combinations with improved analgesic and
      reduced adverse effects can be identified and assessed by mechanism-based Quantitative
      Systems Pharmacology (QSP) in silico modelling. The QSPainRelief consortium will setup,
      calibrate and validate an in silico QSPainRelief platform which integrates recently developed
      (1) physiologically based pharmacokinetic models to quantitate and adequately predict drug
      pharmacokinetics in human CNS, (2) target-binding kinetic models; (3) cellular signaling
      models and (4) a proprietary neural circuit model to quantitate the drug effects on the
      activity of relevant brain neuronal networks, that also adequately predicts clinical outcome.

      Calibration of the QSPainRelief platform modelling the biological processes and neuronal
      circuits underlying the pain relief and adverse effects induced by drug combinations requires
      patient data on how different drug combinations affect the central processing of nociceptive
      input, the central processes underlying pain modulation, as well as the central nervous
      system (CNS) networks underlying drug-induced adverse effects. After calibration of the
      QSPainRelief platform, additional patient data is required to evaluate the ability of the
      platform to actually predict CNS effects of drug combinations in patients. Finally,
      real-world evidence is needed to relate the effects of drug combinations on CNS activity with
      the therapeutic and adverse effects self-reported by the patients.

      The aims of the QSPainRelief-patientCNS study are thus two-fold.

      The first aim is to obtain data from a first set of 60 patients to calibrate the QSPainRelief
      platform, and from a second set of 120 patients to evaluate the ability of the QSPainRelief
      platform to predict therapeutic and adverse effects of drug combinations. It will focus on
      pain relief and its impact on daily life activities as therapeutic effects, and on
      drug-induced sedation, drug-induced cognitive dysfunction (memory and attention) and pain
      medication misuse as adverse effects. These adverse effects have been chosen because (1) CNS
      biomarkers sensitive to drug-induced sedation and drug-induced cognitive dysfunction can be
      readily obtained using non-invasive measurements of the electroencephalogram (EEG) and (2)
      the chosen adverse effects can be assessed in patients after a short treatment period using
      validated patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs).

      The second aim is to identify measures of drug-induced effects on CNS activity that could be
      used as biomarkers of real-life clinical outcome, both in terms of desired treatment effects
      (treatment-induced pain relief) but also in terms of undesired treatment effects
      (treatment-induced sedation and treatment-induced cognitive dysfunction).
    
  