
    
      This study is a prospective randomized controlled trial to test the hypothesis that
      nasally-inhaled isopropyl alcohol (ISO) plus oral placebo has greater anti-emetic efficacy
      compared to oral ondansetron oral solution. By design, the study will be double-blinded
      insofar as neither investigators nor subjects will be notified of the identity of the
      substances they are inhaling or swallowing. The study will include a post-study survey to
      ascertain the extent to which blinding was achieved. Potential subjects are those presenting
      to the Emergency Department (ED) with nausea and/or vomiting. Investigators will recruit a
      convenience sample by approaching subjects at the time of initial triage and solicit nausea
      on a verbal numerical rating scale (VNRS) scored from 0-10 with those patients reporting
      scores of 3 or greater eligible for study. Informed consent will be obtained from each
      subject.

      Subjects will be allocated to one of three arms: (1) inhaled isopropyl alcohol plus oral
      ondansetron; (2) inhaled isopropyl alcohol plus oral placebo; (3) inhaled placebo plus oral
      ondansetron. No subject will receive both inhaled and oral placebo; all subjects will be
      allocated to at least one therapeutic intervention for nausea. Both investigators and study
      subjects will be blinded to subject allocation.

      Regarding the interventions, upon recruitment, patients will be administered an oral solution
      (placebo or ondansetron) by their treating nurse. A study team member will then instruct the
      subject to inhale one of the blinded prep pads, to hold the pad approximately 1 centimeter
      from their nares, and to take deep nasal inhalations as needed for nausea relief. The
      investigator will remain at arm's length from the patient at all times to avoid detecting
      prep pad scent. Additionally, investigators will also instruct subjects to avoid any behavior
      or actions during the study that would indicate which preparation pad is being used.

      The investigators will record their findings on data collection forms. The primary outcome
      will be nausea as measured on a 10 cm visual analogue scale (VAS) at 30 minutes. Nausea
      measurements will also be collected at 10, 20, 40, 50, and 60 minutes, and then every hour up
      to 5 hours, then at disposition at which time the patient will provide one final nausea VAS
      score. The study team member will not be present in the patient's room during the intervals
      between these evaluations. At the time of each nausea measurement, patients will be offered
      another preparation pad (up to ten pads). Investigators will notify the patient's treating
      provider to prompt consideration for treatment with a rescue anti-emetic (such as
      metoclopramide or promethazine) if the patient vomits or if the patient requests an
      anti-emetic at any time. At the time of each nausea measurement, a pain score will also be
      measured on a 10 cm VAS. At the time of final disposition, the patient will provide a
      satisfaction score on a 10-cm VAS and be asked to indicate his/her belief as to whether the
      pad was a treatment or placebo and whether the oral solution was a treatment or placebo.
      Similarly, at study conclusion the patient's provider will be asked to indicate his/her
      belief as to whether the pad was a treatment or placebo and whether the oral solution was a
      treatment or placebo. Other data collected will include times and doses for all medications
      (including preparation pads) and fluids administered, episodes of vomiting (defined as
      forceful expulsion of gastric contents separated by at least 2 minutes), disposition
      (admission versus discharge), final clinical impression at the time of disposition, and time
      to disposition. Subjects will be followed and data collected for the entirety of their ED
      stay.
    
  