
    
      The prostate gland is a clinically important male accessory sex gland and vital for its
      production of semen. Prostate cancer (PCa) is now ranked 3th in annual incidence of male
      cancer and ranked 5th for cancer-related death in men in Hong Kong which accounts for about
      10.9 deaths per 100,000 persons. (Hong Kong Cancer registry 2015) Its incidence is rising
      rapidly, almost tripled in the past 10 years. As the elderly population continues to
      increase, the impact of PCa on the men's health and also the burden on health care system
      will continue to rise.

      Despite the improvement in awareness of the disease and also increasing use of serum prostate
      specific antigen, many patients still presented at a late stage that beyond cure by local
      therapy. Together with those patients suffered recurrent disease after local therapy,1 many
      PCa patients required the use of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for the control of
      disease.

      However, unlike other malignancy, PCa is characterized by its slow progression nature and
      even for metastatic disease the 5-year survival is upto 20%. Therefore, while ADT can provide
      effective control of disease, there are increasing evidences suggesting that it can also
      result in many adverse effects in the patients, and these effects are particular important
      due to the long survival of these patients. From the western literature, the adverse effects
      can be quite diverse.2 Classical side effects after ADT include mood changes, hot flushes,
      change in cognitive function,3 loss of libido, erectile dysfunction, osteoporosis and
      pathological fracture.4 Also there are more and more evidences showed ADT will also altered
      the metabolic and cardiovascular status of the patients and resulted in increase in insulin
      resistance and increase in risk of cardiovascular related mortality.5-7 Similarly, from our
      local data, investigators also observed similar increase in adverse events also happened in
      Chinese patients treated with ADT.8

      There are many possible mechanisms proposed for the occurrence of these adverse events in
      patients receiving ADT, including increase in obesity, dyslipidaemia, insulin resistance etc.
      All these factors will lead to increase in metabolic and cardiovascular risk. However, the
      exact link between of hypogonadism and the development of obesity, dyslipidaemia and insulin
      resistance was still unclear.

      Since the development of the next-generation sequencing, the knowledge of the microbiota in
      different sites made much progress. Of all other sites, the gut was the most frequently
      studied. It was found that a number of different conditions were associated with the
      composition of the gut microbiota, like age9, environmental factors (e.g. diet10-12),
      medications and diseases like obesity13, inflammatory bowel disease14 and colorectal
      cancer.15 Other than those mentioned, gender difference in gut microbiota was found in animal
      studies16 as well as human studies.17-20

      On the other hand, urinary microbiota was also found to have gender differences21. The
      mechanism of this difference is proposed by animal studies to be related to sex hormone16,22,
      and it was proposed to be due to the hormone-microbe interaction, or due to the sex-specific
      immune response.23

      Recent studies has suggested castration will affect the guts microflora and resulted in the
      development of obesity in mice.22 However, whether similar effect in human was unknown.
      Moreover, if the microflora in men was also changed by ADT, this might be one of the
      underlying mechanism for the increase in cardiovascular and metabolic risk observed in men
      receiving ADT. Therefore, investigators would like to perform a prospective study to examine
      the relationship between ADT and gut and urinary microbiota, and also the possible
      relationship with the development of metabolic and cardiovascular complications in our local
      population.
    
  