
    
      Micronutrient deficiencies are common among women of reproductive age in rural South Asia,
      including Bangladesh. Antenatal multiple micronutrient (MM) supplementation, usually starting
      toward the end of the 1st trimester, has been shown to reduce low birth weight in many
      cultures. In northern Bangladesh, where the current study will be conducted, MM versus
      iron-folic acid supplementation has been shown to extend gestational age, thereby reducing
      risks of preterm birth 15% and low birth weight by 12%, and reduce risk of stillbirth by 11%
      (West KP et al. JAMA 2014), and to reduce risk of micronutrient deficiencies (Schulze KJ et
      al J Nutr 2019). Since it is plausible that women of reproductive age conceive in a state of
      lower micronutrient nutriture, it remains unknown the degree to which MM supplementation,
      starting preconceptionally through the 1st trimester (covering the periconceptional and
      embryonic period) can benefit pregnancy outcome. Further, there is concern that newlywed,
      nulligravid women in rural South Asia are at high risk, and may be at particular health and
      pregnancy risks due to micronutrient deficiencies resulting from dietary inadequacy.

      The investigators propose to conduct a double-masked, cluster-randomized, placebo-controlled
      trial among recently married women in 18 rural unions of Gaibandha District, Bangladesh, that
      will provide a daily tablet containing either (a) a MM formulation containing a US Institute
      of Medicine (IOM) Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for pregnancy for 15 essential vitamins
      and minerals (and closely approximates the UNIMAP formula), or (b) a placebo tablet of
      identical appearance containing no micronutrients, during a period extending from at least
      one-month prior to last menstrual period through the 1st trimester of pregnancy (~12 weeks'
      gestation). The study area will comprise 566 rural clusters (sectors) each with 250-400
      households, serving as units of randomization. Consenting, recently married women will be
      detected through routine community surveillance and start to receive coded, double-masked
      supplements, resupplied during monthly home visits. Participating women will receive coded
      supplements for daily consumption until the end of the trial or until determined to be
      pregnant. On detection of pregnancy by a history of amenorrhea confirmed by urine test,
      irrespective of randomized allocation, all women will be switched to receive an open-labeled
      MM supplement, expected to occur toward the end of the 1st trimester, which will continue
      through 3 months post-partum. This switch is in response to previous positive effects shown
      on pregnancy outcomes with a MM supplement starting at the end of the 1st trimester.

      Participating married women will be periodically interviewed for socioeconomic, morbidity,
      dietary and lifestyle risk factors and assessed by anthropometry. Pregnancies will be
      followed for miscarriage, abortion, live birth and still birth outcomes. Newborn
      anthropometry will be assessed to determine birth weight and size. Infants and mothers will
      be eligible for additional breast feeding, dietary, morbidity and growth assessments at 8
      days, and 1, 3 and 6 months after delivery. Participating women resident in a predefined
      subset of the study area (n~68 sectors) will receive enhanced assessments, including blood
      draw in the end of the 1st trimester for subsequent laboratory assessment of micronutrient
      status, and body composition, among other measures.
    
  