
    
      Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a highly prevalent sleep-related breathing disorder
      characterised by a repetitive collapse of the pharynx during sleep, which results in apnoea
      or hypopnoea associated with oxygen desaturations and arousal from sleep. Continuous positive
      airway pressure (CPAP) is the gold standard treatment. Treatment success depends on regular
      CPAP usage. However, low adherence to CPAP is a frequent problem. It has recently been shown
      that OSA does not re-occur immediately in all OSA patients upon CPAP therapy withdrawal and
      that there are different patterns of recurrence of OSA as indicated by repeated sleep
      studies. So far, the mechanisms of OSA recurrence upon CPAP therapy withdrawal are
      incompletely understood. Upper airway collapsibility and neuromuscular tone, pharyngeal
      oedema and inflammation, neural respiratory drive, sleep stage and position may play a role.

      In a prospective interventional study, patients with OSA effectively treated with CPAP will
      undergo physiologic measurements during a two week period off CPAP to define the
      pathophysiological mechanisms associated with OSA recurrence. In particular, we will
      investigate the effects of CPAP withdrawal on neural respiratory drive and upper airway
      function. Inpatient sleep studies and assessments will be performed at baseline (day 0) on
      CPAP and at follow-up upon CPAP withdrawal (day 14). At the end of the trial patients will
      return to their established CPAP therapy.

      We hypothesise that CPAP withdrawal results in different patterns of OSA recurrence defined
      by neural respiratory drive and upper airway function. The aim of the proposed project is to
      study the mechanisms of OSA recurrence by using a validated CPAP withdrawal model. Knowledge
      on recurrence patterns and different phenotypes of OSA could facilitate individually tailored
      treatment of OSA and improved therapy adherence and patient outcomes.
    
  