
    
      Background: Powered wheelchairs can improve participation in daily life, increase quality of
      life, and add 'life to years' for individuals with SCI. Cognitive limitations, associated
      with advanced age at the time of a spinal cord injury or comorbid traumatic brain injury,
      impair learning and may prevent an individual from acquiring or maintaining skills necessary
      to drive a powered mobility device. Standard power wheelchair training, limited by time,
      equipment and budget constraints, may not meet the learning needs of individuals with
      cognitive impairment, preventing an individual from obtaining use of a powered wheelchair,
      impacting independence and quality of life. The total system cost of procuring a power
      wheelchair can range from $10,000 - $30,000; suboptimal use resulting from inadequate
      training is a poor use of resources and comes at a substantial social price. The
      Collaborative Power mobility Innovative Learning OpporTunity (CoPILOT) is a training approach
      utilizing shared control wheelchair technology and allows a therapist to provide an
      error-free learning experience for individuals in their own environments, while maintaining
      safety of the user and the individuals around them. Using shared control technology, the
      wheelchair user remains in control of the wheelchair while learning to drive, except in cases
      where the trainer overrides the control (using a remote controlled interface) to maintain
      safety and provide targeted learning opportunities.

      Purpose and Objectives: The purpose of this study is to obtain pilot data for a larger
      randomized control trial of a shared control power wheelchair training program (CoPILOT) for
      improving power wheelchair mobility skills among novice power wheelchair users with comorbid
      cognitive impairment compared to standard of care. Collection of pilot data is necessary
      prior to moving forward with a larger randomized controlled trial (RCT).

      Hypotheses: The investigators expect the intervention protocol will be feasible for a larger
      randomized control trial. Compared to the standard of care group, the investigators expect
      the CoPILOT group will experience significant improvement in power wheelchair skill capacity.
      The investigators also expect the CoPILOT group will experience improvements in wheelchair
      skill safety, confidence, capacity for divided attention tasks, and health related quality of
      life, compared to the standard of care participants.

      Methods: This feasibility study will use an evaluator blind parallel RCT. New power
      wheelchair users with mild to moderate cognitive impairment will be recruited from the GF
      Strong or Vancouver General Hospital Spinal Cord Injury patient population. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to a CoPILOT (shared control training) group or standard of care group.
      All training will be completed by qualified occupational therapist trainers. Participants in
      both groups will receive either 6 or 12 hours of training in a standard powered wheelchair;
      however, the CoPILOT groups will use remote control technology the investigators have
      developed. Post-Treatment Qualitative Interviews will be conducted. Questions will be related
      to protocol administration and use of the CoPILOT approach and shared control technology,
      including necessary modifications.
    
  