
    
      This study is an observational, multicenter, prospective, single arm study. 3,050 subjects
      who have been prescribed and have planned to take at least one inhalation of BGF MDI will be
      enrolled into the study.

      This is an observational study. BGF MDI treatment will be studied through non-interventional
      approach. It will be carried out under routine clinical practice and the start or end of BGF
      MDI and other concomitant treatment will be determined by subjects' treating physicians.

      Eligible subjects will be consecutively enrolled in this study at the time they routinely
      visit their physician and consent to participate in the study. After enrolled successfully,
      baseline variables will be collected at V1. Subjects will be followed up every 4 weeks after
      baseline for a total duration of 12 weeks or until study discontinuation, whichever occurs
      first. V1 and V2 will be followed up by on-site visit and V3 and V4 will be followed up by
      telephone call visit. For subjects who remain on study drug throughout the study (i.e.,
      complete 4 Visits), a follow up telephone call will be performed at 14 days after the last
      visit to collect safety information. For subjects who has an Early Discontinuation, 14 days
      follow up is needed for AE collecting after the discontinuation. For subjects who had been
      hospitalized during the first 4 weeks of follow-up due to one or more acute exacerbations of
      COPD, a follow up telephone call will be performed at 28 days after the last visit to collect
      safety information.

      The subjects will be recruited from qualified hospitals. Safety and effectiveness data will
      be collected following enrollment in the study. Medical records, PROs (COPD Assessment Test
      [CAT], St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire [SGRQ], Aerosphere Delivery Technology Metered
      Dose Inhaler Preference Questionnaire [AMPQ], Patient Global Impression of Change [PGIC])
      will be the data source in this study.

      Primary endpoint will be the incidence of AEs and SAEs in purpose of monitoring the safety
      profile of BGF MDI.
    
  