
    
      Background:

      Patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) experience substantial morbidity and unfavorable
      outcomes at referral centers. Although studies on all-cause mortality have yielded mixed
      results, increased cardiovascular (CV) mortality and morbidity in PsA have been consistently
      reported. Data from our group and others have shown that underlying these higher CV disease
      (CVD) rates is a greater burden of subclinical carotid atherosclerosis. Increased
      intima-media thickness (IMT) significantly correlates with traditional risk factors and
      disease-related parameters. An increased prevalence of arterial stiffness has also been
      demonstrated in patients with psoriasis and PsA compared with controls. In PsA, criteria for
      minimal disease activity (MDA) have been developed and validated. These criteria use 7
      measurements including entheseal and skin assessments. Achieving MDA by these criteria
      results in less radiographic damage in the long term. The development of this instrument is a
      step toward 'treatment to target' in PsA. MDA is achieved in 48-60% of patients at ≥ 1 visit,
      and is sustained for ≥ 12 months (sustained MDA) in at least one third of PsA patients in a
      large observational cohort.

      While achieving MDA may result in significant benefits in articular disease, little is known
      about its effect on extra-articular disease, including CVD risk. The use of surrogate end
      points instead of actual CV events may provide more evidence on whether PsA patients may
      benefit from potent anti-inflammatory treatment on the prevention of premature
      atherosclerosis. Data from our group and others linked the suppression of inflammation using
      anti-tumour necrosis factor (anti-TNF) with a favourable effect on CV surrogate makers,
      including carotid IMT and arterial stiffness. More recently, a tight-control treatment
      strategy aiming at remission was effective in improving arterial stiffness in our early
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA) cohort. There is an imperative need for interventional trials with
      CV end points to investigate whether achievement of MDA by a protocolized treatment strategy
      could reduce CVD risk in PsA. To fill in these gaps of knowledge, we propose a prospective
      cohort study to ascertain whether achieving MDA through a protocolized treatment strategy may
      prevent long term progression of IMT and arterial stiffness to a greater extent than those
      who cannot achieve MDA in patients with PsA.

      Aim of the study:

      Primary outcome:

      1. Effect of achieving MDA (MDA group) at 12 months on the progression of subclinical
      atherosclerosis over a period of 24 months as evaluated by IMT compared to those who cannot
      achieve MDA (non-MDA group)

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Changes in arterial stiffness over a period of 24 months as evaluated by pulse wave
           velocity (PWV) and augmentation Index (AIx) between the MDA group and non-MDA group.

        2. The proportion of patients achieving sustained MDA (from 12 to 24 months)

        3. Changes in IMT and arterial stiffness over a period of 24 months as evaluated by IMT,
           PWV and AIx between patients who can achieve sustained MDA and those who cannot achieve
           sustained MDA.

        4. Correlations between the changes in IMT, PWV, and AIX and the changes in markers of
           disease activity

      Hypothesis:

      Effective suppression of inflammation in PsA patients who can achieve MDA will have less
      progression of subclinical atherosclerosis and arterial stiffness than patients who cannot
      achieve MDA by means of a protocolized treatment algorithm
    
  