
    
      Objective: Postoperative cardiac arrhythmias (POCA) are common in children undergoing
      congenital heart surgery using the heart-lung machine (cardiopulmonary bypass) and have been
      reported in 5-38% of patients. The occurrence of arrhythmias frequently delays the patient's
      postoperative recovery, prolongs Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (CICU) and hospital stay,
      increases costs for hospital care and increases postoperative morbidity and mortality.

      Magnesium Sulfate has been one agent used to reduce the occurrence of postoperative
      arrhythmias. The investigators recently published a propensity-score matched study of the
      intra-operative administration of Magnesium Sulfate revealing that as many as one-third of
      pediatric patients at Children's National Hospital undergoing open-heart surgery using
      cardiopulmonary bypass have postoperative arrhythmias. The use of intraoperative Magnesium
      Sulfate was associated with a reduction in the occurrence of postoperative arrhythmias.
      However, despite the intraoperative use of Magnesium Sulfate there continued to be a fairly
      high residual occurrence rate of post-operative arrhythmias (total arrhythmia frequency
      -18%).

      Dexmedetomidine has also been showed to reduce the occurrence of POCA and has become the
      preferred agent used for post-operative sedation and pain control. In several studies
      reported in the medical literature, dexmedetomidine has been found to decrease the occurrence
      of POCA, like Magnesium Sulfate.

      In this IRB study, the investigator is proposing a clinical study to test if the investigator
      can further decrease the occurrence of postoperative arrhythmias. The investigator will be
      studying if Magnesium Sulfate administrated in conjunction with an intravenous anesthetic
      medication, known as dexmedetomidine, can further decrease the primary occurrence of
      post-operative arrhythmias. The investigator hypothesizes that the effect achieved with the
      simultaneous administration of Magnesium Sulfate and dexmedetomidine will be much greater
      than either medication used alone.

      For those patients who fail preventative medical strategies and develop clinical significant
      post-operative arrhythmias in need of treatment, rescue arrhythmia treatment options include
      the use of potent anti-arrhythmic medications that can have very dramatic effects on the
      patient's heart rate and blood pressure (amiodarone or procainamide). Scant published data
      exists providing us with guidance on the comparative efficacy and safety of these agents in
      the postoperative cardiac surgical patient. The investigator will compare the efficacy and
      adverse effects of the two agents in treating clinically significant arrhythmias that occur
      despite trying to prevent their onset.
    
  