
    
      Background:

        -  Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable plasma cell neoplasm with a median survival of 3-4
           years.

        -  Increased survival has been achieved with the introduction of the proteasome inhibitor
           bortezomib and immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) such as lenalidomide. Bortezomib and
           lenalidomide have different but overlapping mechanism of anti-MM activity in preclinical
           studies.

        -  Despite the benefits of novel agents, bortezomib and lenalidomide pose clinical
           challenges. Bortezomib drug toxicity includes neuropathy, GI distress, myelosuppression
           and herpes zoster reactivation. Together with lenalidomide, the incidence of sensory
           neuropathy reaches 80%.

        -  Subcutaneous (SC) Bortezomib was evaluated in a prospective phase I trial for relapsed
           and/or refractory MM. SC administration was found to be comparable with the established
           IV route, with no differences in overall systemic availability and pharmacodynamic
           activity, similar toxicity profiles, and similar response rates.

        -  Combining SC, rather than IV bortezomib, with lenalidomide and dexamethasone is
           especially attractive given the potential for less overall neurotoxicity and improved
           convenience for the patient.

        -  Also, using bortezomib SC as a maintenance therapy after combination therapy is a novel
           strategy that has the potential to set the stage for coming oral proteasome inhibitors
           as potential maintenance strategies in the future.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective

        -  Determine response rates, of S.C. bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (VRd) in
           relapse and/or refractory MM patients

      Secondary Objectives

        -  Assess peripheral blood for immune cell populations in relation to SC bortezomib
           maintenance

        -  Evaluate toxicity, including peripheral neuropathy

        -  Evaluate patterns of change in patient-reported quality of life and symptom distress

        -  Gauge the feasibility, responsiveness to change and associated effect sizes when using
           patient-reported outcomes to augment clinician ratings of regimen-related treatment
           toxicity, including incidence and severity of peripheral neuropathy

        -  Determine duration of response

        -  Determine progression free survival

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically confirmed relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Without serious co-morbidity that would interfere with receipt of VRd

        -  If patient has neuropathy, it must be less than or equal to Grade 1 at the time of first
           dose or within 14 days of enrollment

        -  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) greater than equal to 1.0 K/uL, hemoglobin less than or
           equal to 8 g/dL, and platelet count greater than or equal to 75 K/uL

        -  Adequate hepatic function, with bilirubin < 1.5 times ULN; AST and ALT < 3.0 times ULN

        -  Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 60 ml/min. CrCl will be calculated by
           Cockcroft-Gault method. CrCl (calculated) = (140 Age) times Mass (in kilograms) times
           [0.85 if Female] 72 times Serum Creatinine (in mg/dL). If calculated CrCl based on
           Cockcroft-Gault method is < 60 mL/min, patient will have a 24 hr urine collection to
           measure CrCl. The measured CrCl must also be greater than or equal to 60 ml/min for the
           patient to be eligible.

      Design:

      Patient will receive treatment in this single arm study for 8 total cycles (each cycle is 21
      days) with the following drugs, dosages and schedule:

      - Bortezomib

      Cycle 1-8: 1.0 mg/m(2) SC at a concentration of 2.5 mg/ml to the thighs or abdomen on days 1,
      4, 8, 11 of 21 day cycle

      - Lenalidomide

      Cycle 1: 15 mg oral daily on days 2-14 of 21 day cycle

      Cycle 2-8: 15 mg oral daily on days 1-14 of 21 day cycle

      - Dexamethasone

      Cycle 1: 10 mg oral on days 2,4,5,8,9,11,12 of 21 day cycle

      Cycle 2-8: 10 mg oral on days 1,2,4,5,8,9,11,12 of 21 day cycle

      - Maintenance therapy

      After completion of cycle 8, patients with greater than or equal to stable disease will
      receive maintenance with bortezomib S.C. at a dose per end of Cycle 8. Maintenance will be
      given on days 1 and 15 of a 28 day cycle, and will continue until progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.
    
  