
    
      Asthma is a chronic respiratory disease that affects 7% or 14 million adults in the United
      States. It is one of the four most common chronic disorders in adults, costing an estimated
      7.9 billion dollars in medical care and 5.3 billion dollars in lost work or school.
      Approximately 40% of asthmatics report using some form of complementary and alternative
      medicine (CAM) approach to help alleviate their asthma symptoms, but there is little evidence
      for their effectiveness. Breathing and relaxation techniques, including yoga appear most
      promising. Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) is a group-based program developed at
      the University of Massachusetts Medical School (UMMS) that focuses on the cultivation of
      mindfulness through formal meditation practices and the integration of mindfulness into
      everyday life as a coping resource to deal with physical symptoms, chronic medical
      conditions, and difficult emotional situations. MBSR has been shown to be an effective
      adjunctive intervention in reducing medical symptoms for a broad range of stress-related
      disorders and chronic diseases, reducing psychological distress anxiety and depression, and
      improving quality of life. A small preliminary study conducted by our research team found
      improvements in measures of quality of life, locus of control, stress, and anxiety
      immediately following the completion of the MBSR program.

      The overall goal of the proposed two year exploratory study is to conduct a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) to test and optimize recruitment and data collection procedures and to
      collect preliminary data on the effect of MBSR on behavioral and psychological aspects of
      asthma and lung function to support justification for a larger clinical trial should the
      results of this study be promising. Eighty-two adults ages 21 and older with a
      physician-documented diagnosis of asthma classified as either mild or moderate documented
      will be recruited for seventy participants at final follow-up. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to one of two conditions stratified by asthma severity: (1) MBSR, or (2) Healthy
      Living Course (HLC) attention control condition. Participant assessments will occur at study
      entry (baseline) and at 10-week, 6- and 12-month follow-up. The primary aim of the project is
      to evaluate the efficacy of the MBSR program in improving quality of life and lung function
      as assessed by change from baseline to two-week average morning peak expiratory flow (PEF)
      compared to HLC participants. Secondary aims are to evaluate the effect of the MBSR program
      on reducing asthma rescue medication use, frequency of asthma exacerbations (prednisone
      therapy), asthma symptoms, healthcare utilization, number of days of work or school missed,
      peak expiratory flow (PEF) variation, and psychological distress, and in improving asthma
      control, asthma-related internal locus of control, and lung function as assessed by
      spirometry (FEV1).
    
  