
    
      Treatment of CDI remains challenging, especially in those with recurrent disease. Failures
      rates of 20-30% with initial treatment have been reported, and up to 65% fail after a third
      course of antibiotics. In addition, costs of treatment, which can be upward of $3000 for a 10
      day course of a single antibiotic, may leave many patients and their families financially
      overburdened. Use of FMT has shown to be effective with cure rates above 80%, safe even in
      immunocompromised patients, and cost effective in those with recurrent (3 or more) episodes
      of C.difficile. Emory University and Emory Clinic have performed over 100 FMT's since July
      2012 for treatment of recurrent or refractory CDI and has had similar cure rates.

      Current treatment approaches for CDI limit the use of fecal transplant to those who have had
      more than 2 recurrences with at least one failure of a 6-8 week taper with vancomycin or at
      least 2 episodes of severe CDI resulting in hospitalization or refractory CDI defined as
      moderate CDI not responding to standard therapy for at least one week (5). However, the
      investigators feel that by attempting to perform FMT early after a first episode in those at
      high risk of recurrence, decreased recurrence rates, improved quality of life, and lower
      health care costs will be seen.

      Patients who participate will be randomized to one of two groups - one group who receives a
      fecal transplant and another group who will not receive a fecal transplant. A fecal
      transplant using a sigmoidoscopy will occur after the subjects in the fecal transplant arm
      complete the course of antibiotics for treatment of the C.difficile infection. Healthy stool
      from a donor will be infused into the colon to help replenish good bacteria that patients
      with C.difficile infection often do not have. The group that does not undergo FMT will take
      antibiotics and probiotic therapy for management of CDI as part of standard of care.
    
  