
    
      RESEARCH QUESTIONS: In longitudinal research, will participant-initiated internet data entry
      improve 1) participant retention and 2) data quality? RESEARCH CONTEXT: While longitudinal
      research may be the best tool for examining the course of human health and illness over the
      lifespan, the burden of participation over many years often results in loss of participants
      to follow-up. Such attrition reduces statistical power and threatens the internal validity
      and generalizability of inferences drawn from longitudinal data (Shadish et al., 2002).
      Because internet data collection is convenient and simplifies complex questionnaires, this
      method may reduce participant burden and reduce attrition. While internet data collection is
      already regarded as a viable tool for participant recruitment (Smith et al., 2007) and
      usually results in data of equivalent or better quality (e.g., factor loadings,
      reliabilities) than traditional paper-and-pencil methods (Vergnaud et al., 2011), internet
      data collection as a tool to increase participant retention within an existing longitudinal
      cohort has not been evaluated previously. The goal of the current project is to determine
      whether internet data collection increases participant retention and data quality within the
      APrON (Alberta Pregnancy Outcomes and Nutrition) study.

      APrON is an ongoing longitudinal cohort study conducted in Calgary and Edmonton, involving
      more than 2000 women, 1200 of their partners, and their 2000 children. It is designed to
      answer questions about the impact of maternal nutrient intake and status during pregnancy on:
      a) maternal mental health, b) birth outcomes, and c) child health and development. The data
      collected from Albertans participating in health research (such as APrON) is a provincial
      treasure, an investment that needs to be maximized with easy, modern technology to reduce
      participant burden and promote better long-term follow-up. Although software is available for
      single questionnaire data entry (e.g., RedCap), the innovative technology the investigators
      plan to introduce and evaluate is a made-in-Alberta solution that automates and simplifies
      the collection of complex short- and long-term longitudinal data - a process that other
      software cannot easily achieve. This technology holds strong potential for broad application
      to all longitudinal health research.

      Currently, APrON collects data using traditional paper questionnaires mailed out at regular
      intervals throughout pregnancy and as children develop over the first 3 years. At some time
      points, participants are also asked to attend a clinic where biological samples and physical
      measures are taken. The questionnaires are long and complex (whether a question needs to be
      answered is dependent upon responses to previous questions) and have been identified as a
      major time burden by study participants. In a recent survey of 1763 APrON participants,
      almost 65%, indicated they would prefer to complete study questionnaires via the internet -
      most of the remainder had no preference. Completion rate for paper questionnaires is
      approximately 85% when participants come to a study clinic for an in-person visit. However,
      when a clinic visit does not accompany the mailed questionnaires (questionnaires are
      completed at home and returned by postage paid envelope) response rates are ~ 65%.

      RESEARCH PLAN/METHODOLOGY: Electronic Patient Reported Outcomes (ePRO) is a web-based
      software tool developed by the Women & Children's Health Research Institute (WCHRI) at the
      University of Alberta. Pilot studies have been performed at the University of Alberta,
      however, this study will be the first use of ePRO in a study population of this size.
      Questionnaires are built using Checkbox Survey Server. Automatic email invitations to
      participants are based on the individualized anchor dates and schedules (e.g., the
      questionnaire for children aged 12 months is linked to the individual child's date of birth).
      Participants receive links and instructions when a survey is due for completion. Reminders
      are automatically sent if a questionnaire is not completed within appropriate timelines
      (e.g., after 2 weeks). Study staff can track late and incomplete questionnaires, re-send
      invitations, and manually enter data when information is obtained via a paper questionnaire
      or telephone interview. Importantly, the system facilitates linking of data from different
      questionnaires and different time points.

      The investigators propose a randomized trial of data collection methods. Participants will be
      allocated using a permuted block randomization of equal block sizes from APrON participants
      in Calgary to one of two groups: (1) continue with paper-based data collection; and (2) use
      ePRO for future data collection tasks.

      IMPACT/RELEVANCE: In 2008, Alberta invested significant research funds to establish pregnancy
      and birth cohorts that will help develop knowledge needed to improve the health of mothers
      and infants. Answering health questions about developmental effects requires continued
      contact and follow-up with the participants every 3-6 months, which is a significant
      challenge, and one which most international cohorts are struggling to accomplish with paper
      questionnaires. What the investigators propose in this grant is to evaluate a novel approach
      to complex longitudinal research that enables data collection that is convenient, less
      burdensome, and efficient for participants. The investigators expect that the ePRO system
      will: 1) increase completion rate by tracking participant progress in the study, notifying
      them when it is time for another round of questionnaires, administering questionnaires in an
      efficient manner (skip non-relevant questions), and sending reminders about incomplete
      questionnaires, and 2) improve data quality by alerting participants to missing items.
    
  