
    
      This is a prospective, non-interventional, mono-centric study at surgical intensive care unit
      at Brest medical university hospital.

      This study will be conducted in a reference center for the management of patients with
      traumatic brain injury, who is used to collect prospective data.

      The clinical research structure of Brest Medical University allows data analysis and the
      investigators have the clinical knowledge for their interpretation.

      After verification of the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria and information of the family
      (parent or relative) or the holder of parental authority, patients will be included in order
      of arrival in the service.

      The population studied is the trauma brain injured patients with an initial Glasgow coma
      scale of less than 8 at pre-hospital care or neurological impairment with Glasgow Coma
      Scaleless than 8 in the first 24 hours after admission to intensive care.

      The installation of a intra-cranial pressure/ PbtO2 probe (INTEGRA Licox PtO2 monitor) is
      performed by the neurosurgeon according to the protocol service.

      Approximately 30 patients were monitored with a PbtO2 sensor in 2018 in the Surgical
      intensive care unit at Brest Medical University Hospital.

      After verification of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria, oral and written information will
      be given to parent or relative of the patient. A no-objection form will be sent to the
      patient as soon as possible to confirm his participation.

      Follow-up of the patient is carried out until discharge of intensiv care unit. The duration
      of participation in the study is the duration of treatment by targeted temperature control,
      very variable depending on the clinical evolution of patients, from 1 day to more than one
      week. The management of the patients included in this study is not modified in relation to
      the treatment usually recommended in the intensiv care unit.(based on French recommendation).

      In order to describe the variations of PbtO2 values, the PbtO2 values are collected at time
      T0 before induction of targeted temperature control, at time T1: the first hour of the
      targeted temperature control phase (<35 ° C) at time T2: during the phase of temperature
      stability (<35 ° C) defined as two successive hours of hypothermia, at time T3 defines as 6
      hours at a stable temperature in hypothermia, then once a day up to the end of the targeted
      temperature control phase.

      Then the values of PtiO2 are collected during the daily hypercapnia test during targeted
      temperature control phase.

      Demographic data collected are age, sex, weight, height, and data on gravity at the entrance:
      IGS2 score, first Glasgow Coma scale score, time to CT-scan and IMPACT score.

      Data on time to PbtO2 probe and ICP probe insertion and time to equilibration of PbtO2 value.

      Data were collected at all times, T0, T1, T2, T3 (as defined above) and daily: the body
      temperature (collected by esophageal thermal probe), the cerebral perfusion pressure, the
      value of PtiO2 / PIC, FiO2 / etCO2, an arterial blood sample, a blood count and a daily
      ionogram,daily transcranial Doppler data, doses of amines, curares and sedation.

      During the stay were collected: time to and nature of the surgical procedure and realization
      of a craniectomy or not, position of the PtiO2 probe on a control scanner, an at the
      discharge: prognosis score (GOS-E),lenght of stay in intensive care unit, death in intensive
      care unit.
    
  