
    
      ARDS is a serious condition that involves lung inflammation and fluid accumulation in the air
      sacs, leading to low blood oxygen levels and respiratory failure. It is often fatal and
      affects approximately 160,000 individuals each year in the United States. The main form of
      treatment for ARDS is delivery of oxygen and a continuous level of pressure to the damaged
      lungs through mechanical ventilation. However, some methods of mechanical ventilation may
      cause ventilator-associated lung injury (VALI), a condition that can result from
      overdistension of the lungs during inspiration or from excessive mechanical forces. VALI can
      delay or prevent healing from respiratory failure.

      HFOV is a mechanical ventilation method that pumps small amounts of air into the lungs at a
      constant high rate. Because the increments of air are small the likelihood of experiencing
      overdistension and developing VALI may be reduced. While HFOV is an effective, commonly used
      ventilation method, there have been no studies that demonstrate the efficacy of HFOV in
      comparison to the efficacy of conventional mechanical ventilation methods. This study will
      compare two different HFOV techniques: the HFOV-Hi method, which uses higher airway pressure,
      and the HFOV-Lo method, which uses lower airway pressure. The purpose of this study is to
      compare the safety and efficacy of HFOV-Hi, HFOV-Lo, and standard mechanical ventilation
      methods in individuals with ARDS.

      This study will enroll individuals with ARDS at four Baltimore hospitals. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to receive either HFOV-Hi or HFOV-Lo. All participants will receive
      their assigned HFOV method for 7 days, until spontaneous breathing occurs, or until death,
      whichever occurs first. Blood collected at baseline and Days 1 and 3 will be analyzed for
      markers of inflammation and lung injury. Participants' clinical status will be monitored
      until they no longer need ventilation and return home, or for up to 60 days while in the
      hospital. Individuals being treated for ARDS at the participating hospitals who decline to
      enroll in the study will be asked for permission to monitor their medical progress. These
      individuals will not take part in any study procedures, but their clinical information will
      be used for comparison purposes. Additionally, clinical information on other ARDS patients
      admitted to the hospital over the previous 2 years will be analyzed.
    
  