
    
      CDH is a severe birth defect, with a prevalence of 1:2000 to 1:3000 live births where a
      defect in the diaphragm results in, herniation of the abdominal contents into the chest with
      subsequent compression of the intrathoracic structures. Compression of the intrathoracic
      structures results in pulmonary and left ventricular (LV) hypoplasia and abnormal development
      of the pulmonary vasculature in utero. These abnormalities in the development of the heart
      and lungs in utero, result in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN) and
      respiratory insufficiency after birth. Respiratory insufficiency is managed with intubation
      and mechanical ventilation. In addition to managing respiratory insufficiency, intubation
      prevents entrainment of air into the intestines and further compression of the lungs and
      heart. As part of routine resuscitation in infants with CDH intubation is performed after the
      delivery personnel separates the baby from the placenta by cutting the umbilical cord.
      Resuscitation of infants with CDH also involves placement of a nasogastric tube (NG) into the
      stomach for removal of entrained air and secretions as well as placement of catheters in the
      umbilical artery and vein for administration of medications (vein) and continuous blood
      pressure monitoring and sampling of blood (artery). As part of routine practice at our
      institution, these initial steps of resuscitation are all performed in parallel such that
      while one team is intubating and initiating ventilation as well as placing the NG tube,
      another team is placing umbilical lines. This approach has allowed the investigators to
      obtain arterial blood gas samples in 20 infants with CDH at a median of 4 minutes of life
      (range 2-9 minutes). When compared to cord blood arterial samples, pCO2 increases by a median
      of 35mmHg (range 11-77mmHg) from a median cord ABG pCO2 of 55mmHg (range 28-78 mmHg) to
      88mmHg (range 65-123 mmHg). In addition to these changes in pCO2 median base deficit changed
      from -2 ± 0.5350 in the arterial cord blood sample to -7.994 ± 0.8547 in the umbilical
      arterial blood sample. The resultant respiratory and metabolic acidosis decreased the pH from
      7.289 ± 0.01946 in the arterial cord blood sample to 7.036 ± 0.02051 after birth. In addition
      to the above measures, as part of routine resuscitation, the investigators routinely obtain
      echocardiographic studies in the first hour of life, to guide pulmonary hypertension
      management. These studies demonstrate left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and right to left
      shunting at the ductus arteriosus about 50% of the time. The investigators speculate that the
      LV dysfunction and increased pulmonary vascular resistance are at least in part due to the
      acidemia described above. In addition, decreased preload to the LV from right to left
      shunting at the ductus arteriosus also likely contributes to LV dysfunction. Standard of care
      for infants with marked abnormalities in gas exchange and LV dysfunction is ECMO rescue early
      on in the delivery room.

      Clamping of the umbilical cord is one of the first interventions that occurs after birth.
      This separates the infant from the placenta, signifying a landmark period during which the
      newborn transforms into an independent entity. The transition from a fetus to a neonate at
      birth represents a critical phase in our life. Early or immediate cord clamping is standard
      practice where delivery of the fetus is followed by immediate clamping of the umbilical cord
      (<15 seconds). In 2010, the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR)
      recommended that cord clamping could be delayed for at least 1 min. Since then for low risk
      infants, delayed cord clamping has become routine with the delivering providers delaying
      clamping of the cord for 1 minute prior to initiating routine newborn care. In these low risk
      infants there have been many published reports demonstrating benefit with delayed cord
      clamping. The benefits are primarily attributed to an increase in neonatal blood volume,
      secondary to placenta-fetal transfusion. More recently the benefits of delayed cord clamping
      have been demonstrated in higher risk infants. In preterm infants, delayed cord clamping
      decreased the need for inotropic support after birth, decreased the need for blood
      transfusions and reduced the incidence of necrotizing enterocolitis and intraventricular
      hemorrhage. These improvements appear more in line with improvements in cardiac function,
      which may or may not be associated with an increase in blood volume. More recently, in
      infants with congenital heart disease delayed cord clamping has been shown to be feasible and
      decreased the need for packed red blood cell transfusions after birth. Despite the benefits
      of delayed cord clamping on both the cardiopulmonary transition as well as postnatal
      outcomes, delayed cord clamping has never been employed in infants with congenital
      diaphragmatic hernia. This is due to the need for immediate resuscitation after birth and the
      risk of adverse outcomes by delaying the initiation of postnatal care.

      In a recent study doppler ultrasound was used to measure arterial and venous umbilical blood
      flow during delayed cord clamping in term vaginal deliveries. After birth, the probe was
      placed in the middle of the umbilical cord and pattern and duration of flow in vein and
      arteries were evaluated until cord clamping. In 90% of infants, umbilical venous flow was
      still present at 4 minutes and 36 seconds. In 83% of infants, umbilical arterial flow was
      still present at 4 minutes and 22 seconds and in 72% of infants bidirectional arterial flow
      was observed. Bidirectional arterial flow appeared at 45 seconds after birth and persisted
      for a median duration of 2 minutes and 24 seconds (01:37- 03:52). This study implies that
      placental gas exchange may remain active for at least 4-5 minutes after birth and suggests
      that delaying cord clamping for 4-5 minutes while initiating resuscitation may be feasible.

      In fetal sheep, the effect of initiation of ventilation with an intact umbilical cord was
      studied by placing flow probes around the ductus arteriosus, carotid and pulmonary arteries
      and catheters in the carotid and pulmonary arteries for direct pressure measurements. With
      clamping of the umbilical cord prior to initiation of ventilation, carotid artery and
      pulmonary artery pressure increased, carotid artery blood flow increased initially and then
      decreased and pulmonary artery blood flow and right ventricular output decreased. These
      changes in carotid and pulmonary pressure and flow were accompanied by a decrease in heart
      rate. With just 30 seconds of ventilation prior to clamping of the umbilical cord, the
      fluctuations in heart rate, carotid and pulmonary artery pressure and flow were prevented and
      the cardiopulmonary transition was much more stable.

      The first published report of resuscitation with an intact umbilical cord compared 24 hour
      hematocrit in premature infants (23 0/7-31 6/7 weeks' GA) randomized to 60 seconds of V
      (initial continuous positive airway pressure) with addition of positive pressure ventilation
      if needed - delayed cord clamping (DCC), V-DCC or DCC-only where infants were dried and
      stimulated by gently rubbing the back if apneic. In this study no differences were seen in
      the peak hematocrit in the first 24 hours, delivery room interventions, early hemodynamics
      (cerebral oxygenation by near-infrared spectroscopy, cardiac output and stroke volume by
      electrical cardiometry, or superior vena cava flow by functional echocardiography), or
      neonatal outcomes. The onset of breathing was similar between both groups however infants
      receiving DCC received a greater duration of stimulation than V-DCC. While no benefit was
      seen with V-DCC, no adverse effects were seen and this study demonstrated the feasibility of
      resuscitation with the cord intact. In addition the primary outcome measure differed from our
      question of interest as the infants enrolled in this study were low risk for abnormalities in
      the cardiopulmonary transition.

      In this protocol, the investigators propose initiation of resuscitation during the period of
      delayed cord clamping in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia. This is a feasibility
      study that will assess tolerance of the participants (pregnant mother and their high-risk
      infants) to this method of resuscitation as well as the optimal setup and approach to
      resuscitation. Tolerance to this approach would provide these infants the benefits of delayed
      cord clamping while allowing for simultaneous resuscitation. The first aim of this study is
      to assess maternal and fetal tolerance to the procedure and determine the optimal approach to
      resuscitation. In addition to this the investigators will assess if initiation of
      resuscitation during the period of delayed cord clamping can stabilize gas exchange and
      prevent the hypercarbia and acidosis that ensues after birth. Due to the physiologic effects
      of initiation of ventilation prior to clamping of the umbilical cord the investigators
      hypothesize that initiation of resuscitation prior to umbilical cord clamping will stabilize
      the cardiopulmonary transition and will decrease the prevalence of LV dysfunction in this
      population. The results of this study will lay the foundation for a future multi-center
      randomized trial and are likely to impact the manner in which newborns with CDH are
      resuscitated after birth
    
  