
    
      Lung transplantation has emerged as a viable therapeutic option in the care of patients with
      advanced pulmonary parenchymal and pulmonary vascular disease. Currently, over 10,000
      patients have received lung transplantation with approximately 1200 transplant operations
      performed worldwide each year. Short-term survival after lung transplantation has continued
      to improve since the widespread application of this procedure and one-year survival at most
      centers now approaches 80%. Unfortunately, long-term outcomes after lung transplantation are
      disappointing with five-year survival below 50%. Most posttransplant deaths are due directly
      or indirectly to the development of acute or chronic rejection. Acute rejection is defined by
      the presence of perivascular mononuclear inflammatory cells. Obliterative bronchiolitis (OB)
      describes fibrosis and obliteration of the small to medium size bronchioles, the histological
      manifestation of chronic lung rejection. Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) is thought
      to correlate with the development of histological OB when other causes of allograft
      dysfunction have been excluded. The diagnosis of OB is based primarily on a decline in
      spirometry with exclusion of alternative diagnoses with bronchoscopy and biopsy, i.e.
      development of clinical BOS. Since the introduction of BOS nomenclature, numerous studies
      have validated the clinical and prognostic importance of this syndrome and verified its
      correlation with histological OB.

      Chronic rejection describes a histological pattern of fibrous obliteration of endothelial or
      epithelial structures in the allograft. A similar pattern of histological fibrosis is
      observed in all types of solid organ transplants (e.g., obliterative arteriopathy in heart
      transplant, BOS in lung transplant), and occurs despite the use of currently available,
      primarily T-cell based, immune suppression. The rates of chronic rejection vary considerably
      with the type of organ transplanted. By five years after transplantation histological
      fibrosis occurs in approximately 20% of kidney, 40% of heart and 60-80% of lung recipients.
      Thus, lung transplantation is characterized by an unusually high incidence of chronic graft
      rejection manifest as BOS.

      Because of the high rate of acute and chronic lung transplant rejection, research designed to
      better correlate clinical outcomes with the genetic risks for rejection is critical to
      improving patient outcomes. We recently completed a study that demonstrated two single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) Asp299Gly and Thr399Ile (polymorphisms of the human Toll 4
      gene associated with endotoxin hyporesponsiveness) were associated with decreased acute
      rejection after lung transplantation.

      We hypothesize that other SNPs associated with either increased or decreased innate or
      adaptive immune activation will be critical to determining the clinical outcome with regards
      to acute and chronic rejection after lung transplant. If specific genetic risks for rejection
      after transplant could be identified, this might lead to highly tailored immunosuppressive
      regimens and improved clinical outcomes.
    
  