
    
      5.1 This will be a randomized three-arm clinical trial pilot study of an intervention
      examining the efficacy of either massage or Reiki in reducing fatigue associated with
      hormonal treatment and to determine if four Reiki treatments are more effective than two in
      controlling fatigue. Subjects will be studied during ten weeks of hormonal therapy with two
      weeks of baseline assessments followed by a four-week intervention, and a four-week
      post-intervention period.

      5.1.1 All ancillary treatments for control of symptoms caused by the cancer or its treatment
      may be administered as clinically indicated.

      5.1.2 The current protocol is for a pilot study designed to gather preliminary efficacy and
      feasibility data for the development of a planned RO1 submission. Our intention is to gather
      preliminary data to generate effect size estimates for power calculations for an anticipated
      RO1 application. We will also use this preliminary data to help us determine whether or not
      we should drop or modify one or more of the current study arms when designing the planned RO1
      study.

      5.1.3 It is preferred that the study be completed in a time-span of ten calendar weeks,
      however if the subject or practitioner is unable to attend an appointment during a scheduled
      week, that week will not count as a study week, and it will be designated a skipped week.
      Only two skipped weeks will be allowed, so the maximum length of the study will be twelve
      calendar weeks. Subjects will not complete questionnaires during skipped weeks, and skipped
      weeks may not be consecutive.

      5.2 Consent Process and Assessment

      5.2.1 After providing written informed consent (and receiving a signed copy), the subject
      will complete an On-Study Data Form providing demographic and clinical data. Questions
      concerning the subject's experience with both Reiki and massage (and related treatments) and
      expectations for their efficacy in relieving fatigue are also included. Subjects will also
      complete a quality of life (QOL) questionnaire and sleep quality (SQ) questionnaire at time
      of consent.

      5.2.2 Subjects will be asked to completed study questionnaires at home. They will have the
      option of completing questionnaires via the REDCap online survey system (see Section 6.10) or
      on paper. If they choose to complete paper questionnaires, they will be given a packet of
      study questionnaires at the time of consent. The questionnaire packet will consist of seven
      sets of questionnaires. Each set will have the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), the Insomnia
      Severity Index (ISI), and a Symptom Inventory. In addition, the sixth and seventh sets of
      questionnaires will also include the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory (PSQI) to assess SQ,
      the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) to assess QOL, and the
      Profile of Mood States (POMS). If they choose to complete questionnaires via REDCap, they
      will be asked to complete the same questionnaires through the online survey system. Subjects
      electing to use REDCap will also be given one set of paper questionnaires to be used in the
      event that computer access is not available when needed.

      5.2.3 Subjects will be asked to complete one set of questionnaires (either through REDCap or
      on paper) each Friday night of the 2-week baseline and the 4-week intervention period. They
      will be asked to complete a final set on Friday of Week 10. A set of questionnaires takes
      about 10-20 minutes to complete.

      5.2.4 Reminder phone calls or emails will be made by study personnel each Friday to assist
      the subject in remembering to complete the study forms. If they have chosen to complete paper
      questionnaires, they will also be instructed to return them in the provided stamped,
      pre-addressed envelope. (Permission will be obtained to leave messages on a subject's
      voicemail before any messages are left.)

      5.3 An optional Heart Rate Variability (HRV) assessment will be done during study weeks 2 and
      7 at the PEAK Laboratory at the URMC (see Section 6.7).

      5.4 An optional fasting (8-hour) blood draw will be done at the URMC to estimate cytokines
      (CRP, IL-6, & TNF-α) during study weeks 2 and 7 (see Section 6.8).

      5.5 Treatment Arms:

      5.5.1 Subjects assigned to Arm 1 will receive two massage treatments approximately two weeks
      apart.

      5.5.2 Subjects assigned to Arm 2 will receive two Reiki treatments approximately two weeks
      apart.

      5.5.3 Subjects assigned to Arm 3 will receive four Reiki treatments approximately 1 week
      apart.

      5.5.4 Scheduling arrangements will be made for the treatments prior to the initiation of the
      intervention.

      5.5.6 Subjects will not be charged for the Reiki or massage treatments.
    
  