
    
      After giving informed consent, patients will receive an ultrasound investigation of the
      proximal-vein system (common femoral vein at groin, popliteal vein up to its trifurcation):

        -  Patients with residual thrombosis (defined as a diameter of at least 4 mm in at least
           one spot) will have their anticoagulation continued. A repeat ultrasound is scheduled
           after 6, 12, 18, 24 and 36 months. In patients with persistently residual thrombosis
           anticoagulation will not be discontinued, while those whose veins have recanalized will
           have a decision making process based on the behaviour of D-dimer (see below).

        -  Patients whose veins have recanalized (either at the recruitment or later on) will
           receive the D-dimer determination before discontinuing anticoagulation. In those with
           negative D-dimer anticoagulation will be discontinued. These patients will have two
           further determinations of D-dimer (after 1 and 3 months, respectively). While patients
           with persistently negative D-dimer will no longer receive anticoagulation, those in whom
           D-dimer becomes positive will have their anticoagulation resumed and no longer
           discontinued.

        -  All patients will be followed up to completion of 4 years since recruitment. For the
           purpose of this study each quantitative D-dimer is allowed. The criterion for D-dimer
           interpretation will rely on the cut-off that is recommended by manufacturers for
           diagnostic purposes.

      D-dimer.For the purpose of this study each quantitative D-dimer is allowed. The criterion for
      D-dimer interpretation will rely on the cut-off that is recommended by manufacturers for
      diagnostic purposes.

      Sample size 1000 years of observation without anticoagulation are required to demonstrate
      (power 90%, type I error 0.05, two sided) that with this approach the annual rate of
      recurrent VTE is lower than 5%. Approximately 600 patients with proximal DVT satisfying the
      eligibility criteria are required to obtain 1000 years of observation without
      anticoagulation.
    
  