
    
      Background:

      Patients with cancer in the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction (EGEJ) treated with
      chemoradiotherapy (chemoRT) have increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Both chemotherapy
      and radiotherapy have been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity.
      Still, there is a survival benefit due to multimodal treatment and a careful patient
      selection. Radiation induced heart disease (RIHD) may include pericarditis, systolic and
      diastolic myocardial dysfunction, coronary heart disease, valvular heart disease and
      conduction abnormalities. Standard treatment of locally advanced EGEJ cancer today consists
      of neoadjuvant chemoRT followed by surgery or chemoRT alone. Elderly patients with frailty
      and pre-existing cardiovascular disease are in general not offered surgery but might be
      candidates for treatment with chemoRT alone, still with curative intent. However, the current
      understanding of RIHD in EGEJ patients is limited as data are sparse. In Sweden a single
      study has shown that chemoRT might potentially induce acute impairment of both systolic and
      especially diastolic left ventricular function. The lack of more substantial evidence leaves
      room for variation in clinical practice. Hence, there is a need for additional studies to
      provide more insights into the risk of RIHD, in particular on myocardial function during and
      after chemoRT as congestive heart failure is a serious complication associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality. Proton-based radiation therapy (RT) is a new alternative to standard
      photon-based radiation therapy, which reduces the radiation dose to the heart and subsequent
      risks of cardiovascular complications. However, the availability of proton therapy is still
      relatively limited for the general EGEJ population, and the indication for proton based RT is
      not yet evidence based. It is crucial to evaluate risk of heart failure during and after
      standard chemoRT and to identify potential high-risk patients who might benefit from proton
      therapy instead of the current standard therapy.

      Hypothesis:

      Treatment with chemoRT might induce myocardial dysfunction, symptoms of heart failure and
      decreased physical performance in patients with EGEJ Cancer.

      The aim is:

        -  to identify systolic and diastolic myocardial dysfunction at rest and during peak
           exercise with advanced non-invasive imaging (echocardiography) following chemoRT.

        -  to evaluate if baseline myocardial biomarkers (Troponin T (TNT) and N-terminal pro
           b-type natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP)) and risk factors (diabetes, smoking,
           hypertension, dyslipidemia) can predict development of myocardial dysfunction.

        -  to detect whether exercise echocardiography compared to resting echocardiography can
           identify additional patients with myocardial dysfunction following chemoRT.

        -  to examine whether development of myocardial dysfunction in EGEJ patients will be
           reflected in impairment of psychical capacity evaluated by cardiac pulmonary exercise
           test with assessment of maximal oxygen consumption.

        -  to evaluate if baseline symptoms classification with clinical frailty score and New York
           Heart Association (NYHA) and can predict development of myocardial dysfunction.

      Method:

      Design:

      A prospective observational study of patients with EGEJ cancer. Fifty-six patients will be
      enrolled during a period of 18 months. For the individual patient the heart check
      investigations will be performed within six months and follow up in general is until 5 years.

      After informed consent in the Department of Oncology, the patients will be examined with
      heart investigations (ECG, Echocardiography rest/exercise and CPX test) in the Department of
      Cardiology before they start oncologic treatment (baseline) after 6 weeks and again after 6
      months.

      Clinical frailty, risk factors and cardiac symptoms will be evaluated from structured
      interview at follow-ups. The investigators will use validated models for graduating risk
      factors, clinical frailty and shortness of breath (NYHA classification). The patients will
      serve as own controls comparing the baseline findings with the findings thereafter.

      The heart investigations:

      Electrocardiogram (ECG): Is made to detect ST-segment depression, elevation or negative
      T-waves, LV strain or arrhythmias.

      Blood samples (Cardiac biomarkers): TNT to detect myocyte necrosis and NT-pro-BNP to detect
      myocardial dysfunction and lipids to be used in risk evaluation.

      3D echocardiography at rest and during exercise: Two-and three-dimensional Doppler
      echocardiography is used to evaluate Left ventricular (LV) systolic and diastolic function.

      LV systolic function is evaluated by 3D echocardiography estimated ejection fraction (LVEF)
      and by 2D global longitudinal strain (GLS), which is a sensitive marker of myocardial
      function beyond LVEF. The test will be performed at rest and at peak exercise using a
      semi-supine ergometer bicycle. Determination of LV contractile reserve capacity is evaluated
      by the difference in GLS and LVEF at rest and at peak exercise. Myocardial systolic reserve
      capacity in other cardiac diseases has demonstrated to be a significant marker of functional
      capacity.

      LV diastolic function is evaluated by left atrial volume and pulsed and tissue-Doppler
      parameters according to current guidelines by the European Society of Cardiology.

      Cardio pulmonary exercise (CPX) test:

      Maximum oxygen uptake (VO2 max) from a cardio pulmonary test is gold standard to measure the
      physically capacity of patients and is known to add prognostic information in patients with
      heart failure independently of etiology. The patient will be placed on a semi-supine special
      designed bicycle with simultaneous determination of VO2 during increasing watts. Hemodynamic
      parameters as pulse, blood pressure and ECG will be measured continuously. Echocardiography
      will be performed at rest and during peak exercise
    
  