
    
      1)Full design

        1. The study proceeds with a parallel design of retrospective and prospective research.

        2. As in the retrospective study, this study aims to establish the ideal screening criteria
           and to verify the efficacy of the thrombolytic procedure by using the relevant image
           information, clinical information, and the history of the subjects.

        3. This study is an observational study, and there is no intervention for the study.

      2) retrospective design

        1. Retrospective study was conducted as a multi-center retrospective cohort and intravenous
           thrombolysis and intraarterial thrombus according to the guidelines for stroke among
           patients who were admitted to neurology with stroke from January 1, 2012 to December 31,
           2015 of participating hospitals. Patients who underwent surgical removal.

        2. The retrospective study was performed after 3 months F / U and 6 months after confirming
           the medical history and clinical information taken before the thrombolysis and the
           accompanying disease history. Check whether or not.

        3. We will establish the most ideal screening criteria and verify the efficacy of
           predicting the prognosis after thrombolysis using the relevant imaging information,
           clinical information and the accompanying disease history.

        4. All data are collected using e-CRF, and CT angiography images of subjects are anonymized
           and sent to the host institution. The lead institution quantifies the clinical
           information, including CT angiographic indicators and accompanying diseases, in the
           dark.

        5. Interim analysis will be conducted once when the retrospective study is completed.

      3) prospective design

        1. A prospective study is a multicenter prospective observational study, in which
           intravenous thrombolysis and arteries were already followed in accordance with
           guidelines for stroke among patients who were admitted to neurology after a stroke on
           November 1, 2016 (based on hospitalization date). Patients who have undergone internal
           thrombectomy

        2. Obtain a written consent form from a study subject who meets the selection / exclusion
           criteria (see How to Obtain a Study Participation Consent Form), and collect the medical
           data including the accompanying diseases of the study subject and images taken before
           thrombosis (removal) treatment. do.

        3. In the same way as retrospective study, confirm and confirm the image and clinical
           information and the accompanying disease history of the study subjects and confirm the
           survival after 3 months F / U and 6 months.

        4. The observation period in the study is expected to take about 6 months (intravenous
           thrombolytic therapy and intraarterial reopening therapy, mRS indicator at 3 months
           after discharge and stroke, and survival at 6 months after stroke).

        5. All data are collected using eCRF, and CT angiography images of subjects are anonymized
           and sent to the host institution. The lead institution quantifies CT angiography and
           associated disease indicators with blinded clinical information.

        6. Screening (time of hospitalization due to stroke) Patients who had cerebrovascular
           pretreatment prior to intravenous thrombolysis and were able to identify comorbidities.
    
  