
    
      A wide gap exists between the number of individuals needing alcohol treatment and those
      actually receiving it. Technologically-delivered interventions may dramatically increase the
      number of individuals who receive needed alcohol intervention services due to their ability
      to circumvent treatment barriers. Smartphones are the ideal devices to provide
      empirically-supported intervention assistance whenever and wherever it is needed. Our
      research team previously developed and tested a stand-alone, self-administered
      smartphone-based intervention system for alcohol use disorders that was based on empirically
      supported face-to-face treatments (the Location-Based Monitoring and Intervention for Alcohol
      Use Disorders (LBMI-A) system). A revised and improved iPhone-based version, Step Away, was
      developed. Step Away usage data indicate that user engagement with modules that are not
      "pushed" to the user is relatively low, which is a problem that many health apps experience.
      A new method of delivering Step Away through an artificially intelligent (AI) chatbot will be
      developed that holds potential for providing enhanced user engagement and effectiveness as it
      can reach out through a text interface to introduce new intervention steps and respond to the
      user with Step Away's in-the-moment help with having a craving, experiencing distress or
      needing social support. The first phase of this study will focus on developing a Step Away
      chatbot and enhance the existing Step Away app's user interface. The second phase will entail
      a pilot study to determine if the Step Away chatbot has enhanced user engagement,
      intervention fidelity and outcome efficacy in comparison to the Step Away app amongst a group
      of problem drinkers. Participants will be interviewed to determine their perceptions of both
      interventions with a view towards understanding barriers to user engagement. Finally, this
      project will set the stage for a further, large-scale evaluation of Step Away, the content of
      which will be determined by the outcome of the pilot study.
    
  