
    
      INTRODUCTION The World Health Organization (WHO) defines fall as a result of any event
      precipitating the patient down, involuntarily .

      Along with instability and gait disturbances, falls are one of the great geriatric syndromes
      and are the second cause of death worldwide by unintentional injuries.

      In the field of public health, falls in the elderly are considered a major biopsychosocial
      problem due to medical, psychological, social and family and economic consequences. It is
      estimated that in 2020 the cost generated to the social and health care by falls will be
      about 30,000 million euros. This is because about 20% of falls require medical attention,
      with approximately 10% of consultations in emergency services and 6% of urgent
      hospitalization in the elderly .

      Mortality in elderly people as a result of falls is nearly 40,000 deaths annually in Europe,
      obtaining in Spain a mortality rate 15 . It also has a high morbidity, as declines are
      directly related to decreased mobility and ability to perform basic activities of daily
      living, raising fears of a new fall and thus favoring the loss of one's safety same. Thus the
      dependence on a caregiver or institutionalization in a home increases, in turn, the family,
      social and economic impact.

      Falls in the elderly, unlike the adult, are the result of the adaptive imbalance of the
      person from the environment. The clinician relativizes this problem by attributing the fall
      to the normal aging process and ignore its potential consequences: injury, disability,
      institutionalization and even death in this population. For this reason, falls are considered
      a factor of frailty in the elderly .

      The performance of health workers to a fall in the elderly patient should consist of the
      realization of the following measures :

        -  Conduct a comprehensive assessment of elderly: biomedical, functional, social, mental
           and psycho-sphere.

        -  Identify intrinsic, extrinsic risk factors and circumstances of the fall.

        -  Estimate early physical, psychological and socio-economic consequences.

        -  Prevention of falls at primary, secondary and tertiary levels. Frailty is a
           pathophysiological syndrome characterized by decreased functional reserve which is
           mainly linked to the loss of muscle mass or sarcopenia. This is caused by the decline in
           physical activity, associated in turn with poor health habits, cardiovascular risk
           factors and various chronic diseases. The consequences in the elderly affect multiple
           systems , causing greater vulnerability to external agents and increasing the risk:
           disability, hospitalization, institutionalization and death . The prevalence of frailty
           in subjects over 65 years is between 7 and 16.3% , increasing every decade from this age
           .

      The diagnostic criteria for fragility, described by Linda Fried, include the assessment of
      functional aspects as the gait assessment, exhaustion or strength of palmar pressure with
      weight loss and energy consumption associated with physical activity . Since therapeutic
      perspective, one of the best ways to reverse the frailty is the physical exercise. Several
      articles have described heterogeneous effects on physical interventions in elderly frailty
      people , ranging from isolated programs of aerobic, anaerobic or balance to different
      combinations of the same training. A multicomponent exercise program increased muscle
      strength, improve cardiorespiratory fitness and balance11. Exercise programs have observed
      improvement in symptoms of depression in elderly patients10 up to 3 months after completion
      of the program . This benefit may be due to increased central monoamine activity and
      increased secretion of beta-endorphin. Similarly, it has been linked exercise programs with
      improvement in various cognitive domains, especially in executive functions. A 2003
      meta-analysis indicates that the combined program of aerobic and anaerobic exercise have a
      better outcome on cognitive status than those designed with only aerobic programs.

      STUDY JUSTIFICATION Nearly six million Spanish people are older than 70 years, 12.64% of the
      Spanish population is elderly. The first study in Spain on falls in the elderly was conducted
      in 1985 and from then until now, it has encouraged the investigation.

      Practice guidelines in caring for the geriatric population recommend performing an annual
      screening of falls . Moreover, they suggest to advice the elderly on possible risk factors
      associated. However, one of the problems that interfere with fall prevention programs is the
      lack of importance accorded to health professionals to falls. This lack of awareness of the
      risks faced by the associated geriatric population falls generates reluctance to adherence to
      a fall prevention program .

      At European level there are the same gaps in knowledge about the real effectiveness and
      efficiency of fall prevention programs .

      Add the practice of physical activity in nursing interventions, under the environment of the
      community, have shown a reduction in the use of emergency services at relatively short
      intervals, probably due to improved continuity of care .

      The Hunter study showed that a training program low-level resistance (twice a week) is
      associated with a decrease in the progression of functional limitations within 6 months.

      Physical activity associated with an interdisciplinary approach improves overall assessment
      of the frail elderly population on the functional, psychological, cognitive, clinical and
      social part , , , .

      It is necessary to create an interdisciplinary team in daily clinical practice in frail
      patients to perform adequately the full recognition of these patients with the following
      characteristics:

        -  Shared management between nursing and primary care.

        -  Support staff (nurses, social workers) with specialized training in gerontology.

        -  Audit of the home and technical devices needs.

        -  Regular team meetings to evaluate changes.

        -  Establishment of communication with community resources to incremental improvements in
           the home, health promotion and support to caregivers.

      HYPOTHESIS The implementation of a multicomponent fall prevention program in frail and
      pre-frail elderly community-dwelling people reduce the incidence of falls.

      OBJECTIVES

      General:

      • To determine the efficacy of a comprehensive program to prevent falls in the community.

      Specific:

        -  Knowing whether reducing the incidence of falls implies a reduction in visits to primary
           care, emergency department or hospital staying.

        -  Knowing the adhesion, through indirect measures, to the intervention program.

        -  Knowing the nutritional, functional, cognitive, social, anthropometric, respiratory and
           clinical profile, including falls, of the sample.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS

      Study design:

      Multicenter community intervention study, longitudinal, prospective, randomized, and
      experimental.

      Through intervention by nurses in primary care education of subjects over 70 years it is to
      know the effectiveness of a comprehensive program of falls prevention.
    
  