
    
      Overall study design

      This is a single-center randomized placebo control study on 60 prevalent PD patients.

      Recruitment phase will take up to 12 months, and the study phase will be 1 year. Study code
      will only be revealed at the end of the study period or if patients develop serious adverse
      reactions.

      Patient selection

      A randomized prospective study will be performed in 60 stable PD patients. Recruitment
      criteria are:

      A. clinically stable adult patients (18 to 80 years old) on PD; and

      B. evidence of malnutrition:

        1. overall subjective global assessment score < 5; or

        2. malnutrition inflammation score > 9; or

        3. serum albumin < 35 g/L C. written patient informed consent

           Exclusion criteria are:

           Patients who are planned to have elective living donor transplant within 6 months
           Patients who are planned to transfer to other renal center within 6 months High
           likelihood of early withdrawal from the study (e.g. myocardial infarction, severe or
           unstable coronary disease, stroke, severe liver disease within 3 months) Active
           infection or systemic inflammatory disease. Current malignant disease Pregnancy or
           breast-feeding Women of childbearing potential with unreliable birth control methods
           Known hypersensitivity to thalidomide

           Baseline data including age, sex, underlying renal disease, presence of diabetes,
           hepatitis B status, requirement of helper for dialysis procedure, PD regimen and
           duration on dialysis are recorded.

           Interventions

           After initial evaluation in a screening visit at -4 week, patients will be randomly
           assigned to receive either oral thalidomide 100 mg nocte or placebo. Thalidomide will be
           obtained from Penn Pharmaceuticals Ltd (Gwent, UK) as 100 mg tablets, and prescribed in
           accordance with the published guidelines for the clinical use and dispensing of
           thalidomide [34]. There will be 30 patients on each arm of randomization. Dialysis
           prescription will be changed only if there is clinical evidence of underdialysis. Both
           patients and investigators will be blinded from the therapy during follow up assessment.
           Side effects will be recorded and the drug will be discontinued when clinically
           necessary.

           Clinical follow up

           Patients will be followed at at -4 (screening), 0, 4, 8, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 44 and 52
           weeks. The following clinical data will be documented during each visit:

           Body height and body weight Blood pressure Compliance to thalidomide by pill count
           Compliance to dialysis exchange by direct questioning Skin itchiness score from 0 to 3+,
           as described previously [31]

           Body-mass index and body surface area will be computed. The majority of patients will be
           on three or four 2-liter exchanges per day. Blood pressure or edema are controlled with
           standard anti-hypertensive agents and/or hypertonic dialysate.

           Laboratory parameters

           A full panel of biochemical parameters will be monitored:

           Hemoglobin, plasma sodium, potassium, urea, creatinine, albumin, calcium, phosphate,
           alkaline phosphatase, and alanine transaminase at -4, 0, 4, 8, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 44
           and 52 weeks Fasting serum glucose, lipid and iron profile at 0, 24 and 52 weeks Serum
           parathyroid hormone at 0 and 52 weeks Serum inflammatory markers at 0, 12, 24, 36 and 52
           weeks

           Inflammatory markers include serum C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6),
           leptin, adiponectin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and fibrinogen levels, as
           suggested by other groups [35-38].

           Nutritional assessment

           Nutritional status will assessed by subjective global assessment (SGA), comprehensive
           malnutrition-inflammation score (MIS), normalized protein nitrogen appearance (NPNA),
           serum albumin level, anthropometric lean body mass (LBM), and fat-free edema-free body
           mass (FEBM).

           SGA will be performed at -4, 0, 12, 24, 36 and 52 weeks by a single observer. The 4-item
           7-point scoring system proposed by Enia et al [39] will be used. MIS will be performed
           at -4, 0, 12, 24, 36 and 52 weeks. The calculation of MIS has been described previously
           [40]. Briefly, MIS consists of 4 main parts and 10 components, all scored from 0
           (normal) to 3 (very severe). The total score ranges from 0 to 30.

           FEBM and PNA will be measured by creatinine kinetics at 0, 24 and 52 weeks. A 24-hour
           dialysate and urine collections will be performed. Total and peritoneal Kt/V are
           determined by standard methods. Residual GFR is calculated as average of 24-hour urinary
           urea and creatinine clearance. FEBM is calculated according to the formula of Forbes and
           Brunining [41]. PNA is derived from the Randerson's formula [42]. It is further
           normalized to standard body weight.

           Anthropometric measurements will be performed at 0, 12, 24, 36 and 52 weeks by a single
           observer. This include bicep, tricep, subscapular and supra-iliac skin fold thickness,
           and midarm muscle circumference. Derived variables by anthropometric measurements,
           including lean body mass (LBM) and percentage of body fat, will be computed by standard
           formula [43].

           Pulse wave velocity

           Pulse wave velocity (PWV), an index of aortic stiffness, is measured using an automatic
           computerized recorder at 0, 24 and 52 weeks. The results will be analyzed by the
           Complior SP program (Artech Medical, France). Briefly, pressure-sensitive transducers
           are placed over the neck (carotid artery), wrist (radial artery) and groin (femoral
           artery) with the patient in the supine position on day of haemodialysis treatment before
           putting patient to the dialysis machine. PWV of the carotid-femoral and carotid-radial
           territory is calculated by dividing the distance between the sensors by the time
           corresponding to the period separating the start of the rising phase of the carotid
           pulse wave and that of the femoral and also the radial pulse waves. The procedure takes
           10 to15 seconds to complete. The test will be performed by the same observer to
           eliminate effect of intra-observer variation.

           Health-related quality of life

           Patient acceptance and satisfaction will be assessed by the Chinese translation of
           "Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short Form (KDQOL-SFTM), version 1.3", at 0 and 52
           weeks.

           Outcome

           The major outcome measure is nutritional status, as detailed above. The schedule of
           various tests is summarized in Appendix 2. Secondary outcomes include the followings:

           Change in arterial pulse wave velocity Total number of days of hospital admission during
           study period Composite cardiovascular end point: cardiovascular death, non-fatal
           myocardial infarction or stroke, hospital admission for unstable angina, coronary
           intervention, transient ischemic attack, or lower limb ischemia Number of episode of
           peritonitis during study period All cause mortality

           Transplantation, conversion to hemodialysis, recovery of renal function, and transfer
           out of the unit will also be recorded.

        4. Potential Outcomes

      In Hong Kong, 80% of end-stage renal failure patients are treated with peritoneal dialysis
      (PD). In 2004, there were over 3000 PD patients in Hong Kong. Malnutrition, cardiovascular
      disease and systemic inflammatory state are all common in our clinical practice. They are
      major causes of patient morbidity and mortality. The financial implication is considerable.

      As a readily available anti-cytokine therapy, thalidomide may represent a valuable treatment
      of the MIA syndrome. The proposed study will provide important insight on the clinical
      benefit of thalidomide treatment in malnourished PD patients, which accounts for about
      one-third of our dialysis population.

      Data Analysis

      Statistical analysis will be performed by SPSS for Windows software version 11.5 (SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, IL). All data will be expressed in mean +/- standard deviation unless otherwise
      specified. Serial changes of nutritional parameters, dialysis adequacy, and inflammatory
      markers will be compared to the baseline values by analysis of variance for multiple measures
      (MANOVA). Serial change in residual GFR is examined by Wilcoxon's rank sum test with
      Bonferroni's correction for multiple comparison because of skewed data. Nutritional status
      and systemic inflammatory markers after one year will be compared between the 2 groups by
      Student's t-test for parametric data. Hospitalization and peritonitis rate between the groups
      are compared by Kruskal-Wallis test because the data will be highly skewed. Actuarial patient
      survival will be compared by logrank test with Kaplan-Meier survival curves and treatment
      group as stratifying variable.
    
  