
    
      OBJECTIVE

      Modulation of glutamatergic signaling is implicated in improvement of depressive symptoms and
      related constructs/dimensions of observable behavior and neurobiological measures with
      treatment. Current standard monoaminergic pharmacological approaches for major depressive
      disorder (MDD) have proven to be only modestly effective during acute major depressive
      episodes (MDEs). We have systematically tested different glutamatergic modulators in subjects
      with mood disorders in order to develop improved therapeutics. We found that the
      N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, ketamine, produces rapid antidepressant
      effects in patients with treatment-resistant depression (TRD in MDD, Bipolar Disorder) and in
      suicidal ideation. However, despite being highly efficacious, ketamine produces
      psychotomimetic effects and has the risk of abuse. The antidepressant effects of mGlu2/3
      receptor antagonists are worthy of pursuit, since the antidepressant profile in preclinical
      assays as well as the synaptic/neural cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in their
      actions are comparable to those of ketamine, but without the side effects and abuse potential
      of ketamine.

      In the present protocol, we aim to evaluate a new glutamate-mediated mechanism associated
      with antidepressant efficacy by targeting the mGlu2/3 receptor with a potent and selective
      antagonist. Targeting the mGlu2/3 receptor with an antagonist is anticipated to, and similar
      to ketamine, result via pre-synaptic mechanisms in a "glutamate surge" with subsequent
      alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) activation and gamma power
      increases but without potential adverse effects that occur with ketamine.

      The present Phase 2 proof-of-concept (POC) study is designed to evaluate in subjects with
      MDD, the antidepressant effects of TS-161, the prodrug of a potent and selective mGlu2/3
      receptor antagonist TP0178894 that crosses the blood brain barrier (BBB). In animal model
      assays of antidepressant efficacy, TS-161 induced acute and prolonged antidepressant-like
      effects without exhibiting ketamine-like side effects as determined by the lack of increase
      in locomotor activity or abuse potential.

      We will also evaluate the putative neurobiological mechanisms involved in the antidepressant
      response to TS-161. We expect that this effect may modulate glutamate transmission and
      reverse the clinical symptoms of depression. The demonstration that an mGlu2/3 receptor
      antagonist produces antidepressant effects without psychotomimetic side effects would support
      the therapeutic relevance of the mGlu2/3 receptor and could direct the development of novel
      drug targets for the treatment of depression.

      STUDY POPULATION

      Twenty-five individuals with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (MDD) will be
      consented.

      DESIGN

      Male and female subjects, ages 18 to 65 years, with a diagnosis of MDD, currently in an
      episode of major depression, will be recruited for this study. This study will consist of a
      randomized, double-blind crossover administration of either the mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist
      prodrug TS-161 (50 to 100 mg/day given orally) or placebo for 3 weeks. The study will assess
      the efficacy in improving overall depressive symptomatology and tolerability of TS-161 in
      treatment-resistant MDD. Other aims of the study include determining whether changes in gamma
      power obtained via magnetoencephalography (MEG), brain neurochemicals (e.g. glutamate)
      obtained via magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), change in task-based functional
      connectivity via functional MRI (fMRI) and peripheral measures correlate with drug effects
      and/or antidepressant response to TS-161 in subjects with treatment-resistant MDD.

      OUTCOME MEASURES

      Primary: Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) total score.

      Secondary: Proportion of subjects achieving remission (MADRS<=10) and response (>=50%
      reduction from baseline in MADRS total score); change from baseline on the Hamilton Rating
      Scale (HDRS), change from baseline in Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), and the Columbia
      Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS) total scores. Surrogate biomarkers of drug
      effect/response include: changes in gamma power measured with MEG, changes in prefrontal
      glutamate levels measured with 7T 1H-MRS, resting and task based functional connectivity with
      fMRI, neurocognitive functioning, and changes in peripheral biological indices (neurotrophic
      factors, cell cycle/signal transduction regulators, neuroinflammatory, neuroendocrinological
      measures, and metabolomic and proteomic measures).
    
  