
    
      Objectives: the aims of this project are two-fold:

        -  The first aim is to evaluate the relationships between fatigue and physical capacity,
           among multiple sclerosis (MS) patients at the early stage of the disease and their
           relations to plasmatic cytokines levels;

        -  The second aim is to assess the effectiveness of a self-management program of
           physiotherapy, based on endurance and resistance physical exercises, in MS patients at
           the early stage of the disease.

      Rationale and scientific background:

      Multiple sclerosis affects one person per thousand people in France and Belgium. Two thousand
      patients are newly diagnosed in France each year. Fatigue is an early and very disabling
      symptom of MS, that affects 50 to 80% of MS patients. Fatigue is described by patients as the
      most chronic and the most disabling symptom and is associated with a decline in motivation
      and a need for rest. Fatigue can occur spontaneously or can be induced by physical or mental
      activity, acute infection, or ingestion of food. It can occur at any time but usually worsens
      along the day.

      Fatigue can have multiple origins in patients with MS: brain lesion load, cortical atrophy,
      dysfunction of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis, depression or physical deconditioning. Several
      approaches seem promising to improve fatigue: energy conservation programs, which help
      patients in organizing their daily activities to avoid fatigue, cognitive behavioural
      therapy, medications and physical exercise. Patients with MS show indeed a degradation of
      their cardio-respiratory endurance. This degradation seems to occur early in the course of
      MS, and to be already present in patients with mild neurological impairments. A
      deconditioning is regularly found in patients complaining of fatigue. However, the literature
      does not provide clear information about the relationship between physical deconditioning and
      fatigue, at the very early stage of MS.

      Exercise medicine is therefore a promising approach in the management of fatigue. Several
      studies have shown an improvement of fatigue and gait ability after a program of physical
      exercise. Dalgas (2008) and Sandoval (2013) have proposed recommendations on endurance and
      resistance exercise in MS patients. Following their recommendations, endurance training
      should be made through walking or cycling exercise, 2 to 3 times per week, at an intensity
      corresponding to 60-80% of the predicted maximal heart rate. The recommended duration of
      sessions is 10 to 40 minutes, depending on patients' motor impairments. Resistance training
      should be preferentially supervised by therapists, at least for the first sessions. If the
      training is self-managed or home-based, using the weight of the body or elastic bands seems
      sufficient to bring an improvement in muscle strength. Three to four sets of exercises,
      separated by 2-4 minutes rest periods, with an intensity of 8 to 15 repetitions at 70% of the
      predicted maximum strength (RM), seem to be effective when carried out 2-3 times per week.
      Each program should include 4 to 8 various exercises. Few studies have rated the benefits of
      these programs in the long term and at the early stage of the disease. A precocious exercise
      prescription could prevent deconditioning or its effects, including fatigue.

      Currently, a small number of patients benefits from physiotherapy treatments based on
      physical exercise. On one hand, multidisciplinary rehabilitation programs (including
      physiotherapy, occupational therapy, neuropsychology, physical exercise,...) are implemented
      only when impairments are severe (e.g. immediately after a relapse), due to the strict
      criteria of reimbursement established by social insurances. Therefore, patients who are only
      slightly impaired cannot benefit from these programs. Moreover, the lack of rehabilitation
      facilities allows only a limited number of patients to participate in multidisciplinary
      programs. On the other hand, few rehabilitation centres organize face-to-face or group-based
      physiotherapy programs specifically targeting physical exercise in patients with MS. Indeed,
      these face-to-face programs remain mainly focused on neurodevelopmental theories (Bobath,…).
      Finally, both multidisciplinary programs and specific exercise-based programs are mostly
      implemented in hospitals and large centres of rehabilitation. However, such structures do not
      seem necessary when the main objective is to do physical exercise, and can even be stressful
      for those patients with mild impairments.

      An alternative to these treatments may be self-management physical exercise programs,
      supervised by physical medicine and rehabilitation teams. These programs only require a
      limited cost for the patient and the society, and can be done in an ecological environment
      (i.e. where the patient lives). These community-based rehabilitation programs could therefore
      enable a better adhesion to treatment than hospital treatments. The effectiveness of
      self-managed rehabilitation has poorly been assessed. Results of the literature are
      conflicting, and the evidence is lacking. These authors pointed the need for further
      randomised controlled trials.

      The aim of our project is therefore to implement a physical exercise program in patients at
      the early stage of MS, including resistance and cardio-respiratory endurance exercises. A
      multicenter, single-blind, randomised controlled trial will be carried out to assess its
      effectiveness. This project will also study the fitness and fatigue in patients whose walking
      capacity is preserved.

      It has also been noted that fatigue is related to the plasma levels of various cytokines
      (e.g. Interleukin(IL)-6, IL-10, Interferon-gamma(IFNg), Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha
      (TNFa)...) and it has been suggested that physical exercise could reduce fatigue through an
      effect on the transcription of the genes coding for these cytokines.

      In the following sections, the term "self-management program" will refer to the whole
      program, including education, exercises, and coaching of patients.

      Research project:

      This is a multicentre, single-blind, randomised controlled trial. All patients will initially
      have a consultation with an investigator for the screening visit, two weeks before inclusion.
      Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be checked, and a motivational interview of the patient
      will be done. Randomisation will also be carried out during this visit, and will be
      stratified to enable the equivalence of the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) scores in
      both the experimental and the control groups. The randomization will be separate for each
      center. The first evaluation will be performed the day of study inclusion (see below), by
      another investigator. A same investigator will carry out all assessment of a same patient.
      The second evaluation will take place two weeks later. Treatment will begin in the week
      following this evaluation for patients of both groups. No detailed information will be given
      to patients about the other group's treatment. They will only be informed that the aim of the
      study is to compare two rehabilitation treatments, one based on physical exercises and the
      other one based on relaxation.

      Patients in the experimental group will participate in four two preliminary group-based
      educational sessions of one hour. The first session, a group-based session, will aim to
      explain the theoretical bases of physical exercise in MS disease (one hour). The next three
      session, a face-to-face interviews will be devoted to the demonstration and initial practice
      of the exercises that patients will have to perform during the self-management program (three
      one hours).

      Patients will have an individual appointment of thirty minutes immediately after the last
      session, in order to define a program tailored to their individual goals. They will be asked
      to do at least three physical exercise sessions per week, more than forty-five minutes each,
      over a period of three months. The type of exercises and their intensity will be also
      specified to the patient on this occasion. These exercises will be carried out through a
      self-management program, and will then not be directly supervised by a therapist.

      Patients in the control group will receive two four sessions (the first one in group and the
      second explaining how to practice relaxation with the help of soothing music (four two
      hours). They will then be invited to practice relaxation at home, for at least forty-five
      minutes per day, at least three times a week, over a period of three months.

      Two Three last evaluations will be conducted in patients: one within the week after the end
      of the study, one six months after inclusion and one nine months after inclusion, in order to
      assess the long-term effects of the treatment.

      At the end of the study (nine months after the inclusion), all patients of the control group
      will have the opportunity to benefit from a self-management program of exercises under
      indirect supervision, comparable to the treatment received by the experimental group during
      the study.

      All patients will continue in parallel all other usual medical and paramedical treatments,
      including physiotherapy, these treatments remaining unchanged during this project.

      Protocol of exercises:

      see below

      Patients will have access to a virtual training book on the internet, in which they will be
      asked to list all details about workouts within the hospital and at home (number, date,
      duration, exercises conducted, intensity). If some patients do not have access to the
      internet at home, a training logbook will be given at the inclusion, allowing them to list
      the exercises details at each session.

      The training will be monitored each week through the electronic training book, by a therapist
      (physician or physical therapist), and recommendations on the self-management training will
      be conveyed by this virtual logbook. A phone contact between the patient and the therapist
      will be scheduled every two weeks. The patient will be encouraged to continue these exercises
      on a regular basis. Recommendations will be tailored to patient's capacity and to the
      exercises he will have been able to achieve the previous week. Every four weeks, a
      group-based reminder session will take place in the referring hospital, one for the
      experimental group and one for the control group, in order to check if there are some adverse
      effects, if exercises are performed correctly, and if the patient remains motivated for the
      continuation of support. The internet logbook of each patient will be reviewed on this
      occasion by the therapist in order to adapt exercises to the patient's capabilities and to
      the exercises carried out the previous weeks.

      For patients who would have no internet at home, exercises will be followed and adapted each
      week from a telephone contact between the patient and a therapist, and from a consultation
      organised each two weeks to allow the therapist to examine the training book and to adapt the
      exercises if necessary.

      The relaxation sessions of the control group will be carried out with the help of soothing
      music. Patients will receive a Compact Disc of soothing music at the inclusion. Patients will
      also have an electronic training logbook that will be reviewed each week by a therapist. They
      will have a phone contact with the therapist every two weeks, to discuss about the treatment
      and adapt it if necessary. They will also have a reminder session every four weeks.

      Statistics:

      Pearson and Spearman correlation coefficients will permit to study the relationships between
      fatigue and physical capacity. The calculation of the intraclass correlation coefficient will
      test the reproducibility of the two first evaluations. A two-factors analysis of variance
      (ANOVA) will be carried out to investigate the effectiveness of the self-management programs
      (Group X time). The Holm-Sidak test will be used as a post-hoc test.
    
  