
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the difference in time to radiographic evidence of disease progression at 6
           months in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer when treated with vaccine
           containing recombinant vaccinia-prostate-specific antigen (PSA) admixed with rV-B7.1
           plus recombinant fowlpox-PSA vaccine, sargramostim (GM-CSF), and interleukin-2 vs
           nilutamide alone.

        -  Evaluate the vaccination therapy in relation to the change in T-cell precursor frequency
           and to the rise of serum PSA in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to HLA-A2 typing
      (positive vs negative). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive vaccine containing recombinant vaccinia-prostate-specific
           antigen (PSA) and rV-B7.1 subcutaneously (SC) on day 2 only. Beginning on day 30,
           patients receive recombinant fowlpox-PSA vaccine SC every 4 weeks for 12 vaccinations
           and then every 12 weeks thereafter. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC daily
           on days 1-4 and interleukin-2 SC daily on days 8-12 with each vaccination.

      Patients without disease progression after 12 courses receive the vaccine regimen every 12
      weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral nilutamide daily. Treatment continues in both arms for at
           least 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After 6 months of therapy, patients with a rising PSA and no radiographic evidence of disease
      progression may receive therapy in the other arm in addition to the therapy to which they
      were randomized.

      Patients are followed monthly for 6 months and then every 2 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 56-78 patients (28-39 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 1.5-2 years.
    
  