
    
      Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiencies (PDCDs) are a major class of mitochondrial
      diseases, limiting oxidation of carbohydrate for energy production, which is especially
      important in the brain. So far, there is not a definitive treatment for these disorders. This
      study, "Advanced Genetic Study and Pilot Newborn Screening for Disorders of Pyruvate
      Metabolism," will continue with the created database with information that is collected over
      a long period of time about patients with PDCDs. This database is part of the existing North
      American Mitochondrial Disease Consortium (NAMDC) Patient Data Registry and Biorepository
      database. The study will collect data specific to PDC deficiencies, including data that is
      derived from patients/families. Approximately 75 subjects with confirmed PDCD will be
      enrolled over 5 years. The genetic basis and pathophysiology will be explored in up to a
      third of confirmed PDC deficient patients, who currently have not been found to have an
      identified mutation in DLD or any of the five "primary" PDC-specific genes (PDHA1, PDHB,
      DLAT, PDHX, and PDP1), and who might benefit from different treatments.

      The specific aims of the study are:

        1. Continue to add to the Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex Deficiencies (PDCDs) specific
           database within the NAMDC Patient Data Registry

        2. Use advanced genetic analysis technologies to find mutations in those people in whom
           none has been found

      About this Study:

      This study will collect comprehensive longitudinal natural history clinical data for proven
      Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex deficiencies (PDCDs), including data about diagnoses,
      symptoms, and outcomes. The study will include data from patients/parents as well as medical
      data. The investigators will use medical records and a short questionnaire targeted to
      collect information about critical outcomes. This questionnaire will collect information from
      the subject and parent about the importance of different outcomes and allow families to
      discuss other outcomes that they may consider important at home. Additional details of
      treatment will be sought to maximize our knowledge about their effects and serve to inform
      future clinical trials.

      Data Dictionary: On file at Data Monitoring Core Council in Cincinnati Children's Hospital
      Medical Center and has been provided to investigators at University Hospitals Cleveland
      Medical Center.
    
  