
    
      It is anticipated that 74 subjects with 74 corresponding subject informants will be recruited
      at Carolinas Rehabilitation. Subjects will be recruited from the clinic at Carolinas
      Rehabilitation. Subjects will also be referred by psychiatrists at North Carolina
      Neuropsychiatry.

      Subjects who consent and qualify will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to Tegretol® or placebo.
      Stratification to randomization group will occur based on the presence of depression defined
      by a BDI-II score ≥ 13. Subjects randomized to active drug will be titrated up in dose, as
      tolerated, over a period of 3 weeks. Starting dose is 200mg twice daily to 200mg three times
      daily to 200mg, 2 tabs, twice daily. There will be 3 clinic visits. Visits will occur at
      baseline for consenting and screening, day 28, and day 42. Follow up phone calls will occur
      each week that the subject is not seen in the clinic until the end of the study. Follow up
      phone calls will assess for study medication compliance, adverse events and concomitant
      medication changes. Day 42 ends the period of the Randomized Clinical Trial phase of the
      study and the subjects will begin the 1 week of taper of Tegretol® at 400mg daily and then
      stop drug. A safety phone call will be made at day 49.

      The following questionnaires will be used as measures of irritability for the subject and the
      informant: Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), State Trait Anger Expression Inventory
      (STAXI-2), and Global Impression of Change. The following 3 questionnaires will be dispensed
      to the subject only: Beck Depression Inventory, Brief Symptom Inventory, and Fatigue Impact
      Scale. The Investigator will complete the Clinical Global Impression of change at Visits 2
      and 3.

      History and Physical Exam, hematology, chemistry, including renal and liver function studies
      will be obtained for safety and tolerability. Serum pregnancy tests will be drawn at
      screening for females of childbearing potential. Carbamazepine levels will be drawn at visits
      2 and 3.
    
  