
    
      2. Objective. To assess the effect of 400UI, 800IU of vitamin D2 and 1000IU of vitamin
      D3-colecalciferol- over 25-Hidroxi Vitamin D (25-OH-D) status and a multiple vitamin
      supplementation per day as a control group in children from 12-30 months of age in
      Cuernavaca, Morelos in a 4 month period.

      3. Hypothesis Supplementation with 1,000 IU/d of vitamin D3-colecalciferol will have a
      greater effect on 25-OH-D concentrations compared to a dose of 400 IU and 800IU per day of
      vitamin D2 and will be more effective to decrease vitamin D deficiency in children from 12-30
      months of age 4. Methods. 4.1 Study design. Factorial randomized double blind, parallel,
      controlled clinical trial with administration of a supplement containing 400IU or 800 IU of
      D2 or 1,000 IU of vitamin D3 -colecalciferol- and a multiple vitamin supplementation per day
      as a control group during a 4 month period.

      Participants: A total of 220 children, both sexes, from 12-30 month of age will be studied
      (55 per treatment group).

      Intervention period: 4 months Project duration: 18 months Place: Day Care centers(SEDESOL) in
      Cuernavaca, Morelos 4.2. Treatment: The Moses Oakford method will be used to assign the
      treatment. The scheme to randomize the sample will be by stratification and in blocks using a
      list of random numbers generated by a computer (STATA13). Stratification will be by age
      groups 12-18 months, 19-24 months and 25-30 months. Treatment will be assigned randomly to
      each supplement group. One group will receive 400IU of vitamin D2, the second group will
      receive 800 IU of D2, the third group will receive 1000IU of D3-colecalciferol- and the
      control group will receive a multi vitamin supplementation, that contains iron, vitamin A, C.
      E folic acid, niacin, and vitamins B1, B2, B6 y B12 The duration of the intervention will be
      16 weeks.

      4.3. Study Population- Children between 12 and 30 months of age, both sexes, which attend day
      care centers that are part of a national government program which main objective is to
      support working mothers and those who intend to work and do not have access to a health
      service. The program also includes single parents in charge of their family. Sample will be
      by convenience until sample is completed. Day care will be selected by convenience,
      (Principal interested in participating in the research project). A reunion will be made with
      authorities from SEDESOL and with the principals of the day care centers. The study
      objective, methodology and the importance of the project will be explained. After the
      meeting, a list of the day care centers who wish to participate will be made. A meeting with
      the parents will be assigned in order to explain the purpose, importance, objective and
      methods of the project.

      Inclusion Criteria. Children- from 12-30 months of age, both sexes who attend SEDESOL day
      care centers in Cuernavaca, and whose parents agree to participated and sign the informed
      consent.

      Exclusion Criteria. Chronic disease, anemia (Hb<9.0), does not want to participate, receiving
      vitamin D supplementation or other supplement in the last 6 months.

      4.4. Sample size and statistical power. Up to date, efficacy studies on vitamin D
      supplementation in preschool-age children are scarce. Three studies were considered: The
      sample size of these studies have been around 100-150 children in total.

      The first study supplemented preschool-age children with 400IU of vitamin D for 4 months,
      having found a positive difference on the supplemented group of 23 nmol/L of 25-OH-D in
      relation with the placebo group. The second study was carried out with infants, the aim of
      the study was to test the efficacy, dose response of various international units of vitamin
      D: 400, 800, 1,200 and 1,600 per day with a follow up of 12 months. The increase in serum
      levels of 25-OH-D were: 18, 42, 74 y 120 nmol/L, respectively. On the other hand, other study
      supplemented children between 2 weeks and 3 months of age with various doses of vitamin D
      daily for 3 months: 400, 1,200 ó 1,600 IU/d. The increases observed in serum levels of
      25-OH-D in this study were: de 14, 37.5 y 66.5 nmol/L, respectively.

      Considering these studies, and the serum levels of 25-OH-D observed in our study in the same
      population during 2012(41-50 nmol/L), it is expected to observe an increase around 20 nmol/L
      in children receiving 400 IU/d and de 40 nmol/L in children receiving 1,000 IU/d of VD.

      The size and power of the sample was calculated considering a basal level of serum 25-OH-D of
      41 a 50 nmol/L with an increase of 20-40 nmol/L with a S.D of 20 a 40 nmol/L. As a result, a
      sample size of 100 children per group were obtained. With this sample a mean difference of 10
      nmol/L can be obtained with a power of 80% α<0.05-two tails- 4.5. Variables. Outcome
      variables. Measurements will be taken at base line and at 16 weeks: serum 25-OH-D,
      parathyroid hormone (PTH) and hemoglobin.

      Other variables. Anthropometry: Anthropometric measurements such as: weight, height/length,
      head circumference and mid upper arm will be taken. Measurements will be taken by trained and
      standardized personnel using standard technics according to protocols. Measurements will be
      taken at baseline and at 16wk. Weight, height/length and circumferences will be transformed
      to Z scores by using the Anthro WHO program.

      Diet: Dietary information will be obtained by a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) and a 24-h
      recall. Both dietary questionnaires will be administered by trained personnel to the
      mother/care taker. Dates will be set with mothers in these two momentums to obtain dietary
      information. Dietary information will be taken at baseline and at 16wks.

      Morbidity: Morbidity data will be collected daily at each day care center by trained
      personnel. A checklist will be used to record symptoms of diarrhea and acute respiratory
      infections. Mothers or caretakers will be asked to recall any symptoms.

      Sociodemographic Characteristics: Information about the participant's household's
      characteristics, the education level and parents occupation will be obtained by interviewing
      of the mother. An indicator of household conditions will be calculated by principal component
      analysis.

      Infant Development:

      A screening test will be applied to assess and identified children at risk. This test is
      called in spanish "Prueba Evaluacion Desarrollo Infantil" (EDI).

      4.6 Statistical Analysis. The effect of the intervention over the final serum concentrations
      of 25-OH-D will be evaluated through a t test for median differences. If the variables do not
      have a normal distribution, will be transformed. If important differences are found at the
      beginning of the study between treatment groups, a multiple linear regression will be made to
      control for confounding variables.

      4.7. Study Stages and Data Collection. 4.7.1 Recruitment Recruitment and follow-up of
      children will be made at the day-care centers (SEDESOL) in Cuernavaca, Morelos. A date will
      be established at each day care center to explain to mothers the study objective and
      procedures: anthropometric, biochemical, diet, socioeconomic questionnaire, randomization and
      treatment. A consent form will be read to each parent and signed if accept to participate.
      Doubts will be cleared at the meeting with parents.

      4.7.2 Baseline Anthropometric measurements will be taken: Weight, length/height, head and mid
      upper arm circumferences. During the first visit capillary blood samples will be taken in
      situ to measure hemoglobin concentrations (Hb) by a spectrophotometer Hemocue®. According to
      selection criteria if a child has <9.0g/dl, the child will be referred to the nearest health
      center. A vein blood sample (5mL) will be taken to determine serum concentrations of 25-OH-D
      y PTH. The sample will be obtained by a Pediatrician Nurse with experience. A
      sosciodemographic questionnaire will be applied to obtain information on household,
      education, marital status and income. In this first visit, children will be randomly assigned
      to the treatment. All interviews and measurements will be taken by trained and standardized
      personnel.

      4.7.3 Intervention: Treatment will be administered according to randomization: 400IU/d,
      800IU/d, 1000 IU/d and a multivitamin. Two standardized and trained personnel will be present
      each day at each day care center. With a list of the names of the participants in hand each
      child will be called to receive the assigned treatment. Every day at 7:00 a.m. children will
      receive the treatment.

      4.7.4 Adverse effects: The maximum dose -1,000 IU/d- it's under the upper level UL, according
      to the recommendations of the Institute of Medicine (IOM) for children between 12 and 36
      months of age. By definition the "Upper Level" it's considered a safe intake by the IOM
      expert comity therefore, adverse effects associated with 1,000 IU7d will not be observed for
      prolonged periods at this age group.

      4.7.5 Toxicity Monitoring: Every day at 7:30 a.m. a trained nutritional student will be
      gathering morbidity information and adverse effects. The adverse effects associated with
      excessive intake of vitamin D are: dehydration, nausea, vomiting, conscious alterations and
      high calcium excretion. If symptoms were to appear, a medical pediatrician will monitor and
      follow the child. High calcium excretion it is only observed in severe intoxication with
      vitamin D.

      If adverse effects were to appear in the study population, the researchers responsible of the
      study will stop the study and report adverse effects.

      4.7.6 Committee experts on adverse effects: The committee experts will be held by Dr.
      Patricia Clark and Dr. María Dolores Ramirez. Assessment of adverse effects will be held at
      the National Institute of Public Health in Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.

      4.7.7 Final Assessment A meeting will be held with each mother at each day care center to
      obtain information on child´s diet. A 24 Hour recall and a Frequency Food Questionnaire will
      be applied to the mother. The last assessment will be at 16 weeks. Anthropometric
      measurements will be taken: Weight, length/height, head and mid upper arm circumferences.

      Blood Samples Capillary blood samples will be obtained by finger prick and measured in a
      Portable Photometer Hemocue. Venous blood samples (5ml) will be drawn from antecubital vein
      at baseline at 16wks. Samples will be obtained by a trained Pediatrician Nurse who has
      previews experience working with children.

      5. Ethical considerations: Written Informed consent will be obtained and signed by both
      parents. The study protocol is approved by the Ethics, Research and Biosecurity Committee of
      the National Institute of Public Health.
    
  