
    
      The use of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) has greatly improved the treatment of
      severe male infertility, especially for men with oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia (OAT). This
      in vitro fertilization procedure allows the direct injection of a single spermatozoon into an
      oocyte. The sperm used for ICSI is selected under a microscope at a 400x magnification.
      Several studies have reported that de novo chromosomal abnormalities are increased in
      children born from ICSI , thereby raising the question of the genetic quality of spermatozoa
      used for ICSI.

      A method called MSOME (high magnification Motile Sperm Organelle Morphology Examination),
      which allows the detailed morphological evaluation of motile spermatozoa in real time and
      under high magnification (6600x), was developed in 2001. With this technique, fine
      morphological abnormalities - mainly vacuoles in the head of spermatozoa - were detected. The
      use of MSOME for the detection of morphologically normal sperm for ICSI gave rise to a
      technique called IMSI (Intracytoplasmic Morphologically Selected sperm Injection). Higher
      pregnancy rates were obtained with IMSI compared to ICSI and sperm head vacuoles were found
      to negatively affect assisted reproduction success rates and embryo development. The use of
      IMSI also decreases the risk of sex chromosome aneuploidy in embryos .

      Several authors found that the presence of large vacuoles in the sperm head correlates with
      several nuclear alterations: DNA fragmentation , abnormal chromatin condensation and
      aneuploidy . However, these studies are controversial and were performed on few spermatozoa.
      In order to improve the selection of spermatozoa with a normal chromosomal content, it is
      essential not only to confirm the existence of a relationship between sperm head vacuoles and
      altered sperm nuclear quality but also to better characterize these alterations.

      The main goal of this study is to investigate the correlation between sperm head vacuole
      areas and sperm aneuploidy rates in men with isolated teratozoospermia or OAT. Vacuole areas
      will be measured by MSOME and aneuploidy rates by FISH for chromosomes 18, X and Y. Moreover,
      the correlation between sperm head vacuole areas and other nuclear alterations (DNA
      fragmentation, abnormal chromatin condensation, telomere abnormalities) will be evaluated.
      Semen samples from 200 patients recruited over a 2-year period will be collected, stored and
      analyzed.

      This study involves the collection of relevant medical information. The computer website for
      the patient database is secure and protected by a password. The information will be entered
      and only be viewed by the investigators. On-site monitoring visits will be conducted
      throughout the study.
    
  