
    
      Purpose: To examine the impact of early pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) following hospital
      discharge on QoL, pulmonary/CV outcomes and AECOPD hospitalizations.

      Rationale: In addition to typical improvements in QoL and exercise tolerance, studies have
      shown that PR increases self-efficacy and physical activity while reducing CV risk in stable
      COPD patients. Patients recently discharge from hospital following AECOPD represent the
      sickest patients with greatly reduced QoL, exercise tolerance, self-efficacy and physical
      activity. Exactly how these improve with PR following a hospitalization requires examination.

      Hypothesis: Patients who receive early PR will have improved QoL, pulmonary/CV outcomes and
      less hospitalizations for COPD in the 6 months following hospital discharge. PR will improve
      self efficacy, physical activity and QoL while reducing CV risk as compared to usual care.

      Study Design & Subject Recruitment: All patients admitted to the pulmonary ward for an
      AECOPD, will be offered participation into the study. Patients found to have an acute cardiac
      injury during admission, mobility issues or residence outside the greater Edmonton area will
      be excluded. Consenting patients will be subsequently randomized into one of three groups:
      early PR versus late PR versus usual care. Patients randomized to PR will be enrolled within
      1 (Early PR; EPR) or 3 months (Late PR; LPR) of discharge into a PR program. Usual care
      patients will be followed-up by their most responsible physician as determined by the
      admitting team. The PR group will be enrolled in the Breathe Easy Program at the Center for
      Lung Health, and will proceed through the program in a typical fashion. All patients will be
      followed up 6 months after discharge and will be interviewed to assess disease status,
      management review and if there has been a history of recurrence or relapse of the AECOPD.
      Hospital admissions and length of stay data will be obtained through electronic medical
      records. Patient assessments will include: quality of life, 6min walk, dyspnea,
      self-efficacy, physical activity, pulse wave velocity, vascular function, systemic
      inflammation (TNFα, MMP-2, IL-6 and CRP) and FeNO. All data will be collected before,
      immediately after and 6 months after PR. The control group will have the same data collected
      at the same scheduled time. See above for descriptions of methods.

      Data Handling: Data will be entered onto a secure anonymized database.

      Data Analysis: The influence of PR on QoL, 6min walk, dyspnea, self-efficacy, physical
      activity, pulse wave velocity, vascular function, systemic inflammation and eNO will be
      analyzed using a multivariate mixed-model MANOVA with treatment (Early-PR vs. Late-PR vs.
      usual care) being a fixed between-group variable and time (pre, immediate post, 6months post)
      as a repeated variable.

      Sample size: Based on previous work, a sample size of 50 in each group (150 total) will be
      sufficient to detect a between-group differences in QoL, 6min walk, PWV, dyspnea and hospital
      readmission rates following PR (α=0.05, β=0.8). Based on the investigators recent work, this
      sample could detect a 10% difference in physical activity following PR (α=0.05, β=0.8). One
      hundred fifty patients will also allow for stratification of physiological and psychological
      responses with PR.
    
  