
    
      Goals The primary goal of this research is to develop and test a theory-based intervention
      which will reduce tobacco smoke exposure (TSE) of young children. A secondary goal is to
      increase knowledge of measurement of TSE in young children, and explore the relationship
      between early TSE, illness, and health care utilization. The study is being conducted in
      several stages: Developmental (Phase I), Pilot (Phase II), and Trial (Phase III). This
      registration pertains to Phase II of this trial.

      Developmental Stage (Phase I)

      This stage includes the following: Systematic reviews of the literature on the topics of
      encouraging i. parental cessation, ii.reducing child tobacco smoke exposure (TSE), and
      iii.reducing tobacco smoke air pollution in homes; consultations with experts worldwide;
      conduct of interviews with parents (n=65) and professionals (n=15) to understand parental
      perceptions of tobacco smoke exposure, and barriers to protection of children from TSE; and
      development of an initial intervention program. This stage draws on a social marketing
      approach and employs in-depth interviews to identify barriers to behavior change and relevant
      behavior-change recommendations, tailored to the intervention population, and to test the
      acceptability of program components.

      Intervention Program

      The intervention consisted of the following elements: (a) Three motivational interviews,
      scheduled for baseline, one month, and three months; (b) Feedback on air quality in the home
      (from a Sidepak and/or a Dylos monitoring device, and from passive air nicotine dosimeters);
      (c) Feedback on child's exposure via hair samples analyzed for nicotine; (d) a website
      designed especially for the project [22];and (e) various self-help materials, including a
      booklet, a magnet about TSE, and air fresheners.

      Pilot (Phase II) A pilot of the planned intervention was conducted with 29 families. A before
      - and - after design was used, without a control group. The main endpoint was child exposure
      to tobacco smoke as measured by hair nicotine. Secondary endpoints included child exposure to
      tobacco smoke as measured by parental reports, family smoking in home or car, home air
      nicotine, child illnesses, and use of health services.

      [Randomized Controlled Trial (Phase III) (Note: a separate registration number is being
      sought for this phase) The investigators plan to implement and evaluate the intervention
      using a randomized controlled trial with an estimated 120 participants. The primary response
      variable will be child tobacco smoke exposure as measured by hair nicotine. The control group
      will be offered the intervention at the end of the study (eg, a randomize-to-wait-list
      design). ]

      An effective program for child tobacco smoke exposure reduction could serve as a prototype
      for reducing child tobacco smoke exposure.
    
  