
    
      The main aim of this double blind randomized trial is to examine whether immediate
      post-operative injection of botulinum toxin into lateral part of bilateral orbicularis oculis
      muscles (the injection technique of crow feet) can improve scar formation for lower
      blepharoplasty patients.

      This is a double blind randomized controlled trial primarily designed to compare the scarring
      after secondary cleft lip repair with immediate post-operative botulinum toxin injection into
      the into bilateral lateral orbicularis oculi muscles in patients with lower blepharoplasty.
      There will be 2 main groups in this study:-

        1. Study group (Group I): Immediately after lower blepharoplasty surgery 3 injections of
           2.5U of botulinum toxin over lateral part of orbicularis oculi muscle.

        2. Control group (Group II): There will be the same amount of normal saline injection after
           lower blepharoplasty.

      Follow-up Assessments Vancouver scar scale measures pigmentation, vascularity, pliability and
      scar height on the postoperative 6 month Follow Up.

      Visual analogue scale They were asked to score the scars on the photographs using a standard
      visual analogue scale graded from 0 (worst possible scar) to 10 (best possible scar).

      Photographic measurement:

      A ruler will be placed just below the surgical scar. Using Photoshop CS5, the scar width can
      be measured.

      Chi-square will be used to analyze the demographic data ( i.e. Gender) The Independent
      T-Student test will be used to analyze the statistical significance between the two groups.

      The dosage of Botox that the investigators use for crowfeet is very tiny. And this is a
      common clinic practice. Systemic insult is unlikely to happen. If an allergic reaction
      occurred it will be treated according to the severity of allergy and Diphenhydramin PO or IV
      form or systemic corticosteroid will be given.
    
  