
    
      The incidence of Acute kidney injury in intensive care unit patients is rising due to the
      population age increasing, more comorbidities, and a higher prevalence of risk factors.
      Improved Intensive Care Unit management has, however, significantly diminished morbidity and
      the mortality of patients who develop Acute kidney injury I. Despite an increase in the
      number and severity of comorbidities, in-hospital mortality has declined, but the incidence
      of Acute kidney injury ,and Acute kidney injury requiring renal replacement therapy has
      increased over time .

      There is still some dispute over the characterization of the different types of Acute kidney
      injury. Classically there are three types of Acute kidney injury: pre-renal, intrinsic renal,
      and post-renal failure. These are characterized as decreased renal blood flow (in 40-70% of
      the patients), direct (intrinsic) renal parenchymal damage (in 10-50% of the patients), and
      obstruction of urine flow which is less common in the ICU (10%), respectively..

      In critically ill patients, sepsis and acute kidney injury are very common diseases and are
      associated with increased hospitalization and elevated in-hospital mortality rates Acute
      kidney injury is a dynamic process that evolves from an early reversible condition to an
      established disease and leads to sustained renal impairment, cell death ,and delayed renal
      recovery .Consequently, prompt resuscitation of the circulation and optimal perfusion
      pressure are the primary therapies for critically ill patients with Acute kidney injury.
      These methods are based principally on the appropriate management of intravenous fluid
      replacement and vasopressor administration under strict hemodynamic monitoring .

      Mechanisms of Acute kidney injury comprise renal hypo-perfusion, intra-renal
      vasoconstriction, inflammation,oxidative stress and nephrotoxicity .An important
      pathophysiological pathway includes intra renal vasoconstriction and endothelial damage of
      the microvessels, leading to impaired macro- and microvascular flow, which further aggravates
      ischemia .

      Renal vasoconstriction is an early manifestation of Acute kidney injury. More specifically,
      ultrasound imaging of the renal arteries can be instrumental in the early detection of Acute
      kidney injury. Indeed, renal blood flow is decreased at a nearly stage during acute tubular
      necrosis as a consequence of protracted intra renal vasoconstriction. The renal resistive
      index , which is used for assessing arterial pulsatility, was shown to correlate with renal
      vascular resistance . Renal Doppler ultrasound can measure the renal resistive index , a
      sonographic index that reflects alterations in blood flow profile of the intrarenal arcuate
      or interlobar arteries. It reflects the relation between the decline in speed loss of flow
      (flow velocity) between the peak of systole and the end of diastole in (renal) blood vessels:
      RRI = (peak systolic velocity _end diastolic velocity)/(peak systolic velocity). Normal
      values are reported between 0.60 and 0.70 with the difference between both kidneys mostly
      being less than 5% .

      The Doppler renal resistive index has been used for years in a variety of clinical settings .
      Doppler imaging identifies changes in blood flow at the micro-vascular level. Evaluation of
      the vascular impedance at different sites of the renal parenchyma could provide useful
      diagnostic and prognostic information. An increase in renal vascular resistance may be an
      early sensitive sign of hemodynamic deterioration, even in seemingly stable patients.

      Measuring flow resistance in the renal circulation, Renal resistive Index (RRI), could become
      part of vital organ function assessment using Doppler ultrasound. An increased Doppler Renal
      resistive Index is suggested to not only reflect changes in intra renal perfusion, but also
      in systemic hemodynamics .

      Renal resistive index (RI), determined by Doppler ultrasonography, directly reveals and
      quantifies modifications in renal vascular resistance .

      Aim of the work

      The aim is to

        1. Determine if the resistive Renal Index on ICU admission patients predicts the
           development of Acute kidney injury during the first week.

        2. Determine whether resistive Renal Index is related to the severity of Acute kidney
           injury or not.

      Patients and Methods 80 patients of critically ill patients including acute ischaemic
      insults, patients presenting with septicaemia, hypertension, respiratory failure,
      coagulation/ haemorrhagic disorders, shock, and liver disease and shock.

      This study will be performed in the 24-bed mixed medical and surgical intensive care unit of
      the Assiut University Hospital.

      Sample size calculations will be based on the assumption that patients not developing Acute
      kidney injury would have an RRI of 0.72 and patients developing Acute kidney injury would
      have an Acute kidney injury of 0.79 with a standard deviation of 0.11. These calculations
      were based on the results of other previous studies that reported median values for Acute
      kidney injury and no Acute kidney injury

      AKI was defined according to the Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcome (KDIGO)
      classification using both creatinine and urine output criteria [20] KDIGO takes changes in
      creatinine within 48 hours, or a decline in the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) over 7 days,
      into account. AKI is defined as an increase in sCreat ≥0.3 mg/dL within 48 hours, or an
      increase in sCreat ≥1.5-times baseline, which is known or presumed to have occurred within
      the prior 7 days, or a Urine Out put of <0.5 mL/kg/h for 6 hours

      Laboratory tests:

        1. Complete blood count

        2. Kidney function

        3. Electrolytes including sodium,potassium, calcium,Phosphorus and uric acid

        4. Urine analysis 5-24 hrs sodium in urine

      Radiological test:

      Doppler of both renal arteries with abdominal ultrasound. Renal resistive index was measured
      with ultrasound-Doppler
    
  