
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the overall survival rate of patients with non-small cell lung cancer
           (NSCLC) and malignant pleural spread treated with standard front-line chemotherapy
           followed by surgical resection and intra-operative porfimer sodium (Photofrin®)-mediated
           photodynamic therapy.

        -  To determine the feasibility and toxicities of standard front-line chemotherapy followed
           by surgical resection and intra-operative Photofrin®-mediated photodynamic therapy in
           these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the progression-free survival and pleural progression-free survival of
           these patients.

        -  To determine the absolute Photofrin® levels in tumor and normal tissues resected from
           these patients using spectrofluorometric methods.

        -  To determine the tumor to normal tissue ratios of Photofrin® in these patients.

        -  To measure the optical properties of tumor and normal tissues in situ.

        -  To compare the Photofrin® concentration of tumor and normal tissues made with the in
           situ measurements to the measurements made with spectrofluorometric method.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive 2-4 courses of standard front-line chemotherapy prior to surgery (if they
      have not completed the front-line chemotherapy).

      Patients receive porfimer sodium (Photofrin®) IV over 5-15 minutes. Approximately 24 hours
      after receiving porfimer sodium, patients undergo surgery to remove the primary tumor and the
      pleural disease to a thickness of 5 mm or less*. Patients then undergo intraoperative
      photodynamic therapy to the residual disease. Some patients may undergo postoperative
      radiotherapy to the mediastinum and/or surgical scar if clinically indicated.

      NOTE: *If the disease cannot be resected to less than 5 mm, PDT will not be delivered

      Tumor and normal tissue samples are obtained from the surgical specimen and examined prior to
      light delivery at the time of thoracotomy, and after light delivery. Tissue samples are
      analyzed for porphyrin levels using a spectrofluorometric assay of tissue specimens and an in
      situ optical method intra-operatively. Samples are also assessed for V-cadherin, markers for
      oxidative stress, markers associated with photosensitizer uptake, markers for angiogenesis,
      markers for hypoxia, activation of signaling pathway components (including EGFR, p38 MAPK,
      Akt, and p42/44 MAPK) via immunohistochemistry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 2 years.
    
  