
    
      Enrollment: Interested participants at Valley Perinatal Clinics will be asked for their email
      and will be sent a link to a brief (5-10 minute) eligibility screener via RedCap (See
      Eligibility screener). Eligible participants will be asked to watch a brief intake video
      followed by a 3-question quiz and asked to sign an electronic informed consent prior to
      completing any further surveys. After informed consents have been completed, participants
      (N=97) will be identified. Participants will be asked to complete a baseline questionnaire
      (See Surveys and Questionnaires document) and complete a medical history form, which will ask
      participants to include a history of medications. They also will be asked to sign a medical
      release form for their obstetrician. Ineligible participants will be notified by email
      according to the script (See Email Scripts document).

      Randomization: Participants will be randomized into either the intervention (Calm App) or
      standard prenatal care control and given further instructions to begin participating (See
      Welcome Email in Email Scripts document).

      Inclusion criteria are: (1) women 12-16 weeks pregnant, (2) >18 years of age, (3) English
      speaking, (3) not currently on steroid therapy, (4) willing to download the Calm app to their
      smartphone, and (5) have not practiced meditation or mindful movement more than 60 minutes a
      month in the past six months (6) willing to be randomized to one of two groups.

      Control: The control group will be asked to maintain normal activity and refrain from using
      Calm meditation app.

      Intervention: Participants (n=49) will be provided free access to and asked to register for
      the consumer-based mobile meditation app on their phone. Participants (n=49) will then
      receive an email containing 28 weeks of free access to Calm. Participants (n=49) will be
      asked to use Calm at least 10 minutes per day and encouraged to use it as much as they would
      like during the intervention. This prescription mimics how a new, paying member would use the
      app (full exposure with autonomy).

      Meditation Tracking: Intervention participants (n=49) usage will be continuously tracked
      throughout the intervention by Calm.

      Assessments: Intervention group participants will receive self-report questionnaires (via
      RedCap) at baseline, and post intervention only after informed consent has been is obtained.
      Included within these questionnaires the investigators will measure demographics (baseline
      only) and stress (using the Perceived Stress Scale), mindfulness (using the Mindfulness
      Attention Awareness Scale), depression (using the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale),
      anxiety (using the Pregnancy Related Anxiety Questionnaire), self-compassion (using the
      Self-Compassion Scale), emotional regulation (using the Difficulties in Emotional Regulations
      Scale), gratitude (using the Gratitude During Pregnancy Scale), and childbirth experience
      (using the Childbirth Experience Questionnaire). Every four weeks for the duration of the
      intervention, the investigators will measure stress and mindfulness using Ecological
      Momentary Assessment (i.e., text message). At baseline, mid-intervention (24-26 weeks'
      gestation), and baseline (32-34 weeks' gestations) depression, anxiety, self-compassion,
      emotional regulation, and gratitude will be measured. After the baby is born, depression,
      anxiety, self-compassion, emotional regulation, and childbirth experience will be measured.

      Stress will also be measured using cortisol serum at baseline (i.e., 12-16-weeks' gestation)
      and 32 weeks. These tests will be performed at no additional cost to the participant. The
      blood draws will be completed at Valley Perinatal Clinic by a trained employee of Valley
      Perinatal Clinic. No more than one tube (10 mL) of blood will be taken for the cortisol serum
      test.

      A weekly log (via RedCap) recording any changes in medications will be sent to participants.
      Any changes in medications, specifically ISSRs, will be accounted for in data analysis.

      Acceptability is dually defined as participant satisfaction with content (i.e., Calm) and
      perceived appropriateness and usefulness of the behavioral components (i.e., reminders,
      self-monitoring) for self-management. Acceptability will be measured with an
      investigator-developed satisfaction survey, included within the post intervention
      questionnaire. Acceptability will be defined as 70% (n=34) of participants reporting a 75%
      satisfaction.

      Demand will be measured by compliance to the >10 mins/day and sustained use during pregnancy.
      Demand (i.e., time spent in meditation and meditations used) will be defined as 70% (n=34) of
      participants adhering to ≥75% of prescribed meditation using Calm. Demand will be measured by
      Calm (internally) and shared with Arizona State University.
    
  