
    
      Cystectomy with urinary diversion is the standard treatment of muscle invasive and high risk
      non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. During cystectomy, a urinary diversion is constructed
      from a bowel segment. Restoration of the intestinal continuity is therefore an obligate part
      of the procedure.

      In Denmark, approximately 400 radical cystectomies are performed yearly with the majority of
      procedures performed as a laparoscopic robot assisted procedure. This includes urinary
      diversion by means of intracorporeal procedure.

      During current standard intracorporeal urinary diversion, an Endo-GIA stapler is handled by
      the assisting surgeon and not by the main surgeon as the Endo-GIA stapler is not integrated
      into the robot.

      The traditional Endo-GIA anastomosis is made as a side-by-side anastomosis with two 60 mm
      magazines: one for the side-to-side anastomosis and one for closing the end.

      Any reduction in the lumen of the anastomosis will clinically affect post-operative bowel
      function. It is known that at all cystectomy patients have intestinal paralysis / lack of
      normal bowel function in the first days postoperatively. It is thus plausible that a wider
      anastomosis will be able to reduce the duration of this in favor of the patient's
      post-operative nutrition, postoperative length of stay and convalescence.

      A stapler integrated in the robot (Endowrist stapler from Intuitive) is available. This has
      several advantages: it is operated by the robotic surgeon and not by the assistant, it is
      more flexible, and faster mobility. These advantages provide the possibility of precisely
      removing a minimal intestinal segment by the final transverse stapling. The biggest
      disadvantage of the robot-operated Endowrist staple is that it is not available in a 60 mm
      version but only in 45 mm, thus giving only an anastomosis of approximately the same lumen as
      using a 60 mm Endo-GIA staple but not better.

      An opportunity to make a more spacious anastomosis would be to "prolong" the longitudinal
      stapling as to the side-to-side anastomosis between the intestinal segments. This requires
      precise and coordinated handling of bowel graspers and staplers to make a complete
      elimination of the risk of anastomosis leakage, which in this respect is an advantage of
      robot-operated staples with the Endowrist stapler rather than an assistant handled stapler
      with Endo-GIA.

      Both Endo-GIA and Endowrist stapler are approved for clinical use according to the procedures
      described.
    
  