
    
      1. Data management The electronic data collection system (EDC) will be used in this study
           for the collection and management of the study data to ensure the traceability of the
           clinical trial data; the data management process shall comply with the GCP specification
           to ensure the authenticity, integrity and accuracy of clinical trial data. The main data
           management processes are listed below. For other details, please refer to the data
           management plan (DMP).

           DMP is written by the data manager (DM) as the guiding document for data management. The
           data management work will be carried out according to the time, content and method
           defined by DMP.

           1.1Design and establishment of database The data manager designs and constructs the
           database according to the trial protocol, and sets up the logic verification according
           to the data validation plan (DVP), which i released for use after passing the test and
           being approved by the investigator.

           1.2Data entry The investigator or a person authorized by the investigator shall timely
           complete the online data entry after the subject visit, use the printed eCRF form first
           if necessary, and, in case of data correction in eCRF if required, fill in the reason
           for the data modification according to the system prompt. The logic validation program
           of the EDC system will logically check the input data and question the problem data, so
           as to facilitate the modification or interpretation by the investigator or the person
           authorized by the investigator.

           1.3Source data validation (SDV) The investigator logs on EDC on the study site, 100%
           check the consistency of eCRF data and source data, and ask questions at any time in
           case of any problem.

           1.4Data cleaning After investigator or the person authorized by the investigator enters
           the data to EDC according to the protocol requirements, the data manager and medical
           personnel shall review the data. The problems in the review shall be answered by the
           investigator or the person authorized by the investigator in the form of question until
           the question is closed.

           1.5Medical coding The medical coder performs medical coding, including combined drugs
           and adverse events. Adverse events will be coded according to the MedDRA (20.0 or above)
           dictionary and the combined drugs will be classified by WHO ATC.

           During the coding process, DM can question the investigator online in real time about
           failure of coding caused by improper, inaccurate or ambiguous medical terms provided.

           A medical review is required for the medical coding before the database lock.
           1.6External data management NA 1.7Data review meeting The study leader, statistician and
           data manager make the data review before statistical analysis to review the subject
           completion, protocol violation, adverse events, analysis data sets (including FAS, PPS
           and SS) to determine the attribution of each subject, judgment of missing value and
           treatment of outliers. Decisions made on the review meeting cannot be modified after the
           database lock, and any decisions must be documented.

           1.8Electronic signature of investigator After the database is frozen, the investigator
           conducts electronic signature verification and shall sign the name again in case of data
           revision after signature.

           1.9Data lock and export After the data in the database meets the quality requirements, a
           written approval document of database lock is signed by the data manager, statistical
           analyst and investigator representative according to the database lock procedures,
           exported by the data manager to the database of specified format and submitted to the
           statistician for statistical analysis.

        2. Statistical analysis See the "Statistical analysis plan" for the details of the
           statistical analysis. The statistician and the principal investigator finalize the plan
           according to the data characteristics through discussion before the database lock. This
           protocol only describes the basic statistical analysis content, and the actual content
           shall be subject to the statistical analysis plan.

           2.1Analysis data set 2.1.1Full Analysis Set (FAS): a set of all cases randomized to use
           the study drug at least once.

           2.1.2Per Protocol Set (PPS): a data set generated by subjects who have fully complied
           with the trial protocol, including treatment received, availability of primary endpoint
           measurement, and no significant violation of the trial protocol. Cases withdrawn due to
           inefficacy will also be included in PPS. PPS will be subject to the final classification
           of the data audit report.

           2.1.3Safety Set (SS): a set of subjects who receive at least one treatment with a safety
           evaluation after randomization.

           2.2Missing data processing method 2.2.1The subjects who have missing primary efficiency
           indicators are filled in according to the treatment failure, that is, the pathogen
           nucleic acid testing in throat swabs, urine and stool on Days 7-14 after administration
           does not convert to negative. Unless otherwise specified, the secondary efficiency
           indicators shall be included as observed data in the statistical analysis, and the
           missing data shall not be filled in.

           2.2.2The safety data shall not be filled in. 2.3Statistical method 2.3.1General
           principle

           Description of statistics:

           The primary indicators collected in this study are described with statistical method.
           Quantitative indicators are described by means of mean, standard deviation, median,
           quartile, maximum, minimum and the like; qualitative indicators are described by
           frequency, percentage and the like.

           Statistical test:

           Unless otherwise specified, the statistical significance level is 0.05 by two-sided test
           (one-sided 0.025) and the 95% confidence interval shall be provided for the estimation
           of inter-group variance parameters.

           2.3.2Characteristics of cases Subject distribution The population and the number of
           enrolled and completed cases in each center are listed, and three analysis data sets
           (FAS, PPS, SS) are determined.

           A detailed list of the data set categories is made. The number and ratio of subjects who
           are randomly enrolled, complete the trial, and withdraw from the trial early and the
           reasons are calculated.

           The subject distribution flow chart is plotted. General information and baseline
           characteristics The demographic information, previous medication history and history of
           other diseases of the patients are described with statistical method. General
           information and baseline characteristics are described based on FAS.

           2.3.3Analysis of drug exposure and drug combination Analysis based on SS. The drug
           exposure, dose intensity and exposure time of each group are calculated and subject to
           descriptive statistical analysis.

           The drug combination is coded by WHO ATC and summarized according to the ATC secondary
           classification and PT. The number and ratio of cases are calculated.

           2.3.4Efficiency analysis Analysis based on FAS and PPS.

           Primary efficiency indicators:

           The primary effective indicators are complete antipyresis time, pulmonary imaging
           improvement indicators, and negative conversion ratio of pathogen nucleic acid testing
           in throat swabs, urine and stool on Days 7-14 after administration.The non-inferiority
           evaluation is based on FAS. The statistical significance level is set to one-sided 0.025
           and the non-inferiority critical value is set to -10%. The negative conversion ratio of
           pathogen nucleic acid testing in throat swabs, urine and stool on Days 7-14 after
           administration in the trial group and positive control group is calculated respectively.
           The negative conversion ratio difference (trial group - control group) between the trial
           group and positive control group as well as the two-sided 95% confidence interval
           (95%CI) are calculated. The confidence interval is estimated by Miettinen-Nurminen. If
           the lower limit of 95% confidence interval for the negative conversion ratio difference
           between the trial group and control group is greater than -10%, it is considered that
           the trial drug for the indication is not inferior to the positive control drug. Given
           that the non-inferiority hypothesis is true, if it is further obtained that the lower
           limit of 95% confidence interval for the negative conversion ratio difference between
           the trial group and control group is greater than 0, it is considered that the trial
           drug for the indication is superior to the positive control drug. The inter-group ratio
           difference and confidence interval estimation results after the site effect control will
           be provided simultaneously as the sensitivity analysis and the sites with few subjects
           may be combined before analysis.

           Secondary efficiency indicators:

           The secondary efficiency indicators include negative conversion ratio of pathogen
           nucleic acid testing on Day 1, 3, 5, 7, 10 and 14 after administration, negative
           conversion time, immune-related indicators (lymphocyte count, lymphocyte percentage,
           counts and percentages of CD4 and CD8), SOFA score, white blood cell count and
           C-reactive protein. The secondary efficiency indicators are subject to descriptive
           statistical analysis according to the data type. Where, for the quantitative data, the
           observed values in each visit and the changes in the observed values from baseline after
           treatment are analyzed descriptively and provided with the inter-group difference
           estimate value (trial group - control group) of the changes in indicators in different
           visits from baseline and its 95% confidence interval; for the qualitative data, the
           indicators in different visits are described in the form of a frequency table (frequency
           and percentage) and provided with the inter-group ratio difference and confidence
           interval estimate; for the survival data, such as the negative conversion time of
           pathogen nucleic acid testing and complete antipyresis time, the median complete
           antipyresis time and its 95% confidence interval in each group are calculated by
           Kaplan-Meier, the information on the subject deletions at the end of the study is
           provided and the survivorship curve is provided. The hazard ratio HR and its 90%
           confidence interval of the trail group and the control group are estimated by Cox
           proportional hazards regression.

           2.3.5Safety analysis SS data sets are used for safety analysis. Adverse events are coded
           according to the MedDRA. The occurrence of adverse events/reactions, serious adverse
           events/reactions and adverse events/reactions resulting in drop out is summarized and
           analyzed in the form of a frequency table (number of cases, case, and incidence).

           The occurrence of varying severity orders of adverse events/reactions, serious adverse
           events/reactions and adverse events/reactions resulting in drop out is subject to
           descriptive statistical analysis in the form of a frequency table (number of cases,
           case, and incidence) according to SOC and PT.

           A detailed list of various adverse events/reactions, serious adverse events/reactions
           and adverse events/reactions resulting in drop out is made.

           Changes in the clinical significance determination of laboratory indicators, ECG and
           physical examination at each visit after administration and baseline test results are
           described in the form of crosstab.

           The laboratory indexes and vital signs examination are subject to descriptive
           statistical analysis according to trial grouping and visits.

           A detailed list of laboratory indexes, ECG, and clinically significant physical
           abnormalities is made.

           2.4Analysis software Use the software SAS with version 9.4 or above for analysis.
           2.5Interim analysis and multiplicity control In order to obtain relevant study results
           as soon as possible to support follow-up scientific research and clinical practice, this
           study plans to conduct staged efficacy and safety data analysis at the sample size of
           65, 130 and 260 cases. The study will be terminated immediately if the clinical efficacy
           of the study drug is poor, . No multiplicity control is made.

        3. Study management 3.1 Study management structure This study is planned to be conducted
           simultaneously in XX clinical study sites in China.

      The data management and statistical analysis of this study are completed by XXXX company.

      3.2 Study data record and storage In accordance with the GCP principle, the investigator
      shall keep all the detailed original documents of the subject, and record in the case report
      form the contents of the trial progress, administration status, laboratory examination data,
      safety data and therapeutic effect evaluation. The recorded data shall be complete, timely
      and clear. The original documents and medical records shall be clear, detailed and easily
      identifiable by participants in this clinical trial.

      The case report forms and original files can only be modified by the investigator. No
      modification to the case report forms or the original files may overwrite the original data.
      The correct modification method is to draw a single line on the original data, then write the
      modified data next to the original data, and sign the date and the initials of the modifier.

      The trial data shall be kept for 5 years after the end of the trial. 3.3 Quality control and
      quality assurance In order to ensure the quality of the trial, before the start of the formal
      trial, the principal leader and the study site leaders shall formulate a clinical study plan
      through discussion and provide GCP training for relevant investigators in the trial.

      The study sites must manage the study drugs according to SOP, including receiving, storage,
      distribution and recovery.

      In accordance with the GCP guidelines, necessary steps shall be taken during the design and
      implementation phase of the study to ensure that the collected data are accurate, consistent,
      complete and reliable. All observed results and abnormal findings in the clinical trial shall
      be promptly and carefully verified and recorded to ensure the reliability of data. All kinds
      of instruments, equipment and reagents used in various examinations in the clinical trial
      shall be provided with strict quality standards and be ensured to work under normal
      conditions.

      The investigator shall input the information required by the protocol into the case report
      form to verify the completeness and accuracy of the information filled in, and make necessary
      corrections and supplements in time.

      3.4 Follow-up visit and medical measures to be taken after the trial The AE/SAE (including
      laboratory examination abnormalities) unsolved at the end of the study or at the time of
      early withdrawal must be followed up, as shown in "11.4.3 Treatment of adverse events".

      At the end of the trial, the investigator should give the subject necessary and reasonable
      medical measures to ensure the safety and rights of the subject.
    
  