
    
      The dramatic impact of potent combination antiretroviral therapies on the course of HIV
      disease has made the use of PIs routine in the care of HIV-1-infected individuals.
      Combination therapy likewise has become the standard of care in pregnant individuals, even
      though information on use of these drugs during human pregnancy is limited. There are no
      published prospective evaluations of toxicities experienced by pregnant women on
      PI-containing antiretroviral regimens, despite findings of metabolic disturbances of glucose,
      fatty acids, and cholesterol, as well as lactic acidosis/hepatic steatosis in nonpregnant
      individuals treated with antiretrovirals. Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects also are well
      documented in nonpregnant individuals treated with PIs, but have not been systematically
      evaluated in pregnancy. In addition, the physiologic changes brought about by pregnancy may
      influence the pharmacokinetics, safety, and side effects of antiretroviral drugs. There
      remains a need for further evaluation of the use of antiretrovirals during pregnancy and
      their impact on maternal, fetal, and infant safety.

      Patients are stratified according to whether or not they are on a PI-containing
      antiretroviral regimen and the number of weeks of gestation (26 weeks or less versus greater
      than 26 weeks). Patients are followed at 8-week intervals from the time of entry until
      delivery or pregnancy termination, with an additional visit at 12 weeks after delivery or
      pregnancy termination. All infants born to study participants are evaluated at the time of
      delivery (anthropometrics and HIV DNA PCR) and are seen again at the mothers' 12-week
      post-delivery visit. Glucose tolerance testing and other metabolic studies are performed
      serially during pregnancy and again postpartum. This is an observational study and drugs are
      not supplied. Patients receiving antiretroviral therapy must obtain their own medications.
    
  