
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Bevacizumab (Avastin™) is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by
      blocking the growth of blood vessels

      Sunitinib malate (SutentTM) is designed to block pathways that control important events such
      as the growth of blood vessels that are vital for the growth of cancer.

      Sorafenib (NexavarTM) is designed to block the function of important proteins in cancer
      cells. These proteins, when active, are in part responsible for the abnormal growth and
      behavior of cancer cells.

      Erlotinib hydrochloride (TarcevaTM) is designed to block the activity of a protein found on
      the surface of many tumor cells that may control tumor growth and survival. This may stop
      tumors from growing.

      Cetuximab (ErbituxTM) is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by
      blocking proteins inside the cancer cell, called the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).

      Trastuzumab (HerceptinTM) is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by
      blocking proteins inside the cancer cell, called the Her2/neu receptor.

      Lapatinib (TykerbTM) is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by
      blocking proteins inside the cancer cell, called the Her2/neu receptor and EGFR.

      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, your doctor will decide which
      study drugs you will receive based on the disease type and on the drugs you have taken in the
      past.

      Once it is decided which drugs you will receive, you will be enrolled into a group of about
      3-6 participants that are receiving the same drug combination. The first group of
      participants will receive the lowest dose of the drug combination. The next group of
      participants will receive the next highest dose of the drug combination. The third group will
      receive an even higher dose than that. This process will continue until the study doctor
      finds the highest safe dose of the drug combination. The dose that you receive will depend on
      when you are enrolled in this study and the safety data that is available at that time. The
      dose that you receive may be lowered if you do not tolerate the study drug combination well.

      Once the highest tolerated dose is found for each group, up to 10 more participants will be
      added to each group at that dose level.

      The dose levels testing the study drug combination of bevacizumab with either sunitinib or
      sorafenib are now closed.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Avastin™ is given through a needle in your vein. The first infusion is over 90 minutes. The
      next infusion may be over 60 minutes if the first infusion was well tolerated. If you
      tolerate the second infusion well, the third infusion may be over 30 minutes. If you take
      trastuzumab and lapatinib with Avastin™, you will receive Avastin™ every 21 days. If you take
      cetuximab and erlotinib with Avastin™, you will receive Avastin™ every 14 days.

      If you are assigned to take cetuximab and erlotinib, cetuximab will be given by vein once
      every week. The first time you receive cetuximab, it will be given over 2 hours. All other
      infusions will be given over 60 minutes. Erlotinib is taken by mouth every day during the
      28-day study cycle. You should take erlotinib on an empty stomach either 1 hour before eating
      or 2 hours after eating.

      If you are assigned to take trastuzumab and lapatinib, trastuzumab will be given by vein once
      every 21-day study cycle. The first infusion will be over 90 minutes. If you handle the
      infusion well, each additional infusion will be over 30 minutes Lapatinib will be taken by
      mouth every day for 21 days. You should take lapatinib on an empty stomach either 1 hour
      before eating or 2 hours after eating.

      Study Visits:

      Avastin, cetuximab, and erlotinib:

      During Cycle 1, you will have a study visit during Weeks 1 and 2. During Cycles 2 and beyond,
      you will have a study visit during Week 1. At these visits, you will have a physical exam,
      and blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. If the routine urine test
      done at screening had abnormal results, urine may be collected for additional routine tests
      during the study. After 2 cycles, you will have the physical exam every 1-2 months.

      Every week, you will have blood drawn (about 2 teaspoons) for routine tests.

      During Week 1 of all cycles, you will have urine collected for routine tests.

      After every 2 cycles, you will have a CT or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.
      After 6 months (6 cycles) of study drug treatment, you will have the CT or MRI scan every 2-4
      cycles.

      Avastin, trastuzumab, and lapatinib:

      During Cycle 1, you will have a study visit during Weeks 1 and 2. During Cycles 2 and beyond,
      you will have a study visit during Week 1. At these visits, you will have a physical exam,
      and blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. If the routine urine test
      done at screening had abnormal results, urine may be collected for additional routine tests
      during the study. After 2 cycles, you will have the physical exam every 1-2 months.

      During Week 1 of all cycles, you will have urine collected for routine tests.

      After every 2 cycles, you will have a CT or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.
      After 6 months (8 cycles) of study drug treatment, you will have the CT or MRI scan every 2-4
      cycles.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on study for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off study if
      the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. Avastin™, erlotinib, cetuximab, trastuzumab, and lapatinib
      are all FDA approved and commercially available. Avastin™ is FDA approved for the treatment
      of colorectal cancer and lung cancer. Erlotinib is FDA approved for the treatment of lung
      cancer and pancreatic cancer. Cetuximab is FDA approved for the treatment of colorectal
      cancer and cancer of the head and neck. Trastuzumab is FDA approved for the treatment of
      breast cancer. Lapatinib is FDA approved for the treatment of breast cancer. The use of these
      drugs together is investigational and authorized for use in research only.

      Up to 354 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  