
    
      This is a phase 1b, open-label, dose-finding study to primarily evaluate the safety and
      tolerability, and MTD of YQ23 as a single agent and when in combination with pembrolizumab
      ("combo therapy") in patients with advanced malignant solid tumors of which it will have the
      potential to benefit from immunotherapy, such as triple negative breast cancer, colorectal
      cancer, liver cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, or renal cell carcinoma. In the study, the
      Pharmacokinetics (PK) profile and the disease response to YQ23 will be investigated while the
      Pharmacodynamics (PDx) profile and immunogenicity of YQ23 will be explored when YQ23 is given
      alone and in combo therapy.

      The study composes of 2 stages. Stage 1 is a YQ23 alone dose escalation study; and Stage 2 is
      YQ23 in combination with pembrolizumab dose escalation study. The primary objective of the
      study is to establish the MTD of YQ23 as a single agent and the MTD when given in combination
      with pembrolizumab, by evaluating the incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLT).

      In Stage 1, trial subjects will be enrolled successively in the treatment cohorts of 5 dose
      levels of YQ23. Each subject will receive an intravenous fixed dose of YQ23 weekly in one of
      the treatment cohorts. Stage 2 will start only when the MTD of single agent YQ23 has been
      established in Stage 1. In Stage 2, trial subjects will be enrolled successively in combo
      therapy dose cohorts starting with the lowest tested dose of YQ23 up to the MTD established
      in Stage 1. In each cohort of Stage 2, a fixed dose of 200 mg pembrolizumab will be given
      every 3 weeks on the same day following YQ23 administration.

      Dose escalation decision will be made by an Independent Data Safety Monitoring Committee
      (DSMC) as determined by the DLT which is based on the incidence and intensity of drug-related
      adverse events (toxicities) occurring up to 8 days after the administration of the fourth
      dose of YQ23 in the single and combo therapy. The toxicities will be graded by the National
      Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0.

      At least 3 evaluable subjects will be treated per dose cohort. Evaluable subjects are defined
      as subjects who have completed the first 4 doses of YQ23 and the safety assessment at Day 8
      post YQ23 Dose 4, or subjects who have discontinued treatment due to a DLT. Dose escalation
      will only be started after all subjects in the previous cohort have completed assessments at
      Day 8 post Dose 4 of YQ23 in the single and combo therapy dose escalations. A satisfactory
      review of the safety and tolerability data by the DSMC is required before any dose
      escalation.

      Following a 3+3 design, the MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which six patients
      are treated and one DLT has been observed, or three patients are treated and no one has
      experienced a DLT. If no DLT is found, the highest dose will be determined as the MTD.
    
  