
    
      All subjects will be trained for blood pressure and heart rate measurement at home by using a
      digital arm blood pressure monitoring for 2 weeks control periods before start breathing
      training. After 2 weeks, subjects in both breathing training groups will trained to inspire
      deeply against the resistance setting by using Breathmax at the loaded of 18 centimeter of
      water (cmH2O) and 0 cmH2O (no resistance) with breathing frequency control at 6
      breaths/minute in loaded breathing (LB) and unloaded breathing (ULB) group, respectively.
      They will rest for 5 seconds after every 6 deep breathing. Breathing pattern will be
      controlled at duty cycle of 0.4 (inspiratory time = 4 sec and total respiratory time = 10
      sec). The paced breathing will be practice using metronome at the laboratory until the
      subjects can do independently without metronome. The breathing was performed normally in
      control groups (C). The training program will be performed at home for 30 minutes/day, 7
      days/week for 8 weeks.

      After 8 weeks of breathing training, the sustainability of breathing training effect will be
      assessed. Subjects in both breathing training groups (LB and ULB) will be stop breathing
      training with Breathmax and change to breathing normally. In contrast with the subjects in
      control group, they will be divided to 2 subgroups. The first subgroup performed loaded
      breathing training at the loaded of 18 cmH2O. The another subgroup performed unloaded
      breathing training at the loaded of 0 cmH2O. Breathing frequency will be control at 6
      breaths/minute in both subgroups. The training program will be performed at home for 30
      minutes/day, 7 days/week for 8 weeks.

      Data collection will be carried out for 4 times: (1) before control, (2) before training, (3)
      after training and (4) after stop training. All measurement will be done in the
      cardiovascular laboratory room, department of physical therapy, faculty of associated medical
      sciences. In addition, self measurement of blood pressure and heart rate will be conducted at
      home every morning after getting up at the same time throughout the study (from week 0 to
      18).
    
  