
    
      Peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD) affects 8.5 million people in the United States.
      One of the most common symptoms of PAOD is claudication. While there are surgical and
      endovascular treatments to address the underlying arterial occlusions and relieve patients
      from their symptoms, the initial and primary treatment of vasculogenic claudication is
      exercise. Numerous studies have documented the success rates of conservative management in
      the short and long term. However, the main barriers to the use and success of this treatment
      have been physician reluctance to prescribe and supervise and lack of enthusiasm by the
      patients. Furthermore, unlike cardiac rehabilitation, supervised rehabilitation and therapy
      was not a covered benefit for patients until recently.

      Beginning in 2018, Centers for Medicare Services (CMS) mandated coverage for supervised
      therapy for vasculogenic claudication. In 2019, a vascular rehabilitation program was
      established at The Heart Hospital Plano. As healthcare moves from a fee-for-service model to
      a payment-for-quality model, treatments such as this are becoming more important. It is
      necessary to have a better understanding of qualifying patients, the success of this
      treatment, and the durability and risk factors for success and failure in the real world
      outside of randomized trials.

      This will be the first study of vascular rehabilitation as therapy for vasculogenic
      claudication in the community setting since this benefit was approved by CMS. It will
      integrate the areas of Vascular Surgery, Cardiology, Nursing and Cardiac Rehabilitation into
      a single collaborative project. The project also nicely aligns with the Baylor Scott&White
      Healthcare System goal of population management in evaluating this lifestyle treatment as an
      alternative to intervention.

      This is a prospective, non-randomized, observational study designed to demonstrate clinically
      significant benefit in patients undergoing the vascular rehabilitation program at The Heart
      Hospital Plano.

      Informed consent will be obtained from all patients who wish to be enrolled in the study and
      will be asked to complete quality-of-life surveys specific for vasculogenic claudication
      (VascuQoL [Appendix 5] and Walking Impairment Questionnaire [Appendix 6]) at their study
      intake visit, study exit visit, and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months following discharge from the
      rehabilitation program. The 3, 6, 9, and 12-month collection periods will be performed via
      phone.

      Ankle brachial indices will be obtained at the time of study enrollment and again at the
      completion of the rehabilitation program according to standard practice.

      A full medical history and relevant demographic and clinical information will be recorded in
      a de-identified database. This will include but not be limited to age, gender, BMI, tobacco
      use and medications. Appendix 1.

      Walking distance until symptoms occur and total walking distance will be assessed at the
      study intake and study exit visits and at 3-month intervals for an additional 12 months.
      Assessments obtained during the 3-month intervals may be obtained via telephone and remote
      patient monitoring via the activity tracker if possible. Pain scores related to the
      claudication will be recorded on a scale of 1-4. Appendix 2. Appendix 3.

      Every patient will be given a wrist-worn activity tracker to track their daily walking habits
      during the time period that they are enrolled in the study. This data will be downloaded and
      stored in the de-identified database.

      Following discharge from the vascular rehabilitation program, patients will be contacted
      every three-months for a year for a follow up quality-of-life survey and walking distance and
      claudication assessment.
    
  