
    
      Overview of research design：Newly diagnosed T2DM patients who meet the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will be divided into a triple oral combination group (study group) or a premixed
      insulin treatment group (control group). Blood glucose of these two groups will be recorded
      during 12 weeks of treatment. And the change of the following effected indexes after 12 weeks
      of treatment will be recorded: HbA1c, fasting / 2-hour postprandial c-peptide. Also, weight,
      times of hypoglycemia and the occurrence of adverse events will be recorded during the whole
      study.

      Details during implementation:

        1. Grouping：

           In the cohort study, patients are divided into two groups, with the study group as the
           triple drug group and the control group as the premixed insulin treatment group. The
           grouping method is as follows:

           Non-randomized grouping method was performed in this study. After signing the informed
           consent, the participants were assigned a corresponding number according to the order in
           which they were included in the study. For example, if the patient was the first to be
           included in the cohort, his number was taken as No. 1; if the patient was the second to
           be included in the cohort, his number was taken as No. 2, and so on. Then patients were
           assigned to corresponding group based on their assigned numbers. If the assigned numbers
           were odd, they were arranged in triple combination therapy group; if not, they were
           arranged in premixed Insulin group.

        2. Drugs treatment and dose adjustment:

           The use of saxagliptin: the initial dose is 5mg / time,1 time/day, before breakfast; if
           the blood glucose dose not reach the standard when metformin and dapagliflozin have been
           used up to the above-mentioned maximum amount, then adjust the dose in the order of
           "7.5mg / time, 1 time/day, taken before morning;10mg / time, 1 time/day, taken before
           breakfast" every 2 weeks; If the patient's blood glucose still fails to reach the
           standard with the initial dose of the above-mentioned triple combination in 2 weeks, the
           drug is adjusted to the maximum dose in the order of "metformin-daglipide-saxagliptin".
           If the blood glucose still fails to reach the standard, it is recommended that the
           patients quit the study and then switch to other hypoglycemic therapy; if hypoglycemia
           occurs during the incremental adjustment of the drug, and the effects of insufficient
           diet and excessive exercise are excluded, it is recommended to maintain the therapeutic
           dose before the dose of drug increased. If the patient has symptoms of hypoglycemia
           (dizziness, fatigue, hand tremor, palpitations, etc.) when taking the initial dose of
           the above-mentioned triple drug, it is considering to be the result of insufficient
           eating or excessive exercise, then patients need temporarily eating to correct
           hypoglycemia and investigators emphasize again to the patient the education in diet,
           sports, etc. If the patient's diet is normal and the factors of excessive exercise are
           excluded, adjust the drug treatment plan by firstly halving the dose of dapagliflozin,
           and closely monitor the patient's blood glucose for the next week: if the blood glucose
           does not reach the standard, continue to use the original triple therapy (metformin
           0.5g/time 2 times/day or 3 times/day + saxagliptin 5 mg/time 1 time/day + dapagliflozin
           10 mg/time 1 time/day); if the blood glucose reaches the standard and no hypoglycemia
           symptoms occurs, maintain the existing plan (Metformin 0.5g / time 2 times/day or 3
           times/day + saxagliptin 5mg/time 1 time/day + dapagliflozin 5mg/time 1 time/day), and
           monitor blood glucose every week for not less than 2 days; If hypoglycemia still occurs,
           the dose of saxagliptin should be reduced by half (metformin 0.5g /time 2 /day or 3 /day
           + saxagliptin 2.5mg/time 1 /day + dapagliflozin 5mg/time 1 /day). If hypoglycemia still
           occurs, reduce the dose of metformin to 0.5g /time 1 /day. If hypoglycemia still occurs,
           then the patient will withdraw from the test, the medication is used according to the
           actual situation of the patient and the patient's glucose is continue to be monitored to
           ensure the glucose level of the patient reach the standard smoothly.

           Insulin aspart 30: The initial total dose is 0.3U-0.5U/Kg, 2 times/day, subcutaneous
           injection before breakfast and dinner, adjusted according to the blood glucose level
           detected by the blood glucose meter. The target of insulin aspart 30 is that fasting
           fingertip blood glucose (FBG) <7mmol/L, postprandial fingertip blood glucose (PBG)
           <10mmol/L after three meals, if the blood glucose still not reach the standard (the
           blood glucose measured in the specified monitoring time is not within the above range
           two days in a row), then the clinical physicians adjust the insulin treatment therapy
           based on the patient's blood glucose level, including increasing or decreasing the dose
           of insulin aspart 30.

           During the above-mentioned premixed insulin treatment, if hypoglycemia symptoms
           (dizziness, fatigue, hand tremor, palpitations, etc.) occur caused by insufficient
           eating or excessive exercise, then patients need temporarily eating to correct
           hypoglycemia and investigators emphasize the diet and sport again to the patient. If the
           patient's diet is normal and the factors of excessive exercise are excluded, then the
           premixed insulin dose is lowered by 2-4 IU/time.

        3. Blood glucose monitoring:

           The patient prepares the blood glucose meter and test paper at home, and the researchers
           will explain to them how to use the device and give them adequate training.
           Self-monitoring of blood glucose will be carried out by patients themselves at home. The
           frequency of blood glucose monitoring is set as follows: monitoring frequency is once a
           day for the first week; twice a day for the second week; once every three days for the
           third and fourth weeks. After that, if blood glucose reaches the standard and remains
           stable, it is recommended for patients to monitor blood glucose at least one day a week;
           If blood glucose can't reach the standard or is unstable, the frequency of monitoring is
           at least once every three days for recommendation.

           Glycemic control standard refers to fasting fingertip blood glucose (FBG) <7mmol/L and
           postprandial fingertip blood glucose (PBG) <10mmol/L, without presenting of hypoglycemia
           (blood sugar <3mmol/L) and associated symptoms (dizziness, fatigue, tremor,
           palpitations, etc.) Detection time for fingertip blood glucose: fasting, 2 hours after
           breakfast, before bedtime.

           During each telephone follow-up, the researcher will record the patient's blood glucose,
           adverse events, and guide the patient to handle hypoglycemia, such as measure the blood
           glucose, eat cookies and candy rapidly, and record them in a log, whenever hypoglycemia
           symptoms appear

        4. Follow-up At lease four times of visit：The first visit would last relatively longer with
           around 4 days to screen and confirm appropriate volunteers. And the next three visits,
           four weeks a day are mainly to assess the health for subjects. Additionally, subjects
           are required to have a HbA1c test in the first and last visit.

      Telephone follow-up: During the study period, the investigators will conduct a weekly
      telephone follow-up of the subjects to find out their medication records, blood glucose
      levels and adverse events, and to adjust their medication dosage in time in case of adverse
      events.
    
  