
    
      This study implements a standardized protocol for NMBD (neuromuscular blocking drug)
      management that is currently used by some providers at UWMC and HMC to help prevent residual
      paralysis in surgical patients. While this protocol is within the scope of routine care that
      an anesthesiologist could follow in his/her clinical practice, it is not consistently used
      throughout HMC and UWMC. This protocol follows clinical best practices for NMBD management in
      a surgical population and adheres to the recommendations from the P&T committee on reversal
      drug choice and recommendations from the Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine on
      neostigmine dosing. While this protocol is in line with best practices, the investigators are
      continuing to systematically evaluate it in the setting of prospective research. All drugs
      will be administered for clinical care only. This research does not add additional
      medications. The study will take place at UWMC and HMC and will follow a standardized
      research protocol for the timing, dosing, and monitoring surrounding muscle relaxants and
      reversal, and makes use of objective TOF monitors. If a patient agrees to participate in this
      study, the following research protocol will occur:

      Before Surgery:

        1. TOF measurements before surgery: A study investigator will perform the routine clinical
           train-of-four measurements with an objective monitor at baseline after the clinical
           induction of general anesthesia but before the administration of the NMBD. Information
           will be recorded for research purposes. Research staff will leave the operating room
           after obtaining the baseline measurement and will return to the operating room at the
           end of the surgical procedure, to be available for TOF ratio measurements at the time
           that reversal of paralysis is planned as well as for the primary outcome measurement,
           i.e. at time of extubation.

        2. Dose calculation of initial NMBD: A study investigator will assist the anesthesia
           provider with calculation of the recommended intubating dose of rocuronium (an NMBD).
           The dose will be calculated per this research protocol based on Ideal Body Weight (IBW).

             1. For women 45.5 kg plus 2.3 kg/inch over 5 feet of height

             2. For men 50 kg plus 2.3 kg/inch over 5 feet of height.

             3. For routine intubations, the recommended dose for intubation will be a maximum of
                Rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg.

             4. The intubating dose will be reduced by 15% for females.

             5. Higher intubating dose may be used at the discretion of the anesthesia provider

      During Surgery:

      1. Additional dose calculation of NMBD: Each additional dose of rocuronium will be 25% of the
      recommended intubating dose and will be administered when the TOF count has returned to at
      least 2, the aim is to maintain an intraoperative TOF count of 1-2 unless the anesthesia
      provider has deemed deep paralysis to be necessary in which case a TOF count of 0 will be
      maintained. An attempt will be made to avoid administration of rocuronium during the last 30
      minutes of the procedure.

      After Surgery:

        1. Patients will receive reversal drugs for their routine care that will help reverse the
           effects of their muscle relaxant. In this study, the decision of reversal drug use will
           follow institutional guidelines. The timing and dose calculation of the reversal drug
           will follow the research protocol as follows:

        2. Timing of neostigmine or sugammadex: Based on the results of the clinical pre-reversal
           TOF assessment, reversal with neostigmine will be administered if the objective
           TOF-ratio is between 40%-90%. If the block is deeper than this, then sugammadex will be
           used for reversal (This is per institutional guidance on choice of reversal drug).

        3. Dose calculation of neostigmine and sugammadex: For this study, the dose of neostigmine
           will be calculated based on the IBW. The dose of sugammadex will be calculated based on
           patients' actual body weight.

           For all subjects enrolled in this study, the investigators will follow a dose schedule
           which is based on clinical TOF monitoring and is in accordance with institutional
           recommendations for dosing of neostigmine.

        4. Timing of extubation: The patient's trachea will not be extubated before routine
           objective monitoring confirms recovery to a TOF-ratio 90%. However, in the case that
           objective monitoring cannot be obtained by the provider then the following will happen:

             1. For subjects who receive neostigmine for their routine care, it is recommended that
                the patient's trachea will not be extubated earlier than 10 minutes after the
                administration of this drug.

             2. For subjects who receive sugammadex for routine care, it is recommended that the
                patient's trachea will not be extubated earlier than 3 minutes after drug
                administration.

        5. TOF measurements after surgery (extubation): The TOF-ratio will be measured by a study
           investigator or provider at the time of extubation. Information will be recorded for
           research purposes. If the investigators miss obtaining research measurements at the time
           of extubation, they will obtain TOF measurements on the patient's arrival to the PACU.

        6. Collection of data from EMR: the investigators will collect information from the
           patient's medical record including the intraoperative TOF counts, ASA class, surgical
           procedure, times of the surgical procedure, time and dose of administered medications,
           and the patient's temperature in the operating room and PACU.
    
  