
    
      Saint Luke Home (SLH) is the only nondenominational, nonprofit academic assisted living
      center (ALC) for low-income seniors who are ≥ 55 years old and in need of supervisory level
      assistance in Tucson, Arizona. SLH residents have high behavioral health overlay with
      presence of cognitive decline for some elders. Arizona Center on Aging and University of
      Arizona Health Sciences have established an academic partnership with SLH. Currently,
      interprofessional student teams conduct monthly screening clinics at SLH, but these visits
      are limited to education, simple screening measures, and making general recommendations to
      the elder's primary care provider via fax. Elders living at SLH have multiple providers for
      their chronic conditions, and those providers may not be trained in geriatric care.

      The documentation from incident reports shows that emergency medical service (EMS) calls are
      made from SLH (capacity 64) approximately 60 times each year with emergency department (ED)
      visits and hospital admissions following the incidences. In 2014, a total of 70 calls were
      made, whereas 49 calls were made in 2015. The Director, who is a nurse by training, and staff
      reported that many of these calls are medication-related and may be avoidable. As a quality
      improvement process, a root-cause analysis was conducted by the PharmD fellows interested in
      geriatric care and research with results reported. From the period of March 2015 to March
      2016, a total of 65 calls were made to 911 from SLH that resulted in 39 ED visits and 6
      hospitalizations by SLH elders. This was approximately 2 incidences/elder.

      We believe forming an interprofessional team to bridge care and decrease EMS calls, ED visits
      and hospitalizations can make a difference, a program entitled Preventing Avoidable
      Admissions Among Assisted Living Elders (PA4LE). The interprofessional team will consist of
      PI (PharmD with board certification in Geriatric Pharmacy), two doctor of pharmacy fellows,
      Psychiatric nurse practitioner (NP), SLH director (nurse by training), and SLH resident
      manager. All clinical activities will be supervised by a faculty team of geriatric attendings
      - Dr. Fain (MD), Dr. Mohler (NP), and Dr. Lee (PI, PharmD). The PA4LE program will consist of
      bi-weekly, 2-hour sessions, which will include home or clinic visits (elder preference),
      educational sessions, and staff training at the SLH.

      The purpose of the PA4LE program is to prevent EMS calls, ED visits and hospital admissions
      from avoidable causes and decrease the use of high-risk medications among elders at the SLH.
      We are modeling the current study intervention in part after the Coleman Care Transitions
      Model, which is a patient and family-centered care transitions program from hospital to
      community. The components of the model will be translated into use for ED/Hospital to ALC
      transitions to avoid EMS calls, ED visits and hospital admissions/readmissions. To identify
      avoidable causes for admissions, we used the study by Ouslander et al. that determined
      frequency, causes and costs of potentially avoidable hospitalizations among nursing home
      residents. A maximum of 50 participants will be enrolled in the study per the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.
    
  