
    
      Healthcare workers (HCWs) commonly present high levels of anxiety, depression, posttraumatic
      stress, acute disorder and burnout, both during and after viral outbreaks. Although
      educational and multifaceted interventions might mitigate the development of mental health
      problems, the certainty on the evidence is very low. The aim of this double-blinded
      randomized clinical trial is to examine the impact of a mobile phone based intervention to
      prevent and manage mental health problems in healthcare workers at the frontline against
      COVID-19 in Spain.

      The trial will include HCWs having provided healthcare to patients with COVID19 in a
      healthcare centre (any setting) in Spain during the viral outbreak in Spain. Professionals
      from any medical speciality and role (doctors, nurses, nurse assistance, etc.) with access to
      a smartphone will be included. The investigators will collect expressions of interest via
      dissemination of the study through social media and key stakeholders (hospital managers,
      scientific societies and professional colleges). A team of psychologists will contact (via
      telephone) potential participants to confirm they meet the eligibility criteria (described
      above), obtain signed consent (audio-recorded), and carry out a psychological
      (pre-intervention) evaluation. The participants will then be randomly allocated to receive a
      fully functional App (full intervention) or an App with brief generic recommendations about
      mental health (control intervention). A post-intervention psychological assessment will be
      undertaken after two weeks. The primary outcome will be symptomatology of depression, anxiety
      or stress. Secondary outcomes will include posttraumatic stress, burnout, insomnia, and
      self-efficacy. After the two weeks follow-up, all participants allocated to the control
      intervention will be offered the full intervention.
    
  