
    
      The assessment of the safety and tolerability of the combined oral thiamine and biotin
      therapy in patients with HD will be performed by:

        -  Periodic clinical examination and anamnesis directed by a neurologist during
           face-to-face and non-contact visits.

        -  The collection of adverse effects during interviews of face-to-face visits to assess
           tolerability.

        -  Analytical monitoring with hematological and biochemical control (hepatic and renal
           function) during the dose escalation period, subsequently being this periodic control
           every 3 months, from signature of informed consent until the end the follow up.

      The evaluation of the efficacy of treatment with combined oral thiamine and biotin therapy in
      increasing thiamine monophosphate (TMP) levels in CSF of patients with HD is to be performed
      by:

        -  The determination of thiamine levels: free, TMP thiamine pyrophosphate (TTP) in
           cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood of patients at the beginning and after the end of
           it.

        -  Comparison of thiamine levels (free, TMP and TTP) between the start and end of the study
           in CSF and serum of patients with HD.

      The evaluation of the efficacy of the treatment with combined oral thiamine and oral biotin
      therapy in neurodegeneration produced in HD will be performed by:

        -  Measurement of neurofilament light chain protein (NfL) levels in CSF and blood.

        -  The score obtained in the motor and Total Functional Capacity (TFC) section of the
           UHDRS.

        -  Measurement of bradykinesia through quantitative motion measurement techniques
           (Quantitative motor assesment, Q-motor). Q-motor assesment relies on three-dimensional
           position sensors and pre-calibrated force translators, for standardized movement
           recording. This measurement will be made to patients in the pre-selection visit,
           randomization and quarterly face-to-face visits.

        -  Score on the quality of life scale (SF-36)).

        -  Variation in the overall clinical impression scale of the patient and the examiner.

        -  Measurement of the change in the volume of the caudate nucleus, white substance and
           cortical thinning, comparing these values with those described in prospective registries
           of patients with HD.

      For the evaluation of secondary and exploratory objectives, a sample size was considered
      considered a high treatment effect (> 60%) given the remarkable therapeutic effect of therapy
      in patients with Biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease (BTBGD)and in animal
      experimentation models of the studies carried out by the researchers of the Severo Ochoa
      Molecular Biology Center (CBMSO). Therefore, we would expect to detect a treatment effect
      size of 60-70% in a 12-month follow-up, in a population of 24 patients with mild-moderate HD,
      considering a statistical power of 80% and an alpha error of 0, 05.

      The collection of demographic data and related to the different variables analyzed during the
      study will be done through an electronic data collection notebook. The notification of
      adverse effects, severity and relationship with study medication will be done through an
      electronic data collection notebook.

      The statistical analysis will be carried out using the statistical program IBM Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) v.24.0. Linear regression will be used when the
      variables are quantitative (eg, scale measurements, thiamine levels in CSF, NfL levels in
      CSF, among others), logistic or multinomial regression when the variables are group (binary
      or multinomial).

      Magnetic resonance imaging performed during the study will be processed with specific
      neuroimaging programs for volumetry, diffusion and cortical thickness.
    
  