
    
      The goal of this study is to develop a safe, painless imaging method to measure the change in
      breast density caused by hormonal chemotherapy treatments such as tamoxifen. For many
      patients with breast cancer, chemoprevention drugs (such as tamoxifen) can reduce the risk of
      recurrence. However, tamoxifen can also cause serious side effects such as blood clots and an
      increased risk of uterine cancer. Patients would benefit from an individualized method of
      determining whether the chemoprevention is working. Recent studies have shown that a course
      of tamoxifen is more effective at reducing risk in women who exhibit >10% reduction in breast
      density compared to women who had little or no density change. The study suggests that breast
      density is a predictor of the effectiveness of tamoxifen. We propose to use an imaging method
      that uses safe visible and near-infrared light to measure breast tissue called diffuse
      optical spectroscopic imaging. Diffuse optical spectroscopic imaging allows patients to be
      followed through treatment with a cost-effective, bedside, handheld scanning probe. In this
      study, we will examine whether diffuse optical spectroscopic imaging is sensitive to the
      density changes induced by tamoxifen as a preventative hormonal chemotherapy agent. MRI will
      be used as the standard for comparison. We expect to discover that after 12-18 months, women
      on tamoxifen treatment will show a significant reduction in breast density compared to women
      not taking tamoxifen, and this change can be monitored using DOSI alone. If validated, our
      method could be used to determine if tamoxifen treatment is working in an individual patient
      and could guide doctors about the decision to end and/or switch to a different treatment. In
      addition, a validated index of density that can be obtained using an inexpensive, risk-free
      bedside technology could be applied to the challenging problem of measuring individual risk
      of breast cancer in the broader population.
    
  