
    
      This study seeks to explore the efficacy of an immersive multimedia experience as a practical
      therapeutic intervention in the self-management of the chronic pain associated with cancer
      patients.

      This work will inform further clinical studies and future research into the potential uses of
      immersive multimedia in the treatment of cancer associated pain. Furthermore, it will help
      identify optimal immersive multimedia environments for use in chronic pain applications,
      practical determinants for implementation of immersive multimedia for wider practice, and
      will provide a better theoretical understanding of the mechanisms whereby immersive
      multimedia works in chronic pain.

      JUSTIFICATION

      Cancer survivorship refers to individuals who have remained cancer free for a minimum of 5
      years. Due to developments and greater outcomes associated with cancer therapy and
      management, the number of individuals who survive cancer has risen considerably over the past
      decade. Currently, 65% of adults and 80% of children can be expected to live at least 5 years
      post cancer diagnosis. However, for some, survivorship is associated with debilitating
      chronic pain which impacts negatively on quality of life. Reviews have suggested that up to
      40% of individuals have survived cancer remain with cancer related chronic pain.

      With rapidly emerging immersive multimedia technologies and clinical work in this field, it
      would appear that immersive multimedia may have significant potential for use as an
      adjunctive therapeutic measure for pain control. However, there has been little work done to
      establish the potential use of immersive multimedia in the management of chronic cancer pain
      to date, as most work on immersive multimedia for pain management has focused on acute pain
      via distraction. Several researchers have recommended the investigation of immersive
      multimedia for chronic, long term pain, and the research team completed a pilot study in 2015
      to establish best methods and approaches for using immersive multimedia in chronic pain
      conditions.

      OBJECTIVES

      To determine if immersive multimedia therapy is effective as an adjunctive intervention in
      the management of chronic pain in cancer patients?

        1. Can exposure to a immersive multimedia environment as an adjunctive pain-relieving
           measure provide a pain-reducing experience for for chronic cancer pain patients?

        2. How long (if at all) do any therapeutic effects of immersive multimedia last after
           exposure in chronic cancer pain patients?

        3. Are there any significant side effects of immersive multimedia exposure for chronic
           cancer pain patients?

        4. Do any identifiable neurological changes occur on fMRI pre and post immersive multimedia
           exposure?

      RESEARCH METHODS A longitudinal mixed-methods study to evaluate the impact of immersive
      multimedia for chronic pain in cancer patients is proposed which will consist of a
      comparative controlled interventional trial and qualitative interpretative-descriptive
      exploration.

        1. Interventional Trial (Quantitative):

           Participants will be randomly assigned to either a VR therapy group or the control group
           (50 subjects in each). They will undertake either a series of immersive VR
           interventions, or control sessions (using 2D multimedia on personal computers) in their
           own homes over a period of a month.

           To ensure the multi-dimensional aspects of chronic pain experienced by individuals are
           measured adequately, pain assessment tools have been selected that will address
           different aspects of each participant's' chronic pain and functional capacity. To
           measure the impact of VR on each participant's pain intensity, the Visual Analog Scale
           will be used during the VR and control experiences, pre and post exposure and at 10
           minute intervals. In order to measure the change in pain during the therapy experience,
           and overall sleep quality, at the end of each week, participants will also be asked to
           complete post-intervention questionnaires: Health Survey (Short-Form 12), McGill Pain
           Questionnaire, the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, and also a brief Virtual Reality
           Immersion Tool (to assess how immersive they found the experience that week).

        2. Interpretive Description Study (qualitative):

      A Qualitative Interpretative- Descriptive exploration will be undertaken alongside the trial
      to allow for a more open exploration of participants experiences and to further understanding
      of the perceptions associated with the use of immersive multimedia and any impact upon their
      chronic pain. An interpretative description (ID) approach will be used for this aspect of the
      study. This methodology allows for an inductive descriptive analysis of the phenomena, and
      was chosen as it is ideal for small scale studies, allowing for generation of themes,
      patterns and theory associated with the patient's experience.

      Following the completion of the clinical trial all participants will be sent an exploratory
      questionnaire to discover their perceptions of immersive multimedia and its value (if any) in
      the control of their chronic pain. In this questionnaire they will also be invited to
      participate in one of two focus group interviews. Data from this will be analyzed and used to
      support purposeful sampling of individuals to take part in the following focus-group
      interviews, to include those subjects with a range of diverse opinions and ideas. As themes
      and categories emerge from the data the researchers will seek to adapt the focus-group
      interview sample with the purpose of strengthening the emerging theory and patterns by
      including individuals who will help further define the characteristics of these themes and
      categories.

      Data Analysis

      Quantitative Data: Descriptive and inferential statistical analysis will be performed on the
      pain scores. For face-value quantitative indicators of potential effects univariate
      descriptive statistics will be employed. Data will be analyzed for central tendency,
      dispersion (standard deviation, interquartile range), skewness and kurtosis using SPSS
      statistical analysis software to establish distribution and variance. Likewise, quantitative
      data from the questionnaires will be analysed in this fashion. Data will be explored for
      differences in the pain scales for the VR group and the control group at each time point to
      analyze for any indications of changes immediately following the experience using Linear
      Mixed Effects Modelling using SPSS software.

      Qualitative Data: The focus-group interviews will be audiotaped. The questionnaire open text
      results and transcriptions of focus groups will be recorded into NVivo 11.0 qualitative data
      analysis software and read, re-read and coded for thematic elements by the PIs.
    
  