
    
      The intervention framework of the proposed Intervention is exerting change at multiple
      levels, through community based approaches. At the structural level, the investigators
      propose to increase the access to HIV testing of high risk drug users and to create change at
      the community level regarding factors that influence the risk of drug users such as stigma
      towards drug use and HIV among other topics. At the individual level, the investigators
      propose to modify normative beliefs around risky behaviors in a social network and hence,
      effecting change in participants by changing normative behavior around safer sexual
      encounters, HIV testing, and reduced risk in injection and non-injection drug use. Following,
      strategies to be employed in each intervention component are delineated.

      Social Network HIV Testing Component. To prepare for the rolling-out of the social network
      HIV testing component (during month 6 of year 2), the investigators will convene a two day
      training with partner organizations from both sides of the border to train staff on the
      social network referral methodology. Research staff will initiate the recruitment of seeds by
      recruiting four to six seeds per city. Counselors, at the partner organizations, will begin
      by administering a rapid HIV test and provide pre and post-test counseling to seeds.
      Counselors, who will be trained in the social network assessment methodology, will then ask
      seeds to list other drug users in their social network who they believe are at risk of
      contracting HIV. Counselors will then provide participants with 3 coupons to recruit
      identified network members for an HIV test. Referred participants who engage in high-risk
      behavior will be also provided with 3 coupons to refer their own network members for an HIV
      test. Whenever social network HIV testing rates slow, research staff will re-seed in the
      communities to begin the recruitment process again. Counselors will make appointments for all
      participants who test positive for confirmatory HIV testing at the respective local
      governmental health care institutions. A research staff will follow-up with HIV positive
      participants to engage them in care. Throughout the duration of the project, monthly meetings
      will be convened between research staff involved in the project to ascertain that procedures
      are being followed and retrain if the need arises. The social network component of the
      intervention will continue until month 12 of year 5.

      The Peer Network Intervention. During month 1 of year 4, we will roll-out the peer network
      behavioral intervention. Two peer leaders will be selected from each city to deliver the
      intervention sessions. Eligibility criteria will be being former drug users, having extensive
      contacts, high degree of trust among peers, and motivation and demonstrated ability to work
      fixed hours. During month 12 of year 3, training sessions, in collaboration with partner
      organization, will be conducted to train peer leaders over the course of two weeks during ten
      training sessions lasting 3 hours per session. Peer leaders will be trained in the curriculum
      as well as in psychosocial theory as the basis for behavioral interventions, interactive
      group management, HIV risk reduction, effective instruction for role-plays, and social
      network recruitment methods. Peer leaders will recruit drug users they know who will be
      asked, in turn, to recruit other drug users in their networks. If this initial contact is
      unable to recruit network members, peer leaders will select other initial contact. Peer
      leaders will deliver the intervention to 300 drug users (150 per border city) in cycles
      composed of small social networks of 5-6 drug users. Four intervention cycles will be held
      per month and will consist of 3 consecutive sessions of 2 hours in duration delivered in the
      early afternoon. Peer leaders will be expected to comply with a fixed work schedule of 10
      hours per week and will be asked to actively recruit social networks for each intervention
      cycle. Although we expect the specific information and roles plays to change based on the
      findings of our formative phase and our sessions of acceptability and feasibility with our
      CAB and coalition, the peer network intervention will have the following structure. The first
      session of the intervention will cover training in social contexts of risk and strategies to
      avoid them through role plays, techniques for harm reduction for injection and non-injection
      drug use, and available community resources to deal with substance abuse. The second session
      will provide information about HIV and Sexually Transmitted Diseases through games, didactic
      sessions, and exercises to rank the risk of contracting HIV from various behaviors,
      negotiation skills for condom use in situations of high risk such as exchange of sex for
      drugs. The third session will consist of training in advocacy and sexual rights and
      establishment of a personal and social network risk reduction plan. Ethnographers will be
      trained to document the process of delivery such as number of participants per intervention
      cycle. Research staff will attend one intervention session per cycle to assess intervention
      fidelity. Weekly meetings will be held with peer leaders and research staff to discuss
      problems, solutions, and planning of community wide events.

      Community-Wide Events. The community coalition in collaboration with the CAB and peer leaders
      will be asked to plan and convene educational meetings at the community level with drug and
      non-drug users to deliver information on topics such as drug use prevention and treatment,
      HIV and risk reduction skills, and other issues affecting the HIV risk of communities such as
      persecution of drug users by police, human rights violations, and sexual violence. They will
      identify experts on topics identified and invite them as guest speakers.
    
  