
    
      The overall description of the Steno-2 Study is stated in four protocols approved by the
      regulatory authorities in Denmark. The protocol identification numbers are KA 92071gm (4
      years intervention ), KA-99035g (8 years intervention ), KA-99035-GS (13 years follow-up
      since intervention start) and H-KA-99035-GS (21 year follow-up since intervention start).

      The aim of the study was to determine whether intensified multifactorial intervention
      comprising both behaviour modification and polypharmacy can reduce the risk for late diabetic
      complications compared to standard treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes and
      microalbuminuria. The primary end point after four years of intervention was to progression
      to diabetic nephropathy with other microvascular complications as secondary end points. The
      primary end point after eight years of intervention was a composite CVD endpoint with
      microvascular complications as secondary end points.

      The interventional part of the study was ended in December 2001 after a total of eight years
      of intervention. From that time on, all patients were followed in a post-trial study. Also,
      during post-trial period all patients in both original treatment arms received similar
      treatment resembling the treatment given in the original intensive arm of the study. The aim
      of the post-trial follow-up was to investigate the effect of intensified multifactorial
      intervention on i) mortality and ii) years of life gained, respectively, with such an
      interventional approach.

      Endpoints in the two parts of the post-trial follow-up:

      Part one at 13 years since start of intervention:

      Primary endpoint: Total mortality. Secondary endpoints: Cardiovascular endpoints as defined
      previously; Microvascular disease.

      Part two at 21 years since start of intervention:

      Primary endpoint: Difference in median time to 50% mortality in each of the two original
      treatment groups Secondary endpoints: Cardiovascular endpoints as defined previously;
      Recurrent cardiovascular events; Microvascular disease.
    
  