
    
      Extremely low levels of HIV reservoirs are achievable in some chronically-infected patients
      durably controlled with cART. Despite the multiplicity and heterogeneity of factors governing
      the persistence of HIV reservoirs, such low levels of HIV reservoirs seem necessary, though
      probably not sufficient, to reach the status of functional cure defined by virus control in
      the absence of treatment. The mechanisms associated with these low HIV reservoirs in chronic
      treated infection are unknown but might involve a low immune activation and inflammatory
      environment, and deleterious HIV mutations. Understanding those mechanisms will provide novel
      clues for future strategies aiming at obtaining an HIV Cure.

      The main objective of RESACHRON Study is to define in chronically infected patients with
      suppressed viremia, cART and extremely low levels of HIV reservoirs, the viral and cellular
      mechanisms underlying the persistence, the size and the distribution of these HIV reservoirs
      among the various CD4 T cell-subpopulations via a comprehensive analysis using innovative
      highly miniaturized and complementary immunological and virological assays.

      Our first hypothesis is that HIV reservoirs persist even in patients with low to undetectable
      HIV-DNA in the total PBMCs, and can be detected ex vivo or give rise to HIV production in
      some CD4 T cells subsets due to the mean 10-fold enrichment in peripheral blood TCM and TTM
      cells. The sorting of the various sorted CD4 TN, TCM, TTM, TEM and other key subsets will
      thus allow to test whether and in which subset:

        1. the virus genome is intact or contains deletions interfering with its replicative
           capacity,

        2. HIV production can be induced in vitro after distinct activation signals,

        3. HIV transcripts are detectable ex-vivo,

        4. Low immune activation and inflammatory environment is associated with these extremely
           low HIV reservoirs levels by testing a series of plasma pro-inflammatory molecules
           together with cell surface activation markers and intra-cellular transcriptional
           signatures .
    
  