
    
      Children with Specific Language Impairment (SLI) are slower to learn new words than their
      peers, placing them at risk for academic failure. Our long-term goal is to develop an
      effective word learning treatment for kindergarten children with SLI, thereby improving their
      academic and vocational outcomes. During the prior funding period, we successfully taught new
      words to children with SLI via interactive book reading, a treatment involving an adult
      reading a storybook to a child and deviating from the text to teach new words. We identified
      the adequate intensity of the treatment and showed that children with SLI learn an
      appropriate number of words by the end of 8-weeks of treatment, approximating the number of
      words learned by typically developing children in prior studies. However, this successful
      support of short-term word learning revealed new challenges that must be overcome in this
      renewal to continue to understand and improve long-term word learning by children with SLI.
      Thus, a second preliminary clinical trial involving 60 kindergarten children with SLI is
      proposed. Aim 1 addresses the challenge that newly learned words were forgotten once
      treatment was withdrawn. We attempt to buffer forgetting by comparing different amounts of
      testing during interactive book reading (low vs. mid vs high testing). Incorporating testing
      into training is a well-established and highly replicated means of reducing forgetting by
      adults and typically developing children. Aim 1 will determine whether testing can be
      harnessed to buffer forgetting by children with SLI under real world conditions. Aims 2 and 3
      address the challenge that not all children benefitted equally from interactive book reading.
      In Aim 2, we identify pre-treatment characteristics of children with SLI that are associated
      with the slope of learning during treatment or the slope of forgetting post-treatment.
      Moreover, we select a pre-treatment battery that samples a wide array of skills likely to be
      associated with learning (language processing, working memory, and episodic memory) or
      forgetting (overall learning during treatment, decay rate). Aim 2 will provide a foundation
      for predicting which children will benefit from interactive book reading and will identify
      which skills are major barriers to long-term word learning by children with SLI. In Aim 3, we
      classify each child's response at the end of treatment (learner vs. non-learner) and at the
      end of post-treatment monitoring (rememberer vs. forgetter). Then, we examine earlier
      performance to determine when treatment and post-treatment outcomes can be predicted. This
      yields empirically based benchmarks for progress that can be used to tailor the treatment to
      individual children and establishes the stability of learning and forgetting over time.
      Overall, this research advances a promising treatment to effectively overcome the significant
      word learning challenges faced by children with SLI and reveals the contribution of learning
      and forgetting to language normalization by children with SLI. The results will have impact
      beyond word learning and SLI because all treatments require boosting learning and buffering
      forgetting. Thus, the knowledge gained will further catalyze clinical research.
    
  