
    
      The study will involve 25 patients with suspected complicated celiac disease , which for
      clinical reasons are referred for an evaluation of the small intestine by means of capsule
      endoscopic in order to screen/identify complications. Furthermore, patients under regular
      follow-up for a known complication of celiac disease (i.e. refractory celiac disease,
      ulcerative jejunoileitis) will also be enrolled.

      Patients reffered to the Center for Prevention and Diagnosis of celiac disease at the
      research Hospital "Fondazione Cà Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico" in Milan will be
      prospectively evaluated and consecutively enrolled in the study.

      In agreement with international Guidelines, the diagnosis of celiac disease will be based on
      Presence of atrophy in the duodenal biopsy sampling (Marsh-Oberhuber type 3) and positive
      serology or genetic compatibility (in case of seronegative patients at diagnosis).

      Patients at high risk of celiac disease complications are defined as

        -  subjects older than 50 years at the time of celiac disease diagnosis

        -  subjects with persistence / recurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms after at least 6
           months of gluten-free diet

        -  subjects reporting poor compliance to the gluten-free diet

        -  subjects with alarm signs at diagnosis or during follow-up.

      All enrolled patients will undergo examination of the small bowel by means of both endoscopic
      capsule devices (the axial-view PillCam SB3 and the lateral-view CapsoCam) on the same day at
      approximately 3 hours interval from one another, according to a protocol already validated in
      terms of security in other studies. The order of administration of the two different
      capsules, will be determined by a specific randomization sequence.

      At the end of the examination, recorded data from the capsules will be acquired according to
      the following steps:

        -  For the axial-view capsule: removal of the recorder after 10 hours recording and/or
           after checking that the capsule has reached the cecum. The patient will also be
           instructed to retrieve the capsule from the stools in the hours / days following the
           examination as per standard protocol.

        -  For the lateral-view capsule, the patient will be given a specific kit for its retrieval
           and conservation. The recorded data will be downloaded after retrieval of the capsule.

      The 50 videos will be reviewed by three experts operators (L.E., F.B. G.E.T.), blinded and in
      randomized order. The operators will evaluate the number of lesions detected by the two
      different types of capsule system (Primary endpoint) and the mean extension of the lesions
      detected, expressed as percentage of the total transit time of the capsule in the small
      intestine (Secondary endpoint)
    
  