
    
      Nationwide, major strides have been made in treatment for HCV-infected patients using
      pegylated interferon and ribaviron; however use of these medications with HCV-infected opioid
      maintained (OM) IDUs in methadone maintenance (MM) treatment is problematic. Further, as many
      HCV-infected OM clients are continuing to drink alcohol, ongoing liver fibrosis and other
      social and behavioral consequences of alcohol use and abuse continue. Despite the fact that
      brief Motivational Interviewing (MI) has demonstrated effectiveness, these programs are not
      conducted in MM treatment settings. Moreover, the effectiveness of group delivery, as opposed
      to one-on-one delivery, of MI is unknown in terms of alcohol use reduction. In Phase I of
      this two-phased exploratory R21, a qualitative assessment will be conducted with 40 OM
      HCV-infected adults, 20 moderate alcohol users and 20 heavy alcohol users, equally divided by
      gender and readiness to change alcohol use, to explore with these clients: 1) factors
      impacting access to alcohol use reduction and health promotion services and free vaccination
      for HAV/HBV; and 2) strategies that MM staff can use to assist their clients in seeking
      services. Staff of a MM clinic will also explore the feasibility of providing these services.
      In Phase II, we plan to pilot an alcohol use reduction and liver health promotion
      intervention with 250 eligible, HCV-infected, alcohol-using OM clients receiving MM. Two
      intervention groups incorporating MI) will provide on-site brief MI (3 sessions) counseling
      to participants using either one-on-one delivery (MI-Single) or the group-delivery
      (MI-Group). In addition, each group will be offered the Liver Health Promotion (LHP) program,
      which includes a 30-minute health promotion education session, referral to a community
      12-Step alcohol outpatient program, and an offer for free screening for HAV/HBV, and the
      HAV/HBV vaccination series, if eligible (defined as being HAV and/or HBV seronegative). All
      these services will be integrated within participants' usual MM clinic onsite services. A
      third group, the Usual Care (UC) group will receive the same components offered to the
      intervention groups except for a time balanced on-site brief 3 session health promotion
      counseling as opposed to the MI. The short-term goals of the proposed study are to refine
      strategies that can be fully tested in a large-scale intervention trial. The long-term goals
      are to contribute to knowledge about promoting alcohol-related health-seeking and treatment
      completion behaviors in MM clinic settings that serve OM HCV-positive clients, so that
      population-specific intervention strategies can be developed.
    
  