
    
      An invitation to participate in the study will be included with every appointment letter sent
      out by the host site(s) whilst recruitment is active. The invitation will invite participants
      to visit a website (hosted by Qualtrics) where they will be provided with information about
      the study and asked if they would like to provide informed consent to participate. If consent
      is given, they will be asked to complete an online version of the Positive and Negative
      Affect Schedule (PANAS; time 1). Contact information will also be requested at this point.

      Participants will then be randomly allocated to either an experimental group or to a control
      group. Participants in the experimental group will read a Social Story about what to expect
      from their assessment; participants in the control group will read the standard information
      the host service sends out about what to expect from their assessment. Participants will be
      blinded to which group they are in.

      If the participants choose to supply a mobile telephone number and email address, an SMS text
      message and/or email reminder will be sent out one week prior to their assessment and again
      on the morning of the assessment. These reminders will include hyperlinks to the information
      about what to expect and will remind them to complete the PANAS once they arrive at their
      appointment.

      On arrival at their assessment (time 2), participants will complete a paper copy of the PANAS
      questionnaire and will be asked for demographic information. Participants will also be asked
      to rate the extent that the information they read prior to attending the assessment has
      helped them to know what to expect thus far. Paper copies of the questionnaire will be left
      in the waiting area with instructions to hand them into staff once complete.

      One week following their assessment (time 3), participants will receive another SMS/email
      which will include a hyperlink to a post-assessment survey that will ask participants to rate
      their satisfaction with the assessment and whether they received a diagnosis of ASD.
      Participants who do not complete this questionnaire after one week will be contacted one
      final time. All participants will be sent a debriefing sheet.

      Hypotheses

        1. Compared with participants who read standard, non-social information prior to attending
           an assessment for ASD, participants who read a Social Story will report, on average,
           less of an increase in negative affect when attending their assessment, as measured by
           the negative subscale of the PANAS.

        2. Participants who read a Social Story prior to attending an assessment for ASD will
           report, on average, higher satisfaction (measured via a 5 point Likert scale) with the
           assessment than participants who read standard, non-social information.

        3. Compared with participants who read standard, non-social information prior to attending
           an assessment for ASD, participants who read a Social Story will report, on average,
           that the assessment was more predictable (measured via a 5 point Likert scale).

      Data Analysis

        1. Comparison of means using a 2 (group; SS, control) X 2 (time; time 1, time 2) mixed
           ANOVA (repeated measures on the time factor). Dependent variable = PANAS score.

           Comparison of means using an independent t-test at time 2. Independent variable = group
           (2 levels; SS and control). Dependent variable = PANAS score.

           Descriptive statistics.

        2. Comparison of means using the Mann-Whitney U test at time 3. Independent variable =
           group (2 levels; SS and control). Dependent variable = satisfaction score.

           Descriptive statistics.

        3. Descriptive statistics.
    
  