
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine overall and disease-free survival of patients with resected stage I or II
           adenocarcinoma of the pancreas treated with adjuvant chemoradiotherapy in combination
           with GVAX pancreatic cancer vaccine.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate specific in vivo parameters of immune response (post-vaccination delayed-type
           hypersensitivity reactions to autologous tumor, mesothelin-specific T-cell response, and
           the degree of local eosinophil, macrophage, and T-cell infiltration at the vaccine site)
           with clinical responses in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxic effects associated with intradermal injections of this vaccine in
           these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

        -  Post surgery vaccination: Within 8-10 weeks after pancreaticoduodenectomy, patients
           receive GVAX pancreatic cancer vaccine intradermally (ID) on day 0.

        -  Adjuvant chemoradiotherapy: Within 16-28 days after the first vaccination, patients
           receive fluorouracil (5-FU) IV continuously for 3 weeks. Approximately 1-2 weeks after
           completion of 5-FU, patients receive chemoradiotherapy comprising radiotherapy daily and
           5-FU IV continuously for 26-28 weeks. Approximately 3-5 weeks after completion of
           chemoradiotherapy, patients receive 5-FU IV continuously for 4 weeks. 5-FU repeats every
           6 weeks for 2 courses.

        -  Post chemoradiotherapy vaccination: Within 4-8 weeks after the completion of
           chemoradiotherapy, patients receive GVAX pancreatic cancer vaccine ID on days 0, 28, 56,
           and 196.

      Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  