
    
      Obesity is a serious health problem in the United States, particularly among lower income and
      racial and ethnic minority populations. These populations have a high risk of developing
      heart disease and high blood pressure, and obesity is likely a contributing factor for both
      conditions. African-Americans, in particular, experience an earlier onset of high blood
      pressure and suffer more severe health consequences as a result, than do other racial and
      ethnic groups. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of a lifestyle modification program
      that will focus on reducing blood pressure levels and encouraging weight loss among patients
      at community health centers that serve a primarily low-income, ethnically diverse population.
      Researchers will also evaluate the cost effectiveness of the lifestyle modification program.

      This 2-year study will enroll people who have high blood pressure. Participants will attend a
      baseline study visit to complete health questionnaires. They will then be randomly assigned
      to either receive usual care along with printed materials about maintaining a healthy weight
      or take part in the lifestyle modification program that incorporates health information
      technologies. Participants assigned to the program will visit the BFBW study Web site several
      times a week to review educational and motivational information. They may receive automated
      weekly phone calls that will prompt them to answer questions and assist them in setting goals
      for losing weight and managing their blood pressure. A study researcher will call
      participants every 6 weeks to discuss any problems and to invite participants to take part in
      optional walking groups or other group activities. Participants will attend group support
      sessions every other month and will wear a pedometer to track their walking habits. For all
      participants, study visits will occur at baseline and Months 6, 12, 18, and 24. All visits
      will include weight and blood pressure measurements, health questionnaires, and physician
      referrals if needed.
    
  