
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Increased levels of body mass index (BMI) are associated with increased mortality and
      morbidity from cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes and other disorders. The
      frequency of obesity and its associated health-related problems is increasing in the American
      population.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study builds upon a two-stage genome scan for BMI performed in the NHLBI Family Heart
      Study (FHS). In the first, 101 pedigrees were examined with 1027 persons genotyped and a LOD
      of 2.2 was found on chromosome 7. In stage 2, 135 sibships of 380 persons were examined , and
      a LOD of 3.2 was found for the same locus. Compelling linkage was found in the combined study
      (LOD = 4.9, chr 7q31.3, 137cM). The LOD or logarithm of odds is a statistical estimate of
      whether two loci (the sites of genes) are likely to lie near each other on a chromosome and
      are therefore likely to be inherited together as a package.

      A novel strategy will be used which combines three cutting edge methods: (1) Regression Tree
      analyses to identify a homogenous subset of families with evidence for BMI linkage to 7q31.3;
      (2) DNA pooling of samples from linked versus unlinked families; and (3) quantitative PCR of
      DNA pools for very high-density single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) mapping. The combination
      of these methods will permit a cost effective approach for the identification of genetic
      polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with BMI, and has the potential to become a widely
      adopted method for gene localization of complex traits.

      The study was extended through January, 2008 to show compelling evidence for a haplotype in
      the 5' region of the Leptin gene (p<0.00005) influencing BMI among men in the sample. The
      study will further demonstrate that the responsible gene in this region is not Leptin. SNP
      and haplotype association studies implicate three strong candidate loci and other loci also
      warrant additional study. The study will confirm SNP association in an independent study of
      200 families showing linkage to the same position (from Dr. R. Arlen Price's group). Those
      loci with confirmed association will be further characterized by sequencing, genotyping new
      polymorphisms, and gene expression studies to identify the responsible genes.
    
  