
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of combining pemetrexed disodium with erlotinib
           hydrochloride in patients with advanced non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) or other solid
           tumors. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the response rate in patients with NSCLC treated with pemetrexed disodium in
           combination with erlotinib hydrochloride. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Compare toxicity differences between different schedules of pemetrexed disodium and
           erlotinib hydrochloride. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of 2 different schedules of pemetrexed
           disodium and erlotinib hydrochloride. (Phase I)

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of the combination of pemetrexed disodium and
           erlotinib hydrochloride in patients with advanced solid tumors. (Phase I)

        -  Assess the overall survival and progression-free survival. (Phase II)

        -  Determine the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with the administration of
           pemetrexed disodium and erlotinib hydrochloride. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II
      open-label study.

        -  Phase I: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups in an alternating fashion.
           Once accrual to the first dose level in group 1 is complete, group 2 will open for
           accrual to its first dose level.

             -  Group 1: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once on days 2, 9, and 16
                and pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
                days for 6 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

             -  Group 2: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 2-16 and
                pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days
                for 6 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      In both groups, patients may continue to receive erlotinib hydrochloride alone after
      completion of 6 courses of erlotinib hydrochloride in combination with pemetrexed disodium.

      In both groups, cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride
      and pemetrexed disodium until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is
      defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium at the MTD and erlotinib hydrochloride at
           the MTD as in group 1 or 2 (whichever is more favorable).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 92 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  