
    
      Rationale:

      The aim of this project is to develop new meat processing technologies, resulting in
      innovative meat products that have low or no nitrite and that have been shown to contribute
      to improved human health. This will be achieved by introducing carefully selected mixtures of
      biologically compounds originating from natural plant extracts. The new meat products will be
      evaluated in a human dietary intervention study to establish their positive effect on cancer
      risk markers in colonic tissues using the newest genomics techniques available.

      Objective:

      This project aims to evaluate the health impact of newly developed low nitrite containing
      meat products using genomics markers in a human dietary intervention study.

      Study design:

      This study has a cross-over design with only healthy volunteers. Each participant will be
      asked to donate a urinal, faecal and blood sample and undergo endoscopy after each
      intervention period. All analyses will be done for each study group separately to examine the
      overall effects of nitrite levels in meat.

      Study population:

      All subjects will be recruited by the University of Maastricht (UM) in the province of
      Limburg, the Netherlands, using advertisements in local newspapers as well as other media.
      Healthy subjects of both sexes will be selected based on predefined inclusion criteria (BMI:
      18-25; > 18 years) and randomly assigned to one of the different experimental groups.

      Intervention (if applicable):

      Subjects will receive a completely controlled diet with 3 different types of meat products
      according to the study design, with either normal levels, low or no added nitrite. After each
      of the three intervention periods of 15 days (300 grams meat per day) blood, urine, saliva,
      mouth wash and faeces will be sampled and stored appropriately at UM for later analysis.
      Additionally, colonic biopsies will be taken by the department of internal medicine (UM) or
      at the hospital of Sittard during an endoscopic examination. To evaluate the impact of
      nitrate in drinking water on the endogenous nitrosation processes in combination with
      processed red meat intake, there will be and extra intervention period of 7 days were
      volunteers will be asked to consume drinking water with high nitrate levels according to the
      Acceptable Daily Intake level (ADI: 3.7mg/kg bodyweight) in combination with 300 grams
      processed red meat per day. Also after this intervention period volunteers will be asked to
      collect a blood and saliva sample and 24h urine and faeces samples. Also, colonic biopsies
      will be taken by the department of internal medicine (UM) or at the hospital of Sittard
      during an endoscopic examination.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

        -  Formation of N-nitrosocompounds in human faecal and urine samples

        -  Reveal differences in transcriptomic and epigenomic markers after consumption of meat
           products enriched with natural compounds. These markers can be interpreted as an
           indicator of reduced cancer risk.

        -  Correlating gene expression changes to changes in genotoxic endpoints (DNA damage,
           reduction in N-Nitroso compounds (NOC)) to reveal the molecular processes involved in
           cancer risk reduction. The identification of molecular pathways that are crucial in the
           carcinogenic process will demonstrate a causal association between dietary changes and
           markers of carcinogenic risk.
    
  