
    
      The objectives of this study are:

        1. . To evaluate the diagnostic performance of the assay of the glycosylated ferritin under
           HLH syndrome and Still's disease in adults.

        2. . To study the different glycoforms of ferritin from serum of patient with
           hyperferritinemia.

      Materials and methods

        1. Patient groups studied and control group

             -  Any suspicion of HLH or Still's disease syndrome in adults

             -  Control groups: sepsis, severe sepsis, septic shock, inflammation ( lupus,
                rheumatoid arthritis), severe hepatic necrosis, hematologic malignancy at diagnosis
                or relapse

                2 . Samples

             -  Serum will be collected for the determination of glycosylated ferritin in patients
                with suspicion of HLH syndrome or Still's disease in adults

             -  For the orther patients remaining serum samples will be collected from ferritin
                sample of the routine biological evaluation in patients with infammatory diseases (
                lupus, rheumatoid arthritis) , hematologic malignancies at diagnosis or relapse,
                hepatic necrosis or sepsis.

                3 . Characterization of patients based on diagnostic criteria (clinical and
                biological) retained (with collaborating physicians).

      After approval of the EC CHU Brugmann, the protocol will be submitted to other EC
      institutions.

      4 . Analysis of the glycosylation profile of ferritin by mass spectrometry. (in collaboration
      with the Faculty of Pharmacy , Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry , Van Antwerpen P and
      Delporte C)

      Analysis and interpretation

        1. . Determination of the sensitivity and specificity of the diagnostic assay of the
           glycosylated ferritin under HLH syndrome and Still's disease .

        2. . Characterization of subgroups of patients according to the following information:
           Ferritin and its glycosylated fraction, documented infections , fever, MOF ,
           hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, haemophagocytosis (when bone marrow aspirate available),
           thrombocytosis, anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, liver enzymes, hypertriglyceridemia,
           coagulopathy, hypofibrinogenemia, VS / CRP.

        3. . Analysis of glycosylation patterns according to the patient subgroup.
    
  