
    
      Previous studies have demonstrated that salivary phosphate levels are elevated in patients
      with chronic kidney disease and that there is a direct and linear correlation between serum
      phosphorus and salivary phosphorus. However, data regarding the relationship between salivary
      phosphate levels and stage of kidney disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) is
      lacking; as such, this study seeks to examine that relationship.

      There is a normal circadian rhythm to serum phosphorus with a mid-afternoon peak at
      approximately 3 PM and a nadir at approximately 7-11 AM. Furthermore it has been demonstrated
      that a fasting serum phosphorus level at 8 AM is NOT indicative of 24 hour mean serum
      phosphorus. Thus the relationship between salivary phosphorous and serum phosphorus may vary
      over the course of the day.

      This is a single-center study in which saliva, urine, and serum will be collected at two time
      points in a minimum of 105 subjects with various degrees of renal function (not on dialysis).
      Assignment to the renal group will be based upon the Visit 2 estimated glomerular filtration
      rate value. Enrollment in each group will continue at random until the target of 15 subjects
      per group is achieved. It is possible that an individual group may exceed the target
      enrollment number as their assignment will occur retrospectively.

      All subjects will be required to have their morning assessment conducted between the hours of
      7AM and 11AM. Clinical chemistry, serum phosphorus, intact parathyroid hormone(iPTH), plasma
      fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF-23),serum 1,25 di-hydroxyvitamin D, serum 25-OH vitamin D,
      and a spot urine will be collected. A 24-hour urine sample will also be collected.

      Passive and stimulated salivary collection will occur. The salivary collection must occur in
      a fasting state with nothing to eat or drink for at least 90 minutes prior to the collection.

      Subjects will be permitted to leave the facility. They will be instructed to consume a lunch
      of their choice between the hours of 1100AM and 1200PM. They will be instructed to eat
      nothing after 1200PM. Subjects will return to the clinic for Visit 3 as directed by the study
      staff. Visit 3 will be conducted between 1PM and 4PM. Laboratory assessments, salivary
      collections, and spot urines will be collected at Visit 3. A dietary recall of intake at
      Visit 2 and 3 will also be completed.
    
  