
    
      There has been rapid escalation of type 2 diabetes (T2D) rates in adolescents. Early-onset
      T2D (<20y) typically shows a more aggressive course than adult-onset T2D and
      disproportionately affects girls from disadvantaged, racial/ethnic groups. This group of
      girls also is at heightened risk for depression, and depression and T2D are linked.
      Depressive symptoms often manifest in adolescence and are a prospective risk factor for
      worsening of insulin sensitivity, the major physiological precursor-in combination with
      deterioration of pancreatic β-cell capacity to secrete insulin-in the path to T2D. The
      effects of depression on poor insulin sensitivity remain even after accounting for adiposity.
      In theory, depressive symptoms may worsen insulin sensitivity through stress-induced
      behaviors (e.g., disinhibited eating, physical inactivity, sleep disturbance) and
      stress-induced physiological causal mechanisms (e.g., hypercortisolism). The central theme of
      this study is that intervening to reduce depressive symptoms in adolescents at-risk for T2D
      may offer an innovative, targeted approach to ameliorate insulin resistance and to,
      consequently, preserve β-cell function and lessen T2D risk. In preliminary data, the
      investigators found initial evidence that a 6-week cognitive-behavioral group decreased
      depressive symptoms and prevented worsening of insulin sensitivity 1 year later in overweight
      and obese girls with moderate depressive symptoms and a family history of T2D, in comparison
      to a 6-week health education control group. Directly extending these findings, the primary
      aims of this study are: 1) to assess the efficacy of a 6-week cognitive-behavioral depression
      group vs. a 6-week health education control group for improving insulin sensitivity and
      preserving β-cell function in racially/ethnically diverse adolescent girls at-risk for T2D
      with moderate depressive symptoms over a 1-year follow-up; 2) to evaluate changes in eating,
      physical activity, and sleep as behavioral explanatory mediators underlying the relationship
      between decreases in depressive symptoms and improvements in insulin sensitivity and β-cell
      function over 1 year and 3) to test changes in cortisol awakening response, diurnal cortisol
      rhythm, and total daily cortisol output as physiological mechanisms explaining the
      relationship between decreases in depressive symptoms and improvements in insulin sensitivity
      and β-cell function over 1 year.
    
  