
    
      The majority of dialysis patients are currently treated with a fixed dose thrice-weekly
      haemodialysis (HD) (3HD/wk). The 3HD/wk regimen has been assumed, until recently, almost as a
      dogma in the dialysis community. Incremental HD is based on the simple idea of adjusting its
      dose according to the metrics of RKF. REAL LIFE is a pragmatic, prospective, multicentre,
      open label RCT, investigator-initiated, comparing the intervention arm (incremental HD) with
      the control arm (standard 3HD/wk). A Variable Target Model (VTM) has been suggested, which
      gives more clinical weight to the RKF and allows less frequent HD treatments in patients with
      lower RKF. The investigators recommend to start and keep on with once-weekly HD, which should
      be possible until residual renal urea clearance (KRU) falls below 2.5 - 3.0 mL/min/35 L,
      i.e., glomerular filtration rate (GFR) ≈ 4 mL/min/1.73 m2. The primary outcome is the
      survival of kidney function, with the event defined as urinary output (UO) ≤ 100 mL/day,
      confirmed by a further collection after 2 weeks to exclude temporary illness. Secondary
      outcomes are: composite primary cardiovascular endpoint (cardiovascular death, non fatal
      myocardial infarction and/or or non fatal stroke); intima-media thickness of the carotid
      arteries; specific cardiomyopathy control; RKF preservation; survival of the patients;
      hospital admissions; anemia control; mineral and bone disorder control; middle molecules and
      RKF. Considering a type I error of 0.05 and type II error of 0.20, the study must enroll 49
      patients in the conventional HD arm and 49 patients in the incremental HD arm, totaling 98
      patients enrolled into the trial. Finally, under the assumption of an expected drop-out rate
      of 15%, 58 patients per group should be enrolled for a total of 116. The assessment of the
      key kinetic parameters as well as the guide to the selection of operative parameters, as
      required to get the required equilibrated Kt/V (eKt/V = 1.2), will be done by using SPEEDY, a
      spreadsheet prescription tool that uses essentially the same equations used by Solute Solver,
      the software based on the double pool UKM recommended by the 2015 KDOQI guidelines. SPEEDY is
      freely available at the European Nephrology Portal (ENP). The link is
      https://enp-era-edta.org/174/page/home. The control arm includes patients put on a
      thrice-weekly HD schedule, as detailed above. The dialysis dose (eKt/V) should be about 1.2.
    
  