
    
      Exploratory, prospective, multicenter, open-label, randomized study, in which the physicians
      who are interpreting cEEGs for treatment purposes and the central reviewers who are providing
      final cEEG interpretation for study purposes are all blinded to treatment.

      Initial LCM/maintenance doses: Subjects will receive a 400-mg IV initial bolus over 30
      minutes, followed by a 2-hour post-dose observation-only period. If a breakthrough seizure
      occurs in the 6 hours following the 2-hour post-dose observation-only period, the subject
      will receive a 200-mg rebolus over 30 minutes. Regardless of whether a rebolus was
      administered, a maintenance dose of LCM will be started 12 hours after the initial bolus, and
      it will continue every 12 hours throughout the acute-treatment period. The daily maintenance
      dose will be equivalent to the total IV bolus per day (400 mg if no rebolus was administered
      or 600 mg if a rebolus was administered), divided into 2 doses. After completion of the
      acute-treatment period, daily maintenance with an AED will be at the discretion of the
      treating physician.

      Initial fPHT/maintenance doses: Subjects will receive a 20-mg PE/kg IV initial bolus at a
      rate no greater than 75 mg PE/minute, followed by a 2-hour post-dose observation-only period.
      If a breakthrough seizure occurs in the 6 hours following the 2-hour post-dose
      observation-only period, the subject will receive a 5-mg PE/kg IV rebolus at a rate no
      greater than 75 mg PE/minute. Regardless of whether a rebolus was administered, a maintenance
      dose of fPHT will be started 12 hours after the initial bolus, and it will continue every 12
      hours throughout the acute-treatment period. The daily maintenance dose will be 5 mg PE/kg,
      divided into 2 doses. After completion of the acute-treatment period, daily maintenance with
      an AED will be at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Crossover/maintenance doses: If a subject does not receive a rebolus but has a seizure within
      24 hours following the 2-hour post-initial-dose observation-only period, he or she will
      "cross over" and begin receiving the other drug, ie, the one not originally administered. If
      a subject does receive a rebolus and has another seizure within 24 hours following the 2-hour
      post-rebolus observation-only period, he or she will also cross over to the other drug. If
      crossover occurs, the subject will "start over" with the second drug, going through the same
      observation-only period and rebolusing, if necessary. If a subject crosses over and starts
      receiving the second drug, in addition to receiving every-12-hours maintenance doses of the
      drug originally administered, the subject will also receive maintenance doses of the second
      drug every 12 hours, beginning 12 hours after the first dose of the second drug.
    
  