
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC), as one of the common malignant tumors with high mobidity and
      mortality, is a major health threat in China.Surgical resection is the conventional treatment
      for early and intermediate stageCRC, however, it is not curative and postoperative
      recurrenceremains a clinical dilemma.Early detection of recurrence by serum tumor biomarkers
      and Computed Tomography (CT) during follow-up can improve the overall survival of patients
      with surgical resection. Nevertheless, thecurrently available tumor biomarkers have limited
      sensitivity and specificity, and CT is associated with radiation exposure. Therefore, there
      is a need for a more effective and feasible methodfor the prediction of postoperative
      recurrence.

      Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is tumor-derived fragmented DNA with an average size of 170bp,
      mixed with cell free DNA (cfDNA) of other sources in blood circulation. Although the
      mechanisms of its release have not been fully addressed, apoptosis and/or necrosis of tumor
      cells and serum exosome are considered as its main source, which makes it a genomic reservoir
      of different tumor clones. Also, as its half-life is up to hours, ctDNA is reflecting the
      most up-to-date status of tumor genome. Hence, it allows for noninvasive molecular
      characterization of tumors,which can be qualitative, quantitative and used for disease
      monitoring.

      The possibility of that ctDNA could be used to detect micrometastatic disease in patients
      received surgical resection was suggested in several studies. UsingNext Generation Sequencing
      (NGS),Newman et al. have shown that the serum level of ctDNA was correlated withtumor
      progress and prognosis in NSCLC. Isaac et al. demonstrated the postoperativectDNA level was
      associated with breast cancer progression, and it was more sensitive compared to CT scan for
      predicting the early relapse. Tie et al. examined the postoperative ctDNA level of 1046
      plasma samples from a prospective cohort of 230 patients with resected stage II CRC by NGS,
      and their results demonstrated that recurrence happened in 79% of the patients with positive
      postoperative ctDNA at median follow-up of 27 months, versus 9.8% in the negative
      postoperative ctDNA group.

      By monitoring the serum ctDNA mutational profile using NGS, the present clinical trial aims
      to elucidate the correlation between the postoperative ctDNA status and the prognosis of
      patients with early and intermediate-stage colorectal cancer, and explore the possibility of
      clinical utility of serum ctDNA as a clinical index to predict postoperative relapse.
    
  