
    
      Informed consent is an important aspect of the patient-physician relationship. Prior to
      agreeing to undergo treatment patients must have risks and benefits disclosed to a
      "reasonable patient" standard.1 The 2016 Canadian Cardiovascular Society Guidelines on
      Perioperative Cardiac Risk Assessment strongly recommend the communication of perioperative
      cardiac risk to patients.2 Myocardial injury is the most common post-operative complications
      and has significant impact on patient outcomes including survival.2. However, very few
      studies have examined the communication of risk to patients, particularly when communicating
      perioperative cardiac risk.

      The aim of this study is a 2-stage research project to address current practice in
      perioperative risk communication and examine opportunity to improve communication and patient
      education.

      Phase One is structured to assess the current practices with respect to cardiac risk
      discussion at our academic center. During this initial phase, a survey will be offered after
      the PSS consultation to patients > 45 years old, seen in consult prior to elective orthopedic
      surgery requiring an overnight admission to KHSC. The survey will assess current risk
      discussion practices, patient satisfaction with cardiac risk discussion, ability to recall
      cardiac risk, importance of cardiac risk disclosure, and seek general feedback from
      participants.

      Phase Two of this study is structured to assess the effectiveness of incorporating the use of
      structured, scripted risk discussion with and without the use of a visual aid. The patients
      will complete the survey instrument immediately after their PSS consultation to assess
      patient satisfaction with cardiac risk discussion, recall of risk, importance of cardiac risk
      discussion from the patients' perspective, and general feedback will be sought regarding
      perioperative education.

      A subset of consenting patients during both Phase I and II will be followed-up post
      operatively (within 48h) to assess recall of preoperative cardiac risk discussion.

      Our study group hypothesizes that the use of visual representation of perioperative risk of
      Myocardial Injury after Non-Cardiac Surgery during the pre-anesthetic assessment will improve
      the patients' satisfaction with the cardiac risk discussion and their understanding and
      retention of the risk in the post-operative period.
    
  