
    
      The OPTICARE program is an individualized program proposed to vulnerable HIV infected
      patients according to a baseline evaluation of the clinical, social, psychological and
      cultural aspects.

      Once enrolled in the OPTICARE program, each patient will benefit of:

        -  A comprehensive and complete check up personal interview, through a daily visit, with a
           physician, an educational nurse, a social worker and a cultural mediator (if needed), in
           order to identify mains issues

        -  A specific follow up will be set up with obligatory visits at week 4, week 12, week 24,
           week 36 and week 48 to assess the evolution of the previously identified issues. If
           needed, additional visits will be set up.

        -  Regular (Day 15 and monthly) phone calls will be set up during the first six months of
           the OPTICARE program.

        -  Each patient will be accompanied by a tutoring nurse who will be in direct contact with
           the patient.

      Regarding the specific needs, each patient may benefit of:

        -  a personal assistance to complete administrative procedures (update health insurance,
           assistance to fill administrative papers, provide a budget for photo ID, transport
           tickets)

        -  a personalized medical follow up with regular phone calls, home visits (if the patient
           agrees), assistance in taking HIV medication (set up pillbox, therapeutic education)

        -  a close psychological and social support (connection with HIV organizations,
           participation to monthly support group)

        -  a specific assistance related to dependence issues (connection with addiction
           organization, sex therapist consultation)

      A multidisciplinary team (physician, educational nurse, psychotherapist, social worker and
      cultural mediator) will proactively assist the patient (home visits, recall) during a one
      year follow up.

      The program is initially proposed to the patient. In case of non-acceptance, the patient can
      further join the program after 3 months.

      Patients who do not accept the OPTICARE program will be followed up in standard of care
      according to French HIV management guidelines.
      (https://cns.sante.fr/actualites/prise-en-charge-du-vih-recommandations-du-groupe-dexperts/).
      All administratives and social procedures will be given to the social district.
    
  