
    
      Background

        -  Children and young adults diagnosed with a high-grade or high-risk cancer (e.g., diffuse
           intrinsic pontine glioma, glioblastoma multiforme, relapsed-refractory leukemia,
           refractory metastatic sarcomas) face a poor prognosis given limited curative options.

        -  Recent research has indicated that this population of patients and their parents
           experience elevated stress and poorer health-related quality of life (HRQL) relative to
           normative samples.

        -  Recently published psychosocial standards of care in pediatric oncology strongly
           recommend that children diagnosed with cancer and their caregivers receive early and
           continued assessment of their wellbeing and have access to interventions to optimize
           functioning and HRQL. In addition, there is increasing recognition of the importance of
           palliative interventions early in the disease trajectory.

        -  Despite this recommendation, minimal research has examined supportive care interventions
           for this population early in the disease trajectory.

        -  Mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) have empirical support for their feasibility and
           efficacy in alleviating emotional distress and physical symptoms in children and adults
           with chronic health conditions, including terminally-ill patients and their caregivers.

      Objectives

      -To assess the feasibility of an enhanced mindfulness intervention (EMI) in children and
      young adults (ages 5-24 years) with a high-grade or high-risk cancer with poor prognosis and
      one of their primary caregivers.

      Eligibility

        -  Children and young adults ages 5-24 years and a parent or adult primary caregiver

        -  Diagnosis of a high-grade or high-risk cancer with poor prognosis

        -  English speaking

        -  Must have access to a mobile device or computer with internet.

        -  Potential participants will be excluded if there is evidence of pre-morbid severe
           cognitive or psychiatric disability in parent or child that would impair their capacity
           for participation, or if there is evidence of clinical disease progression at the time
           of referral to this study, such that it would prevent the child from engaging in the
           intervention.

      Design

        -  This is a pilot randomized controlled trial that will compare feasibility and
           preliminary efficacy of an 8-week EMI group (n=10 dyads) compared to a psychoeducation
           control group (n=10 dyads).

        -  All participants will complete measures of feasibility (primary outcome) and exploratory
           outcomes at baseline and following the 8-week intervention. Exploratory measures will
           include emotional (e.g., depression, anxiety) and physical (e.g., pain, fatigue)
           wellbeing, as well as baseline mindfulness/self-compassion.

        -  The 8-week EMI will consist of one initial in-person session with the child and parent,
           a series of at-home assignments, and two booster sessions. The psychoeducation group
           will be given educational material about coping with cancer.

        -  The psychoeducation group will be offered the opportunity to participate in the EMI 8
           weeks post-baseline
    
  