
    
      This prospective monocentric observational study aims to include all patients undergoing TAVI
      via transfemoral access from November 2017 at Montpellier University Hospital, France.

      All procedures are performed in the same site by 7 medical teams including 4 different
      surgeons and 9 interventional cardiologists.

      All patients have severe symptomatic aortic stenosis secondary to degenerative disease
      confirmed by transthoracic echocardiography (mean gradient >40 mmHg and/or valve area <1 cm2)
      and are deemed for TAVI after heart team decision.

      Before the procedure, a multislice computerized tomography (MSCT) is systematically performed
      to evaluate the aortic annulus, the aorta and to determine the access site.

      The choice of percutaneous or surgical is at operators' discretion, according to predictable
      access site difficulties (calcifications, tortuosity femoral bifurcation height) and global
      considerations as obesity.

      Both procedures are performed during the same period, our center using both techniques in a
      common way.

      TAVI procedure are performed under general anesthesia in the majority of cases.

      Percutaneous approach The anterior wall of the common femoral artery are punctured under
      echographic guidance after selection of a site free of calcifications and above the femoral
      bifurcation and a 6-French sheath was inserted.

      Two Perclose ProGlide® devices (Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA) are used to perform the
      perpendicular preclosing. After the deployment of the prosthesis, the TAVI sheath is removed
      and the nodes from the two previously placed ProGlide® devices were tightened. Final femoral
      angiographic control is not systematic.

      Surgical approach A surgical equivalent of the " preclose technique ", untitled the " zip
      technique " is performed routinely in our center. This technique avoids arterial
      crossclamping and purse string effect. Briefly, the femoral artery is exposed through a
      transversal groin incision, the anterior wall of the artery is cleaned from surrounding
      tissues up to a few centi- meters. The most suitable site is chosen free of calcifications
      allowing a puncture and insertion of a 6-French sheath. At the end of the procedure, both
      ends of the sutures are gently pulled to obtain coaptation of the arterial wall.

      Study endpoints The primary endpoint of our study is a composite of vascular complications
      and bleeding defined by the modified VARC-2 classification.

      Secondary end points included complications after TAVI, amount of contrast, amount of
      radiation, procedure duration, hospitalization length.

      Data assessment Data on patients' baseline characteristics, procedural details and
      in-hospital outcomes is collected from a prospective TAVI database.

      No additional testing or biological samples were specifically required for this study.
    
  