
    
      Breast cancer is the leading cancer in women in Israel with 4000 new cases every year.

      Approximately 15-25% of all breast cancers are human epidermal growth factor receptor 2
      (HER2) positive and it has been well known that HER2 overexpression is associated with more
      aggressive phenotype and poor prognosis with resistance to certain chemotherapeutic agents.

      Trastuzumab, an anti-HER2 humanized monoclonal antibody, is the standard treatment for both
      early and metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer. In addition to other chemotherapeutic
      agents, trastuzumab significantly improves response rate and survival in HER2-positive early
      and metastatic breast cancer. Although it is well known that trastuzumab therapy is closely
      associated with both symptomatic and asymptomatic cardiotoxicity.

      Addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy significantly improved response rate, time to disease
      progression and reduction of death compared to chemotherapy alone in HER2-positive metastatic
      breast cancer (MBC). Thus, anti-HER2 treatment is a standard therapeutic approach for
      HER2-positive MBC patients with visceral crisis. Trastuzumab administration as an adjuvant
      and in metastatic HER2 positive breast cancer is associated with both symptomatic and
      asymptomatic cardiotoxicity. The incidence of trastuzumab-mediated cardiotoxicity were 27%
      with antracycline combination and 13% when it was administered with paclitaxel .

      Pertuzumab, a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody binding to the HER2 dimerization
      domain, prevents dimerization of HER2 with other HER receptors (HER3,HER1, and HER4)
      especially with HER3. Pertuzumab differs from trastuzumab in the epitope binding regions of
      the light chain; pertuzumab binds to domain 2 ofHER2 essential for dimerization, whereas
      trastuzumab binds to domain 4 of HER2. Blocking HER2-HER3 dimerization is postulated to be
      the most clinically relevant action of pertuzumab and this can effectively block
      her2-mediated cell signaling.

      Pertuzumab is indicated in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel for the treatment of
      patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer who have not received prior anti-HER2
      therapy or chemotherapy for metastatic disease.

      The randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled,phase III CLEOPATRA (the CLinical Evaluation
      OfPertuzumab And Trastuzumab) study involved 808 patients with HER2-positive MBC who had not
      received prior chemotherapy or biologic therapy, who were randomized to placebo plus
      trastuzumab plus docetaxel or pertuzumab plus trastuzumab plus docetaxel as first line
      treatment until disease progression. No additional cardiotoxicity was observed when adding
      pertuzumab compared to placebo. The incidence of any cardiac disorder as assessed by the
      investigators was similar in the placebo (16.4%) and pertuzumab (14.5%) arms. Left
      ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD) was observed in 8.3% and 4.4% of placebo and
      pertuzumab patients, respectively. Left ventricular systolic dysfunction of grade III or
      higher was reported in 7 (1.8%) patients in the placebo arm and 4 (1.0%) in the pertuzumab
      arm.

      Treatment of breast cancer with pertuzumab plus trastuzumab plus docetaxel as first line
      treatment until disease progression might be complicated by cardiotoxicity in up to 14.5% of
      the Patients.

      Cardinale et al showed that troponin I (TNI) positive identifies trastuzumab-treated patients
      who are at risk for cardiotoxicity and are unlikely to recover from cardiac dysfunction
      despite HF therapy.

      There is very little data about the reversibility and identification of patients at risk for
      cardiotoxicity of the pertuzumab plus trastuzumab plus docetaxel regimen and of those who
      will not recover from cardiac dysfunction,this information is crucial. The usefulness of
      troponin I (TNI) and Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in the identification of patients at
      risk for PT cardiotoxicity and in the prediction of LVEF recovery has never been
      investigated.

      based on this background , this study aim is to evaluate the cardiotoxicity of pertuzumab
      plus trastuzumab plus docetaxel regimen and the application of troponin I (TNI) and Brain
      natriuretic peptide (BNP) in this setting.
    
  