
    
      Participants will be outpatients with a confirmed diagnosis of COPD, who suffer from severe
      dyspnea despite optimal pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment. Participants will
      be recruited at CIRO, a center for pulmonary rehabilitation in the Netherlands after they
      completed a pulmonary rehabilitation program. After providing informed consent, patients will
      be randomized. Members of the research team who perform measurements will be blinded for
      treatment allocation.

      Patients in the intervention group will receive regular clinical care and morphine SR 10mg,
      administered twice daily (20mg/24h), which can be increased after one or two weeks to three
      times per day 10mg (30mg/24h) in non-responders. Patients will be defined as non-responders
      if the mean dyspnea numeric rating scale (NRS) score was not reduced by 1 point in comparison
      with baseline. The control group will receive regular clinical care and placebo medication.
      Patients will receive morphine or placebo for four weeks. In addition, both groups will
      receive a prescription for a laxative and metoclopramide at the start of the intervention and
      will be instructed to adjust the dose as needed.

      When the intervention period has ended, participants can choose to continue morphine
      treatment. They will be followed for twelve weeks to assess their healthcare use, use of
      morphine and number of adverse effects and exacerbations.

      Measurements at baseline will include: demographics, medical history, medication,
      co-morbidities, exercise capacity, respiratory parameters, generic and disease-specific
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL), severity of dyspnea, sensory and affective dimensions
      of dyspnea, impact of dyspnea, cognition, level of daytime sleepiness, and functional
      capacity. A member of the research team will visit patients after 1 and 2 weeks in their home
      environment to assess adverse effects, compliance, exacerbations, disease-specific HRQoL,
      mobility, severity of dyspnea, and some respiratory parameters. A member of the research team
      will call the patient after 2 days and 3 weeks to assess adverse effects, compliance,
      exacerbations, and severity of dyspnea. After 4 weeks the following measurements will be
      performed: respiratory parameters, exercise capacity, general and disease-specific HRQoL,
      sensory and affective dimensions of dyspnea, impact of dyspnea, functional capacity, and
      adverse effects. Overnight oximetry will be performed in the home environment at baseline and
      after four weeks. A diary for costs and healthcare use will be filled in during four weeks.

      Measurements during the twelve weeks following the intervention include: retrospective cost
      questionnaire, generic and disease-specific quality of life severity of dyspnea and adverse
      effects.

      Statistical analyses Baseline characteristics will be compared between the intervention and
      control group using descriptive statistics. Chi square tests will be used for categorical
      variables. Independent sample T-tests and Mann-Whitney U-tests will be used for continuous
      variables, according to the variable distribution. Change in CAT-score, respiratory
      parameters and 6MWD between baseline and four weeks will be compared between patients in the
      intervention and the control group. First, mean change in CAT-score, respiratory parameters
      and 6MWD will be compared between the two groups using an independent sample T-test or
      Mann-Whitney U test, according to the variable distribution. Afterwards, multivariate
      analyses for longitudinal data will be performed. Analyses will be done using an
      intention-to-treat approach. The relationship between response to opioids and severity of
      dyspnea and descriptors of breathlessness will be explored using univariate analysis,
      followed by a binary logistic regression model. A trial-based economic evaluation will be
      performed, based on empirical data obtained in the RCT. The economic evaluation will be
      performed from the societal and healthcare perspective, the first including costs inside and
      outside the health care sector, and will follow published international guidelines. The time
      horizon of the trial-based economic evaluation will be four weeks. The outcomes of the twelve
      weeks following the intervention will be used in the model-based economic evaluation. The
      model will probably take the form of a Markov model; however this will be decided upon during
      the study.
    
  