
    
      HYPOTHESIS: VicrylPlus® is superior to Vicryl® in terms of infection rate, delayed perineal
      wound healing and short-/longterm perineal discomfort.

      Methods: Women given birth at Skåne University hospital after November 23, 2015 are assessed
      for eligibility. The hospital consist of two labor wards with approximately 9.000 deliveries
      pr year. After birth and in case of a first, second or third degree tear, the
      "labor-responsible" midwife or doctor prepares the patient for the required suture procedure.
      The two sutures used in this project are not new to the staff, before the beginning of the
      study both sutures were available on the delivery rooms and randomly used dependent on the
      midwife's/doctor's preference. Also, before study-start all midwifes/doctors were carefully
      instructed in detection and classification of perineal tears and the corresponding suturing
      technique. There is evidence for suturing deep and long tears in the vagina and tears in
      perineum continuously why we have educated and trained our staff to suture by this technique
      (e-learning and practical training). Tears will be sutured mainly by midwives and in case of
      doctor assistance this will be recorded in the obstetrical chart. The delivery course, degree
      of laceration, suture-procedure are always documented in our electronic obstetrical record
      accordingly to predefined standards (Obstetrix, Siemens). If the woman is enrolled in the
      study the randomization number will be incorporated in the operation description.

      After identification of a tear requiring continuously suturing (and not only a few stitches)
      the personal will kindly ask the woman to participate in the study. The woman will be
      introduced to the reason for conducting the study and to the questions. If she do not agree
      or is unable for enrollment, or if the midwife is un-certified in continuously suturing, the
      midwife can choose the suture she normally prefers.

      If the woman agrees she will be randomly allocated to suturing with either Vicryl® or
      VicrylPlus®, CT-1, 2/0 gauge by drawing a sealed pre-packed and identical looking envelope
      whereafter written informed consent will be obtained. The envelope contains the randomization
      number (randomized into blocks of 50 by Randomization.com), two packets of identical sutures,
      an envelope to the patient with the questionnaires and a prepaid returning envelope. The type
      of suture will be blinded for the participants and for possible contacts to medical staff
      after discharge, but not to the suturing midwife/doctor who is carefully instructed not to
      disclose the origin of the suture used. If there is need for more than 2 sutures the staff
      can bring more material from our sterile depot. Randomization number, the woman's personal
      number and the woman's and the operator's signature are all noted on the written patient
      consent. The document will be returned to a locked box. Once in a week the responsible
      investigator (Nana Wiberg) empties the box. The randomization number, date of inclusion,
      personal number, telephone number will be noted by NW in the specific study protocol to which
      only Kristine Lund Sønnichsen (KLS) and NW have access. The informed consent will thereafter
      be placed into a locked cabinet. The patient is instructed to fill in the questionnaire at
      respectively 7 days and 8 weeks postpartum and in the meantime bring it with her, in case of
      a clinical control. The questionnaire consists of a general information sheet where the woman
      fills in information about education, body mass index (BMI), previous and actual pregnancy
      and deliveries. The other sheet consists of a visual analogue scale (VAS scale), questions
      about eventually use of painkillers and "signs-of-infection" questions accordingly to the CDC
      criteria. The third part is only used in case of contact with medical staff after discharge.
      All non-respondents will be contacted primarily by telephone and secondarily by sending a
      reminding letter by one of the investigators (KLS or NW) if the questionnaire is not received
      within a week after expected deadline (calculated from date of inclusion). When the
      questionnaire is received the answers are noticed together with the obstetrical data of
      interest in the study protocol by one of the investigators (KLS). All obstetrical data are
      extracted from the same database (Obstetrix). After one year the patient will be asked to
      fill in an electronic internet based survey and in case of complains/symptoms of deficient
      healing the woman will be invited to a clinical control.

      Statistics Calculation The sample size to detect a 50% reduction in infections from an
      estimated prevalence of 10% gives 474 participants in each arm to detect this difference with
      80% power at 5% significance level, two tailed. Data will be analyzed according to "intention
      to treat". Continuous variables will be presented as mean ± standard deviation, median, range
      and categorical variables as number (percentage). For comparison between groups following
      test will be used; the unpaired t-test for continuous normally distributed data, the
      Mann-Whitney U-test for continuous skew distributed data and the χ2 test for categorical
      variables. Frequency data will be presented as odds ratios with 95% confidence interval.
      Spearman's rank correlation will be used to analyze correlations between continuous
      variables. P < 0.05 is considered statistically significant. The IBM Statistical Package for
      Social Sciences, Windows version 22 will be used (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) for
      statistical analysis. The CONSORT 2010 Statement will be met. An independent steering
      committee will conduct interim analysis after 800 inclusions to estimate when to close the
      study. Women in need of continuously suturing but not included in the study are noticed in
      the protocol. Women included but not answering the questionnaire is considered to be a part
      of the trial. A flow chart will be used to visualize the study group/exclusions and dropouts.

      Ethical aspects The study is approved by the local ethical board, Lund, Sweden (Dnr 2015/10).

      Sideeffects There is no reason to believe that this study will inflict any harm or any other
      side effects to the participants or the operator. Triclosan is approved by FDA (U.S. Food and
      Drug Administration) and there are no reports or evidence for any side effects including
      allergic reactions or induction of antibiotic resistance.
    
  