
    
      ASSESSMENT: With verbal permission from the parent, both the interested parent and adolescent
      will complete an eligibility screener over the phone. The eligibility screener includes
      demographic information, psychiatric history, and current depression symptoms (self-report
      Patient Health Questionnaire-9, and the parent-report Children's Depression Inventory-2) to
      confirm that interested families meet initial inclusion criteria.

      Baseline Assessment. A baseline assessment will be scheduled with all families. Informed
      consent and assent will be obtained prior to the start of any baseline assessment activities.
      A diagnostic interview (K-SADS-P/L) will be completed by a trained study staff member with
      each adolescent and their consenting parent. Diagnoses will be based on consensus ratings
      between adolescents and parents. Study staff will also administer the pediatric Columbia
      Suicide Severity Rating Scale, the Depression Rating Scale (embedded in K-SADS-P/L), and the
      Childhood Trauma Questionnaire.

      The Wechsler Abbreviated Scale for Intelligence-II (WASI-II), the Cambridge
      Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB), and computerized tasks described in the
      outcome measures will be administered by a study staff member.

      Self-report questionnaires will be administered to the parents and adolescents assessing peer
      victimization, community violence exposure, child and family demographics, stressful life
      events, food security, neglectful behaviors, social and cognitive stimulation during early
      childhood, discrimination, pubertal development, sleep behaviors, depression symptoms, and
      parent-child relationship quality.

      Final study eligibility will be confirmed based on interviews and the WASI-II.

      EXPERIMENTAL SKILL LEARNING AND ASSESSMENT Approximately one week following the baseline
      assessment (up to four weeks to allow for any scheduling difficulties) all participants will
      complete a 60-minute skill learning session. Prior to the experimental skills learning
      procedures, a study staff member will complete a brief (10-minute) interview with
      participants asking them to identify and describe a stressful event or interpersonal
      interaction from the past week. Participants will be asked to describe in detail how they
      coped with the event. Prompts will be given to elicit more detail when necessary. The purpose
      of the interview is to assess baseline cognitive restructuring skill use. After completing
      the interview, a trained study clinician will deliver the "Repairing Thoughts" skills module
      teaching cognitive restructuring from the "FIRST: Principal Based Approach to Evidence-based
      Psychotherapy" manual to the adolescent. The interview and the skills module may be audio
      and/or video recorded. Participants will be asked to practice their skill at home each day
      after the visit for the next week, and they will be sent an electronic daily survey to
      indicate whether they practiced.

      Participants will be asked to complete a 90-minute, second session, one week later (up to
      three weeks to allow for any scheduling difficulties) to review the skill and practice
      in-vivo with the study clinician. After review and practice with the study clinician, a study
      staff member will meet with the adolescent participant to repeat the interview conducted
      during the first session.

      As a part of this second skill learning session, a study staff member will introduce an
      in-vivo cognitive restructuring task to assess acquisition of the skill. Prior to the start
      of the in-vivo skill, resting-state continuous measurement of electrodermal activity (EDA;
      skin conductance), electrocardiogram (ECG), and respiration (RSP) will be collected at
      baseline. Study staff members (or the parent, if the adolescent prefers) will attach the
      electrodes and wireless transmitters (attached by velcro band to participants wrist and
      torso, on the exterior surface of clothing). After a baseline resting period, participants
      will be shown four brief film clips from movies or TV shows that have been extensively tested
      for reliably evoking negative emotions. Participants will be instructed to "watch" two clips,
      and to use cognitive restructuring to "reappraise" and reduce their emotional response during
      the remaining two clips (order counter-balanced). Continuous EDA, ECG, and RSP measurement
      will span the duration of the lab task and a three-minute recovery period that follows. The
      difference in physiological recovery between the "watch" and "reappraise" clips indexes
      cognitive restructuring ability.

      Skill Retention Assessment. Participants will be sent online self-report surveys via the
      secure Qualtrics platform at 1-week, 3-months and 6-months follow-up. The interview conducted
      at pre- and post-skill learning sessions will also be repeated via phone at these timepoints.
      At 1-week follow-up, the online survey is a memory test for the cognitive restructuring
      skill. At 3-months follow-up and 6-months follow-up, self-report surveys will assess
      depression symptom levels, any psychotherapy or psychotropic medication services initiated
      since the last in-person visit, and the memory test for the cognitive restructuring skill.
      Adolescent participants will also re-complete the interview from the last in-person visit,
      conducted over the phone with study staff at all three follow-ups.
    
  