
    
      This is a Prospective single-arm multi-center Registry which aims to collect data to
      determine the safety and efficacy of one of these marketed coils, namely the Target® 360
      Ultra coils. This is not an intervention or treatment study. Up to 100 subjects at up to 6
      sites will be enrolled.

      Study Procedure

        1. Screening and Informed consent: Patients will undergoing endovascular treatment of
           intracranial aneurysm will be screened using the Eligibility criteria checklist, and
           enrolled using approved Institutional Informed Consent process and approved Informed
           Consent form.

        2. Baseline assessment: This involves standard of care history, medical examinations and
           laboratory assessments prior to coiling procedure.

        3. Coiling procedure

        4. One day post procedure assessment

        5. 3- 28 days post procedure assessment

        6. 3-9 months post procedure assessment

        7. 9-18 months post procedure assessment

      The Site investigator and/or co-investigator or their representative(s) will conduct training
      before initiating the study to develop a common understanding of the clinical protocol, Case
      Report Forms, and study procedures among the investigators and site research staff.
      Regulatory binders with study protocol, training documents, and standard operating guidelines
      will be provided for each study site. The Principal investigator and/or co-investigator shall
      confirm data received is accurate by reviewing with the provider collecting the data. The
      principle investigator and/or co-investigator will approve all data received. Additionally,
      OpenClinica, a web-based data capture service, will receive all Case Report Forms.

      Study Monitoring will be electronic requiring upload of de-identified source documents
      through provided secure channels. However on site visits maybe scheduled in advance with the
      site personnel. Audits may be also be performed for quality assurance.
    
  