
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Bevacizumab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the
      growth of blood vessels.

      Carboplatin is designed to damage the DNA (the genetic material) of cancer cells, which may
      cause them to die.

      Melphalan is designed to damage the DNA of cells, which may cause cancer cells to die.

      Docetaxel is designed to stop the growth of cancer cells, which may cause the cells to die.

      Gemcitabine is designed to disrupt the growth of cancer cells, which may cause cancer cells
      to die. It may also help docetaxel, carboplatin, and melphalan to be more effective by
      stopping tumor cells from repairing damage caused by these drugs.

      Topotecan is designed to damage the DNA of cells, which may cause cancer cells to die.

      Cyclophosphamide is designed to damage the DNA of cells, which may cause cancer cells to die.

      Stem Cell Removal:

      Before you begin receiving the study drugs, you will have apheresis done to collect some of
      your stem cells as a part of your standard of care. Apheresis is the process of removing part
      of the blood (such as platelets or white blood cells) from the body in order to remove
      certain elements, such as stem cells. Then, the rest of the blood is returned back to your
      body.

      Apheresis will be done through a central venous catheter (CVC), usually in the chest. A CVC
      is a sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a large vein while you are under local
      anesthesia. Your doctor will explain these procedures to you in more detail, and you will be
      required to sign a separate consent form for each procedure.

      Your stem cells will be put back in your body after you finish receiving gemcitabine,
      docetaxel, melphalan, and carboplatin.

      To prevent clotting, citrate (a blood thinner) will be added to the CVC during the apheresis
      procedure.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, 2 weeks before your admission to
      the hospital (about 3 weeks before the stem cell transplant), you will receive bevacizumab
      through a the CVC over 45 minutes.

      On Day 1 of your stay in the hospital, you will receive bevacizumab through the CVC over 45
      minutes.

      As part of standard mouth care, you will be asked to do mouthwashes 4 times a day (for 2
      minutes each time) with caphosol (artificial saliva) followed by glutamine. Fifteen (15)
      minutes after each caphosol mouthwash, you will swish glutamine around in your mouth and
      gargle for 2 minutes, then spit it out. Do not swallow it.

      On Day 2, through the CVC, you will receive gemcitabine over 3 hours and docetaxel over 2
      hours. If you are allergic to carboplatin or older than 60 you will receive topotecan over 30
      minutes.

      On Day 3-5, through the CVC, you will receive gemcitabine over 3 hours, melphalan over 15
      minutes, and carboplatin over 2 hours.

      On Day 6, you will not receive any study drugs.

      On Day 7, you will receive the stem cells through the CVC over about 30-60 minutes.

      Starting the day after your stem cell transplant, as part of standard care, you will receive
      granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF or filgrastim) as an injection under your skin
      daily, starting 1 day after the transplant, until your blood cell levels return to normal.

      Starting 2 days after your transplant until 10 days after your transplant, you will receive
      methylprednisolone 2 times a day.

      If you are allergic to carboplatin or older than 60:

      On Day 1 of your stay in the hospital, you will receive bevacizumab through the CVC over 45
      minutes.

      On Day 2-4, through the CVC, you will receive cyclophosphamide over 2 hours and topotecan
      over 30 minutes. Each time you receive cyclophosphamide, you will also receive mesna to
      decrease the risk of bleeding in the bladder.

      On Day 5-6, through the CVC, you will receive melphalan over 30 minutes and topotecan over 30
      minutes.

      On Day 7, you will not receive any study drugs.

      On Day 8, you will receive the stem cells through the CVC over about 30-60 minutes.

      Starting the day after your stem cell transplant, as part of standard care, you will receive
      G-CSF (filgrastim) as an injection under your skin daily, starting 1 day after the
      transplant, until your blood cell levels return to normal.

      Study Visits:

      At least once a week after the transplant, and then about 30, 60, and 100 days after your
      stem cell transplant, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be checked for possible reactions to the treatment, including graft-versus-host
           disease (GVHD) and graft failure. Graft failure occurs when donor cells may not be able
           to grow and multiply in your body. If this happens, there will be a high risk of
           infections and/or bleeding.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check for tumor
           markers to check the status of the disease.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have a pelvic exam, if your doctor thinks it is needed.

        -  You will have an ECHO, if your doctor thinks it is needed.

        -  You will have a lung function test, if your doctor thinks it is needed.

        -  You will have CT scans of your chest, abdomen, and pelvis to check the status of the
           disease, if your doctor thinks it is needed.

        -  You will have a positron emission tomography - computed tomography (PET-CT) scan to
           check the status of the disease. A PET-CT is CT scan taken after a small amount of
           radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein to find cancer cells in the body.

      These tests and procedures may be performed more often, if your doctor thinks it is needed.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      About 6 and 12 months after your stem cell transplant, then once a year after that (if your
      doctor thinks it is needed), the study visit tests and procedures listed above will be
      repeated.

      Length of Study:

      You will be off study after about 6 months. You will be taken off study early if the disease
      gets worse, if not enough stem cells can be collected, or if you experience any intolerable
      side effects.

      Long-Term Follow-up:

      If your doctor thinks it is necessary, you may have follow-up visits.

      This is an investigational study. Bevacizumab is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of colorectal cancer. Gemcitabine, docetaxel, melphalan, and carboplatin are
      all FDA-approved and commercially available for the treatment of ovarian cancer. The use of
      bevacizumab with gemcitabine, docetaxel, melphalan, and carboplatin is investigational.

      Up to 30 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  