
    
      Titinopathies are hereditary skeletal and cardiac myopathies due to alteration of titin, a
      giant elastic protein of the sarcomere. Due to the widespread use of next generation
      sequencing (NGS), the titin gene (TTN) is emerging as a major causative gene in neuromuscular
      disorders (NMDs), with high clinical and allelic heterogeneity. The mechanisms underlying the
      phenotypic variability and mode of inheritance recessive or dominant of titinopathies are
      poorly understood. They involve the primordial structural functions of the titin on the
      formation and stability of the sarcomere, as well as its interactions with other proteins.
      Effects of variants in TTN are variable, silent, recessive or dominant, and bioinformatics
      tools are not really efficient for interpretation of their functional impact, making them
      extremely difficult to interpret. Moreover, TTN variants are very frequent in the general
      population. Due to the huge size (3700kD) and complexity of titin, analyses of consequences
      of TTN variants on transcripts and protein are not performed commonly. There are few teams in
      the international community, but no team in France, that propose Western-blot (WB) analyses
      on titin as a diagnostic test. Moreover, this test allows to confirm the diagnosis only for
      recessive titinopathies due to truncating mutations, that are rare situations (<10% of
      suspected titinopathies). Concerning non-truncating variants, that are the most frequent ones
      (in particular missense variants), there are no functional diagnostic tests to assess their
      pathogenicity. Thus, expect the cases of recessive titinopathies due to compound heterozygous
      truncating mutations, it is not possible to confirm whether the phenotype of a patient is due
      to a titinopathy, leaving patients without diagnosis. It is thus important to implement
      functional tests to evaluate the pathogenic effects of TTN variants on titin abundance and
      functions.

      This project comes from our NGS diagnostic results and will be the continuation of an ongoing
      AFM funded project (application 19958). We have identified by NGS, in patients with skeletal
      myopathy (with or without cardiomyopathy), several potentially disease causing TTN variants.
      Thanks to the AFM-funded project, we have analysed consequences of some TTN variants on
      splicing, and we are currently implementing experimental conditions to perform titin WB. In
      addition, we have observed that most non-truncating variants in TTN suspected to be
      pathogenic are located in titin domains interacting with myosin heavy-chain (MHC). In the
      hypothesis that they could have deleterious effects in the stability of interactions between
      titin and MHC in the sarcomere, we plan to implement functional tests to evaluate their
      consequences in titin-myosin interactions.

      The specific aims of the present project will be to implement functional studies to evaluate
      the effect of TTN variants on the transcripts and protein in order to improve the diagnostic
      approach and to perform correlation studies with the modes of inheritance and the phenotypes.
      Innovative aspect of the project is the combination of several molecular and biochemical
      approaches on RNA (evaluation of the effects on transcription and/or splicing on titin
      transcripts in skeletal muscle of patients), protein (evaluation of the effects of all TTN
      variants on titin amount and size, by WB analyses on muscle biopsies) and protein-protein
      interactions (assessment of pathogenic impact of TTN variants located in titin-MHC
      interacting domains on interactions with MHC), that we will implement on the basis of
      technologies reported in academic research projects. The strength of our project is also
      based on our robust network with neurologists, neuro paediatricians, pathologists and other
      biological experts, within the organization in an interregional reference center of NMDs and
      in a national network of titinopathies, and the implication in the project of a neurologist
      (Dr Morales) through his PhD thesis, to carry out phenotype-genotype correlations studies.

      Functional studies of the variants identified in the TTN gene should have strong impact for
      diagnosis of patients, that is important for its management and familial genetic counselling.
      The implemented tests will be available to the French network of titinopathies. This should
      solve the diagnosis of a large number of patients without clear diagnosis, and specify the
      frequency of involvement of titinopathies in myopathies. Improvement of diagnosis of
      titinopathies will have high socio-economic impacts because it will reduce the cost due to
      iterative diagnostic tests.

      Phenotype-genotype correlation studies will allow expanding the mutation and clinical
      spectrum of titinopathies and participating to the international effort to understand the
      molecular bases of titinopathies, that is a mandatory first step to devise therapeutic
      approaches. In addition, genetic confirmation open the way to develop cellular models of
      titinopathy, derived from the tissues of patients. These models will be basis for proteomic
      and other functional studies to decipher the mechanisms of titinopaphies and to point to
      metabolic pathways that could be the target of pharmacological therapeutics.

      For these reasons, the present application will constitute a major, original and innovative
      development to contribute to diagnosis and to the knowledge of molecular bases of
      titinopathies.
    
  