
    
      An arterial anuerysm is a permanent, localized dilatation of an artery with an increase in
      diameter ≥ 50% larger than the normal artery. Although any artery may develop an aneurysm,
      they are most commonly seen in the abdominal aorta, the thoracic aorta, the popliteal artery
      and the common iliac artery.

      The use of intravascular stents and endoluminal grafts to exclude natural arterial aneurysms
      or treat occlusive vascular lesions has been evaluated in a number of preclinical studies.
      Endovascular stent graft implantation obviates the need for abdominal surgery by using the
      peripheral arteries as a route to the aneurysm, and stents provide a means of graft
      attachment other than sutures. The goal of endoluminal grafting is the same as that of
      conventional repair and allows insertion of a resilient conduit between the ends of the
      aneurysm to exclude it from the circulation and prevent rupture of the aneurysm.

      This is a Phase 2 Clinical Study of the Bifurcated PowerLink System (Endoluminal Graft) for
      the treatment of abdominal infrarenal aorto-iliac aneurysmal disease (AAA). Diagnostic
      imaging methods such as Spiral CT Scans, angiography, ultrasound and fluoroscopy imaging will
      be used to choose the sites for placement of the device and to assure precise deployment.

      The Delivery Catheter allows endovascular placement of the Device (endoluminal graft) via
      either retrograde (femoral or iliac arteries) or antegrade (brachial arteries) approaches.
      The Endoluminal Graft (ELG) is a self-expanding metal alloy stent cage, which is covered on
      the outside by a thin walled ePTPE graft material. The graft material is fully supported
      throughout the entire ELG length. The ELG is also available in a bifurcated configuration.
      The bifurcated delivery catheter is available in various diameters and working lengths. The
      catheter consists of an introducer sheath with homeostatic vavle and an inner shaft. The
      inner shaft is an obturator with a tapered tip connected to a rear obturator by means of a
      hypotube. The main body of the ELG is compressed around the hypotube then loaded into the
      Delivery Catheter. The contralateral and ipsilateral limbs of the ELG are compressed in their
      respective limb covers and loaded into the Delivery Catheter. The inner shaft accommodates a
      standard .035 inch guidewire.

      The concurrent surgical control and test patients' participation in the Study will include
      enrollment, the Investigational Device procedure or surgical repair and follow-up period.
      Patient data will be collected during: pre-operative, operative and post-operative follow-up
      at discharge and at 1 month. Long term follow-up for both the concurrent surgical controls
      and test patients will continue for 6 and 12 months to support a PMA. Extended follow-up may
      be required until the Investigational Device is approved under a PMA, or up to 5 years
      follow-up under Post Market Surveillance requirements.
    
  