
    
      PURPOSE OF STUDY The purpose of this study is to understand what triggers stem cells to
      differentiate into one type of tissue or another. The study of TBX3, a protein called a
      transcription factor that controls the expression of other genes, shows that it is a
      downstream mediator of the protein BMP4, a known key regulator for hES cell differentiation.

      Hypothesis and Aims

      To understand the role of TBX3 in hES cell differentiation, we hypothesize that TBX3 is a
      downstream mediator of BMP4 and play an important role in hES cell differentiation. We
      propose the following specific aims:

        1. To examine TBX3 function in hES cell differentiation. NIH approved hES cells will be
           cultured in a conditioned medium with BMP4 to induce differentiation and TBX3
           expression. TBX3 will be knocked down with siRNA technology. The cell morphology and
           biochemical changes will be examined for the effects of TBX3 knockdown on hES cell
           differentiation, including testing human ß-CG estradiol and progesterone. The gene
           expression profile will also be examined with Affymetrix gene expression chip and
           verified with real-time RT-PCR.

        2. To identify the genome-wide downstream targets directly bound by TBX3 in hESC with
           Chromatin immunoprecipitation-guided ligation and selection (CHIP-GLAS). To identify the
           targets of TBX3 in BMP4-induced hES cells, we will perform ChIP-GLAS analysis. CHIP-GLAS
           is a novel high-throughput technique with combination of chromatin precipitation and
           oligonucleotide-based microarray. This technology will allow us to identify the
           genome-wide downstream target genes directly bound by TBX3 in hES cells.

      We expect that the proposed experiments will identify a key regulator for hES cell
      differentiation and open a new avenue to understanding the function of TBX3 in hES cells. The
      CHIP-GLAS promoter array provides us a cutting edge tool and allows us to examine the broad
      function of TBX3. We anticipate that the study will significantly enhance our understanding
      of TBX3 function in hES cell differentiation.

      STUDY DESIGN NIH-approved cell lines will be available at the Sue and Bill Gross Stem Cell
      Research Core Facility at the University of California, Irvine. Non-NIH-approved cell lines
      will be obtained from Sue & Bill Gross Stem Cell Core at UC Irvine.

      Environment: Huang Lab is currently supported by the Helen and Larry Hoag Foundation and the
      Susan Komen Foundation. There are no active grants from the federal government. Previously,
      Dr. Huang was supported by K23 and R03 grants. They were completed in 2004 and 2006,
      respectively. No equipment was purchased with the funds from the federal grants. As all
      equipment currently in Huang lab was purchased with the UCI startup fund or with private
      funds, there is no conflict with government regulations.

      At University California, Irvine, Sue and Bill Gross Stem Cell Research Center will be a key
      component of the Stem Cell Core Facility. This facility provides stem cell technology and
      resources to the UCI faculty (Please see attached letter). By merging technical and
      scientific expertise in a number of essential disciplines, the Core harbors a diverse tool
      kit for the exploration of multiple aspects of stem cell biology. The Core also provides a
      knowledge base for differentiating, genetically modifying and assaying human embryonic stem
      cells (hESCs) in support of multiple stem cell projects on campus and in the surrounding
      area. All services and procedures are performed in accordance with good quality assurance and
      record keeping practices pursuant to standard operating procedures and good laboratory
      practices.

      The Sue and Bill Gross Stem Cell Research Center The human embryonic stem (hES) cell core
      facility of the Sue and Bill Gross Stem Cell Research Center opened in April 2006. It
      occupies approximately 10,000 square feet of space in the research park immediately adjacent
      to the University of California, Irvine campus. Approximately $1.7 million were committed by
      the UCI to fully equip the facility for all aspects on hES cell research. Further gifts
      totaling $236,687 from the Fuji Foundation and the Nichols Foundation provided additional
      major equipment and supplies that are available for all investigators. The facility was set
      up as a Federal-free zone in which investigators can to carry out all aspects of hES cell
      research. Individual rooms are equipped with tissue culture biosafety cabinets, CO2
      incubators, an inverted microscope, a dissecting microscope, digital imaging equipment, a
      centrifuge, a water bath and a dedicated refrigerator and freezer. Ten such tissue culture
      set-ups as well as standard lab bench space are available to UCI investigators and visitors.

      The facility also has major pieces of equipment needed for hES cell analysis such as a Zeiss
      510 Meta Two-Photon Confocal Microscope. The facility will shortly have a BD LSR II Flow
      cytometer and a BD FacsAria cell sorter. Pretested reagents will be available to
      investigators through the core facility. These will include medium components, growth
      factors, feeder cells, gelatin, Matrigel, antibodies and primers to assay stem cell marker
      expression. In addition, the core facility will assist in karyotype analysis and tumor
      formation tests of hES cells.
    
  