
    
      Research Plan:

      Patients without gastrointestinal symptoms scheduled for a screening or surveillance
      colonoscopy (for colorectal cancer) at the UCH endoscopy lab will be screened for the study
      based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Eligible patients who consent to the study
      will have height, weight, and demographic information measured and recorded. They will
      complete a weight/diet history questionnaire. Patients will undergo the
      screening/surveillance colonoscopy per routine clinical care. Residual stool is standardly
      aspirated through the colonoscope to ensure full visualization of the mucosa to enhance polyp
      detection. We will take stool aspirates from three separate locations: sigmoid colon, cecum,
      and terminal ileum. Evidence suggests that a bowel preparation (prior to colonoscopy) does
      not significantly change the composition of the intestinal microbiota for the majority of
      subjects. We will also take four small, pinch biopsies at each of these three sites. Stool
      aspirates and biopsy specimens will be snap-frozen in liquid N2 and frozen at -80C until
      required for their assays.

      We will enroll a total of 48 subjects divided equally between four groups: OB/PPI,
      OB/non-PPI, NW/PPI, and NW/non-PPI. Approximately 40-50 patients per week meeting the above
      inclusion/exclusion criteria undergo a screening/surveillance colonoscopy at UCH, making
      recruitment of 2-3 patients/week over 6-9 months realistic to reach targeted enrollment.

      Aim 1: To examine the effects of PPI use on the gut microbiota in the colon and terminal
      ileum of normal-weight (NW) and obese (OB) patients. Intestinal microbiomes will be profiled
      by 16S rRNA sequencing to identify PPI-associated alterations in gut biodiversity.

      Separate sterile specimen collection containers will be used for the stool aspirates and
      mucosal biopsies from the sigmoid colon, cecum, and terminal ileum. High-throughput DNA
      sequencing for microbiome analysis will be used.

      Microbiome 16S rRNA Profiling Total community genomic DNA will be prepared from intestinal
      specimens and 16S rRNA genes PCR amplified as previously described. Paired-end, multiplexed
      sequencing will be performed. 10-20 million DNA sequences will be generated in a single run
      and 100,000 rRNA reads generated per sample to ensure >99% sequence coverage. Demultiplexing,
      quality filtering, chimera-removal and sequence classification (using SINA/Silva) will follow
      previous publications. Similar sequences are grouped into operational taxonomic units (OTUs)
      based on taxonomy.

      Microbiome Data Analysis The main outcome is the percent relative abundance (PRA) of
      microbial groups, and we hypothesize this will differ between PPI users and non-users of acid
      suppression medications. Specific microbial groups (species/genera/phyla) that differ between
      experimental groups will be identified using a non-parametric two-part statistic.40
      Statistical analyses will be assessed at = 0.05 and p-values corrected for false discovery
      rate (FDR).41 Results will be validated by species-specific QPCR.

      Aim 2: To determine whether PPI use alters the relative amount of gut bacterial RNA dedicated
      to the fermentation cycle in NW and OB individuals. We will perform shotgun sequencing of
      bulk RNA prepared from intestinal microbiomes to identify microbial metabolic pathways
      differentially expressed in patients on PPIs. Stool aspirates from the terminal ileum, cecum,
      and sigmoid colon will be obtained as detailed above.

      RNA Isolation and Sequencing Microbial RNA will be extracted from 50 mg of fecal aspirates
      using the RiboPure Bacteria extraction kit (Life Technologies Inc., USA). For this pilot, we
      will assay specimens from a total of 48 subjects divided equally between four groups: OB/PPI,
      OB/non-PPI, NW/PPI, and NW/non-PPI. Host and microbial rRNA will be removed using the
      Ribo-Zero bacteria and Ribo-Zero mouse kits (Epicentre, Inc, USA). RNA samples will be
      prepared for sequencing using the ScriptSeq v2 RNA-Seq (bacteria) kits (Epicentre, Inc, USA).
      Sequencing will be performed on an Illumina HiSeq2000 platform (UC-Denver Microarray and
      Genomics Core), which provides high depth of coverage. For quality assurance of
      reproducibility, two mRNA samples of each specimen will be pooled and sequenced. In this
      pilot experiment, we will generate ~20x106 single-end 150-base reads per sample for each
      microbial meta-transcriptome dataset.

      Metatranscriptome Data Analysis Annotation and enumeration of bacterial transcripts will be
      performed at the peptide level using BLASTX searches against the approximately 1800 bacterial
      genome sequences currently available in GenBank as well as the NCBI non-redundant protein
      database using an E-value cutoff of <10-5.44 Broad-level functional differences between
      samples will be assessed using annotations generated through the COG,47 KEGG48 and RAST/SEED
      tools.49, 50 Statistical analysis of enteric microbial transcriptomes will focus on the
      identification of metabolic pathways that are differentially expressed between groups.44
      Genes with high-quality annotations (E<10-5) will be used to construct an NxM matrix of genes
      (M) by subjects (N) recording the number of sequence reads annotated for a given gene and
      subject. A similar NxM matrix of gene categories (M) by subjects (N) will be constructed to
      tabulate the distribution of sequence reads assigned to functional categories. Genes or gene
      categories that differ in prevalence or abundance between treatment groups will be identified
      by the Fisher exact test or Kruskal-Wallis test, respectively, applied to each gene/category
      in the matrix. Significance will be assessed at = 0.05, following correction for FDR.41
      P-values will be used to prioritize a candidate gene list for follow-up validation using QPCR
      to screen for gene expression across the entire patient cohort.

      Aim 3: To determine the extent to which PPI use alters expression of GPR41, GPR43, and their
      effector genes in the colon and terminal ileum of NW and OB patients. Biopsy specimens will
      be subjected to a panel of RT-QPCR assays to monitor expression of target genes impacted by
      microbial SCFA production. Biopsies from the terminal ileum, cecum, and sigmoid colon will be
      obtained as detailed above.

      Quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis Total RNA will be extracted using
      the RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen) and ISOGEN (WAKO). Complementary DNAs will be transcribed using
      RNAs as templates with Moloney murine leukaemia virus reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen).
      cDNAs will be amplified by PCR with Taq DNA polymerase (TaKaRa) using the appropriate
      primers. qRT-PCR analyses will be performed using DNA Engine Opticon-2 (MJ Research). The
      expression will be quantified in duplicate.

      Sample Size and Power Analysis:

      We will enroll 24 NW and 24 obese (OB) participants. Half of the NW and OB groups will be PPI
      users and half will be non-users of acid suppressing medications. The primary outcome for Aim
      1 is the difference in the PRA of Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes. A two-way ANOVA (factors of
      BMI category and PPI use) will be used. Based on our preliminary data, we will have 94% power
      to detect a difference in the PRA of Firmicutes (72% vs 52% with SD of 20%) and 95% power to
      detect differences in the PRA of Bacteroidetes (16% vs 5% with SD of 5%) between PPI users
      and non-users. The primary outcome for Aim 2 is the difference in bacterial RNA dedicated to
      the fermentation cycle while the outcome for Aim 3 is the difference in expression of GPR 41
      and GPR 43. Based on the expected differences in the gut microbiota profile and subsequent
      SCFA production, we expect a 25% difference between PPI users and non-users for both
      outcomes, giving us 99% power for both Aims 2 and 3). We will also perform subgroup analyses
      within the NW and OB groups.
    
  