
    
      Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy (RSD), Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS), Causalgia, and
      Fibromyalgia represent progressive systemic pain conditions which often worsen over time.
      They appear to be dysregulation of the central nervous system (CNS) and the autonomic system
      (sympathetic/parasympathetic) which cause extensive functional losses, impairment, and
      disabilities. They are often associated with injury sites (including surgical) which produce
      constant, often disabling pain and motor-sensory losses.

      Treatments are often ineffective and include medications (often high dose opiates), physical
      therapy (PT(, and surgical interventions (sympathectomy, ablation) or insertion stimulators
      of the CNS.

      Clinical Features include neurogenic inflammation, nociceptive sensitization, vasomotor
      dysfunction and maladaptive neuroplasticity. As these often seem related to specific injury
      sites (trauma, surgical, etc.) which are followed with severe pain sensations such as
      stabbing, burning, throbbing, and local muscular spasms or hemiparesis. In addition, there
      are many reports of visual change, dropping attacks (sudden falling), joint soreness, and
      other systemic symptoms associated with potentially any organ in the body.

      Diagnosis typically recognizes 3 distinct "types" which do not appear to be sequential in
      nature. Type 1 characterization is severe, burning sensory change near an injury site,
      musculoskeletal and joint stiffness. Type 2 demonstrates very high pain levels, swelling,
      muscular atrophy, joint degeneration, depression, and other concomitant dysfunctions. Type 3
      features irreversible changes to skin/bone, and extreme loss of function of muscle (atrophic
      primarily) and tendons. A significant percentage (13-70 ) are felt to be at risk if
      neurological injuries, hemiplegia, enhanced vasomotor issues due to enhanced sympathetic
      actions and neurotransmission issues.

      This study includes microcannula harvesting of subdermal adipose tissues, incubation,
      digestion and isolation of AD-cSVF. This stromal cellular pellet (without actual
      extracellular matrix or stromal elements) is then suspended in 500 cc sterile Normal Saline
      (NS) and deployed via peripheral intravenous route. Evaluations of safety issues are measured
      at intervals (both severe and non-severe categories) and by repeated pulmonary function
      studies.
    
  