
    
      PCD, or Kartagener syndrome, is a genetic disorder that causes hair-like cells called cilia
      to move improperly, or in some cases, not at all. Cilia are needed to help clear the
      respiratory system of pollutants. When they work properly, they move debris-filled mucus into
      the large airways, allowing the debris to be coughed out of the body. When the cilia do not
      work properly, the body cannot rid itself of debris and is left vulnerable to serious
      infections in the sinuses, ears, and lungs. Over time, repeated infections can lead to
      scarring and permanent obstruction of these body areas. This study will determine when PCD
      starts and how it changes over time, specifically in terms of how well the lungs work, what
      germs grow in lung secretions, and how the lungs look on CT scans. This research may lead to
      a better understanding of PCD and thereby help doctors improve clinical management of the
      disease.

      Children in this study will attend six study visits over 5 years. At the first visit, parents
      will review their child's medical and cough history with doctors. Also at this visit,
      children will undergo a physical exam that will include measures of temperature, blood
      pressure, heart rate, respiration rate, and oxygen saturation level. Additional procedures
      will include collection of a respiratory mucus sample or a throat culture, measurement of
      nasal nitric oxide, collection of blood and urine for specimen banking, a CT scan, and lung
      function testing. Children younger than 3 years of age will undergo the scan and lung
      function test under sedation. Children older than 3 years of age will not receive sedation.
      CT scans will be performed at the initial visit and during the visits 3 and 5 for children
      older than 3. For children younger than 3 years, chest CT scans will be performed at the
      initial visit and during visits 4 and 6. Lung function tests and blood and urine collection
      may be repeated at some of the remaining yearly visits. Between yearly visits, parents will
      track on a calendar their children's use of oral, inhaled, and intravenous antibiotics.
    
  