
    
      Rationale:

      Several clinical studies have reported that serum immunoglobulins concentrations are
      generally low in patients with sepsis and that the level and kinetics of serum
      immunoglobulins, particularly immunoglobulin M (IgM), seem to be somehow related to patient
      outcome. Intravenous administration of immunoglobulin preparations seems to be a promising
      treatment option due to their pleiotropic effects on bacteria and the host response to
      infections.

      In previous clinical experiences, IgM preparation has been mainly administered at the dosage
      recommended by Summary of Product Characteristics (250 mg/Kg/day for three consecutive days)
      regardless of the patient severity and without any adjustment based on immunoglobulins plasma
      concentration or other biomarkers. The recent understanding of the high heterogeneity in
      pathobiology led to recommend a more tailored approach in patients with sepsis by modulating
      therapies on the basis of specific clinical and biological markers. Therefore, nowadays the
      strategy of a fixed-dose should be revised.

      Our study hypothesis is that a personalized administration of IgM-enriched immunoglobulin,
      calculated based on serum IgM-titers of the patient, will decrease mortality compared to
      standard IgM-enriched immunoglobulin treatment (fixed or flat dose).

      Study objective:

      The primary objective is to verify the hypothesis that adjunctive therapy with IgM-enriched
      immunoglobulin with a personalized dose based on serum IgM-titers is more effective in
      reducing any-cause mortality in patients with septic shock compared to a flat dose therapy.
      Mortality will be measured at 28 days.

      The confirmation of the efficacy of an IgM-titre based dose of IgM preparation reducing the
      mortality rate among patients with septic shock will lead to a revision of the current
      clinical practice in the use of this adjunctive therapy.

      Study setting:

      The study will involve 12 Italian Intensive Care Units (ICUs). The recruitment of 356
      participants will be completed in around 24 months.

      Interventions:

      Patients who satisfy all inclusion criteria and no exclusion criteria will be randomly
      assigned to an IgM titer-based treatment group (Group 1) or an IgM Flat treatment group
      (group 2) in a ratio1:1.

      The treatment given to patients of both groups during this independent study will be the
      IgM-enriched immunoglobulin preparation (IgM preparation) (Pentaglobin®, Biotest, Germany)
      commercially available. The IgM preparation contains high titers of antibodies against
      lipopolysaccharides and outer membrane proteins of many Gram-negative bacteria. Composition
      active ingredients: 1 ml solution contains Human plasma protein 50 mg of which immunoglobulin
      at least 95 %, IgM 6 mg, immunoglobulin A (IgA) 6 mg, immunoglobulin G (IgG) 38 mg. Other
      constituents: Glucose monohydrate (27.5 mg/ml), sodium chloride (78 μmol/ml), water for
      injections (ad 1 ml).

      Group 1 (IgM titer-based treatment): The treatment with IgM preparation will be initiated as
      soon as possible after randomization (maximum allowed starting time 12h after randomization).
      The calculation of the dose is based on IgM single compartment distribution. The first dose
      of IgM preparation will be calculated on IgM serum concentration obtained within 24 hours
      after shock appearance to achieve serum titers above 100mg/dl. In the next days, the daily
      IgM preparation dose will be assessed individually on the basis of IgM serum titers morning
      assessment, with the purpose of maintaining IgM serum titers above 100mg/dl, up to
      discontinuation of vasoactive drugs or day 7 after enrolment. If the serum titer is above 100
      mg/dl, the daily dose of IgM-preparation will be zero, up to the daily serum titer decreases
      below 100 mg/dl. In this case, the patient will remain in the study despite he will not
      receive the daily dose of IgM preparation. If for whatever reason, IgM serum titers result is
      not available, the daily dose will be calculated using the last IgM result obtained within 48
      hours. The threshold of 100 mg/dl of IgM serum titers is based on internal preliminary
      unpublished data from the University Hospital of Modena showing protective effects compared
      to lower levels of IgM. Daily, the calculated dose will be administered in 24 hours in
      continuous infusion with a maximum infusion rate of 0,4 ml/kg per hour (20mg/kg per hour)
      until reaching the calculated daily dose.

      IgM preparation will be administered up to the withdrawal of vasoactive drugs with a maximum
      allowed of 7 days of therapy and a maximum dose of 350mg/Kg/day, as reported from previous
      experiences.

      Group 2 (IgM Flat treatment): The IgM treatment will be initiated as soon as possible after
      randomization (maximum allowed starting time 12h after randomization). The dose of IgM
      preparation will be 250mg/kg for 3 days, the dose will be administered in 24 hours in
      continuous infusion with a maximum infusion rate of 0,4 ml/kg (20mg/kg per hour) until
      reaching 250mg/kg.

      In both groups, before enrolment in the study, it will be allowed the administration of
      intravenous immunoglobulins (either Immunoglobulin G or IgM-enriched preparation) at standard
      dosages for a maximum of 6 hours.

      Concomitant medications:

      Depending on their clinical status, patients will be treated according to the principles of
      the Good Clinical Practice, Survival Sepsis guidelines 2016 and clinical judgement of the
      attending physician. No other pharmacological therapy or treatment will be influenced by the
      study protocol. There are no restrictions to concomitant treatments provided to patients in
      this study. All relevant concomitant medications and treatments took or administered in the
      24 hours before the screening and during the study period will be recorded.

      Criteria for discontinuing or modifying allocated interventions:

      The duration of study therapy will be until the withdrawal of vasoactive drugs with a maximum
      allowed of 7 days of therapy in the IgM titer based group and 3 days in the Flat treatment
      group.

      Patients may be prematurely discontinued from study protocol at the discretion of the
      Investigator, should any untoward effect occur (including an adverse event (AE) or clinically
      significant laboratory abnormality that, in the opinion of the Investigator, warrants the
      subject's permanent discontinuation of study protocol-directed care).

      Data collection and management:

      Every patient who meets the inclusion criteria will be included and randomised in the two
      groups. The study data will be collected along the entire study period in a dedicated
      electronic Case Report Form (eCRF). The eCRF will be provided by the steering committee with
      proper options to minimize data entry errors: the data will incorporate un-amendable fixed
      intervals of values (for continuous variables) and pre-defined coding system (for binary or
      categorical variables). Data entry will be performed and double-checked from a dedicated
      researcher in each centre; in order to limit collection errors, records will be randomly
      re-checked from the PI. The data collection will be also checked by a Clinical Monitor,
      assigned by the contract research organization (CRO), by phone calls and visits at the study
      sites as agreed with the investigators. The study Monitor will be responsible for performing
      the monitoring in accordance with good clinical practice (GCP) guidelines. The investigators
      and the CRO will agree on monitoring visits to assess the progress of the study, verify
      adherence to the protocol, check the eligibility of patients, the accuracy and completeness
      of the eCRF, check the correlation between the data reported into eCRF and those recorded in
      the hospital documents (medical records, patient registries, etc.), check for the correct
      reporting of adverse events, verify that evaluations planned and documentation of the study
      are properly stored and handled.

      All the data about the included patients will be extrapolated from the clinical documentation
      and recorded in an eCRF from the adequately trained researcher. Demographic information
      (gender, age), co-morbidities, reason of ICU admission, type of ICU admission (medical,
      elective surgery, emergency surgery) will be registered at the inclusion, severity of
      critical illness quantified by the Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS II) will be
      calculated by the data from the first 24 h of ICU stay. During the study duration clinical
      and laboratory parameters will be evaluated and recorded following the scheduled times: IgM
      titers, simplified organ failure assessment (SOFA) score and its components, Multiple Organ
      Failure score (MOF score) and its components, vital signs such as mean arterial pressure,
      heart rate, respiratory rate, systemic temperature, diuresis, fluid balance, data from
      routine laboratory test such as haemoglobin, platelets count, white blood cells count,
      troponin, coagulative parameters, parameters for liver and renal function, oxygen inspired
      fraction, blood gas analysis results, ventilation mode, need of renal replacement therapy,
      blood cells count, C-reactive protein, procalcitonin, occurrence of ICU-acquired blood,
      respiratory and urinary-tract infection and the implicated microorganisms, reactivation of
      viral infections and MRC scale.

      Other recorded parameters will include the duration of ventilatory support in days, duration
      and type of antibiotic and antifungal therapy in days, need and the dose of vasoactive drugs.

      The application of evidence-based treatments recommended by the guidelines (i.e. blood
      collection for microbiological culture, antibiotic and fluid therapies, and the eventual use
      of specific adjunctive therapies as for instance steroids and blood purification) will be
      recorded.

      As a blood-bank for possible further biochemical investigations (e.g. cytokines titers,
      different biomarkers), for each patient who will be included in the study a blood sample of
      about 6 ml will be collected at baseline, day 7 and 28 or ICU discharge and stored, after
      centrifugation, at -70°C in the local laboratory of each site.

      Methods for statistical analysis The intention to treat population will be considered for the
      primary analysis. A descriptive statistical analysis will be performed to describe every
      relevant variable. Kolmogorov-Smirnov normality test will be performed in order to verify the
      distribution of the variables. Baseline variables will be compared between the two groups
      using the Mann-Whitney U test or t-test as appropriate. Categorical variables will be
      compared using Fisher's Exact test. The primary outcome will be assessed by comparison of
      proportions of patients alive in both groups at day 28 by using Fisher's exact test. To
      compare the treatment effect on the secondary outcomes will be assessed as follow: all-cause
      of mortality at ICU discharge, at hospital discharge and at day 90 by Fisher's exact test;
      occurrence of new organ dysfunctions and grade or dysfunctions in all the study period by
      Fisher's exact test and distribution-free test such as median test respectively; intensive
      care unit free hours (IFHs) at 28-day, hospital free days (HFDs) at day 90, ventilator-free
      days (VFDs) at 28-day, vasopressors free days (VasoFDs) at 28-day, antibiotic-free days
      (AFDs) at 28-day by distribution-free test such as median; ICU acquired weakness assessed
      with Medical Research Council (MRC) Scale for Muscle Strength by analysis of variance
      including terms for treatment, time and centre.

      Every test will be performed considering a two-sided p-value < 0,05 for statistical
      significance. In general, categorical data will be presented using counts and percentages,
      whilst continuous variables will be presented using the number of patients, mean, standard
      deviation, median, minimum, and maximum. 95% confidence interval will be calculated for the
      primary variable and the relevant secondary variables.

      Subgroup analysis: The primary and secondary outcomes will be evaluated in pre-defined
      subgroups: distribution of SAPS II and SOFA score (total and for single organ) at admission,
      surgical admissions compared to non-surgical admissions, type of pathogen cause of septic
      shock, site and type of infection, distribution of IgM and IgG plasma concentration at
      baseline and at day 3, biomarkers reactive protein C (CRP) and procalcitonin (PCT)
      distribution at baseline and at day 3, patients with end-stage liver disease compared to
      patients without and patients with malignancies compared to patients without.

      Data monitoring An independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), consisting of 2 experts
      in clinical research in intensive care and 1bio-statistic will be established before patient
      enrolment. The DSMB Charter will be prepared by the steering committee and signed by the
      members of the DSMB before the trial commences. The DSMB will have access to all results and
      make the appropriate considerations about the appropriateness of the sample size, the
      efficiency and quality of data collection system, eventual occurrence of a suspected
      protocol-related adverse event. The DSMB has the right to stop the trial for safety reasons.

      Analyses ad interim Considering a statistical approach based on two phases, an interim
      analysis is planned after the randomization of 178 patients (50% of sample size) for the
      double objective of monitoring safety and verifying the accuracy of the assumptions made for
      sample size estimation regarding the primary end-point event rate in relation to the
      anticipated survival benefit. With the interim analysis, we will be able to evaluate whether
      there is a substantial superiority of one treatment. The obtained results will be evaluated
      by the DSMB and by the steering committee and, in case of significant differences in survival
      among the two groups, all patients will be switched to the most promising treatment.

      Harms Previous studies did not identify specific risks correlated to intravenous
      immunoglobulins preparations enriched with IgM. However, all the included patients will be
      intensively monitored following the standard procedures of intensive care medicine and any
      suspected protocol-related adverse event will be reported to the steering committee, the data
      safety and monitoring board, other participating centres and the competent authorities. In
      Beyond suspected protocol-related adverse event, the data safety and monitoring board will
      have access to all results of the trial and make the appropriate considerations about the
      appropriateness of the sample size, the efficiency and quality of data collection system and
      has the right to stop the trial for safety reasons or futility.

      Ethics and dissemination The study will be conducted in line with the protocol, the
      Declaration of Helsinki (1964) and subsequent amendments and updates(Fortaleza, Brazil,
      October 2013). Moreover, it is the responsibility of the investigator to ensure that the
      study will be done in line with the requirements of Good Clinical Practice(GCP) and the
      applicable regulatory requirements.

      Research ethics approval The entire study protocol, including informative material for the
      patients and modules for the informed consent, ill be evaluated by the Local Ethics Committee
      (EC) from the coordinating centre and all the collaborating centres. The study will not start
      before obtaining a favourable opinion from the EC, the Competent Authority Authorization and
      any other authorization required by local regulation. Every intention to modify any element
      of the original protocol after the first approval will be promptly notified to the Ethics
      Committee and will be applied only after its written authorization.

      Investigator/sponsor will be responsible to submit to the Ethics Committee any amendments to
      the protocol.

      Consent and confidentiality Before inclusion in the study, conscious patients must be
      informed of the purpose and clinical procedures required by the protocol. The investigators
      will explain the purpose, risks and benefits associated with study participation. Besides,
      patients will be informed of his right to withdraw from the study at any time without
      explanation and without losing the right to future medical care.

      If the patient will be unable to comprehend or to give his consent (because of compromised
      neurological status), the following consent options are acceptable: (i) A priori consent by a
      legal representative (ii) delayed consent from a legal representative; (iii) Delayed consent
      from the patient; (iv) waiver of consent; (v) consent provided by an ethics committee or
      other legal authority. Which options are available at individual participating sites will be
      determined by the relevant ethics committee and subject to applicable laws. All participants
      who recover sufficiently will be allowed to provide informed consent for ongoing study
      participation and the use of data collected for the study. Every patient is free to leave the
      study protocol at any stage of the study and can request to retire his consent and,
      consequently, to ask the elimination of all his data from the database.

      In order to comply with legal requirements regarding privacy and the processing of sensitive
      personal data, Legislative Decree 30/06/2003 n. 196 on the protection of personal data and
      Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on
      the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the
      free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection
      Regulation), each patient will be given an information sheet on the study they participate in
      and will be asked for sign the consent to the processing of personal data.

      Data about personal and private information, included sensible data, will be treated
      following current legislation on data protection; patients will be identified with a coding
      system and data registered in an anonymous form. Collected data will be processed by the
      Investigator for the exclusive purposes of fulfilling to the present study requirements, and
      in an anonymous form, aggregate in the study database with data obtained from the other
      patients participating, solely on the basis of finalizing the study and achievement
      objectives.

      Obtained data will not be disclosed except in strictly anonymous and aggregated form. Direct
      access to the original medical records may be requested only by commissioning DSMB of the
      study and will be accessible by a representative of the CRO, its delegate to perform
      monitoring on the conduct of the trial, the EC or by the Regulatory Authorities, such as
      personnel of the Italian Ministry of Health and the Italian Medicines Agency (AIFA) to verify
      that the information entered in the documents of the study is correct and methods that
      guarantee the privacy and confidentiality of the data are respected.

      Dissemination policy The Circ. Min. Health N° 6 of 09/02/2002 obliges each researcher who
      gets any results of interest to public health, to publish the results within 12 months from
      the end of the study. All the patients will freely agree or disagree to participate in the
      study in the belief that the results will be useful to improve knowledge about their
      pathologies, for health benefit from themselves or other patients. To respect their will and
      in the maximum interest of honest clinical research, the investigators agree on the need to
      ensure the wide publication and diffusion of their results in a consistent and responsible
      way under their responsibility. The study coordinator is the official data owner. The
      steering committee has the right to present methods and results of the study at public
      symposia and conferences. The principal publications from the trial will be in the name of
      Investigators with full credit assigned to all collaborating investigators and institutions.
    
  