
    
      Need for proposed research: High quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses of controlled
      trials represent the highest level of evidence to support dietary guidelines and public
      health policy development. As HFCS has gained increasing popularity as a popular sweetener
      over the past ~50 years, replacing sucrose in the diet, there is an urgent need for
      systematic reviews and meta-analyses comparing sucrose versus HFCS in the development of
      cardiometaboilc diseases.

      Objective: The investigators will conduct a series systematic reviews and meta-analyses to
      distinguish the effect of isocaloric exchange of sucrose versus HFCS on cardiometabolic risk
      in controlled trials.

      Design: Each systematic review and meta-analysis will be conducted according to the Cochrane
      Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and reported according to the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA).

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      (Clinical Trials; CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms supplemented by
      hand searches of references of included studies.

      Study selection: The investigators will include randomized and non-randomized controlled
      trials >= 7-days in duration to assess the effect of sucrose versus HFCS under isocaloric
      conditions on measures of cardiometabolic risk. Direct comparisons of sucrose versus HFCS and
      indirect comparisons of sucrose or HFCS versus other carbohydrates under energy-matched
      conditions will be conducted.

      Data extraction: Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data and
      assess risk of bias using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool. All disagreements will be resolved
      by consensus. Standard computations and imputations will be used to derive missing variance
      data.

      Outcomes: Seven sets of outcomes will be assessed: (1) body weight and markers of adipsoity
      (2) glycemic control, (3) blood pressure, (4) blood lipids, (5) uric acid, (6) non-alcoholic
      fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and ectopic fat, (7) inflammation

      Data synthesis: Mean differences will be pooled using the generic inverse variance method
      when data are available from more than 2 trials. Random-effects models will be used even in
      the absence of statistically significant between-study heterogeneity, as they yield more
      conservative summary effect estimates in the presence of residual heterogeneity.
      Fixed-effects models will only be used where there is <5 included studies. Paired analyses
      will be applied for crossover trials. Heterogeneity will be assessed by the Cochran Q
      statistic and quantified by the I2 statistic. To explore sources of heterogeneity, the
      investigators will conduct sensitivity analyses, in which each study is systematically
      removed. If there are >=10 studies per endpoint, then the investigators will also explore
      sources of heterogeneity by a priori subgroup analyses by age (children [=<18 years of age],
      adults), health status (metabolic syndrome criteria, diabetes, overweight/ obese, healthy),
      comparator type, fructose- containing sugar form (sucrose, HFCS, honey, fructose), dose
      (=<10% energy, >10% energy), baseline measurements, randomization, study design (parallel,
      crossover), energy balance (positive, neutral, negative), follow-up (=<8-weeks, >8-weeks),
      and risk of bias. Meta-regression analyses will assess the significance of categorical and
      continuous subgroups analyses. When >=10 studies are available, publication bias will be
      investigated by inspection of funnel plots and formal testing using the Egger's and Begg's
      tests. If publication bias is suspected, then the investigators will attempt to adjust for
      funnel plot asymmetry by imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and
      fill method.

      Evidence Assessment: The strength of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using the
      Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE).

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact factor journals. Target audiences will include the public health and scientific
      communities with interest in nutrition, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease.
      Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key areas for
      future research will be defined. Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among
      opinion leaders to increase awareness and participate directly as committee members in the
      development of future guidelines.

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the role of
      sucrose versus HFCS in the development of cardiometabolic diseases, strengthening the
      evidence-base for guidelines and improving health outcomes by educating healthcare providers
      and patients, stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future research design.
    
  