
    
      This is a cross-sectional study. The improved urogenital infection care services will be
      advertised to women in Kigali, Rwanda, targeting women with urogenital complaints as well as
      women without urogenital complaints who have had high risk behavior. The services will be
      available for free at the research clinic for the duration of the project. All consenting
      women who attend the research clinic during the study period will be offered:

        1. Voluntary counselling and testing for HIV.

        2. Urine pregnancy test if indicated and contraception counselling.

        3. POC testing for UTI if UTI symptoms are present.

        4. POC testing for TV and BV regardless of symptoms, and management of vaginal candidiasis
           based on symptom-reporting.

        5. POC testing for syphilis and CT/NG if pregnant or considered at risk by risk scoring
           questionnaire.

        6. Syndromic management of genital ulcers/inguinal bubos and lower abdominal pain.

        7. Treatment and partner notification and treatment as appropriate, and referrals to
           antenatal, family planning, HIV and cervical cancer screening care.

      Information about sociodemographics, risk behavior, sexual and reproductive health history
      and current urogenital symptoms will be collected during the clinic visit. Women can opt out
      of each service offered. Services will be delivered within one half day. However, women can
      choose to leave before all results are available, and be contacted by study staff when
      results are available, which is particularly relevant for women undergoing CT/NG POC testing
      (which takes about 90 minutes).

      Vaginal swabs for storage will be taken from all consenting women (women can choose between
      self- or clinician-sampling) for additional research testing at the end of the study to allow
      for performance evaluation of the CT/NG, TV and BV POC tests.

      Opinions of stakeholders will be gathered during workshops (one before and one after
      completion of the study) and in-depth interviews (IDIs).
    
  