
    
      Severe strokes, including large artery acute ischemic stroke and intracerebral hemorrhage,
      continue to be the leading cause of death and disability in adults in the U.S, accounting for
      more than 200,000 of the acute brain injury-related deaths in the U.S. annually. Patients
      with severe strokes are critically ill and most commonly require mechanical ventilation and
      supportive medical care with artificial nutrition to ensure survival. However, due to
      concerns for a poor long-term quality of life, withdrawal of mechanical ventilation and
      supportive medical care with transition to comfort care is by far the most common cause of
      death in severe strokes but occurs at a highly variable rate at different stroke centers.
      Shared decision making is a collaborative process that enhances patients' and surrogates'
      understanding about prognosis, encourages them to actively weigh the risks and benefits of a
      treatment, and to match them to patient preferences, thereby decreasing decisional conflict
      and improving decision quality and health related outcomes. Decision aids (DAs) are shared
      decision-making tools which have been successfully implemented and validated for many other
      diseases to assist difficult decision making. No DA currently exists for goals-of-care
      decisions in critically ill severe stroke patients. Such a patient- and family-centered DA
      has the potential to improve decision-making for critically ill severe stroke patients by
      ensuring proxies receive consistent, evidence-based prognostication while also addressing
      patients' preferences and values. The investigators have developed a pilot DA for goals of
      care decisions by surrogates of critically ill severe stroke patients using qualitative
      research using semi-structured interviews in surrogate decision makers of traumatic brain
      injury patients and physicians, followed by an iterative feedback process with feedback by
      surrogates, physicians, and other stakeholders (ICU nurses), and adaptation to large artery
      acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. The investigators now propose to pilot-test a DA for
      surrogates of critically ill severe stroke patients in a feasibility trial.
    
  