
    
      Aging results in neuromuscular deterioration, such as impaired balance control, gait
      instability, and worsening cognition, with increasing evidence pointing to the over-reliance
      on cognitive function to perform even simple motor tasks. Such deterioration has been shown
      to affect daily functional activities, quality of life, and cardiovascular fitness, along
      with an increase in the risk of falling. Recent literature has indicated that individuals
      with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) exhibit reduced gait speed during dual-tasking (DT)
      (performing a motor and cognitive task concurrently), thereby increasing the risk of falls.
      Physical activity has been recommended as a means to slow down neuromuscular deterioration
      and enhance gait, stability, and cognition in older adults with MCI. Further, increased
      levels of physical activity have also demonstrated positive effects on cardiovascular fitness
      (heart rate variability, HRV). However, older adults with MCI do not meet the recommended
      daily requirement (of at least 5000 steps/day) due to reduced motivation and lack of
      compliance to physical activity regimen. The lack of compliance may emanate from reduced
      levels of multisensory feedback, lack of involvement, and the decreased participatory nature
      of most conventional physical therapy interventions. As a result, there is the need to
      implement an alternative intervention for older adults with MCI. This alternative therapy
      should be motivational and enjoyable with increased participation or involvement, while
      providing increased sensorimotor feedback, and aiming to improve cognition, physical activity
      and balance for fall prevention in older adults. Dance therapy, as an alternative therapy,
      has shown to increase both physical and cognitive function as well as increase motivation
      among older adults. A preliminary study conducted with virtual reality (VR)-based dance,
      showed the integration of virtual reality and dance to be feasible in improving physical
      function and balance in people with stroke. It is postulated that people with MCI could
      benefit from an integrated VR-based dance therapy. However, there is no data on the
      feasibility and effect of VR-based dance therapy on compliance, cognitive, gait and physical
      activity measures among adults with MCI. Investigators, therefore, seek to examine the
      feasibility of alternative VR-based dance therapy through the use of commercially available
      and cost-effective Kinect systems in the laboratory setting. The reduced feasibility and lack
      of compliance associated with various forms of conventional therapy in MCI adults, due to
      reduced motivation, have been well documented. Dance, as an alternative therapy has been
      found to be more enjoyable while providing increased motivation for older adults, due to its
      effects on motivational brain centers of the nervous system. Dance stimulates interacting
      active brain centers that help in motor control, ambulation, and cognitive functions. Few
      studies have indicated that dance- based training activates Action Observation Network system
      (AON) and other brain centers, which is known to improve balance control through increased
      plasticity of neural systems (mirror neurons) for optimal observation and actual performance
      of dance. Impairment in cognitive function is depicted as slow gait during dual-task
      conditions. Slow gait dual tasking is relevant predictor of falls in older adults with MCI.

      3.0 Objectives/Aims

      Aim 1: To demonstrate feasibility and compliance rate of a VR-based dance training paradigm
      for community-based older adults with mild-cognitive impairment (CB-MCI). Hypothesis 1: At
      post-training, results will demonstrate feasibility of a VR-based dance therapy, which will
      be evaluated through both structured patient interviews and structured questionnaires
      [ITC-Sense of Presence Inventory questionnaire]. Participants will also demonstrate
      appropriate compliance (attend >24/30 session) and motivation (>Intrinsic Motivation
      Inventory scores) post-intervention.

      Aim 2: To determine the effectiveness of VR-based dance training paradigm in improving motor
      and cognitive functions, by reducing cognitive-motor interference.

      Hypothesis 2: When post-training tests are compared to those of pre-training, there will be a
      significant improvement in balance (on limits of stability test) and gait (in spatiotemporal
      parameters), motor and cognition (assessed by a neuropsychological test battery), which will
      result in overall reduced cognitive-motor interference (dual-task cost during balance and
      gait tasks).

      Aim 3: To determine the effect of a VR-based dance training paradigm on improving
      cardiovascular (heart rate variability HRV) and physical fitness (physical activity, PA) of
      community-based older adults with MCI.

      Hypothesis 3: Post-training measures will depict a significant improvement in cardiovascular
      and physical activity fitness.

      Ancillary hypothesis (Aims 1-3): To determine if improved cognitive-motor function and
      physical fitness gained from a VR-based dance intervention will translate into improved fall
      efficacy and quality of life post withdrawal of intervention. Hypothesis: At 14 weeks (4
      weeks post-intervention or withdrawal), participants will have retention of the post-training
      gains in cognitive-motor function and cardiovascular fitness, which will translate into
      improved falls efficacy (improvement on Activities-specific Balance Confidence scale),
      quality of life (Older People's Quality of Life Questionnaire (OPQOL-35) and participation
      (improved Community Integration Scale) compared to their pre-training.

      Participants with MCI (≥ 65 years) will receive VR-based dance training for 10-weeks (30
      sessions total) using the commercially available Kinect dance video game "Just Dance 3". Ten
      weeks of VR-based dance therapy falls within the normal duration for most dance and other
      alternative therapy studies provided for older adults. If successful, such intervention could
      then be implemented in the home or community setting and can then be delivered by caregivers
      either in an independent or assisted living facility after the caregivers receive training
      from the rehabilitation therapists.
    
  