
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if genomically derived 'molecular subtypes' predict pathological complete
      response to combination chemotherapy and targeted therapy for HER2 early stage breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the ability of trastuzumab or pertuzumab response signatures to predict pCR in
      HER2 positive tumors treated with brief exposure to trastuzumab or pertuzumab followed by
      combination chemotherapy.

      II. To explore the value of immune signatures as well as AKT and IGF signatures to predict
      pCR in HER2 tumors treated with brief exposure to trastuzumab and pertuzumab.

      III. To explore if comprehensive annotation of genomic alterations (mutations, copy number
      alternations, gene fusions, non-coding RNA and splice variants) can further sub-stratify
      subtype-based classifiers for prediction of response to targeted therapy in early stage
      breast cancer IV. To explore if circulating RNA expression levels are associated with
      treatment response V. To explore changes in cardiac function and identify early cardiac
      injury using strain echocardiograms and cardiac biomarkers during treatment VI. To explore
      immunohistochemistry-based markers of response to treatment

      Objectives for Imaging Sub-Study: Secondary Objectives I. Evaluate the visualization of
      primary breast tumors using analog and digital positron emission tomography (PET) with FDG
      and FLT. II. Evaluate the quantification of FDG-uptake in primary breast tumors using analog
      and digital PET with FDG and FLT. III. Compare the levels and changes in metabolic tumor
      activity from analog and digital FDG-PET/CT or FLT-PET/CT with clinical follow up and other
      procures include into CASE 14112 (such as DCE-MRI, genetic testing, etc.)

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment cohorts based on HER2 status.

      COHORT I (HER2 positive): Patients receive trastuzumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes,
      and pertuzumab IV over 30-60 minutes, docetaxel IV, and carboplatin IV on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. As part of standard of care, each patient will receive three MRIs pre-treatment,
      before biopsy is taken, and before surgery. Ten additional patients will be added to cohort 1
      to take part in the imaging sub-study. These ten patients will follow the same procedure as
      the other participants in cohort I but will have a PET/CT in place of the DCE-MRI

      COHORT II (HER2 negative): Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of
      weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11; doxorubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day
      1 of weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7; and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 of weeks 9, 11, 13, and
      15. Prior to receiving paclitaxel patients will receive the anti-nausea medication

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  