
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability, and establish the maximum tolerated
      dose/recommended phase 2 dose (MTD/RP2D) of the combination of talazoparib tosylate
      (talazoparib) with palbociclib isethionate (palbociclib) (Arm A), axitinib (Arm B), and
      crizotinib (Arm C) in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      II. To assess the safety and toxicity profile of the combination of talazoparib with
      palbociclib (Arm A), axitinib (Arm B), and crizotinib (Arm C).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of the combination of
      talazoparib with palbociclib (Arm A), axitinib (Arm B), and crizotinib (Arm C).

      II. To obtain a preliminary assessment of the antitumor activity of the combination of
      talazoparib with palbociclib (Arm A), axitinib (Arm B), and crizotinib (Arm C).

      III. To assess predictive biomarkers of response and resistance to the combination of
      talazoparib with palbociclib (Arm A), axitinib (Arm B), and crizotinib (Arm C).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive talazoparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 or 1-28 and
      palbociclib PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patient may continue treatment even if there is
      progression of disease as long as the patient remains clinically stable, per the treating
      physician's discretion.

      ARM B: Patients receive talazoparib PO QD on days 1-28 and axitinib PO twice daily (BID) on
      days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patient may continue treatment even if there is progression of disease as long as
      the patient remains clinically stable, per the treating physician's discretion.

      ARM C: Patients receive talazoparib PO QD on days 1-28 and crizotinib PO BID on days 1-28.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patient may continue treatment even if there is progression of disease as long as the patient
      remains clinically stable, per the treating physician's discretion.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 90 days and then every
      12 weeks until progression of disease, receipt of another cancer drug, or for another two
      years.
    
  