
    
      3 BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE Since its inception in 1992, endoscopic ultrasound with fine
      needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) has continued to be an evolving method for obtaining
      diagnostically accuracy for gastrointestinal, and extra-luminal pathology. Present society
      guidelines by both the European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) and American
      Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) have estimated an overall 60-90% diagnostic
      accuracy of EUS-FNA. However, this accuracy is dependent upon determination of adequacy by
      expert gastrointestinal pathologists, which may not be available at all centers.

      To enhance the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA, several techniques have been described
      including, acquisition of a core specimen by fine needle biopsy (FNB), the use of a stylet,
      and suction. Regarding FNB, this technique allows for acquisition of a tissue specimen with
      intact tissue architecture and therefore more ability for immunohistochemical staining (IHC).
      The original generations of FNB needles have been studies, demonstrating no noticeable
      advantage of convention FNA. More recent evolutions of these FNB needles have led to
      promising preliminary results. For obtaining EUS-guided liver biopsy (EUS-LB), the technical
      success was 100% and over 91% diagnostic accuracy. Furthermore, EUS-LB appears to have a
      higher diagnostic accuracy for chronic liver disease (CLD) compared with percutaneous (PLB)
      and transgulular (TLB) routes. Overall, EUS-FNB appears to be a promising additional to EUS
      guided tissue acquisition, which shall lead to improved diagnostic accuracy.

      In addition to EUS-FNB, both EUS-FNA with stylet use and suction, have gained some notoriety.
      It is important to note that there is no definitive evidence of improved diagnostic accuracy
      of EUS-FNA with these methods. One caveat to these supplemental methods for EUS-FNA, would be
      the use of "wet suction" technique (WEST) for EUS-FNA. The wet suction technique involved the
      use of 5 milliliters (mL) of 0.9% normal saline (NS) to supplant the traditional column of
      air present in the FNA needle. When compared to traditional EUS-FNA, the WEST demonstrated an
      increase in cellularity of the cellblock, improved specimen accuracy and no difference in the
      blood contamination compared with standard EUS-FNA. Though not specifically an EUS technique,
      using heparinized needles for PLB of liver lesions, has been described as well. Despite these
      promising results, this technique has never been employed as an enhancement to EUS-FNA.

      Therefore in this study a heparinized solution (wet heparin) shall be employed for the
      acquisition of tissue in EUS-LB compared with dry heparin and convention EUS-LB. It is
      predicted that EUS-LB wet heparin will lead to less blood contamination and more adequate
      tissue acquisition, as compared with dry heparin and conventional EUS-LB.

      Primary End Points

        1. Proportion of cases for which a histologic diagnosis could be made based upon the amount
           of tissue obtained with the needle.

        2. Number of portal tracts (PT) in the specimen

        3. Aggregate specimen length (ASL), length of the longest piece (LLP), and degree of
           fragmentation Secondary End Points

      1. Presence of a visible core specimen 2. Presence of visible clots in specimen 3. Adverse
      events (AE) and serious adverse events (SAE) 4 HYPOTHESIS AND SPECIFIC AIMS 4.1 Hypothesis It
      is predicted that EUS-LB with wet heparin will lead to less blood contamination and more
      adequate tissue acquisition, as compared with dry heparin and conventional EUS-LB 4. 2
      Specific Aim 1 To determine the adequacy of EUS-LB using wet and dry heparin 4.3 Specific Aim
      2 To determine the degree of blood contamination for EUS-LB using wet heparin and dry heparin
      4.4 Specific Aim 3 To determine the adequacy for EUS-LB using wet heparin and dry heparin 5
      PRELIMINARY DATA Heparin flush has been used previously in several patients undergoing
      EUS-guided liver biopsy, and cores of liver tissue can be obtained. It has been found that
      this needle preparation using heparin flush has led to the presence of less blood
      contamination of tissue and therefore improved diagnostic accuracy and ability to make the
      diagnosis.

      6 STUDY DESIGN 6.1 Description This is an open-labeled, prospective trial comparing tissue
      acquisition adequacy and blood contamination for EUS-LB using wet heparin (Group A), dry
      heparin (Group B) and conventional EUS-LB (Group C).

      Group A: Needle flushed with 5mL of heparin, left in the EUS-FNB needle Group B: Needle
      flushed with 5mL of heparin, then flushed with air to dry Group C: Needle not flushed with
      solution

      Subjects shall then undergo EUS-LB (see below) with 3 trans-gastric passes total in the left
      lobe, as is the present standard of practice. Pass 1: Group C, Pass 2: Group B, Pass 3: Group
      A.

      After EUS-LB, the tissue sample shall then be evaluated after each pass by the endosongrapher
      performing EUS-LB for tissue length. The tissue and fluid washed from the tissue specimens
      shall then be sent for processing, as described below, and evaluated for the primary and
      secondary outcomes by 2 expert pathologists, blinded to which arm each specimen had come
      from. Patients shall then receive a telephone call 7 days after EUS-LB to evaluate for
      adverse events.
    
  