
    
      Many obesity-related diseases, including diabetes, cancer, and heart disease, occur more
      frequently in ethnic minorities than in Caucasians. African Americans have an extremely high
      church attendance rate, making church-based interventions a viable method to reach a wide
      audience and positively influence health habits and behaviors. The most effective way to
      prevent or reverse the effects of obesity is through weight loss, which can be accomplished
      by increasing physical activity and following a low fat and low sodium diet that emphasizes
      fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Few programs have been developed that have specifically
      examined the effects of a church-based physical activity and dietary intervention. This study
      will encourage church leaders to assist in the development of a health promotion program that
      will incorporate the church's social, cultural, and policy influences. The purpose of the
      study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention on increasing physical activity,
      improving blood pressure levels, and promoting healthy dietary habits among church members.
      The importance of pastor support and participation will be evaluated, and the results from
      this study may be used to develop additional church-based interventions across a larger
      geographic area.

      In Year 1 of this 5-year study, representatives from the Palmetto Conference of the African
      Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church and three state universities in South Carolina will
      participate in monthly planning sessions to develop the intervention. Local health committees
      and church pastors and cooks will be trained to implement the program. The 18-month
      intervention will occur in three waves; where at least 60 churches will be randomly assigned
      to participate in either the immediate intervention or delayed intervention. The program will
      emphasize increased physical activity and the adaptation of a healthy diet that includes low
      fat and low sodium foods, fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. At baseline and Month 18,
      blood pressure will be measured, and physical activity levels and fruit and vegetable intake
      will be assessed for some church members. Additionally, throughout the study, some
      participants will wear an accelerometer, which is a small device that measures physical
      activity levels.
    
  