
    
      Study Objectives:

        -  To assess the diagnostic accuracy and cost effectiveness of non-invasive coronary
           angiogram by Cardiac CT in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease in patients with
           angina, in the setting of Rapid Access Chest Pain clinics

        -  To formulate an optimal diagnostic algorithm in terms of accuracy and cost effectiveness
           for diagnosis of CAD in patients with chest pain.

      Study Setting:

      - Rapid Access Chest Pain clinics in 3 NHS hospitals (Barnet, Chase Farm and the Royal Free
      hospitals)

      Target Population:

      - Patients with new onset, stable exertional angina presenting to Rapid Access Chest Pain
      clinics.

      Study Design and Methodology:

      This trial is designed as a prospective randomized case - control study. 600 patients who
      meet the study criteria will be recruited from Rapid Access Chest Pain Clinics. The patients
      will be randomized into 2 cohorts (study and control) of 300 each. All patients will undergo
      stress - ECG at the referring hospital. Patients in the control group will receive the
      'standard clinical care'. Their management is not altered by their inclusion in the trial.
      All patients in the study group will undergo CT coronary Angiography at the Clinical Imaging
      and Research Centre based at the Wellington Hospital. Patients with obstructive coronary
      artery disease (defined as >50% stenosis in left main coronary artery or >70% stenosis in one
      of the other major epicardial coronary arteries) will be referred for invasive coronary
      angiography +/- revascularization. Patients with intermediate (50-70%) coronary stenosis will
      be referred to myocardial perfusion scan (MPS). Patients with significant reversible ischemia
      on MPS will be referred to invasive coronary angiography +/- revascularization. Patients who
      do not have evidence of significant reversible ischemia on MPS and those with <50% stenosis
      on CT coronary angiogram will be discharged on appropriate medications. All patients will be
      followed up for 12 months after recruitment. Information will be gathered regarding clinical
      events (non-fatal/fatal MI, acute coronary syndrome, hospitalization, emergency/elective
      revascularization) and quality of life as per SF-36 questionnaire. All the diagnostic and
      therapeutic procedures underwent by each patient in both cohorts will be recorded. The
      cost-effectiveness of each CT coronary angiography will be calculated by using the NHS
      reference costs.

      Primary outcome measure: The total cost of diagnosis for current diagnostic strategy being
      used in the Rapid Access Chest Pain Clinics and a new strategy involving the use of CT
      coronary angiography in the investigation of patients with angina.

      Secondary outcome measures:

        -  Diagnostic Accuracy of CT coronary angiography

        -  Prognostic value of CT coronary angiography

        -  Number of normal angiograms in each cohort

        -  Number of angiograms not followed by revascularization in each cohort

        -  Quality of life as assessed by SF-36 Questionnaire

      For calculating cost effectiveness, NHS reference costs will be used. Thus, the costs and
      benefits will be considered from the NHS perspective
    
  