
    
      Primary Objective

      Phase Ib: To determine the safety and tolerability of Y-90 radioembolization therapy when
      given in conjunction with neoadjuvant/adjuvant nivolumab as assessed by CTCAE version 4, in
      patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who undergo Y-90 radioembolization to hepatic
      metastases and have additional disease located outside of the radioembolization field.

      Phase II: To determine the objective response rate (RR) as assessed by RECIST criteria of
      metastases located outside of the Y-90 radioembolization treatment field in patients with
      metastatic colorectal cancer who undergo Y-90 radioembolization to hepatic metastases and
      receive neoadjuvant/adjuvant nivolumab.

      Secondary Objectives

      Phase Ib:

      To assess the response rate (RR) of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who undergo
      standard Y-90 radioembolization therapy to hepatic metastases as well as neoadjuvant/adjuvant
      nivolumab as assessed by measurement of foci located outside of the Y-90 radioembolization
      field.

      Phase II:

      To assess the progression free survival (PFS) of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer
      who undergo standard Y-90 radioembolization therapy to hepatic metastases as well as
      neoadjuvant/adjuvant nivolumab as assessed by measurement of metastatic foci located outside
      of the Y-90 radioembolization field.

      To assess the 1-year and 2-year overall survival (OS) rate of patients with metastatic
      colorectal cancer who undergo standard Y-90 radioembolization therapy to hepatic metastases
      as well as neoadjuvant/adjuvant nivolumab.

      Correlative Objectives

      To characterize the baseline expression and localization of immune markers including
      Programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), Programmed cell death protein ligand 1 (PD-L1),
      Programmed cell death protein ligand 2 (PD-L2), T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain
      containing-3 (TIM-3), Lymphocyte activation gene 3 (LAG-3), Tumor necrosis factor receptor
      superfamily, member 4 (OX40) and Cluster of Differentiation 137 (CD137) within the tumor
      microenvironment and correlate this with treatment response.

      To examine the change in density of Cluster of Differentiation (CD8)+/Kiel-67 (Ki-67) high
      tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and expression levels of PD-L1 in the tumor parenchyma prior
      to and following treatment with Y-90 and nivolumab as assessed in a lesion outside of the
      radioembolization field. Changes in biomarkers will be correlated with treatment response.

      To assess baseline and changes in the immune signature of Y-90 naïve colorectal cancer in
      patients with liver metastases who receive Y-90 radioembolization and nivolumab therapy.
      Human transcriptome gene expression arrays will be performed and expression data will be used
      to identify immune cell subsets using CIBERSORT and immune signatures will be assessed using
      ImmuneSigDB.

      To assess baseline and changes in non-targeted tumor antigens using Proto Array Human Protein
      MicroArray Profiling and Immunoglobulin G (IgG) quantification in patients with liver
      metastases who receive Y-90 radioembolization and nivolumab therapy. Changes in profile will
      be correlated with treatment response.

      Study Design

      This is a single arm phase Ib/II trial assessing the safety and toxicity (phase Ib) followed
      by the antitumor activity (response rate) (phase II) of nivolumab when administered in
      combination with Y-90 radioembolization therapy.

      Study design

      Eligible patients will undergo Y-90 radioembolization to one side of the liver according to
      standard practice as directed by an interventional radiologist. Yttrium-90 will be given as
      biocompatible resin-based microspheres and will be introduced to the tumor(s) on one side of
      the liver through a catheter placed in the right or left hepatic artery (depending on the
      lobe treated). The dose of radiation will be determined by a radiologist and will be based on
      body surface area and tumor burden. During the phase Ib portion of the study, nivolumab will
      be administered per the scheduling algorithm at a flat dose of 240 mg intravenously over 30
      +/- 5 minutes. Depending on the schedule being assessed, this may include a neoadjuvant dose
      to be given prior to Y-90, and will contain an adjuvant dose following Y-90 therapy. During
      the phase II portion of the study, nivolumab will be administered as determined during the
      phase Ib portion of the study. Nivolumab will continue to be administered on an every 2 week
      basis for a total of 48 weeks or until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or
      discontinuation due to patient/physician preference. Patients will be evaluated with a
      history and physical exam as well as laboratory parameters once every 2 weeks throughout the
      duration of the study. Patients will undergo CT scans of the chest and pelvis as well as MRI
      of the liver to assess disease status 2 months following the Y-90 radioembolization
      procedure, then every 3 months for a total of 2 years. Upon completing treatment, patients
      will be followed monthly for another 100 days for toxicity monitoring. Archived tissue
      specimens will be obtained at baseline and a post-treatment biopsy of a metastatic lesion
      located outside of the Y-90 radioembolization field will be obtained 60 +/- 5 days following
      treatment with Y-90 radioembolization for assessment of intratumoral immunogenicity.
      Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels will be assessed at baseline, then once monthly for 6
      months, then every 3 months for a total of 2 years. Patients will have a pre-treatment serum
      sample collected as well as post-treatment samples collected approximately 6 weeks, 12 weeks
      and 20 weeks after treatment with Y-90 radioembolization for banking, to be used in the
      future assessment of putative biomarkers.
    
  