
    
      Acute Chest Syndrome (ACS) is a frequent and severe acute complication of sickle-cell
      disease. It may affect 10 to 20% of hospitalized patients and is the leading cause of death.
      The symptoms combine a new pulmonary infiltrate and symptom(s) among fever, cough, dyspnea,
      expectoration, chest pain and crackles. The pathophysiology of ACS is complex and there are
      many interlinked aetiologies.

      Lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) is one of the most frequent aetiologies of ACS.
      Intracellular bacteria (Chlamydia, Mycoplasma), respiratory virus (especially respiratory
      syncytial virus) and pyogenes (Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus) are the
      most frequently identified microorganisms. Nevertheless, the clinical presentation of ACS is
      not helpful for the diagnosis of LRTI; the respiratory tract samples are not always
      collected, either because the patients do not expectorate or because the benefice-risk ratio
      of a fiberoptic bronchoscopy may be not advantageous. Moreover, usual diagnostic test are not
      enough performant.

      The current practices rely on the systematic administration of antibiotics for 7 to 10 days.
      The efficacy and security of alternative diagnostic and therapeutic strategies have never
      been evaluated in controlled clinical trial to cure ACS.

      In this context, the optimisation of the microbiological documentation of ACS might enhance
      the use of antimicrobial drugs, reduce their duration, and limit the emergence of multidrug
      resistant bacteria.

      Therefore, we speculate that an early pathogen-directed strategy (respiratory broad panel
      multiplex PCR and early antibiotics interruption based on the PCT values decrease) might
      reduce the antibiotics exposure in SCD patients with ACS who are hospitalized and for whom an
      antibiotic treatment is indicated, as compared with usual care.
    
  