
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational regimen, IDR, to learn whether IDR works in treating
      a specific cancer. "Investigational" means that IDR is still being studied and that research
      doctors are trying to find out more about it-such as the safest dose to use, the side effects
      it may cause, and if IDR is effective for treating different types of cancer. It also means
      that the FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not yet approved IDR for use in
      participants with your type of cancer.

      Ixazomib is a drug that may kill or stop cancer cells from growing by blocking the proteasome
      within the cell, which is responsible for degrading or breaking down a variety of proteins.
      This type of drug is called a proteasome inhibitor.

      Rituximab is a type of protein called an antibody that attacks the cluster of differentiation
      20 (CD20), a protein found on B-cells like WM. Rituximab is approved by the FDA for treating
      non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Dexamethasone is a steroid and is similar to the hormones
      naturally produced by the adrenal glands; it prevents the release of substances that cause
      inflammation. Rituximab and dexamethasone are often used to treat WM, alone or in combination
      with other drugs. Combinations with rituximab, dexamethasone and other proteasome inhibitors
      have shown good response rates in WM participants. Ixazomib is a proteasome inhibitor; thus
      the investigator swill investigate if the combination of Ixazomib, Rituximab, and
      Dexamethasone is also active in WM.

      In this research study, the investigators are combining a new treatment ixazomib with a
      standard regimen, rituximab and dexamethasone, to determine whether this combination (IDR) is
      effective and safe for participants with previously untreated WM.
    
  