
    
      Cardiac surgery carries a significant risk of bleeding requiring transfusion of stored blood
      products and blood transfusion associated with cardiac surgery consumes 20% of the blood
      supply worldwide. Although transfusion may be life-saving, significant risks of complications
      such as lung injury or even an increase in mortality are associated with transfusion.
      Decreasing transfusion requirements during cardiac surgery has the potential to reduce the
      rate of complications, improve patient outcomes, and reduce cost resulting in increased value
      for both the patient and the health system as a whole. Collection of autologous blood before
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) for transfusion after CPB has been shown to be both safe and
      effective for reducing blood loss during cardiac surgery, but this intervention has not been
      targeted to a patient population at high risk for bleeding and transfusion. Fresh whole blood
      has the capacity to restore coagulation system function during profound coagulopathy in a
      trauma setting or following massive transfusion by an unknown mechanism. One unit of fresh
      whole blood is able to restore clotting function equivalent to that achieved by 10 units of
      pooled platelets. Autologous whole blood collection prior to CPB for transfusion
      post-operatively has been shown to improve coagulation and decrease clot lysis but is not
      routinely performed because 90% to 95% of patients do not have extensive blood loss and
      subsequent coagulopathy. Coupling accurate pre-operative bleeding risk prediction with
      autologous fresh whole blood collection for transfusion after CPB would target an
      established, low cost, low risk intervention to an at risk patient population who may
      experience significant benefit.

      Red blood cell transfusion is performed to correct insufficient oxygen carrying capacity or
      oxygen delivery, but no robust measure of tissue oxygen delivery is currently available.
      Specific aim 2 will address this gap in knowledge by performing absolute quantification of
      citric acid cycle intermediates using mass spectrometry that are markers of mitochondrial
      respiration. Of particular interest, increased plasma levels of succinate have been shown to
      be associated with trauma associated mortality and the accumulation of succinate is likely
      due to reversal of flow of the succinate dehydrogenase complex in the absence of oxygen
      (unpublished data). Measurement of these markers before and after transfusion will determine
      the resuscitative capacity of allogenic packed red blood cells compared to fresh autologous
      whole blood.
    
  