
    
      During the fetal period, there is in the lungs a permanent flow and pressure variations
      between the "inhaled" amniotic fluid and alveolar secretions, which are essential for
      pulmonary development. A disruption of this physiological mechanism can induce disorders of
      the respiratory function, which go from simple delay of maturation to hypoplasia. Respiratory
      function involves the thoracic muscles (diaphragmatic and intercostal) but also the abdominal
      muscles, that explains why breathing difficulties are found at birth in neonates with
      diaphragmatic hernia but also abdominal wall malformations.

      This pulmonary involvement highly contributes to the morbidity observed at birth, for which
      strong prenatal predictive criteria are lacking.

      Pulmonary volume measurement by the lung-to-head-ratio is widely used for diaphragmatic
      hernia has been extended to other congenital malformations, because no other available
      criteria. The lung-to-head-ratio is a parameter well correlated with survival but
      insufficiently with morbidity and sequelae.

      New functional imaging techniques are in development. Among them, the Blood Oxygen Level
      Dependent uses hemoglobin as an endogenous contrast agent. It is based on the comparison of a
      basic status in ambient air with status after oxygenation. It gives a functional evaluation
      of the organs. But this technique has never been evaluated in the fetal lung yet.

      The objective of the study is to evaluate the quality of the response to the Blood Oxygen
      Level Dependent effect in fetuses with diaphragmatic hernias and abdominal wall malformations
      and to correlate with postnatal respiratory outcome. It is an original exploratory study and
      no preliminary data are thus available.

      If a correlation is found, the Blood Oxygen Level Dependent effect of the fetal lung may be
      considered as an early functional marker of postnatal lung function. It could then be used in
      addition to lung-to-head-ratio during prenatal counseling. The final goal is to be able to
      detect early in the fetus pulmonary insufficiency to help prenatal counseling and perinatal
      care.
    
  