
    
      AIM1: To identify the association between Hashimoto's Thyroiditis and thyroid cancer by
      comparing the prevalence of thyroid cancer in patients with Hashimoto's Thyroiditis and
      patients without Hashimoto's Thyroiditis who undergoing Thyroidectomy for a variety of
      indications in UTMB in 12 months period of the study.

      AIM2: Compare Ultrasound (US) characteristics preoperatively in two groups of patients with
      thyroid cancer and Hashimoto's thyroiditis and patients with thyroid cancer but without
      Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

      AIM3: compare prognostic factors including tumor diameter, vascular and capsular invasion,
      extra thyroid invasion, lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis in two groups of patients
      including patients with thyroid cancer and Hashimoto's thyroiditis and patients with thyroid
      cancer but without Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

      AIM4: Compare the complication of surgery in patients with thyroid cancer and Hashimoto's
      Thyroiditis and patients with thyroid cancer but without Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

      AIM5: Compare inflammatory factors in two group of patient with thyroid cancer and
      Hashimoto's Thyroiditis and patients with thyroid cancer but without Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

      Coordinator in the ear, nose and throat (ENT) clinic will notify the assigned investigator
      about any patient admitted to UTMB for thyroidectomy. The investigator will meet and
      interview the patient to obtain the consent and fill out a data collection sheet which will
      include demographic data, history of thyroid disease, history of thyroid medications, history
      of radiotherapy of head and neck or radioactive iodine therapy, family history of thyroid
      disease or thyroid cancer. Patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be given the
      opportunity to participate in the study. All patients will have blood drawn. Blood samples
      will be stored in Endocrinology lab to measure Anti-TPO, Ca, PTH and inflammatory factors at
      the end of study. A chart review of all enrolled patients will be performed to obtain details
      of the preoperative thyroid U/S characteristics including echogenicity, texture,
      calcification, vascularity and TSH and Free T4 level. Postoperative histopathology evaluation
      will be done by a pathologist experienced in thyroid pathology. The diagnosis of Hashimoto's
      thyroiditis (HT ) will be made based on histopathology finding and AntiTPO level. The
      histopathology criteria for Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) must be seen in a normal region of
      the thyroid gland, distinct from the site of thyroid cancer. UTMB Subjects will be divided to
      two groups, subjects with Hashimoto's Thyroiditis and subjects without Hashimoto's
      Thyroiditis (control group).The prevalence of thyroid cancer will be compared in these two
      groups.
    
  