
    
      The peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a common atherosclerotic disease manifestation and
      its prevalence increases with age and with the co-presence of cardiovascular risk factors.
      PAD affects a large proportion of the adult population, with an age-adjusted prevalence of
      4-15% which increases to 29% in case of comorbidity such as the presence of diabetes mellitus
      in the same individual. Less than 20% of patients with peripheral arterial laments the
      typical symptom of "claudication intermittens". Studies on the symptomatic PAD natural
      history indicate that the risk of limb loss in non-diabetic patients is low (2% or less), but
      the cardiovascular disease represent the leading cause of death; the annual rate of
      cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction, stroke or cardiovascular death) is between 5
      and 7%. Medical treatment and / or surgery in this type of patient should be directed not
      only to improve the walking autonomy but also to reduce cardiovascular risk. Claudicant
      patients first-line therapy is based on structured physical exercise program and, in some
      specific cases, on the antiplatelet pharmacological therapy. The lack of response to exercise
      and / or drug therapy should lead to the next level of decision making, which is to consider
      limb revascularization procedures. However, in patients with suspected proximal lesion
      (gluteal claudication or absent femoral pulse), revascularization procedures could be
      considered as a first line therapy. When the revascularization procedures are considered, the
      first choice intervention should be the endovascular strategy, considering the lowest number
      of periprocedural complications. Recommendations for optimal drug therapy after
      revascularisation procedures in the lower limbs are hampered by lack of agreement on the
      optimal role of these procedures, and lack of data from randomized clinical trials.
      Transluminal angioplasty (PTA), primary or associated with stenting, is recommended for focal
      stenotic lesions of the iliac (common and external first section) and femoral-popliteal axis,
      particularly when the claudication intermittents is considered as severe, rather than
      critical ischemia. Also, this approach is recommended in non-diabetic patients with a
      relatively preserved tibial vessels flow. Exists a minor agreement about endovascular
      procedures use in extended occlusive lesions. In recent years, has become more common the use
      of open or covered stents during endovascular treatments in order to make it more secure and
      durable over time, especially in obstructive and extended lesions. This has certainly led to
      improved primary patency outcomes, but has entailed and still entails additional problems of
      drug therapy agreement.

      Nowadays, the main problem concerning lower limbs revascularization is the post-procedure
      anti-thrombotic pharmacological treatment and the different antiplatelet drugs effectiveness
      This issue was addressed in two meta-analyses, where have been shown how the data are not
      conclusive. Moreover, a recent study by Marcucci et al (Circulation. 2009; 119: 237-42) has
      clearly shown that impaired platelet activation inhibition is a crucial point for the
      prevention of vascular outcomes, because residual platelet reactivity has been associated
      with adverse vascular outcomes.

      Overall, these data identify two key issues:

        1. Platelet hyperactivation, usually observed after revascularization procedures;

        2. The platelet inhibition percentage appears crucial to reduce postoperative thrombotic
           complications and restenosis early onset.

      Therefore, a unique aspect of this study is to analyze whether after peripheral
      revascularization procedures a platelet hyperactivation is observed and evaluate the possible
      involved mechanisms. In fact, the knowledge of the underlying mechanism could lead to more
      appropriate pharmacological approach to prevent platelet activation. In this context, the
      authors would explore the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in inducing platelet
      activation in patients with PAD undergoing revascularization devices.
    
  