
    
      Dengue affects an estimated 100 million people worldwide annually and is endemic in parts of
      Asia and the Americas, with increased incidence reported from many tropical countries
      recently.Dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) and dengue shock syndrome (DSS) are among the leading
      causes of pediatric hospitalization in Asia.Mortality rates range from 1% at centres
      experienced in fluid resuscitation, to upto 44% in established shock.

      The mainstay of DSS treatment is prompt, vigorous fluid resuscitation with isotonic
      crystalloid solutions, followed by plasma or colloid solutions for profound or continuing
      shock. If appropriate volume resuscitation is started at an early stage, DSS is usually
      reversible. Patients who do not receive a proper treatment usually die within 12-24 hours
      after shock ensues. However, this administration is often associated with fluid overload and
      induces edema in these patients.

      During hypovolemia in DHF/DSS, systemic hemodynamics and microcirculation are impaired,
      subsequently triggering a vicious cycle of progressive tissue damage that finally may lead to
      development of multiple organ failure. By adequately restoring intravascular volume, organ
      perfusion may be guaranteed, nutritive microcirculatory flow may be improved, and activation
      of a complex series of damaging cascades may be avoided.A solution that can rapidly restore
      systemic hemodynamic and improve microcirculation may be more beneficial in DHF/DSS patients.

      Hypertonic solutions restore hemodynamic status rapidly with increased cardiac performance
      and improved tissue perfusion indicated by better urine output and tissue oxygenation. This
      is obtained with much smaller volumes.High lactate contained in hypertonic sodium lactate
      also functions as an alternate energy substrate.

      However, the effects of hypertonic solution for resuscitating DHF/DSS patients have not yet
      investigated.Hence, we planned a parallel, randomized controlled trial comparing the efficacy
      and safety of solution containing half molar sodium lactate (Totilac™) with standard
      treatment(isotonic crystalloid Ringer's Lactate) in resuscitating pediatric Dengue Shock
      Syndrome patients, using plasma soluble Vascular Cell Adhesion Molecule(sVCAM-1) levels as an
      indicator of capillary endothelial leakage, which frequently occurs in DHF/DSS.
    
  