
    
      The goal of the COSMOS Web study is to determine whether a dietary intervention with
      flavanol-containing cocoa extract has an effect on cognitive function in older adults (age
      60+). The study will be conducted in a subset of 4000 participants from the COSMOS
      study(NCT02422745). The investigators' recent work (Sloan et al., submitted) showed that
      cocoa flavanol consumption over 12 weeks led to improvements in immediate recall on the
      ModRey verbal memory task in healthy older adults.

      In COSMOS Web, the investigators are testing the effect of a dietary intervention with
      flavanol-containing cocoa extract on a range of aging-related cognitive measures, as assessed
      through a novel online-administered test battery, in a cohort of older participants. Change
      in ModRey immediate recall performance over 1 year of cocoa extract consumption will be our
      primary outcome measure. Secondary endpoints will include change in ModRey performance at 2-
      and 3-year follow-up, and change in performance tests of a novel object recognition task,
      executive function/working memory, and spatial memory at 1-, 2-, and 3- years follow-up. This
      study will explore whether baseline measures of cognition and nutritional status can predict
      differential effects of the cocoa extract supplementation. This study will also explore the
      effect of multivitamin intake on the primary and secondary outcomes noted above and test
      whether multivitamin intake interacts with flavanol intake from cocoa extract to enhance or
      mitigate effects on cognitive outcomes. In a subset of participants evaluated in person, this
      study will examine the impact of cocoa extract intake and explore the main and interacting
      effects of multivitamins on cognitive changes and brain structure and function appreciated
      with magnetic resonance imaging over a 2-year period.

      Leveraging the COSMOS study, which has randomized 21,444 older adult participants into cocoa
      extract and placebo interventions, the study team at Brigham and Women's Hospital, who
      administer the parent COSMOS trial, are recruiting ~4000 older adult volunteers to
      participate in COSMOS Web (this study) an online cognitive testing battery developed by the
      team at Columbia University. These 4000 participants will complete an initial online
      cognitive assessment and additional assessments after one, two, and three years of follow-up.
      In addition, approximately 200 COSMOS Web participants who live in the Boston area will
      complete clinic-based study visits at the Clinical and Translational Science Center at
      Brigham and Women's Hospital. During that visit, they will complete a neuropsychological test
      battery, for comparison to their performance online. This study will examine the impact of
      dietary interventions with cocoa extract and explore the main and interacting effects of
      multivitamin intake on cognitive changes and brain structure and function appreciated with
      magnetic resonance imaging over a 2-year period.
    
  