
    
      Chronic migraine is characterised by frequency of headache ≥ 15 days per month for more than
      3 months. The location can be unilateral or bilateral. Usually described as pulsating in
      nature, it may be aggravated by, or cause avoidance of, routine activities of daily living.
      There can be associated light and noise sensitivity. Greater occipital nerve (GON) blockade
      with local anaesthetics and steroids has been used as a preventative strategy for a range of
      headaches including, migraine, cluster headache and hemicrania continua.

      The occipital nerves have a sensory distribution in the occipital area. The greater occipital
      nerve derives most of its fibres from the C2 dorsal root [6]. It passes over the superior
      nuchal line, mid-way between the mastoid process and the occipital protuberance, just lateral
      to the insertion of the nuchal ligaments. The lesser occipital nerve passes lateral to the
      greater occipital nerve, over the nuchal ridge. Although the exact mechanism of action
      remains unclear, injection of steroid in the vicinity of GON nerve can have both a local
      effect (decreasing nociception) and a delayed central nociceptive response, possibly through
      an action on trigeminocervical relay

      Although GON block is carried out extensively in the prophylaxis of chronic migraine, the
      evidence remains equivocal. In the UK, the National Institute for Clinical Excellence have
      yet to include GON blocks in their guidance and protocols on the treatment of both chronic
      headache and migraine. This randomised, single-blinded, placebo-controlled multicentre
      cross-over study intends to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of greater occipital
      nerve block with local anaesthetic and steroid in patients with chronic migraine with the
      primary objective to investigate any improvement in disability associated with chronic
      migraine disorder. We also intend to identify any economic outcomes associated with these
      injections in the management of chronic migraine.

      GON block with local anaesthetic and steroid for chronic migraine and the placebo procedure
      will be performed in the outpatient setting. They will be carried out only by appropriately
      qualified members of the research team adhering to strict aseptic conditions and following
      standard operating protocols with regards to admission and discharge criteria in the
      outpatient settings.

      GON block is routinely carried out in the UK and poses minimal risks to the patient. Although
      GON block is carried out extensively in prophylaxis of chronic migraine, the evidence remains
      equivocal. In the UK, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) have yet
      to include GON blocks in their guidance and protocols on the treatment of both chronic
      headache and migraine.

      The aim of this study is to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of greater occipital
      nerve block with local anaesthetic and steroid in patients with chronic migraine of more than
      three months' duration.
    
  