
    
      Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is very commonly performed nowadays, and it has now
      completely replaced open cholecystectomy in the management of biliary lithiasis. Although it
      is minimally invasive surgery, pain in postoperative period is always major concern as it
      increases perioperative stress, morbidity, and hospital stay.

      There are two components involved in pain after LC; the visceral component is due to tissue
      damage in anterior abdominal wall during the insertion of trocar and shoulder tip pain due to
      diaphragmatic irritation caused by Spillage of blood or bile and peritoneum stretching caused
      by pneumoperitoneum.

      There are several methods employed in the management of postoperative pain after LC such as
      conventional systemic analgesics, including paracetamol, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs, systemic opioids, thoracic epidural analgesia, low-pressure pneumoperitoneum, and warm
      air with all having its side effects .

      Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block has got a substantial role in postoperative analgesia
      after abdominal surgery because deposition of local anesthetics in transversus abdominis
      fascial plane can produce sensory block over the anterior abdominal wall from T7 to L1. Many
      clinical studies reported beneficial effects of TAP but results were mainly connected to
      lower abdominal surgery. Since the major part of pain after LC derives from abdominal wall
      incisions, some trials investigated TAP block as potential analgesic option. Some studies
      showed that TAP block can reduce opioid requirements and pain scores but the results were not
      conclusive enough because many differences in study designs.

      The ultrasound-guided (USG) subcostal transversus abdominis plane block (STAP), first
      described by Hebbard 2008, is a variation of TAP which successfully solve the problem of
      unreliable supraumbilical distribution of the block. Results obtained in a few small studies
      showed significantly better analgesia after LC compare to traditional opioid analgesia,
      port-site infiltration and standard TAP.

      Intraperitoneal (IP) instillation of local anaesthetics around the operative site is used as
      an analgesic technique on the assumption that conduction from visceral sites is obstructed
      and may lessen the intensity of referred pain to the shoulder (C3, C4) which results from
      irritation of diaphragmatic innervations, i.e., phrenic nerve (C3, C4, C5) and diaphragmatic
      stretching due to gaseous distension, in the postoperative period. Narchi I' et al., as early
      as in 1991 had reported that instillation of local anaesthetic (80 mL of bupivacaine 0.125%,
      epinephrine (1:200,000) under the right diaphragm reduced shoulder pain after minor
      gynaecologic laparoscopy.

      Dexmedetomidine is a selective, short acting, agonist of the α2-adrenergic receptors. It has
      high affinity to α2-adrenergic receptors (more than eight-fold) and lower affinity to
      α1-receptors, compared with other α2-agonists agents, besides its great selectivity to
      α2A-adrenergic receptors, which is responsible for its analgesic effect. It has been used
      clinically as an adjunct to anesthesia and analgesia, and it is useful for painful surgical
      procedure and ICU sedation.
    
  