
    
      More than one-third of U.S. adults (35.7%) are obese (body mass index (BMI) > 30 kg/m2). In
      2008, medical costs associated with obesity were estimated at $147 billion. Furthermore,
      there is a graded association of BMI and the risk of end stage renal disease (ESRD). Indeed,
      increasing prevalence of CKD in the US population is partly explained by increasing BMI.
      Hence, as a public health policy, it is imperative that obesity be targeted in order to
      decrease the morbidity, mortality and the healthcare costs burden associated with CKD and
      ESRD.

      Physical inactivity plays a major role in obesity. Volitional exercise (VE), which includes
      moderate to vigorous physical activities (MVPA) such as sports and fitness-related
      activities, and non-volitional exercise, which includes low to light intensity physical
      activity (PA) such as activities of daily living, fidgeting, spontaneous muscle contraction,
      and maintaining posture in non-recumbent positions, represent two different ends of the PA
      spectrum. The current national recommendations are focused on MVPA (30 minutes of moderate PA
      five times a week or 25 minutes of vigorous activities three times a week). However, the
      relative importance of low and light activities and MVPA has not been established. As
      described in the preliminary data, the analyses of objectively measured PA in National Health
      And Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) suggest that a larger amount of light intensity PA
      is strongly associated with lower odds of proteinuria, lower odds of CKD and a lower hazard
      of death at any given level of MVPA. Furthermore, there appears to be a threshold effect for
      MVPA with mortality that plateaus at about half of the currently recommended levels of MVPA.
      Since physical function in the CKD population is low, 30 minutes of moderate PA five times a
      week or 25 minutes of vigorous activities three times a week might induce fatigue and
      paradoxically reduce light intensity PA. On the other hand, a lower target of MVPA might
      improve adherence with MVPA as well as not decrease light PA. This pilot intervention study
      will test the efficacy, feasibility and tolerability of the SLIMM intervention. The results
      of this intervention will be later used to determine if targeting obesity via the SLIMM
      intervention will slow kidney disease progression.

      DESIGN:

      This is a pilot intervention study that will examine the feasibility of and adherence to the
      SLIMM intervention to increase levels of light physical activity

      Baseline visit: Baseline PA data will be collected by accelerometer in the week following the
      screening visit. Participants will be instructed on the importance of physical activity, the
      recommendations of 150 min/wk of moderate PA, or 75 min/wk of vigorous PA, and be provided
      with examples of physical activities.

      SLIMM Intervention: The goal of the SLIMM intervention is to increase the time spent on light
      activities (Light physical activity is defined as 500-2019 counts/minute). This intervention
      will only be completed by individuals in the CKD and non-CKD groups. At week 6 of the
      intervention participants will be instructed to perform 5 minutes of light activity for each
      25 minutes of sitting time. At week 12, participants will be instructed to further increase
      their light activity to a goal of 10 minutes for each 20 minute of sitting time. Thus, the
      goal is to replace total sedentary time by increase in light activities by 15% in 6 weeks and
      33% by the end of the intervention.

      All participants will undergo standardized training on the SLIMM intervention by trained
      study personnel at the 6 week visit. Participants will initially be asked to perform 5
      minutes of light activity for every 25 minutes spent seated. At the week 12 visit,
      participants will be asked to further increase their activity, by performing 10 minutes of
      light activity for every 20 minutes spent seated.

      Training will be provided in one to one sessions and reinforced at the following visits.
      Accelerometry data and paper PA diary data collected during the week before the baseline
      visit will be reviewed with the participant to provide feedback and used for devising a
      customized plan on increasing light activity. Examples of how to increase light activities
      within their natural, free-living environment will be provided. For instance, if the majority
      of their day is spent working at a desk, they will be encouraged to stand and/or walk for 5
      minutes for every 25 minutes spent sedentary during weeks 6-12, and 10 minutes of light
      activity for every 20 minutes spent sedentary for weeks 12-18. Participants will be asked to
      stand and/or walk during commercial breaks when they are watching television.
    
  