
    
      The Health Academy Program (AP) is a important policy to promote physical activity in Brazil.
      There are areas with infrastructure, equipment, and human resources to stimulate and guide
      people doing physical activity in community settings at no cost. The study aims to verify if
      the VAMOS strategy contributes to an increase in physical activity and healthy eating habits
      among users of the Health Academy Program (AP) at Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais - "VAMOS
      BEAGÁ". Two AP poles, both belonging the same regional administration of the municipality and
      with the same health vulnerability index were selected. To define the location of the
      intervention VAMOS was carried draw between the selected centers, and all potentially
      eligible users invited to participate. Users of the Intervention Group (IG) took part in the
      daily activities offered by AP and, additionally, for 12 weeks, they attended the educational
      strategy called VAMOS. The Control Group does only the regular activities of AP. The VAMOS
      has been evaluated by the dimensions of Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption (at the individual
      level), Implementation and Maintenance (at individual and organizational level) of the RE-AIM
      model (Reach, Efficacy / Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance). The reach is
      evaluated by the rate of participation and representation among participants and those
      invited to join the VAMOS. The effectiveness has been evaluated from anthropometric
      measurements, eating habits, physical activity level, stages of change, self-efficacy, social
      support and quality of life before and after 12 weeks of intervention. To assess the adoption
      was investigated the interest of Physical Activity professional from AP in mediating this
      strategy in future. The implementation was evaluated by identifying the extent to which the
      VAMOS was conducted as planned. The maintenance, at individual level, will be estimated from
      revaluations of all outcomes, as measured before and after the intervention, sixs months
      after the conclusion of the intervention. At organizational level, the maintenance will be
      accessed with semi-structured interviews conducted with the coordinators and managers of AP
      assessed feasibility of continuing of VAMOS strategy in AP. For the analysis of qualitative
      data will be conducted content analysis. And to the quantitative data, we carried out
      descriptive statistics, paired tests chi-square or Fisher's exact and two-way ANOVA for
      repeated measures or Wilcoxon signed rank test. Intent-to-treat analyzes were used. The
      significance level was 5% and the statistical program used was the Statistical Package for
      Social Sciences (SPSS) for Windows.

      The overall goal of this study is to evaluate a strategy to promote physical activity and
      healthy eating, called VAMOS, among users of the Health Academy Program in Belo Horizonte,
      Minas Gerais.

      Specific objectives:

        1. Evaluate the effectiveness of VAMOS strategy on the level of habitual physical activity,
           dietary profile and nutritional status of the participants;

        2. To identify associations between psychosocial mediators of behavior - self-efficacy and
           social support - and changes in physical activity and dietary profile of the
           participants;

        3. Analyze the VAMOS strategy regarding the effectiveness, adoption (at individual level),
           reach, implementation and maintenance.
    
  