
    
      Through ongoing collaborative work between the MedStar Heart and Vascular Institute Advanced
      Heart Failure clinical team at our hospital and the MedStar Washington Hospital Center
      Palliative Care team, the research team identifies hospitalized patients with a primary
      diagnosis of heart failure (ACC/AHA stage C or D). Subjects will be considered for enrollment
      in this study if able to provide consent, at least 18 years old, and report moderate-severe
      pain (at least 4 out of 10 where pain is rated on a Likert scale between zero and 10) in the
      previous 24 hours. Subjects will be excluded if they already use VR for personal use, have
      intractable nausea/vomiting, history of motion sickness, history of seizures or epilepsy,
      have cranial structure abnormalities that prevent use of VR headset, are currently enrolled
      in a palliative care or pain management study, and/or are on contact isolation. Institutional
      review board approval will be sought and informed consent will be conducted before enrolling
      every patient.

      After consenting to participate, in addition to usual pharmacologic pain management, 128
      patients should be randomized with a 1:1 ratio to receive either one 10-minute VR session, or
      one 10-minute 2-dimensional guided-imagery session.

      VR sessions will be administered using the Facebook (Facebook Inc., Menlo Park, CA) Oculus GO
      VR. The VR software that will be used is the Forest of Serenity (Holosphere VR®, Birmingham,
      UK) application. The guided-imagery session depicts a peaceful walk through a forest with
      instrumental background music and 2-dimensional imagery. Patients will watch the guided
      imagery video on a portable tablet for 10 minutes, the same duration as the VR intervention.

      Subjects in both arms will continue to receive standard pharmacologic pain management.

      Because of the nature of the compared interventions, subjects and researchers cannot be
      blinded to intervention. Our primary outcome measure will determine the impact of distraction
      therapy (either VR therapy or 2-dimensional guided imagery) on self-reported pain experience.
      Self-reported pain experience remains the standard for clinical pain research. Secondary
      outcomes will measure impact of each distraction therapy on general distress level, general
      quality of life, and satisfaction with pain management.

      Following consent and randomization, subjects will complete surveys on electronic tablets to
      provide baseline data on pain scores, general distress, general quality of life, and
      satisfaction with pain management. Pain will be assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory-Short
      Form (BPI-SF, modified to assess symptoms in the last 24 hours) that includes a 0-10 Likert
      scale for self-reported pain as well as information about pain location, quality, and
      interference of pain on daily living. General distress will be measured using the NCCN
      Distress Thermometer (a Likert scale measuring from No Distress to Extreme Distress, where
      "distress" is defined by the patient; we will not include the tool's associated Problem List
      due to overlap with other survey questions and attempt to avoid survey fatigue). General
      quality of life will be measured using the Functional Assessment in Chronic Illness-Therapy
      in Palliative Care 14-item (FACIT-Pal 14) scale that measures non-pain symptoms and general
      well-being.

      After completion of baseline surveys, subjects will be administered either VR therapy for 10
      minutes or 2-dimensional guided imagery for 10 minutes. For both arms, a member of the
      research team will educate the patient on the technology and assure comfort with use,
      remaining outside the room but nearby during the actual 10 minutes.

      Following the distraction therapy, subjects will be re-surveyed BPI-SF, FACIT-Pal 14, and
      Distress Thermometer (Aim 1). Both groups will also be surveyed regarding acceptance of and
      satisfaction with the distraction therapy intervention itself and its thematic content (Aim
      2). Patients randomized to VR therapy will be surveyed regarding level of immersion of the VR
      experience. In order to evaluate any residual effects of the distraction therapy, enrollees
      will be re-surveyed BPI-SF, FACIT-Pal 14, Distress Thermometer, and pain management
      satisfaction questions on the following day.

      Our study will reach 80% power to detect a difference of 1 unit in the pain score measure
      between the 2 groups using a two-sample t-test with equal variance at a two-sided alpha=0.05
      and assuming a within-group standard deviation of 2 for each group. Sample size calculations
      were conducted in PASS.
    
  