
    
      Clinical nursing education provides opportunities for students to learn in multiple patient
      care settings, receive appropriate guidance, and foster the development of clinical
      competence and professionalism. Nurse preceptors guide students to integrate theory into
      practice, teach clinical skills, assess clinical competency, and enhance problem solving and
      critical thinking skills. Previous researches have indicated that the teaching competency of
      the nurse preceptors can be transferred to the students' clinical learning to enhance their
      clinical competencies. Web-based learning is recognised as an effective learning approach for
      enhancing nursing knowledge and skills. The flexible and resource-rich nature of Web-based
      learning may encourage nurses to use it as a platform for continuing education.

      The present study aims to develop a Web-based clinical pedagogy program (WCP) for nurse
      preceptors; compare the WCP with the current preceptorship course on clinical teaching
      competence, assessment techniques and self-efficacy; examine nurse preceptors' attitudes
      toward Web-based learning, and explore the preceptors' perspectives of WCP .

      The design of the components in WCP is grounded on Bandura's self-efficacy theory. The WCP is
      an evidence-based program which provides a comprehensive coverage on clinical teaching
      pedagogy and assessment strategies. The unique web-based technology and interactive features
      provide a platform to allow the nurse preceptors to discuss the clinical encounters with
      their peers, and consult the experts. The WCP provides flexibility in learning, which may
      match the tight work schedule of the preceptors and aligns with the initiative of Singapore
      government to encourage leveraging on technology and continuing education for citizens.

      A prospective cluster randomisation trial will be used for this study. The WCP will be
      provided to the preceptors in the experimental cluster, while the preceptors in the
      controlled cluster will receive the current preceptorship course. A follow-up qualitative
      study using focus group will be conducted to further explore the preceptors' perspectives of
      WCP.

      Clinical teaching competence inventory (CTCI), preceptor self-efficacy assessment instrument
      (PSAI), attitudes towards web-based continuing learning survey (AWCLS) will be used to
      evaluate preceptors' learning outcomes. Socio-demographic data will be collected for both
      groups at baseline. Nurse preceptors will be invited to complete questionnaires on CTCI,
      PSAI, and AWCLS at three time points, before the learning program (baseline), after the
      learning program (post-test 1), and after clinical teaching experience (post-test 2). In
      addition, 16 preceptors will be invited to participate in the focus group discussions.

      Ministry of Health, Singapore encourages strategies that are innovative and promote
      professional development of healthcare professionals, who feel more motivated and dignified
      to care for the health of the population. It is paramount that continuing education courses
      integrate with technology, increase the flexibility and responsiveness of the nursing
      workforce, and offer alternative means to take up courses.
    
  