
    
      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Presence of contraindications for exercise training (neuromuscular disease, orthopedic
           cause).

        -  Patients with significant and unstable cardiovascular disease.

        -  Inability to understand and/or answer questionnaires.

        -  Refusal to use a smartphone or digital device.

        -  Unable to access an internet connection at home.

      Analysis:

        -  The main analysis will be the univariate intention-to-treat analysis of the primary
           outcome.

        -  Secondary analyzes will include:

        -  Analysis with intention to treat secondary endpoints.

        -  Multivariate analysis of the efficiency criteria.

        -  Univariate and multivariate medico - economic cost - utility analyzes, with their
           respective sensitivity analyzes.

      Protocol:

      This prospective, randomized study with two parallel arms, controlled against standard
      chronic care will be multicentric and open.

        -  Patients included will be patients diagnosed with COPD who are on RR for four weeks in
           one of the three centers participating in the study.

        -  Participation in the study will be offered after verification of the eligibility
           criteria, during the 3rd week of the stay.

        -  The information note will then be provided to them.

        -  After obtaining consent, the volunteers will be included in the study at the start of
           the 4th week and randomized into two arms:

        -  - Experimental group of 100 patients using the M-Réhab BPCO telerehabilitation solution.
           The solution will be provided during the fourth and final week of RR's stay during which
           patients will be trained to use all of the solution's features. Patients will carry out
           the entire post-rehabilitation using the remote rehabilitation solution and will benefit
           from medical assessments by teleconsultation at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months as well as
           assessments at 3, 6 and 12 months by filling. electronic auto-questionnaires followed by
           a telephone quality control if necessary. A final evaluation at 12 months, by
           videoconference, will be carried out at the patient's home.

        -  Control group of 100 patients following usual standard chronic care. Patients will
           receive during the last week of stay in the center, the usual advice to continue
           physical activity and nutritional advice at home. The evaluations at 3, 6 and 12 months
           will be done by electronic filling of auto-questionnaires followed by a telephone
           quality control if necessary. A final evaluation at 12 months, by videoconference, will
           be carried out at the patient's home.

      The duration of the inclusions is 18 months and the follow-up will be carried out over 12
      months.
    
  