
    
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) is a pathogen with worldwide preponderance that infects
      humans and causes the transmissible disease tuberculosis (TB). An estimated one-third of the
      world's population is latently infected with M.tb, carrying a 10% lifetime risk of developing
      active life-threatening disease. In 2016, there were 10 million new cases worldwide and 1.7
      million people died of TB. Co-infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) greatly
      increases the risk of TB reactivation and death. Diagnosis is challenging and drug treatment
      is often harmful, costly and complex. For these reasons, it is essential to develop a more
      effective vaccine against TB.

      An improved understanding of the nature of protective immunity in humans would significantly
      improve rational vaccine development. Whilst host immunity, particularly systemic adaptive
      immunity, has been well characterized in murine models, the understanding of the
      immunological events that occur in humans during acute infection is limited. In particular,
      the knowledge of human mucosal responses to M.tb. is limited. This is primarily due to the
      difficulties in studying early disease processes in the lung. Consequently, the majority of
      human studies have investigated immune responses ex-vivo in peripheral blood or after
      in-vitro infection of cell lines. A better understanding of the immune components that exist
      at the respiratory mucosal surfaces in humans could lead to interventions that prevent
      infection at the point of entry.

      TB043 is a clinical challenge trial primarily to evaluate the safety of BCG challenge
      administered by the aerosol inhaled route in healthy, BCG naive UK adults. The trial will
      also look to evaluate and compare the amount of BCG recovered from the lungs as various
      points after challenge, allowing investigation into the immune components at mucosal
      surfaces.
    
  