
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind (participant and care provider assessing
      outcomes), parallel-group controlled, trial assessing the interest of the association of TLIP
      block to general anesthesia for postoperative analgesia management in patients undergoing
      posterior lumbar spinal fusion.

      This study compares two groups:

      "Control" group: standard general anesthesia. "TLIP" group: standard general anesthesia +
      TLIP block with an injection of 40 ml of ropivacaine 0.25% (2 injections of 20 ml on each
      side) between multifidus and longissimus muscles.

      • General anesthesia

      General anesthesia will be standardized in the two groups:

        -  Induction with propofol 2-3 mg/kg, sufentanyl 0.2-0.3 µg/kg and ketamine 0.3 mg/kg

        -  Intubation facilitated according centre's protocol and ventilation performed with 50%
           oxygen and 50% air in order to maintain normocapnia and normoxia.

        -  Anesthesia maintained according to the centre's usual care.

        -  Prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting (NVPO) according centre's protocol.

             -  TLIP block technique ("TLIP" group only) The regional anesthesia procedure will be
                performed under general anesthesia and will be guided by ultrasound with
                high-frequency linear probe, patient in prone position or genupectoral (knee-chest)
                position. The probe will be positioned in order to have an axial view of lumbar
                vertebrae. The 3rd lumbar vertebra (L3), the 4th lumbar vertebra (L4) and the 5th
                lumbar vertebra (L5) will be identified after initial identification of the sacrum.
                A needle will be inserted in plane (IP) and advanced to reach the interspace
                between the multifidus and the longissimus muscles on the tip of the articular
                process. For each patient, the block will be performed bilaterally by injecting of
                20 ml of Ropivacaine 0.25% on each side. Before each procedure, a skin disinfection
                will be carried out using an alcoholic iodine solution.

      Patients will not receive any LA by intravenous injection or infiltration.
    
  