
    
      All infants will be assessed at the pediatric department at Haukeland University Hospital,
      and all data obtained by the same two investigators (Bentsen and Olsen). The infants will be
      dressed in the appropriate-sized vest selected according to the length from the armpit to the
      hip of the child. Care will be taken to ensure that the vest fits snugly around the torso and
      that the width of the copper wire zig-zag coveres the entire thorax and abdomen including the
      pubic region. The vest will be applied directly to the skin; neither body nor diaper will be
      worn underneath. The infants will then be fed before they will be placed supine in a cot and
      encouraged to sleep. No sedation will be used. Once the infant has fallen asleep, data will
      be collected with VSP for 2-3 minutes before the Exhalyzer D® neonatal facemask connected in
      series with the ultrasonic flow sensor will be placed gently, but firmly over the infant's
      mouth and nose, ensuring a good seal. Once the facemask is in place, a marker will be
      inserted in the VSP recording. The Exhalyzer D® measurement will be started about thirty
      seconds after the facemask has been put on, to allow adaptation to the facemask. Simultaneous
      recording using both devices will then be done for about 1 minute before the mask will be
      removed. New markers will be inserted in the VSP recording as the Exhalyzer D® measurement is
      started and stopped facilitating analysis of the same breathing cycles.

      Data will be analysed and graphs will be created with SPSS version 22 (IBM SPSS Statistics,
      New York, US) and MedCalc version 13.1 (MedCalc Software, Mariakerke, Belgium). Bland-Altman
      plots will be used to visualize agreement between the two measurement techniques. For each
      pair of measurements, the pairwise mean of the breathing parameters will be plotted on the
      x-axis, and the pairwise difference expressed as a percentage of their mean value on the
      y-axis. The mean difference and the 95% limits of agreement and their confidence intervals
      will be represented by horizontal lines in the graphs.
    
  