
    
      CSI:Brainwave project's full title is <Brainwave control of a wearable robotic arm for
      rehabilitation and neurophysiological study in Cervical Spine Injury> . It is a
      multidisciplinary neurophysiological project, developed by the Lab of Medical Physics and
      supported by two Neurosurgical Departments.

      The CSI:Brainwave project involves:

        1. A clinical study for rehabilitation of patients with Cervical Spinal Cord Injury (CSCI),
           using a Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) controlled robotic arms device.

        2. A secondary off-line neurophysiological analysis of cortical activation, connectivity
           and plasticity in patients with CSCI undergoing motor imagery (MI) practice.

      Milestones of the study:

        1. The investigators aim to develop, test and optimize a mountable robotic arm controlled
           with wireless BCI.

        2. The investigators aim to develop and validate self-paced neuro-rehabilitation protocols
           for patients with CSCI.

        3. The investigators aim to identify and study the neurophysiological functionality and
           alteration of cortical activity in acute and chronic CSCI.

      The CSI: Brainwave project aims at allowing patients suffering from tetraplegia due to CSCI
      to perform brainwave modulation, practicing Kinesthetic Motor Imagery (KMI) and Visual Motor
      Imagery (VMI), as well as offering neurofeedback with the form of control of a
      6-degree-of-freedom, anthropomorphic bimanual robotic arms device. The project aims at
      demonstrating the added value of neurofeedback for rehabilitation and/or motor restoration of
      CSCI patients and allow for elaborate recordings of motor-related brain activity during motor
      tasks of the upper and lower extremities.

      The robotic arms are designed to mount on a frame that acts as a docking space for the
      participants' armchair/wheelchair and will be directly controlled by the participants using a
      BCI module. The investigators aim to further modify the robotic device in order to render it
      mountable on the participants' actual arms.

      The largest portion of the first project year was devoted to the development of robotics and
      the Brain-Computer Interface module of the study. The MERCURY v2.0 robotic arms is a
      non-commercial 6-degree-of-freedom anthropomorphic bimanual robotic arms device that was
      built and developed by the research team of the Medical Physics Lab. The robot was further
      engineered to accommodate the needs of the CSI:Brainwave project. The investigators aim to
      use the Emotiv EPOC wireless EEG headset and software for the development and control of the
      BCI module in this study.
    
  