
    
      The research team members will not have contact with the Special Olympic athletes. Parents
      and coaches will be the only individuals who have contact with the athletes. Participants
      will be assured that their participation is completely voluntary. If they agree to
      participate in the research an informed assest form will be explained by a parent, guardian,
      or coach and they will be asked to sign it. Parents will be asked to sign a consent form for
      their child's participation in the study. Coaches will administer the SCOPE as a
      pre/post-test outcome measure. Parents will submit the Parent form of the SCOPE and the
      coaches will submit the SCOPE Clinical Data Summary Form. All data will be de-identified and
      sent in form the coaches. The TWU special olympics research team will compile de-identified
      data from a pre-test and post-test utilizing the SCOPE. A codebook that links the ID number
      with the participants will be kept by the coaches. The research team may be able to trace
      assented data collected through the TWU data collection protocol back to the coaches.
      Participating athletes will not be contacted by the PI and no contact information will be
      collected. In the case of an unexpected or adverse event, or if the participants request to
      be contacted, attempts may be made to find the subjects contact information through the
      coaches. De-identified data collected by the TWU Special Olympic research team or other Key
      Research personnel will be stored on a password protected computer or in a locked file
      cabinet in a locked office in the department of occupational therapy at Texas Woman's
      University in Houston. The raw data collected will not be made available to anyone other than
      the PI and immediate study research personnel. Data is entered into the database using the ID
      number, and the computer database is password protected. The raw data is not going to be
      shared. The data will be kept in a locked file cabinet within the research office of the
      databases destroyed 4 years after the end of the study. The results of the analysis, which
      may include information from the data, will be kept on a password secure computer
      indefinitely. The data collected from pre-tests and post-tests will then be compiled and
      analyzed.
    
  