
    
      Research activities involve use of computer-controlled functional electrical stimulation
      (FES) and electric motor-driven orthosis (powered exoskeleton) to generate functional
      lower-limb movements for; i.e., standing and walking. The computer-controlled algorithms will
      get feedback from sensors such as optical encoders, load cells, force sensitive resistors,
      and inertial measurement units that are or will be inbuilt in the orthosis or these feedback
      algorithms will be combined with precomputed optimized algorithms based on the estimated
      musculoskeletal model of a participant. Multiple computer algorithms will be designed to
      coordinate FES with electric motors and other components of the walking device to reproduce
      or restore standing and walking movements. The study involves validation of computer
      algorithms to estimate and control the walking and sitting/standing movements. The Rifton
      E-Pacer motorized walker, arm crutches, parallel bars, or a conventional walker may be used
      in order to assist donning and doffing of the exoskeleton system, standing, and walking for
      all subjects, at any time during experimentation, for as long as is deemed necessary by the
      experimental goals. Using the E-Pacer or a walker should improve experiment safety and reduce
      the subject's overall physical exertion because it reduces load on the subject's body.
      Sitting/Standing and/or walking movements will be elicited by the hybrid walking platform
      that combines a powered exoskeleton and an FES system. The powered exoskeleton can provide
      joint actuation at the hip and knee joints of a participant. The FES system can stimulate the
      quadriceps, hamstrings muscle, glutes, and ankle muscles. The electrodes for stimulation are
      placed on the skin at locations that provide an optimal limb movement. The algorithms are
      designed such that the stimulation of different muscles are coordinated to achieve walking
      and/or sitting/standing. A precedent experiment will be performed on a Group B participant
      before it is tested on Group A. Unlike the paraplegic participants (Group A), if the device
      should fail or act unexpectedly the persons without disability (Group B) will be able to
      intervene . Therefore, testing the device on persons without disability first will allow us
      to further assess and address any risks before testing on individuals with SCI, who are
      incapable of intervening with the device. All the sessions for Group A participants will be
      performed in the supervision of a physical therapist. The therapist will also assist the
      Group A participants in transferring them from their wheelchairs to a cushioned table for
      seating if required or to the exoskeleton. Group A participant will also be supported by a
      body-unweighing system to prevent falling during standing and walking. Before each experiment
      involving electrical stimulation, a participant's heart rate and blood pressure will be
      recorded. Therapists will also assist the participants in transferring them from their
      wheelchairs to the therapy table. A participant or an individual operating the device will
      initiate walking and/or standing movement. A participant can stop the movements if he/she
      feels not comfortable or unsafe by using a safety-stop button, which will be given to them.
      During these sessions participants will wear a heart rate monitor to ensure that they do not
      overexert themselves, and so that sufficient rest periods may be given. The participants'
      heart rate will be checked before and after each trial by an individual conducting the
      experiments. The Borg scale will be administered for Group A to check for their exertion
      level. The sessions will be stopped as per the limits prescribed by the Borg scale (see
      stopping criteria in risks section). Please note that for all experiments described, a
      minimum of 1-2 days is required between visits for experimentation. These activities are
      divided into Aim 1 and Aim 2. Please note that Aims 1-2 are not sequential. Aim 1: To elicit
      sitting/standing and walking movements by using an optimized powered exoskeleton and
      functional electrical stimulation (FES) assistance. The objective of this aim is to
      experimentally validate an optimal controller that allocates FES and exoskeleton contribution
      based on a person-specific model of a participant. The controller will produce lower-limb
      movements in persons with no disabilities and persons with spinal cord injury. Group A and
      Group B will participate in approximately 20 sessions. The number of sessions is approximate
      and it may exceed this number and there is not cut-off number of sessions that will prohibit
      further participation. The session duration will be up to 4 hours, at the maximum. The
      session durations are approximate and it can be more or less than the specified. The total
      number sessions may overshoot by few sessions for some participants due to unanticipated
      technical or erroneous experimental data. These experiments will be conducted in the
      Neuromuscular Control and Robotics Laboratory (NCRL) or at the Outpatient Rehabilitation
      Clinic at Chapel-Hill run by the principal investigator. These experiments are divided into 2
      tasks. Task 1: Initial visits for familiarization, training and model identification.
      Familiarization and training visits will allow us to customize and optimize the hybrid
      walking exoskeleton to each participating individual. For this task the participants will
      visit the NCRL for approximately 3 sessions. These sessions will take no more than 4 hours.
      The session durations are approximate and it can be more or less than the specified. The
      total number sessions may overshoot by few sessions for some participants due to
      unanticipated technical or erroneous experimental data. In the first visit, adjustments to
      the hybrid device will be made to fit the device to the participant. In these visits, the
      objectives are to train them for sit-to-stand transfers and perform walking movements with
      the hybrid walking device. Computer controlled algorithms will be used for performing
      sit-to-stand, stand-to-sit, and walking movements. Model identification experiments to find
      model parameters for each individual can be run during initial training and familiarization
      studies. These model identification experiments can be conducted while a participant
      sits/stands or walk in the hybrid walking device. Once the subject-specific parameters are
      identified, a walking and/or standing algorithm that coordinates FES with the powered
      exoskeleton will be derived or optimized using offline dynamic optimizations. Task 2:
      Validation of a sitting/standing and/or walking algorithm. After initial visits (Task 1),
      walking and/or standing algorithm will be tested. The algorithm is a computer program that
      takes sensory information from different sensors such optical encoders, inertial measurement
      units, and heel contact sensors in-built in the hybrid walking system to optimally coordinate
      FES and electric motors of the powered exoskeleton. The algorithm will be experimentally
      validated on each participant in approximately 7 sessions. Each session will run for no more
      than 4 hours, which includes time to perform standing, walking, periods of rest, time
      required to adjust bracing, and time required to update the computer code if needed. Note
      that the number of sessions and duration are estimates and are subject to change based on
      conditions of the experiment. A motion capture system may also be used to measure joint
      angles so that spatiotemporal gait characteristics can be compared with the normal gait of a
      healthy control subject. The recorded gait data will also be used to assess the performance
      of the control systems of the device, and to show how the user's gait changes over time as
      they become more comfortable with using the device. These sessions may be recorded so that
      the application and efficacy of the device may be illustrated. Aim 2: Integrating
      ultrasound-based feedback to control a hybrid exoskeleton. The objectives of this aim are to
      investigate if ultrasound imaging can be used as a tool to measure muscle fatigue induced by
      FES and further use the US-derived signals to optimize FES and exoskeleton assistance. The
      first objective of this aim is to develop an ultrasound based fatigue model to indicate the
      onset of muscle fatigue. The second objective is to use the ultrasound-based fatigue model in
      an algorithm that coordinates control of FES and electric motor during sitting-to-standing,
      walking, and standing-to-sitting activities. Group A and Group B individuals will participate
      in this aim. They will participate in approximately 10 sessions of no more than 4 hours each.
      The total number sessions can be more or less than 10 due to unanticipated technical or
      erroneous experimental data or if the participant leaves the study. These experiments will be
      conducted in NCRL or at the Outpatient Rehabilitation Clinic at Chapel-Hill. Task 1:
      Development of an ultrasound imaging based fatigue and recovery measures of leg muscles. A
      stimulation protocol will be followed that produces muscle fatigue. Muscle fatigue is defined
      as some percentage decline in isometric torque generated by FES of the quadriceps muscle.
      Because decline in the isometric torque could differ in different participants a common
      stimulation protocol will be employed for all the participants. This will be done during
      approximately two sessions that will each last no more than 4 hours. The session durations
      are approximate and it can be more or less than the specified. The total number sessions may
      overshoot by few sessions for some participants due to unanticipated technical or erroneous
      experimental data. Both ultrasound (using the imaging probe placed in between the electrodes)
      and torque data (from the load sensor) will be collected. A hand-held commercial ultrasound
      transducer (5- 20 MHz clinical transducer) connected to a commercial ultrasound system
      (S-Sharp Corporation, Taiwan) placed against the skin. A warm gel is applied to the skin to
      help with imaging. All the ultrasound imaging parameters including intensity and frame rates
      etc. are below safety guidelines for clinical ultrasound imaging (MI values less than 1.9).
      After these experiments, the processed ultrasound data will be correlated with the measured
      torque to determine fatigue and recovery measures. Task 2: Incorporation of the
      ultrasound-based fatigue model in a control allocation algorithm. The ultrasound
      imaging-based fatigue and recovery measures can be used to predict the onset of muscle
      fatigue. The experimental studies will be conducted on (Group A) and (Group B) over 2
      sessions will each last no more than 4 hours. The session durations are approximate and it
      can be more or less than the specified. The total number sessions may overshoot by few
      sessions for some participants due to unanticipated technical or erroneous experimental data.
      The algorithms in Task 2 of Aim 1 will be modified to incorporate the ultrasound-based
      fatigue and recovery measures. Remark on stimulation parameters to be used in the
      aforementioned aims: A normal range of stimulation to be used in our studies is: pulse width
      100-400 micro seconds; Frequency: 20-100 Hz; Current 0-100 mA. Generally during the
      experiment, the current is automatically modulated (or in some instances manually) starting
      from 0 mA to the value that is required to achieve a task. This is achieved by feedback
      signals to the control system that communicates with the stimulator. The control system does
      not allow the current to go above its maximum limit. The pulsewidth and frequency are
      generally kept constant. The stimulation parameters used for each participant will be
      documented for each experimental session and any changes in the stimulation parameters during
      a session will also be recorded.
    
  