
    
      The increase of end-stage osteoarthritis (OA) in an increasingly younger population is
      directly correlated with the rising incidence of obesity. As a result, knee arthroplasty
      (KA), which is a definitive end-stage treatment option, is increasingly performed on working
      age people. Knowledge and understanding of the underlying factors that drive the ability for
      people to return to work is crucial.

      First and foremost, the investigators would have like to have a clear idea of the percentage
      of patients who return to work and at what time postoperatively. The investigators would also
      determine the different factors influencing employment in the patient population after
      undergoing a knee arthroplasty and register the evolution in the necessity of pain medication
      pre-and postoperatively. Ideally, the investigators can include a short questionnaire
      regarding return to sports to gather valuable information.

      Adult patients with an indication for primary knee arthroplasty (total + unicondylar) can
      take part in the study. This will be decided by clinical examination and radiographic
      evaluation, having the result of the previous therapies and the patient-specific needs in
      mind (standard of care). The patients have to be younger than or equal to 63 years old at the
      time of surgery and actively been working 2 years prior to surgery.

      In line with the standard of care, the patients will be seen after 4-8 weeks, 3-4 months and
      1 year postoperatively. Radiological examinations are foreseen at 4-8 weeks and 1 year
      postoperatively (standard of care). Pre-operatively, a general questionnaire is filled in by
      the patients. The patient questionnaires Knee Society Score (KSS), Knee Injury and
      Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), Forgotten Knee Joint Score, Quickscan, Work,
      Osteoarthritis and joint-Replacement Questionnaire (WORQ) will be filled in by the patients
      during the screening visit and on each consultation at 4-8 weeks, 3-4 months, 6 months, 1
      year and 1,5 year. The Tegner score will be filled in by the patients pre-operatively and at
      1 year postoperatively.
    
  