
    
      CHARGE-APP is a proof-of-concept one-year prospective, randomized, open-label, blinded
      endpoint study (PROBE) including 2 groups of patients randomized to different treatment
      strategies:

        1. a new management strategy, named POST (i.e. "Patient Optimal Strategy for Treatment"),
           consisting in providing the patients with a system to communicate home blood pressure
           measurements to a referral centre, and the referral centre with an online platform to
           organize and easily interpret the information sent by patients and to monitor the
           patients' status;

        2. usual care, consisting in regular visits at the referral centre.

      Patients will be enrolled over 3 months and will be randomly allocated to one of the study
      groups. Follow-up phase will last 12 months after randomization and will focus on changes in
      ambulatory systolic BP (primary endpoint), in diastolic ambulatory BP, in office SBP and DBP,
      in Home SBP and DBP, in left ventricular mass index (LVMI) and urinary albumin excretion
      (UAE), all secondary end-points.

      All patients will perform visits at baseline, three, six and twelve months. Physical
      examination, history of the patient and clinical blood pressure values will be obtained at
      every visit.

      Echocardiogram, ECG, urine samples (UAE, urinary albumin/creatinine and 24-h ambulatory blood
      pressure monitoring (ABPM) will be performed at baseline, three months, six months and study
      end.

      Blood samples (full blood count, creatinine, Na+, K+, fasting glucose, HbA1c, uric acid,
      lipids) will be performed at baseline; another blood sample will be collected at twelve
      months for measurement of serum creatinine (and renal function). UAE will be measured at
      baseline and study end, on morning urine samples.

      Patients randomized to POST-strategy will measure Home BP two days a week (two measurements
      in the morning and two measurements in the evening) and communicate these values with the ESH
      CARE app; furthermore, before each visit they will measure their Home BP for 7 consecutive
      days (two measurements in the morning and two measurements in the evening), according to
      current guidelines on hypertension.

      Patients randomized to usual care will also measure Home BP for 7 consecutive days at
      baseline and at study end, to provide a comparison. Operators (i.e. investigators dedicated
      to the follow-up of POST-strategy) will check these data organized by the POST system at
      least every 15 days, and adjust pharmacological therapy, if needed.

      In patients randomized to usual care, therapy will be adjusted only at follow-up visits (i.e.
      at three and six months).

      Pharmacological therapy will be increased or decreased according to blood pressure values;
      investigators may follow a therapy algorithm based on ESH/ESC guidelines, but are free to
      individualize it.
    
  