
    
      Backgrounds: Pemphigus vulgaris (PV) is a life-threatening autoimmune bullous skin disease
      characterized by blisters or bullae on the skin and mucosal membranes. The formation of
      painful erosion surface after rupture of blisters may result in infection, haemorrhage and
      even electrolyte imbalance due to excessive water loss. PV can be divided into two types:
      mucocutaneous PV and mucosal-dominant PV. Patients with mucocutaneous PV not only suffer from
      severe mucosal damage but also general skin lesions, while slight or no skin lesions involved
      in patients with mucosal-dominant PV. Oral mucosal damage occurred 3 months to 1 year before
      skin lesions in about 60% of PV patients. The most common involving parts of the oral mucosa
      are pars buccalis and oropharynx, presenting with persistent and painful erosion or
      ulceration, which leads to difficulty in feeding and aggravates the electrolyte imbalance.

      Glucocorticoid is the main treatment strategy of PV. Besides the blisters and erosion,
      complications of long-term use of glucocorticoid are also the death causes of PV patients,
      such as osteoporosis, hyperglycemia, hypertension, hypokalemia, femoral head necrosis, peptic
      ulcer, and infection. Many patients have gotten remission from the standard application of
      glucocorticoids, Immunosuppressants and biological agent. However, there is still a part of
      patients that are insensitive to these drugs or intolerant the side effects of
      corticosteroids. Even for those steroid-sensitive patients, the healing of oral mucosa often
      takes a long course, lasting from weeks to months, which has a serious impact on the quality
      of life. It is a critical problem to develop novel therapeutics to accelerate the healing of
      oral mucosa.

      Recombinant human interleukin-2 (rhIL-2) is an immunomodulator agent commonly used in the
      treatment of patients with tumours. The safety and efficacy of low dose rhIL-2 have been
      demonstrated in the treatment of type I diabetes, systemic lupus erythematosus, and
      graft-versus-host disease. We found that topical application of rhIL-2 can effectively
      relieve pain and improve the condition of oral mucosa for PV patients. Studies have shown
      that IL-2 selectively modulates CD4+ T cell subsets and increases the amounts and function of
      regulatory T cells. Moreover, IL-2 plays an important role in the proliferation of
      fibroblasts and wound healing. These evidences provide us the theoretical basis to explore
      the potential mechanism of rhIL-2 in treatment of mucosal damage of patients with PV.

      Design of Study: This is a randomized, controlled, double-blind, multicenter clinical trial
      to assess the safety and short-term efficacy of rhIL-2 for oral erosion in patients with
      pemphigus.

      Methods: rhIL-2 oral gargle combined with the standard dose of glucocorticoids
      (mucosal-dominant PV: prednisone 0.5 mg/kg/d, mucocutaneous PV: prednisone 1 mg/kg/d) will be
      applied to pemphigus patients meeting the inclusion criteria. The end points include clinical
      response and immunological changes, as well as safety.
    
  