
    
      Effect of High Intensity Interval Exercise on pain, disability and autonomic balance in
      patients with chronic low back pain

      Chronic low back pain (CLBP) is a clinical problem of large magnitude with great
      socio-economical effect. About 80% of people may complain of low back pain in their life.

      Patients with low back pain (LBP) often report an overall reduced physical activity and
      fitness that could consequently lead to an altered autonomic balance. Dysregulation of
      autonomic nervous system (ANS) is also implicated to be an underlying cause in the initiation
      and persistence of chronic muscle pain. Different types of exercises can be prescribed to
      patients with CLBP to improve pain, disability and physical fitness. High intensity interval
      exercise (HIIE) is a newer modality where short bursts of high intensity exercise are
      interspersed with rest intervals.it is more time efficient, enjoyable, and superior to mild
      or moderate intensity continuous exercise in improving the physical fitness, peak
      performance, autonomic balance, muscle strength and coordination in athletes. HIIE might
      prove more useful and effective for individuals with nonspecific CLBP and could have a better
      adherence rate in the long run.

      Methods: After the ethical approval of Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, KSA,
      eighty (80) patients with nonspecific CLBP (either sex, age: 18-65 years) will be recruited.
      These patients, with mild to moderate disability/pain according to Oswestry index, will be
      referred from relevant clinics to the physiotherapy department of King Fahd Hospital of the
      University, AlKhobar (KFHU). After full explanation of the study, the patients will be
      required to sign an informed consent form and then they will be randomly assigned to one of
      the two groups.

      Experimental Group (GE: n= 40) will be assigned for HIIE in addition to standard regular
      physiotherapy, and Control Group (GC: n=40) will be designated as control group with standard
      regular physiotherapy only. Pre and post intervention assessment includes pain intensity
      through Numerical Pain Scale, disability through Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and
      autonomic balance through heart rate variability (HRV) and baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) at
      rest and in response to an orthostatic challenge.

      Data will be entered in Microsoft excel and comparisons and correlations will be done using
      either excel or SPSS version 20 Expectations: It is expected that HIIE will improve the
      autonomic balance of the CLBP patients to a greater extent compared to no-exercise and
      consequently improve the pain and disability to a higher degree. HIIE could be a useful,
      efficacious addition to the list of exercise modalities for patients with nonspecific CLBP,
      and could be recommended for management of appropriate group of CLBP patients.
    
  