
    
      This is an open-label (individuals will know the identity of study treatments), dose
      escalation study to establish the recommended dose of ibrutinib combined with standard R-CHOP
      (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) in approximately 33
      adults with CD20-positive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) for whom R-CHOP is an appropriate
      therapy. There will be 3 periods of the study: a pretreatment (screening) period of up to 28
      days before enrollment; an open-label treatment period (up to 6 cycles of ibrutinib and
      R-CHOP; ending at the end-of-treatment visit); and a posttreatment follow-up period until the
      end of study (maximum of up to 1 year after the last patient has completed the
      end-of-treatment visit). There are 2 parts to the study (dose escalation [Part 1] and
      expansion [Part 2]). During the dose escalation period, the "3+3" design will be applied and
      approximately 18 patients with CD20 positive B cell NHL (diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
      [DLBCL], mantle cell lymphoma [MCL], and follicular lymphoma [FL]) may be enrolled. Patients
      will be assigned to cohorts of increasing oral daily doses of ibrutinib (280, 420, and 560
      mg) administered in combination with R-CHOP. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD), assessed in
      Cycle 1 (dose-limiting toxicity [DLT] period), is defined as the highest dose of the
      combination regimen at which <=33% of patients experience DLT. Baseline and follow-up
      electrocardiograms will be performed throughout the study. A Study Evaluation Team will
      review all available data upon completion of the first cycle for all patients at each dose
      cohort to determine DLTs, if dose escalation is acceptable, and subsequently will determine
      the recommended Phase 2 dose. Once the recommended Phase 2 dose is determined, approximately
      15 patients with newly diagnosed DLBCL will be entered into the expansion cohort at the dose
      level selected to further assess the safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics,
      pharmacogenomics, and activity of the combination. Patients whose disease has not progressed
      at the end of Cycle 1 will continue to receive ibrutinib and R CHOP up to a maximum of 6
      cycles. During the posttreatment follow-up period, long term safety, survival status, disease
      progression, and subsequent antilymphoma therapy will be collected. The study will end 1 year
      after the last patient has completed the end of treatment visit.
    
  