
    
      Background: Open lung maneuvers aim to recruit and stabilize the majority of collapsed
      alveoli, using oxygenation as an indirect variable for lung volume. The stepwise
      oxygenation-guided lung recruitment procedure during frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV)
      in preterm infants has a low risk of lung hyperinflation and air leak syndrome. Nevertheless,
      open lung maneuvers at regular intervals during HFOV to maintain or restore oxygenation is
      not implemented as a routine procedure in the neonatal intensive care.

      Aim of the study: To assess whether stepwise oxygenation-guided lung recruitment at regular
      intervals reduces the oxygen saturation index (OSI = Mean Airway Pressure × Fraction of
      inspired Oxygen × 100 / peripheral Oxygen Saturation, OSI = MAPxFiO2x100/SpO2) averaged over
      HFOV time in extremely preterm infants.

      Study design: Single center randomized controlled study.

      Methods: Thirty-six extremely preterm infants below 28 weeks of gestational age and on high
      frequency oscillation ventilation receive either stepwise oxygenation-guided lung recruitment
      maneuver at regular intervals (intervention) and upon decision of the care giving team
      (intervention group) or lung recruitment maneuver only upon decision of the care giving team
      (standard, control group). The primary outcome is the oxygen saturation index averaged over
      HFO ventilation time. The observation time of the HFOV will be limited to at most seven days.

      Sample size: Fifteen infants need to be enrolled in each group to have 80% power (at a
      two-sided alpha level of 5%) to detect a difference of 25% in the oxygen saturation index
      between the intervention group and the control group.

      Main outcome variables: Oxygen saturation index averaged over HFO ventilation time.

      Secondary outcome variables: Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD); days of ventilation; oxygen
      saturation index averaged over ventilation time (HFO and conventional ventilation); the
      following variables measured before, during and after a single stepwise oxygenation-guided
      recruitment maneuver: echocardiographic parameters, reactance, relative impedance changes,
      lung ultrasound measurements, transcutaneous partial carbon dioxide (CO2), blood pressure,
      heart rate.
    
  