
    
      The objective of this study is to design and implement a 16-week pre-operative physical
      activity and behaviour modification/education program (ENCOURAGEING Start) based on a
      collaborative partnership among the Centre for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (CMBS), the
      University of Manitoba Faculty of Kinesiology and Recreation Management, and Victoria General
      Hospital (VGH). Twenty-four CMBS patients, approved for bariatric surgery, will participate
      in the 16 week ENCOURAGEING START program. The goal is to develop evidence-based
      pre-operative physical activity (PA) guidelines and tools to improve bariatric surgery
      program delivery and patient outcomes. All patients will receive the Centre for Metabolic and
      Bariatric Surgery (CMBS) standard of care including two to four multidisciplinary visits over
      six months, exercise counseling from a kinesiologist, completion of a behavior modification
      program (Craving ChangeTM), and achievement of lifestyle and dietary modification goals in
      order to be scheduled for surgery. An interdisciplinary team of nurses, psychologists,
      dietitians, kinesiologists, anesthetists and internal medicine professionals participate in
      patient preparation. Intervention group participants will also complete the 16-week
      supervised physical activity and behaviour modification/education program (ENCOURAGEING
      START) at no cost. The first eight weeks of the ENCOURAGEING START program is a structured
      exercise and education period that patients must attend. During the second eight week period,
      opportunities for drop-in physical activity will be provided or patients can opt for at home
      exercise. Patient participation in physical activity will be monitored and follow-up with
      their experiences will be completed (by phone/email). A successfully developed and tested
      evidence-based physical activity promotion model (designed by co-applicant Dr. Todd Duhamel)
      has been tailored to the unique needs of the bariatric surgery patient population. It has
      been been shown successful at increasing weekly physical activity levels in patients with
      Body Mass Indexes (BMIs) between 30 to 35 and targets the physical and
      psycho-social-cognitive aspects of health. The intervention will be delivered by a
      kinesiologist (Certified Exercise Physiologist). Intervention group participants will
      complete two sessions of supervised, structured exercise classes per week for eight weeks.
      Progression to a moderate/high-intensity interval program based the patient's capabilities
      will occur. This approach has been shown to be safe and effective in the bariatric patient
      population. Participants will also attend education sessions on risk factor reduction,
      healthy eating, physical activity/exercise, stress management and promotion of self-managed
      care. Principles of shared decision-making will be utilized so providers and patients
      involved in the intervention will have shared control of treatment decisions. During the
      second eight week interval of the 16-week intervention, participants will be provided with
      access to facilitate attendance at drop-in exercise classes at the Active Living Centre
      (University of Manitoba). Participants will have the opportunity to meet with the
      kinesiologist on at least four occasions (60 minutes per meeting) throughout the 16-week
      intervention. This will provide participants with additional physical activity counseling if
      they would like more support to overcome the barriers that have prevented them from being
      physically active in the past. This counseling (and referral aspect) of the model builds upon
      the earlier experiences in the program and recognizes the importance of support from
      colleagues, friends and family. Participant attendance during the 16-week intervention will
      be monitored. In order to ensure adequate participation rates for this study, participant
      follow-up will be completed by telephone or email (based on participant consent and
      preference). All patients complete a liquid diet (900 calories per day) for two weeks prior
      to their surgery in order to reduce intra-abdominal obesity and facilitate the procedure. The
      study will follow the intension to treat (ITT) model and patient exclusion/withdrawal will be
      documented and reported according to the CONSORT guidelines. A time series quasi-experimental
      design will be used to document changes in outcome measures. Short (one year) and long-term
      (five year) outcomes will be compared to matched historical controls 1:1 based on age,
      gender, BMI from the existing CMBS database with the goal to determine whether participation
      in the program improves physical fitness, surgical outcomes, patient health and quality of
      life for obese patients. The primary outcome of the study is the change in the 6-minute walk
      test (6MWT) that measures the distance a patient walks in six minutes, unassisted and at a
      self-selected pace; a validated measure of physical fitness and a well-established measure of
      functional capacity that is easily tested and in expensive to administer. The 6MWT has been
      used to measure improvements in functional capacity in pre- and post-bariatric surgery
      studies. The secondary outcomes include anthropometric measurements (height and weight, BMI
      (kg/m2), neck circumference, waist and hip circumference, and body composition (Bioelectric
      Impedance Analysis; BIA), strength measurements (sit to stand and half-squat tests to assess
      dynamic balance, flexibility and muscular endurance, and the hand grip and arm curl tests to
      assess upper limb muscle strength and dynamic muscular endurance of the biceps), physical
      activity level (Actigraph accelerometer), cardiovascular disease risk measurement (blood
      pressure, total, LDL, and HDL cholesterol and triacylglyceride measurements, blood glucose,
      HA1c, small and large artery elasticity), frailty measurement, patient quality of
      life/satisfaction/mental health and depression surveys (Laval Health Related Quality of Life
      Questionnaire, PHQ9 and HAM-D; see included surveys), Self-compassion, anxiety and physical
      activity questionnaires, and CMBS program outcome measures (surgical complication rate,
      hospital length of stay, comorbidity resolution, continued participation in physical
      activity, weight loss, and weight loss maintenance). Tests at Week 0 (pre-intervention)
      include the 6MWT, anthropometric, body composition, strength, physical activity level
      (accelerometer), quality of life/mental health surveys, cardiovascular/ diabetes disease risk
      measurement, frailty measurement, and arterial elasticity. Tests at week 16
      (post-intervention) and 12 months (post-operative) will include 6MWT, anthropometric,
      strength, physical activity level (accelerometer), quality of life/mental health patient
      satisfaction surveys, cardiovascular/ diabetes disease risk measurement, frailty measurement,
      and arterial elasticity. The quality of life/mental health patient satisfaction surveys will
      be also be completed at the 5 years post-operative period. Two REDCap databases (Data and
      Survey) will be designed and implemented to facilitate data collection of surgical and
      patient outcomes, longitudinal survey deployment and patient responses. The surgical outcome
      metrics are based on the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery's (ASMBS)
      quality indicators for bariatric surgery with the goal to inform and define standardized
      outcome measures for RYGB surgery in Manitoba and Canada.
    
  