
    
      In order to document that Lamotrigine is an effective treatment of myotonia investigators
      have chosen a 20-weeks double-blind randomized and placebo-controlled cross-over design.

      Participants are randomized to receive either Lamotrigine or placebo in the first period (8
      weeks) and the opposite in the second period (8 weeks). Between the two periods, a drug free
      period of minimum two weeks is included to ensure that participants receiving Lamotrigine in
      the first period, is no longer affected by the drug at the beginning of the second period.

      Participants are schedules for six evaluations in the clinic, three in each period. At each
      evaluation, the degree of myotonia is determined and a blood sample is taken and analyzed,
      after study closure, to determine Lamotrigine level. Before each evaluation participants
      evaluate myotonia at home by the Myotonia Behavior Scale (MBS). Furthermore, participants had
      to complete the validated life quality questionnaire SF-36, before first period, in the drug
      free period, and after the second period.

      Treatment: Participants are treated with escalating dosages (25/50/150/300 mg)of
      Lamotrigine/placebo once daily in two periods of eight weeks. Patients who prior to the study
      receive treatment, with drugs that can potentially influence myotonia, must stop the
      treatment during the study. Participants, who experience severe myotonia as defined by the
      MBS, are allowed to use escape medicine (Mexiletine) up until 60 hours before evaluation. Any
      use of Mexiletine will be noted and assessed as a part of the efficacy estimation. If
      Mexiletine is taken under 60 hours before evaluation blood concentration of Mexiletine is
      measured, to exclude data with blood concentration in the therapeutic level.

      Disadvantage, Side effects and Safety: During the study participants cannot take their usual
      medications against myotonia. This can cause symptoms of myotonia, which can be a nuisance in
      the patient's everyday life.

      Side effects of Lamotrigine treatment are usually mild. The most common are headaches and
      skin rash (2). All events and inconveniences will be registered and side effects will be
      reported to Health Authorities in accordance with current regulations.

      The study will be stopped if there is a suspicion of a previously unknown side effect of
      Lamotrigine that can have an impact on the participant's life or feasibility.
    
  