
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Aortic calcium measured by computed tomography occurs earlier in life than other subclinical
      (that is, asymptomatic) markers of cardiovascular disease (CVD), shows a wide range, and is
      common in women. The large size of the aorta and relative lack of image artifact from motion
      make it ideal for radiographic quantitative imaging. This study is ancillary to and
      coordinated with the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA), a large prospective
      epidemiologic study investigating multiple subclinical CVD measures and CVD risk factors.
      Subclinical measures in MESA include coronary calcium, carotid ultrasound, cardiac magnetic
      resonance imaging, and the ankle/brachial blood pressure index. The extensive CVD risk factor
      measurements include both traditional risk factors and newer measures such as inflammatory
      and genetic markers.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This ancillary study will determine the epidemiology of aortic calcium in 2000 randomly
      selected (from 6500 total) MESA participants. Questions to be addressed include predictors of
      aortic calcium progression; associations of aortic calcium and aortic calcium progression
      with other subclinical CVD measures, CVD risk factors, and demographics; and the prognostic
      significance of aortic calcium. The project has three primary specific aims: 1) to predict
      the cross-sectional aortic calcium burden as a function of other subclinical CVD measures and
      CVD risk factors; 2) to predict aortic calcium progression as a function of other subclinical
      CVD measures and CVD risk factors, and 3) to predict aortic calcium progression as a function
      of progression of selected subclinical CVD measures and CVD risk factors. The two secondary
      specific aims are 1) to contrast the results of the three primary specific aims for men vs.
      women, and for four major ethnic groups (White, Hispanic, Black, and Asian); and 2) to
      provide a database for future evaluation of whether aortic calcium and/or aortic calcium
      progression independently predict subsequent myocardial infarction, stroke, and other CVD
      events.
    
  