
    
      Some people who live through traumatic experiences, such as the 9/11 WTC attacks or their
      aftermath, suffer from mental and physical problems that occur as a result of the incident
      and can persist over time. These problems are known as post-traumatic stress reactions or
      symptoms, and may include sleep disturbances, feelings of guilt and shame, persistent
      nightmares or upsetting memories of the incident, avoidance of reminders that might trigger
      upsetting memories, loss of interest in activities, concentration difficulties, and feeling
      distant from other people.

      People who experience persistent PTSD symptoms often receive treatment in person in an
      outpatient clinic. However, recent findings suggest that Internet-based treatment can also
      yield positive treatment effects. The Internet offers people the opportunity to receive
      psychological support from home. For some people, it is easier to communicate without direct
      visual contact with another person about their experiences. Despite the distance, people can
      reflect on their situation or concerns with the help of a personal therapist.

      As mentioned above, this study is for WTC responders who are not currently receiving
      psychotherapy/ counseling. After completing the online consent form and an initial online
      questionnaire, participants complete a telephone assessment conducted by a member of the team
      at Mount Sinai Medical Center. If you are eligible and agree to participate, you will be
      randomly assigned (as by the flip of a coin) to receive one of two therapies: Internet-based
      cognitive-behavioral therapy or Internet-based supportive therapy. Each participant is
      assigned a personal therapist from the team at Mount Sinai to work with throughout the
      treatment. In this study, communication between participant and therapist is conducted
      exclusively across the Internet, in written form, through the secure Web platform housed at
      Mount Sinai. The treatment involves written exchanges between participant and therapist over
      the course of approximately six weeks. Through guided writing, online therapy aims to help
      WTC responders process their traumatic experiences or better manage current life problems. In
      this study, the researchers aim to find out if Internet-based therapy can help WTC responders
      who are still experiencing PTSD symptoms.
    
  