
    
      The goal of this research is to determine the reproducibility of measurements of intraocular
      pressure (IOP) when a scleral lens is on the eye.

      This is a prospective study of the reproducibility of three non-traditional means of IOP
      measurements: scleral tonopen, scleral pneumatonometry, and transpalpebral Diaton tonometer.
      Evaluating these means of measurements may be important for future studies investigating the
      effect of PROSE wear on intraocular pressure.

      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria

      The participant will be eligible to participate if the following criteria apply:

        1. Written Informed Consent has been obtained prior to any study-related procedures taking
           place

        2. Written documentation has been obtained in accordance with the relevant county and local
           privacy requirements, where applicable

        3. Male or female, 18 years of age and older prior to the initial visit

        4. Is an established wearer of PROSE in both eyes; without fenestrations or channels; with
           diameter equal to or greater than 18.0 mm

        5. Upon examination by the investigator, there is adequate exposure of the sclera as
           required for IOP measurements with the planned device

        6. In the opinion of the investigator, the subject has the ability to follow study
           instructions

        7. In the opinion of the investigator, the subject has the ability to complete all study
           procedures and visits

      The participant would not be eligible to participate if at least one of the following
      criteria is met:

        1. Is aphakic (i.e., missing their natural lens inside the eye)

        2. Is currently participating in any other type of eye-related clinical or research study

        3. Is pregnant or nursing as reported by the subject

        4. Less than 18 years of age

        5. Has a condition or is in a situation which, in the investigator's opinion, may put the
           subject at significant risk, may confound study outcomes, or may significantly interfere
           with the subject's participation in the study

        6. Has had previous ocular surgery within the past 12 weeks

        7. Has a diagnosis of glaucoma, glaucoma suspect, ocular hypertension or prior glaucoma
           surgery

      The following special populations will be excluded from this study:

        -  Adults unable to consent (including adults unable to read and understand English)

        -  Individuals who are not yet adults (infants, children, teenagers)

        -  Pregnant women

        -  Prisoners

        -  Employees of BostonSight

      Vulnerable Populations

      The following special populations will be excluded from this study:

        -  Adults unable to consent (including adults unable to read and understand English)

        -  Individuals who are not yet adults (infants, children, teenagers)

        -  Pregnant women

        -  Prisoners

        -  Employees of BostonSight

      Number of Subjects A minimum of 30 subjects will be enrolled in this study with 10 subjects
      in each of the three cohorts. This is a low risk study. The investigators can expect an
      approximate 10% drop-out rate, so the investigators will expect to recruit approximately 33
      subjects; and the first 30 to be eligible and complete the study will be used for data
      analysis.

      The first 10 subjects will be randomly chosen for the first cohort (scleral TonoPen), the
      second 10 subjects will be randomly chosen for the second cohort (scleral pneumatonometry),
      and the third 10 subjects will be randomly chosen for the third cohort (Diaton).

      Recruitment Methods Recruitment will begin once IRB approval has been received and will occur
      through BostonSight. The subject pool will consist of patients who are actively coming
      through the clinic. The investigators anticipate that all our subjects will be from the
      current patient population at BostonSight. Patients will be recruited via mailing and/or
      email and at office visits. If a patient is interested in participating in the study, they
      will be directed to the principal investigator or the study coordinator who will go over the
      study and ask the screening questions. If they are eligible based on the screening criteria,
      they will be invited for participation in the study. If the person calls to learn about the
      study, the investigator or coordinator will use the outline to determine initial eligibility.
      Current patients of BostonSight may also be recruited as a result of a search of the patient
      database. A partial HIPAA waiver is requested to permit the investigators to use the database
      to identify prospective patients.

      The primary endpoints in this study are as follows:

      1. Intraocular pressure

        1. Tonopen, scleral with PD

        2. Pneumatonometer, scleral with PD

        3. Diaton, transpalpebral with PD

      Procedures Involved Once a subject has been identified, the initial visit will be scheduled.

      During the visit:

        1. Informed consent will be completed

        2. Record the patient's general medical history and habitual contact lens information,
           including lens design, power, and diameter.

        3. An investigator will conduct visual acuity assessments of both eyes (Snellen).

        4. Assess the fit of the PROSE device via slit lamp assessment of both eyes.

        5. Assess the cornea and conjunctiva of both eyes with the PROSE device on and off.

        6. The investigator will instill one drop of topical anesthetic in both eyes followed by a
           lubricating preservative-free artificial tear drop, such as Refresh Plus, prior to IOP
           measurements.

        7. Measure intraocular pressure of both eyes with the PD on via (method depends on which
           cohort subject is in):

             1. Scleral TonoPen

             2. Scleral pneumatonometry

             3. Transpalpebral Diaton

        8. Assess the conjunctiva of both eyes after measurement with the PD on
    
  