
    
      Old age is associated with declining skeletal muscle mitochondrial bioenergetics with related
      decrements in cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and physical function that predispose to
      frailty, disability, and diminished quality of life. While exercise training may moderate and
      possibly even reverse declines in mitochondrial bioenergetics, potential for such benefit is
      typically confounded by exercise intolerance with early fatigability that results from the
      same age-related mitochondrial declines. Consequently, sedentariness is endemic and insidious
      among the growing population of older adults. This trial is to study the utility of inorganic
      nitrite salts as a novel means to modify this detrimental pattern. Classic studies
      demonstrate that nitrite facilitates hypoxic vasodilation in muscle. This investigator's
      preliminary data suggests that nitrite treatment also augments skeletal muscle mitochondrial
      bioenergetics in older adults. This investigator proposes improving mitochondrial function
      will also be reflected in clinical parameters, including CRF as well as broader functional
      attributes (endurance, strength, and balance) that enable physical activity (PA) and
      opportunity to mitigate frailty and disability. As such, this application is in line with the
      National Institute on Aging's mission to develop targeted interventions to prevent and treat
      age-associated conditions. This multi-disciplinary team has published seminal work indicating
      that mitochondrial bioenergetics and CRF are significant determinants of physical function in
      older adults. In parallel efforts, this investigative team showed efficacy of chronic nitrite
      therapy to improve mitochondrial bioenergetics in older sedentary adults. Only one month of
      nitrite therapy significantly improved ex vivo assessments of mitochondrial energetics in
      skeletal muscle biopsies, concomitant with increased skeletal muscle sirtuin-3 expression, a
      nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) dependent lysine deacetylase and key regulator of
      mitochondrial metabolism. These key data reinforce the premise that nitrite enhances vital
      mitochondrial metabolism in older adults. Moreover, improvement in muscle energetics in
      nitrite-treated older adults was linked with increased exercise efficiency as evidenced by
      reduced oxygen consumption (VO2) during submaximal steady-state walking. This data supports
      the hypothesis that nitrite will make physical function easier such that physical activity
      will increase.
    
  