
    
      Specifics aims

        -  Compare radiographic and clinical results of guided bone regeneration (GBR) technique in
           the treatment of peri-implantitis using membrane and bone substitute (JHS HAP91 ® + JHS
           COL-HAP-91®) to surgical approach without bone substitutes.

        -  Compare the radiographic and clinical results of GBR with surgical therapy without
           biomaterials

        -  Evaluate radiographic changes in bone levels after GBR therapy.

        -  Evaluate changes in probing depth (PD) after GBR therapy.

        -  Evaluate the long term predictability of GBR and surgical therapy in the treatment of
           peri-implantitis.

      Study Design This prospective clinical trial will recruit to clinical periodontal and
      peri-implant examination, individuals diagnosed with peri-implantitis who fit the eligibility
      criteria described below. After the clinical examination the individuals will receive oral
      hygiene instructions and those diagnosed with peri-implantitis will take implants
      standardized radiographic exams prior to surgery. Only circular and/or bowl-shaped bone
      defects will be selected for the study.

      Sampling In this design the inclusion of at least 15 individuals is estimated for each
      experimental group when it performs a sample calculation with power of 90% and a significance
      level of 95% considering an outcome data from previous studies.

      Individuals diagnosed with peri-implantitis will be recruited in two specialized private
      treatment centers and post graduation schools from June 2013 to June 2016. The total sample
      of 15 eligible implants with peri-implantitis per group will be treated (n total = 30).

      Randomization process After the clinical and radiographic examination individuals will be
      scheduled for completion of the surgical procedure. It will be carried out a process of
      "Central Stratified Randomization" which shall consist of forty five opaque envelopes, where
      it will be placed the IDs of each treatment group (group 1 or group 2). The envelopes shall
      be sealed and shuffled. Each new implant in the study, at the time of surgery, after the
      cleaning and decontamination of the surface will be sorted for one treatment group. One
      envelope of subsequent numbering will be opened by a surgical assistant to determine the
      procedure that will be performed. In this way the individuals will be listed in each of the
      two different treatment groups.

      Peri-implantitis treatment Individuals will be allocated at the time of surgery in each of
      the following treatment groups: Group 1: surgical debridement of the defect and mechanical
      decontamination by means of plastic curettes, bone defects will be treated later with JHS
      COL-HAP91® + JHS HAP-91® (n = 15); Group 2: only surgical debridement and mechanical
      decontamination by means of plastic curettes (n = 15). All groups will receive the same
      treatment for implant surface decontamination: debridement with plastic curette Implacare
      Hu-Friedy®, cleaning the surface with chlorhexidine gel 2% during 3 minutes and abundant
      irrigation with saline solution 0.9%.

      All individuals should follow the following post operative drug protocol: use of Amoxicillin
      500 mg 3 times a day for 07 days after surgery. Individuals allergic to Amoxicillin will be
      treated with Clindamycin 300 mg, 3 times a day, for 07 days. Analgesics, Tylenol 750 mg 3
      times a day, and anti-inflammatory Nimesulide 100 mg 2 times a day will be prescribed.

      Oral hygiene care will be strengthened and will be prescribed mouthwash two times a day
      (12/12 hour) 0.12% chlorhexidine during 21 days. Postoperative control will be carried out
      with 5, 10, 15 and 30 days. Return and maintenance shall be carried out with 60 and 90 days,
      at these moments new clinical examination will be held to evaluate peri-implant conditions,
      reinforcement for oral hygiene and prophylaxis. Recall visits with 6, 12 and 18 months will
      be made to measure peri-implant and maintenance parameters.

      Standardized radiographic examinations will be carried out previously to the surgery,
      immediately after the surgery and with 6, 12 and 18 months for assessment of changes in bone
      levels obtained with the surgical procedures. Through comparison and measures carried out
      with x-rays performed preoperatively benchmarks as tops and valleys of the threads and the
      head of the implants will be used to carry out the measurements.

      The x-rays will default on the exposure time and the positioning of the radiographic taking.
      Positioners and records will be used with dense silicone bite for standardization of survey
      position.

      Peri-implant mucositis diagnosis An implant will be diagnosed with peri-implant mucositis in
      the presence peri-implant bleeding probing without bone loss.

      Peri-implantitis diagnosis An implant will be diagnosed with peri-implantitis when present
      bleeding on probing and/or suppuration, a probing depth (PDi) greater than or equal to 5 mm
      and presence of bone loss confirmed by radiography, or a value of PDi greater than or equal
      to 5 mm even in the absence of bleeding or suppuration but presence of bone loss after
      radiographic examination.

      The implants that shows PDi greater than or equal to 5 mm with bleeding on probing and not
      present bone loss, confirmed by radiographic examination, will be diagnosed as peri-implant
      mucositis and will not be included in the study.

      Determination of peri-implant clinical status The following clinical parameters will be
      evaluated and recorded for all implants present in the oral cavity, with the exception of
      bone loss that will meet specific criteria (only implants with clinical signs of
      peri-implantitis): Plaque Index (PIi) (Silness and Löe, 1964 modified by Mombelli et al.
      1987) (26, 27); Peri-implant probing depth in millimeters (PPDi); % os sites with
      peri-implant bleeding on probing (BOPi); Peri-implant suppuration (absence or presence) (Si);
      The presence and amount of peri-implant keratinized mucosa (KMi) (28); Presence of
      peri-implant bone loss in radiographic examination (BL).

      Determination of radiographic bone level peri-implant Evaluation of peri-implant bone level
      will be held through periapical x-rays taken at the time of the examination of individuals by
      parallelism or standardized cone along with use of radiographic film positioners and acrylic
      bite records for standardization of position of the radiographic taking. Immediately after
      the surgical treatment, will be carried out x-rays and after 6, 12 and 18 months.

      Evaluation of postoperative radiographic measurements must be carried out by another
      examiner, which does not have knowledge of the surgical treatment that was performed.
      Measures will be undertaken to assessment of post-treatment bone changes. For this it will be
      used as reference points the base of the platform and the turns of the implant.

      Data of interest Through the assessment of individuals' records, shall be noted the following
      data concerning implants: implant installation time in months; amount of installed implants;
      implant function time in months; reason for tooth loss; periodontal phenotype (thin or
      thick); evaluation of occlusal functionality, type of the implants, implant surface treatment
      (present/absent) and when available type of surface treatment.

      Clinical periodontal status The following clinical parameters will be evaluated and recorded
      for all teeth present in the oral cavity: Plaque Index (PIi) (Silness and Löe, 1964)(27);
      Pocket probing depth (PPD); Clinical attachment level (CAL); % of sites with periodontal
      bleeding on probing (BOP).
    
  