
    
      Eosinophilic esophagitis (EE) is an inflammatory condition of the esophagus found in the
      pediatric and adult population. It is characterized by an intense eosinophilic infiltration
      of the surface lining of the esophagus. EE is becoming an increasingly recognized diagnosis
      in individuals presenting with food bolus impaction and dysphagia. A history of chronic solid
      food dysphagia, food impaction and young age have all been noted characteristics in those
      patients subsequently diagnosed with EE. Eosinophilic esophagitis can be suspected by
      clinical presentation but histologic confirmation is necessary for a definitive diagnosis.
      The finding of large numbers of eosinophils (>15 per high powered field) on biopsy specimens
      are needed to confirm EE. Endoscopic features such as mucosal rings, linear furrows, proximal
      strictures and white esophageal papules have all been described in patients with EE.

      The underlying pathophysiology of EE is poorly understood but is thought to be associated
      with a TH2-type allergic inflammatory response. Other studies have also suggested that immune
      dysregulation may play a role in the underlying pathophysiology of this disorder.

      The optimal treatment of EE has not been determined. There have been studies noting that
      swallowed fluticasone propionate (FP), an inhaled corticosteroid, has shown benefit in adult
      and pediatric patients with EE. Esophageal dilation has been used in patients with EE with
      persistent dysphagia and food impaction. No study has evaluated the improvement in dysphagia
      and incidence of future food bolus impaction in those patients treated with early esophageal
      dilation. Our aim is to determine if esophageal dilation and standard drug therapy improves
      symptoms of dysphagia. We also plan to obtain and store esophageal biopsy specimens for
      future immunologic assessment to help determine the underlying pathophysiology Eosinophilic
      Esophagitis.
    
  