
    
      The goal of this long-term follow-up study is to extend the follow-up of women in the OPTIMAL
      study up to 5 years from the time of surgery and to compare the success and complication
      rates of the two surgical treatment groups over this extended time period. The Operations and
      Pelvic Muscle Training in the Management of Apical Support Loss (OPTIMAL) study is a
      randomized trial designed to compare sacrospinous ligament fixation (SSLF) to uterosacral
      vaginal vault ligament suspension (ULS) and to assess the role of perioperative behavioral
      therapy/pelvic muscle training (PMT) in women undergoing vaginal surgery for apical or
      uterine prolapse and stress urinary incontinence (SUI).

      The OPTIMAL study includes a two-year follow up from the time of surgery, which is too short
      to evaluate the long-term sequelae of the surgical procedures. A further goal of E-OPTIMAL is
      to investigate a strategy for improving enrollment and retention in long-term studies of
      women undergoing surgery for pelvic organ prolapse and SUI, by randomizing subjects to two
      different recruitment methods.

      The primary aims of this extension study are to compare SSLF and ULS for the following
      outcomes up to 5 years after surgery in women with Stage 2-4 prolapse involving the vaginal
      apex or uterus and stress urinary incontinence:

        1. time to surgical failure;

        2. the long-term functional and health-related quality of life (QOL), adjusted for PMT
           treatment group;

        3. the annual and cumulative incidence, resolution, and persistence of pelvic floor
           symptoms (urinary, bowel, and prolapse), adjusted for PMT treatment group.

      An additional primary aim (aim 4) is to determine whether exposure to a standardized video
      detailing the importance of long-term follow-up studies for pelvic organ prolapse prior to
      the informed consent process will improve enrollment and/or retention in E-OPTIMAL. We will
      utilize a conceptual framework that assesses three concepts (motivation, barriers and
      pragmatic issues) at two levels (study level and personal/individual level). This conceptual
      framework was developed following a review of the scant available literature on the topic, as
      well as during discussions with investigators who are experienced in recruiting and retaining
      participants in pelvic floor disorders studies.
    
  