
    
      iCBT is the delivery of a tailored structured cognitive and behaviour therapy based
      programme, with support, to individuals with mild to moderate symptoms of depression and
      anxiety. There is now a substantial body of research evidence that supports the efficacy and
      effectiveness of internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy for depression and anxiety.
      Historically, a number of iCBT interventions have been used in clinical practice in IAPT
      services. However, they have often suffered with poor engagement and consequently poor
      clinical outcomes. More recent developments in the field have produced more robust
      technological platforms, where content is delivered through a variety of media that enhance
      productivity, increase engagement and produce better clinical outcomes. The SilverCloud
      intervention has been demonstrated to be a clinical effective evidence-based cognitive
      behavioural treatment option.

      Approximately 90% of primary care patients with depression have one or more visits to a
      primary care physician (PCP) over a 12-month period, whereas less than one-third see a mental
      health professional. It has been reported that individuals with an anxiety disorder are 3 to
      5 times more likely to visit their primary care physician than those without, but their
      symptoms are often associated with physical causes. PCPs often do not have training in
      psychological therapies and therefore they do not feel competent to treat individuals
      presenting with depression or anxiety. Often these individuals are prescribed antidepressant
      or anti-anxiety medications.

      The use of online programs to deliver CBT to people with mental health disorders is becoming
      increasingly popular. Internet-delivered CBT (iCBT) consists of programs designed for the
      treatment of specific disorders, such as depression and anxiety, which are delivered via the
      internet. These programs can be clinician-guided and/or self-administered interventions.
      Evidence suggests that iCBT can benefit individuals with anxiety and depression when offered
      in a service context that offers brief support from trained staff. Such iCBT interventions
      are widely-used in some European countries and the recommended length of treatment is
      generally 6 - 8 online sessions. A robust evidence base supporting the use and effectiveness
      of internet-delivered treatments for depression and anxiety has been established. Outcomes
      have been greater for those programs offering the additional feature of human support.

      The current study will examine the feasibility of implementing an iCBT platform within a
      primary care setting. This objective can be further dismantled into several sub objectives:

        1. Is the model of implementation (screening, recruitment, and adherence to the
           internet-delivered intervention) feasible?

        2. Will patients experience the iCBT intervention as satisfactory within their primary care
           treatment?

        3. What is the feedback of the Primary Care Practitioners about the implementation of the
           internet-delivered intervention as part of primary care?

        4. What is the experience of the trained supporters who assist patients within the iCBT
           intervention?

        5. Can an internet-delivered intervention achieve improvements in depressive and anxiety
           symptoms for users?

        6. Can patient attitudes toward internet-delivered interventions predict treatment outcome?
    
  