
    
      Urinary tract infections (UTI) are the most common type of human bacterial disease, prompting
      more than 10 million physician office visits annually at a healthcare cost of over $1 billion
      dollars. Treatment of UTI is typically empiric or culture-driven antibiotics which are
      associated with ever increasing bacterial resistance. Over the last decade, The Human
      Microbiome Project has established that even 'culture-negative' urine represents a diverse
      ecosystem of bacteria. Despite broad use of antibiotics to cure disease for the past 90
      years, the broader impact of antibiotics on typical flora are not well understood.
      Antibiotics are also commonly used as prophylaxis for surgical procedures in the urinary
      tract altering patient outcomes in unforeseen ways. Despite widespread utilization of
      antibiotics, the longitudinal impact on the dynamic intravesical environment remains
      completely unknown.

      Dysbiosis in the microbiome has been suggested as a causative agent in a wide range of
      disease: arthritis, metabolic disorders, neurologic disease, inflammatory bowel conditions,
      and cancer. Yet there remains a fundamental knowledge gap regarding the short and long-term
      effect of antibiotics on microbiota communities. Specifically within the urinary tract,
      variance in baseline commensal organisms have been associated with interstitial cystitis,
      overactive bladder, frequent symptomatic urinary tract infection and potentially cancer
      development. The study of microbiota reveal pathways and mechanisms that play important roles
      in immunological response and health but studies typically are limited to the gut.

      To address this knowledge gap, the investigators plan a placebo controlled randomized trial
      to test the longitudinal impact of 10 days of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole on the urinary
      microbiome in healthy adults. Data collection for individual participants will persist for a
      period of 6 months. The investigators hypothesize antibiotic administration contributes to a
      rise in bacterial resistance and directly leads to urine microbiome dysbiosis. The
      investigators further hypothesize the urinary microbiome does not return to baseline, with
      loss of certain bacteria permanent during the study period. While the investigators' study is
      groundbreaking and novel, the feasibility of the investigators' experimental plan has been
      previously demonstrated in the study of the salivary and gut microbiome. Ultimately the
      investigators anticipate even a single course of antibiotic treatment may increase the risk
      of bacterial resistance and lead to long-lasting shifts in the urinary microbiome. If
      confirmed, this knowledge will directly influence clinical decision making in antibiotic
      selection, duration, and utility.
    
  