
    
      Postoperative complication after major abdominal surgery, such as pancreatic surgery and
      hilar cholangiocarcinoma surgery, is higher, up to 30 to 50%.It is the mainly reason for the
      patient to admit to ICU. Among this, the most common and difficult to handle complication is
      mainly anastomotic fistula, abdominal effusion and subsequent secondary infection. Delayed
      diagnosis can cause systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), multiple organ failure (
      MODS), and even death. From a surgical point of view, it leads to surgical failure and often
      need the second surgery. However, the diagnosis and treatment of postoperative infection is
      also facing two problems: it is difficult to confirm the diagnosis and make treatment
      decision. Hence, there is a strong need of an additional tool to early diagnose post
      operative complication.

      Serum procalcitonin (PCT), is a 116 amino-acids protein produced by C-cells of the thyroid
      gland. PCT baseline levels are low (<0.05 ng/ml), but increase significantly in patients with
      severe bacterial infections. Therefore, PCT levels are used to monitor the course and
      prognosis of systemic bacterial infections and to tailor the therapeutic interventions more
      efficiently. Furthermore, PCT could serve as an early predictive marker for the clinical
      course of septic complications after abdominal surgery. The aim of this study is to
      demonstrate if PCT is a more sensible, specific and reliable biomarker of post operative
      complication than other biomarkers

      The investigators conducted a observational, prospective study. All patients undergoing
      electively hepatopancreatobiliary surgery in seven centres are recruited. In all cases white
      blood count (WBC), C-reactive protein (CRP) and PCT levels are measured in 1st, 3rd and 5th
      postoperative day (POD). Informed consent was obtained in all patients.The study is approved
      by the hospital's Ethical Committee.
    
  