
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the progression-free and overall survival of patients with resectable colorectal
           liver metastases treated with surgery with or without neoadjuvant and adjuvant
           oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium.

        -  Compare the percentage of patients with total resection with these two treatments.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating
      center, prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no), plasma CEA level in ng/mL at diagnosis of
      liver metastases (5 or less vs 6 to 30 vs 31 or greater), serosa extension of primary cancer
      (absent T1 or T2 vs present T3 or T4), lymphatic spread of primary cancer (absent vs present
      N+), time interval between diagnosis of primary tumor to metastases (2 years or more vs fewer
      than 2 years), and number of metastases (1 to 3 vs 4). Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and leucovorin calcium (LV)
           IV over 2 hours followed by fluorouracil (5-FU) IV over 22 hours on days 1 and 2.
           Treatment repeats every 15 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      At 2 to 5 weeks after chemotherapy, patients undergo liver resection. Patients with
      progressive disease after 3 courses of chemotherapy undergo liver resection at least 2 weeks
      after completion of course 3 and do not receive postoperative chemotherapy.

      At 2 to 5 weeks after surgery, patients receive oxaliplatin, LV, and 5-FU as in preoperative
      chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo liver resection. Patients are followed every 3 months for 2
           years and then every 6 months thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 330 patients (165 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 3 years.
    
  