
    
      This study consists of an observational, non-randomized, open, long-term study in diseased
      and non-diseased subjects. There are no investigational treatments, drugs, or procedures
      associated with subject participation. This study will consist of two groups:

        1. Group #1: Diseased subjects (including COVID-19 known positive subjects)

        2. Group #2: Non-diseased subjects

           The biological samples collected may be tested numerous times for genes/biomarkers, and
           not yet-discovered genes/biomarkers, and other genetic and biological materials
           associated with healthcare-related conditions. In some cases, cells or tissues may be
           maintained in culture in order to study functions of living cells in both a healthy and
           diseased state.

           Disease subjects who qualify for this project (see inclusion and exclusion criteria)
           will continue with their usual or specialized care for their underlying health-care
           related condition(s).

           Disease subjects (Group #1)

           Other than the visit(s) for obtaining informed consent, the collection of biological
           samples, and the hand dynamometer test, subjects will have no other responsibilities to
           this project with regard to additional or follow-up visits, however sample collection
           may continue at routine standard of care visits. The collection and storage of tissue
           and/or fluid will be as the following:

             -  The storage of tissue or fluid that is collected during a routine, standard of care
                procedure(s) or treatment(s) that is leftover following clinical testing or is
                otherwise discarded,

             -  The storage of blood collected as a stand-alone blood draw procedure or during a
                routine, standard of care blood draw procedure,

             -  The storage of tissue or fluid that is collected separate from standard of care
                procedures, such as a blood draw and/or buccal swab, and/or

             -  The storage of additional tissue or fluid that is collected during a routine,
                standard of care image guided biopsy (for example, collection of additional tumor
                samples during a computed tomography guided biopsy) under the direction and
                discretion of the interventional physician. Additional biopsies will be limited up
                to 4 cores with the size of each core biopsy being equivalent to a grain of rice.

           Biological samples will be collected as appropriate, based on the subject's underlying
           healthcare related condition, either during a routine or specialized care procedure,
           when other ordered lab work is done, or as a stand-alone sample collection.
           Participating subjects may be asked to provide consent to one or more collections of
           biological samples. Biological sample collection from the general population subjects
           may be a separate blood draw and/or buccal swab.

           Examples of the biological samples that may be collected are as follows (but not limited
           to):

             -  Blood/Plasma (up to 40 ml of blood)

             -  Ascites

             -  Bone Marrow

             -  Buccal smear (cheek)

             -  Cartilage

             -  Cerebrospinal fluid

             -  Mucus

             -  Saliva

             -  Sputum

             -  Stool

             -  Sweat

             -  Synovial fluid

             -  Tears

             -  Tissue samples (e.g. muscle, skin, nails, tumor, etc.)

             -  Urine

             -  Seminal fluid

             -  Genetic material extracted from any biological sample

             -  Other biological samples as identified by the Principal Investigator or
                Co-Investigators and agreed by the subject

           Buccal swab will be an alternative source of DNA when blood or other biological samples
           cannot be obtained. In some instances, the remaining portion of specimens obtained for
           diagnostic purposes will be used. The use of these residual clinical specimens may
           sometimes (but not always) make the collection of a blood specimen by venipuncture
           unnecessary.

           Prior to each blood draw (i.e., at stand alone or part of standard of care if the
           investigators are performing the blood draw), or other biological sample collection,
           subjects will perform 3 maximal effort handgrip strength tests. In a seated position
           with the elbow bent to 90 degrees of flexion, each contraction will be 3 seconds in
           duration. Contractions will be separated by 60 seconds of rests. All contractions will
           be performed by the patients-reported dominant hand. The investigators will record the
           peak force from each contraction.

           Patients that have been previously tested for COVID-19 will be uniquely handled.
           Specifically, Intermountain Healthcare patients previously tested and with a known
           positive or negative COVID-19 result available in the Intermountain Healthcare
           electronic medical records will be recruited for study participation. Subjects will
           undergo a remote phone script electronic consent procedures for the purpose of
           collecting saliva.

           Saliva samples will be collected once in each subject at the Intermountain Healthcare
           locations identified below. It is possible, however, that a second sample may be needed.
           Reason for the collection of a second saliva sample may include, but is not limited to:
           confirmational testing of the first sample, the first sample was inadvertently
           compromised or destroyed, or for other unforeseeable reasons, such as virus exposure
           after the initial sample was collected. Subjects that consented to this study may
           provide an additional sample(s) for up to 1-year after enrollment if they feel like they
           have been in contact or exposed to COVID-19. Approximately 2.0 mL of saliva will be
           collected with each saliva kit.

           Saliva collection kits (see below for description) for Intermountain Healthcare
           providers will be available for pick-up at the following sites:

             -  COVID-19 screening location on the Dixie Regional Medical Center campus,

             -  Primary Outpatient Laboratory at Dixie Regional Medical Center,

             -  Dixie Regional Cancer Center Laboratory, and

             -  Eccles Outpatient Laboratory Intermountain Medical Center (Murray, UT)

           Saliva samples will be dropped-off at the location where the kits are available. Kits
           are not required to be dropped-off at the same location as pick-up. When necessary,
           saliva kits will be mailed to subjects with the appropriate material for an expedited
           return to Precision Genomics at the Intermountain Healthcare - Cancer Center (St.
           George, UT). Saliva samples may be obtained during the caregivers' routine shift
           (preferably at the end of their shift).

           Saliva will be collected using a self-collection kit (Zymo Research, Irvin, CA USA,
           catalog #: R1210) that provides the materials and instructions for collecting and
           stabilizing the specimens. We anticipate sample collection to take 2 to 5 minutes. After
           collection, saliva samples will be sent or delivered to the Intermountain Healthcare
           Cancer Center (St. George, UT). Samples will be immediately de-identified.

           Saliva samples will be tested for the presence of COVID-19 using a previously published
           rtPCR-based protocol to specifically detect COVID-19 RNA at Precision Genomics
           (Intermountain Healthcare, Cancer Center, St. George, UT USA). Saliva samples may also
           undergo various genotyping, whole genome sequencing, transcriptomic interrogation, and
           proteomic analyses, and may be tested numerous times for genomic and/or genetic
           biomarkers, and not-yet-discovered genes/biomarkers, and other genetic and biological
           materials associated with healthcare-related conditions in other follow-up studies.

           Although we anticipate utilizing the procedures described above, the challenges
           associated with this novel virus may require the necessity of implementing a variety of
           different assays and procedures to develop a robust and valid testing procedure.
           Therefore, it is plausible that DNA will be analyzed by downstream molecular
           technologies, such as next-generation sequencing, digital drop polymerase chain reaction
           (ddPCR), and other proteomic and molecular analyses. With that said, all data analyses
           and analytical procedures will be performed at Intermountain Healthcare's - Precision
           Genomics.

           Negative results will not be returned to subjects. In the case of a positive
           research-based test result, a clinical research coordinator will contact and direct the
           participant to obtain another COVID-19 test at participating Intermountain Healthcare
           COVID-19 testing sites. We expect results from the research-based screening test to be
           returned within 24-hours.

           Although not likely, there is a possibility that an Intermountain Healthcare patient
           with a previously known negative test could test positive with the COVID-19 testing
           performed with participation in this study. In this situation, the subject will be
           informed of the new positive test result and immediately advised to seek conformational
           testing at a nearby COVID-19 screening location.

           DNA extraction from the biological samples will be performed and stored at the
           Translational Science Center in St. George, UT USA. For novel disease-causing gene
           searches that may be done, biological samples will be sent to collaborating laboratories
           and/or organizations, depending on the needed specialty and the likelihood of finding a
           novel gene. If researchers or the consulting laboratory require additional information
           in order to perform phenotype/genotype correlation studies, results from tests such as
           standard physical examinations may be requested. These tests will be requested and/or
           conducted through the subject's primary care physician.

           Non-disease subjects (Group #2)

           Other than the visit for obtaining informed consent, the collection of biological
           samples, and the hand dynamometer test, subjects will have no other responsibilities to
           this project with regard to additional or follow-up visits, however sample collection
           may continue at routine standard of care visits. The collection and storage of tissue
           and/or fluid will be as the following:

             -  The storage of tissue or fluid that is collected during an elective-surgical
                procedure (such as anterior cruciate ligament surgery) that is otherwise discarded,
                and/or

             -  The storage of tissue or fluid that is collected separate from standard of care
                procedures, such as an elective and consented blood draw and/or buccal swab
                procedure for the storage and use of the subject's blood for various analytical
                procedures.

           Study duration

           There is no planned end-date for this project; therefore, the study duration is
           indefinite for the recruitment of subjects, collection of biological samples, and/or for
           completion of the project. All biological samples collected and patient information
           obtained will be archived in long-term storage at an Intermountain Healthcare facility.

           Subjects may be screened at all participating facilities within Intermountain
           Healthcare.

           Following screening and recruitment into the project, and after samples are obtained,
           participating subjects will not have any other follow up or non-standard of care visits
           required by this project, however sample collection may continue at routine standard of
           care visits. For this project, subjects give consent for unrestricted use of his/her
           sample(s), i.e. the sample(s) will be used indefinitely, until it is gone or until the
           patient withdraws consent.

           Study enrollment

           Enrollment is open-ended in this study, and therefore, there is no planned targeted
           enrollment accrual.
    
  