
    
      2.1 | Design and sample A single-blind, randomized, controlled trial with a prospective
      pretest-posttest experimental design was used. Prospective participants were recruited from
      the obstetrics and gynecology clinic of a medical center in southern Taiwan. The inclusion
      criteria were (1) having experienced at least two consecutive miscarriages and (2) providing
      informed consent to participate. A convenience sample of 62 women meeting the inclusion
      criteria were enrolled in this study as participants.

      2.2 | Intervention The nursing counseling intervention was implemented by a maternity nursing
      instructor. During the 12-week prenatal genetic testing evaluation period, experimental-group
      participants received three nursing consultation sessions plus regular care, while their
      control-group peers received regular care only. The counseling intervention was designed to
      facilitate self-awareness, reduce self-blame, clarify doubts, listen to patient concerns,
      promote forward thinking, and encourage life planning.

      2.4 | Procedure and ethical considerations This study was conducted between October 2016 and
      January 2018 after approval had been obtained from the research ethics committee of the
      participating institution. The objectives of this study and the rights of participants were
      fully explained to each participant. Participation in this study was voluntary, and refusal
      to participate had no impact on subsequent access to or quality of care.

      The 62 women who met the inclusion criteria were assigned systematically from a random
      starting point using a week as the unit (Yang & Chen, 2018) to either the experimental group
      (n = 31) or the control group (n = 31). To avoid contaminating data by allowing participants
      to communicate with one another during the prenatal genetic testing evaluation, data were
      collected on the first week from experimental-group participants, who were selected by a
      research assistant who draw lots (E for experimental group and C for control group) from a
      sack. Subsequently, the group allotment for the following week was systematically assigned in
      sequence to either the control group or the experimental group. All of the participants
      completed the Demographic Data Form, PSQI, EPDS, PSS, and ISEL questionnaires at pretest
      (immediately prior to the prenatal genetic testing evaluation) and at post-test (12 weeks
      post-intervention). The post-test set of questionnaires was mailed to all of the participants
      for completion and return to the researchers in the included postage-paid, pre-addressed
      envelope. Thirty experimental-group participants and 28 control-group participants completed
      both pretest and post-test questionnaires. The CONSORT flow diagram for this study is shown
      in Figure 1.

      2.5 | Statistical analysis Data in this study were analyzed using the SPSS (version 17.0 for
      Windows, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) statistical software package. Tests used to analyze
      differences in baseline characteristics between the two groups included the Chi-square (χ2)
      test for categorical variables and the t-test for continuous variables. Paired sample t-tests
      were conducted before and after nursing counseling to measure whether there were any
      statistically significant changes in outcome variables. All results with p < .05 were
      considered statistically significant.
    
  