
    
      Urodynamic studies routinely involve instillation of iohexol (OmnipaqueTM), a low osmolality
      contrast agent, into the bladder followed by fluoroscopic imaging to assess for reflux or
      variant anatomy of the genitourinary system. Recently, sulfur hexafluoride lipid-type A
      microspheres (LumasonTM), an ultrasound contrast agent, has been approved in the United
      States for intravesicular administration in the pediatric population. Contrast enhanced
      voiding urosonography (CEvUS) is being increasingly utilized in the place of voiding
      cystourethrograms, with the major advantages being decreased (zero) radiation for the
      patient, as well as decreased cost. Given the similarity in procedure between urodynamic
      studies (UDS) and voiding cystourethrograms, we hypothesize that a urodynamic study may be
      performed with contrast enhanced ultrasound instead of fluoroscopy. We plan to continue
      enrollment from our feasibility study and perform an efficacy study by recruiting a group of
      105 patients under the age of 18, who are willing to undergo their normally schedule UDS
      using CEvUS to image the study in place of fluoroscopy. The UDS typically consists of two
      cycles of bladder filling and voiding; we intend replace the use of fluoroscopy and iohexel
      with ultrasound and sulfur hexafluoride lipid-type A microspheres. This will decrease the
      time commitment and eliminate radiation exposure for the patient. Data to be analyzed will
      include images from the study and patient/caregiver preference. Results from the ceVUS images
      will be compared to images obtained during previous tests imaged with fluoroscopy from the
      same patients currently enrolled in this study. Bladder shape and morphology, bladder neck
      configuration and performance, structure of the urethra, presence and degree of
      vesicoureteral reflux, and active voiding images will all be compared to fluoroscopy images
      from previous studies. The purpose of the study is to demonstrate that ceVUS is effective as
      an imaging technique for urodynamic studies, with an ultimate goal of using ceVUS instead of
      fluoroscopy in all urodynamic and voiding studies in order to decrease pediatric radiation
      exposure. The hypothesis is that ceVUS will be as effective for imaging urodynamics studies
      as fluoroscopy.
    
  