
    
      Background: Chemotherapy may lead to peripheral neuropathy up to 40% in cancer survivors,
      especially in some types of patients with cancer. The effect of acupuncture, an ancient
      Chinese medicine technique, was recognized by the World Health Organization (WHO) in the
      treatment of several diseases. The postulated mechanisms associated with acupuncture in
      analgesia or neurogenesis are still under investigation. Considering a moderate
      recommendation for duloxetine in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy
      (CIPN) based on based on neuropathic pain, and a few treatment options with evidence for
      CIPN, acupuncture might be another option. Nowadays, only small scale pilot studies provided
      initial proof of acupuncture in CIPN, particularly in decreasing neuropathic pain and
      improving neurotoxicity, the study aims to determine the beneficial effects of acupuncture on
      CIPN with a large-scale, multicenter, randomized sham-controlled clinical trial. Furthermore,
      the aim of the study will provide evidence for the clinical therapeutic guideline of CIPN in
      the future.

      Methods: This three-armed, multicenter, randomized, parallel, sham-controlled clinical trial
      will conduct in three centers in Taiwan. We will randomly assign 234 eligible patients into
      three groups, an acupuncture group (n=90), a sham-controlled group (n=90), and a
      waitlist-controlled group (n=54). Each subject maintains the regular treatments of cancer
      except the chemotherapeutic agents designed in our design. The acupuncture group and the
      sham-controlled group will receive three therapeutic sessions each week for four weeks, and
      another two sessions each week for four weeks (a total of 20 sessions at eight weeks). Each
      group will be followed-up for four weeks, to evaluate the persistent efficacy of acupuncture.
      The sham-controlled group will be performed with minimal acupuncture (superficial needling)
      at non-acupoints. The primary outcome measurement will be the changes in the FACT-Ntx
      subscale from baseline to 20th acupuncture sessions. The secondary outcome will be the
      changes in BPI-SF average pain score from baseline to 20th acupuncture sessions. The third
      outcome will be the changes of target forces by von-Frey filament test at each point in hands
      and feet from baseline to 20th acupuncture treatments. from baseline to 20th sessions.
      FACT-Ntx scale and BPI-SF average pain score will be measured at four time-points, including
      baseline, the end of the 12th treatments, the end of the 20th treatments, and the end of the
      study at the 12th week. The von-Frey filament test will be measured at three-time points,
      including baseline, the end of the 20th treatments, and the end of the study at the 12th
      week.
    
  