
    
      Background:

      The gastrointestinal (GI) tract is commonly affected by acute graft-versus-host disease
      (aGVHD) and chronic GVHD (cGVHD) in patients who have undergone blood or marrow stem cell
      transplantation (BMT). Initially, patients are treated with systemic corticosteroids, which
      produce complete response rates in 35 percent. Although short courses of steroids are
      preferred to minimize adverse effects, many patients require systemic treatment chronically
      since GI GVHD can negatively impact quality of life and nutrition status. One option to
      minimize systemic steroid exposure is by nonabsorbable corticosteroids that act locally on
      the GI tract.

      Budesonide (Entocort EC, AstraZeneca, Wilmington, DE) is an FDA-approved oral topical
      corticosteroid for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn s disease involving the
      ileum and/or the ascending colon, and for maintenance of clinical remission of mild to
      moderate Crohn s disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon for up to 3 months.
      It has a high ratio of topical-to-systemic activity with minimally active metabolites, and
      undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism. Since both intestinal GVHD and Crohn s disease
      seem to share a similar pathogenic background, budesonide has been used in the BMT setting
      for GI GVHD, usually in combination with systemic corticosteroids (e.g. methylprednisolone)
      to improve clinical response and allow for more rapid tapering of systemic corticosteroid
      doses.

      First-pass metabolism is mediated mostly by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzyme system. The
      liver is the major site of CYP450-mediated metabolism but the enterocytes of the intestinal
      epithelium are also an important site for drug metabolism. Budesonide undergoes significant
      metabolism by CYP enzymes with substantial first-pass metabolism. The potential for greater
      systemic availability of orally administered budesonide exists when it is given concurrently
      with triazole antifungals, which are commonly prescribed for prophylaxis or treatment of
      fungal infections after transplantation. Fluconazole and voriconazole are moderate and strong
      inhibitors of CYP3A4, respectively, and budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Inhibition of
      CYP3A4 may impair the metabolism of budesonide, resulting in systemic concentrations of
      budesonide and subsequently, adverse effects such as hyperglycemia. If the presence of
      fluconazole or voriconazole does impair budesonide s metabolism, then dose adjustments to
      budesonide may be warranted.

      There are no prospective studies evaluating the effects of fluconazole or voriconazole on
      budesonide s pharmacokinetics in patients who have undergone BMT.

      The primary objective of the proposed study is to determine the effects of fluconazole and
      voriconazole on the trough (Cmin) and peak (Cmax) of budesonide in patients who have
      undergone BMT and who have GI GVHD.

      The primary endpoints are the Cmin and Cmax of budesonide. Secondary endpoints include the
      Cmin of voriconazole.

      Objectives:

      The proposed study seeks to determine the effects of fluconazole and voriconazole on the
      Cminand Cmax of budesonide.

      Eligibility:

      Adult and pediatric subjects (greater than or equal to 13 years of age and greater than or
      equal to 49 kg) who are registered to an NCI or NHLBI protocol who have undergone a bone
      marrow, cord, haplo-cord or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation who have GI GVHD as
      determined by the medical team and who require treatment with budesonide and are candidates
      for antifungal therapy are eligible for this study.

      Design:

      Each subject will serve as his or her own control to minimize the variation in absorption,
      distribution, metabolism and elimination of oral budesonide that can occur from subject to
      subject, due to genetic, anatomic or other unidentified differences. For example, genetic
      polymorphisms of CYP2C19, which is significantly involved in voriconazole s metabolism, could
      otherwise affect the results of the study (i.e. CYP2C19 poor metabolizers may experience
      higher voriconazole serum concentrations, which could results in greater CYP3A4 inhibition
      and higher budesonide exposure). In addition, the longitudinal cohort design of this study
      will be able to answer the research questions posed with fewer research subjects. Research
      subjects will be accrued into one of three cohorts depending on the antifungal prophylaxis
      (or lack thereof) the subject is receiving at study entry and the preference of the medical
      team for continued antifungal coverage after the initiation of budesonide and systemic
      corticosteroids. Subjects who are not currently receiving antifungal prophylaxis or who are
      on fluconazole at baseline are eligible for enrollment in Cohort 1. Subjects in Cohorts 2 and
      3 are receiving voriconazole and fluconazole at study entry, respectively. In Cohort 1, if
      applicable, subjects will stop fluconazole on day -1, and may start micafungin on day 0,
      which will continue through the period off azole prophylaxis if the subject is on systemic
      corticosteroids (and antifungal prophylaxis is deemed necessary). Voriconazole will be
      initiated in the evening on day 7. In Cohorts 2 and 3, fluconazole and voriconazole will be
      discontinued on day 7, and micafungin will be added during the period off azole prophylaxis
      if the subject is on systemic corticosteroids (and antifungal prophylaxis is deemed
      necessary). In all three cohorts, a budesonide Cmin and Cmax will be measured both in the
      presence and absence of concurrent fluconazole or voriconazole therapy. At least a seven day
      interval will be used between interventions to allow for steady state to occur prior to
      measurement of budesonide serum concentrations. There is no literature on the interaction
      between oral budesonide and micafungin, but pharmacokinetic data suggest that micafungin has
      a low potential to cause drug-drug interactions through inhibition of CYP3A4, and thus it is
      assumed that micafungin will not significantly affect the Cmin or Cmax of budesonide in this
      study.
    
  