
    
      The specific aim of this study is to assess the hypothesis that electronic smoking disorders
      the biology of the airway epithelium and alveolar macrophages, to evaluate these changes in
      the lungs of normal nonsmokers exposed to electronic cigarettes, and to directly determine if
      the inhaled smoke from electronic cigarettes disturbs the biology of the naïve lung that has
      not been exposed to tobacco products. Because nicotine can be addictive with continual use,
      we will limit the exposure to a maximum of a nicotine equivalent of 1/2 pack of cigarettes
      over a 5 day period, a level that has been used safely in studies of healthy nonsmokers'
      naïve to nicotine.

      To obtain the most unbiased data about the effect of electronic cigarette use on the lung,
      normal nonsmokers will be briefly exposed to electronic cigarettes and lung cells, airway
      epithelium and alveolar macrophages, lung epithelial lining fluid (ELF) and serum will be
      collected before and after e-cigarette exposure. There will be 5 study groups consisting of
      10 non-smoker subjects (A-E), with each group undergoing an increased exposure to the amount
      of e-cigarettes (Group a being the lowest exposure, group E being the highest). Six of the
      subjects in each group will be exposed to e-cigarettes with nicotine while the remaining four
      in each group being exposed to nicotine-free e-cigarettes. Subjects will be assigned to use
      electronic cigarettes that either do or do not contain nicotine in a randomized, blinded
      manner.

      The duration of which the subjects will be observed for e-cigarette exposure will be 8 days.
      Baselines for each group will be established on Day 1 in which all subjects will undergo a
      bronchoscopy and an assessment of vital signs.

      For subjects in group A, at the day 8 visit after the vital signs are assessed, 3 hours prior
      to bronchoscopy, the subject will be asked to inhale 10 puffs of a "Blu" brand e-cigarette
      (for the nicotine-containing e-cigarette, this is approximately equivalent to < 1 cigarette).
      At 2 hours prior to the bronchoscopy procedure, if the subject has no adverse effect to the
      e-cigarette he/she will again be asked to inhale 10 puffs of the "Blu" e-cigarette. The vital
      signs will again be confirmed and any symptoms assessed prior to proceeding with
      bronchoscopy. Subjects in group B will undergo an identical exposure, but on both days 7 and
      8. Subjects in group C will undergo similar exposure on days 6-8, group D on days 5-8, and
      group E days 4-8 for a maximum of 5 exposure days prior to bronchoscopy. The research team
      will contact subjects at 1 month and 6 months after their Day 8 bronchoscopy in order to
      determine whether or not they have become dependent on nicotine.
    
  