
    
      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is used as recreational substance (Ecstasy),
      research tool to stimulate serotonin (5-HT) and oxytocin release and study associated mood
      states, and as a potential therapeutic substance to enhance psychotherapy for post-traumatic
      stress disorder. MDMA is an amphetamine derivative which, unlike prototypical amphetamines,
      predominantly enhances serotonergic neurotransmission via release of 5-HT through the SERT
      and it less potently also releases dopamine and norepinephrine through the DA transporter and
      NE transporter, respectively. Furthermore, MDMA is known to trigger oxytocin release which
      may contribute to its effects to increase trust, prosociality, and enhance empathy. MDMA is
      therefore referred to as an "entactogen" or "empathogen". MDMA is currently the only
      empathogen investigated in substance-assisted psychotherapy but other substances including
      the MDMA-metabolite 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) have been used in the past or may be
      used in the future.

      Aim 1: MDA may exert greater perceptual psychedelic-like effects due to a more potent binding
      to the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor, and it may also act longer than MDMA partly due to a longer
      plasma half-life. However, effects of MDMA and MDA have never been compared directly in the
      same study in humans and there is only one modern study that characterized MDA in humans.
      Therefore, the present study aims to describe and directly compare for the first time the
      effects of MDMA and MDA in the same healthy volunteers using modern and sensitive
      psychological and psychometric tests.

      Aim 2: Additionally, although amphetamines including MDMA and MDA induce mainly positive
      subjective effects they may also produce negative subjective drug effects including anxiety
      in particular at the onset of the subjective response and the rapid onset of euphoria may
      increase abuse liability. Additionally, blood pressure may increase rapidly at drug onset. A
      possible solution to mitigate anxiety, abuse-related rapid euphoria increases and/or rapid
      blood pressure changes at onset consist of slowing the onset of the drug effect by using a
      slow-release formulation of MDMA/MDA. Alternatively, amphetamines can be linked to the
      endogenous amino acid lysine forming inactive lysine-amphetamine which then liberates the
      active amphetamine slowly in the circulation via plasma peptidases. This approach has been
      implemented with the medication Lisdexamfetamine, which combines lysine with d-amphetamine.
      In the present study, the investigators will similarly characterize the effects of
      lysine-MDMA and lysine-MDA to test for attenuated effects across both substances in
      comparison with MDMA/MDA.

      Using a two-factorial study design with four active substance conditions (MDMA vs. MDA and
      lysine-MDMA vs. lysine-MDA) the investigators will be able to test differences between MDMA
      and MDA (with and without lysine) as well as between lysinated a non-lysinated substance
      (regardless of active substance) in the same study and with high statistical power and within
      one study addressing two aims.
    
  