
    
      Objectives:

        1. Understand the process of supporting clinicians to utilize PROs in multidisciplinary,
           home dialysis practice.

        2. Examine to what extent utilization of PRO information is associated with differences in
           symptoms and person-centred care [primary outcomes], as well as satisfaction with care,
           utilization of health services, mental health, and QOL [secondary outcomes].

      Approach:

      To achieve these goals, a mixed methods design of process evaluation will be used to compare
      two groups: Northern and Southern Alberta Renal Programs, NARP (Edmonton) and SARP (Calgary).
      In Edmonton (Intervention group), patients and clinicians will be invited to participate in
      the study. Only patients will be invited to take part in the study in Calgary (Comparison
      group). The research study will be undertaken collaboratively with a Patient Advisory
      Committee and knowledge users.

      Setting:

      This research will be conducted among patients receiving home dialysis across Alberta Kidney
      Care, from its two units: Aberhart Clinic in the Northern Alberta Renal Program (NARP), and
      Sheldon M. Chumir Health Centre in the Southern Alberta Renal Program (SARP). NARP and SARP
      have 305 and 350 home dialysis patients respectively.

      Methods:

      The study is divided into two phases: Phase 1-Year 1 (Usability Testing) and Phase 2-Year 2
      (Evaluation). SARP and NARP participants will be invited to complete ePROs for each of their
      scheduled appointments, every three months, throughout Phases 1 and 2.

      Phase 1:

      In NARP, the intervention group, interested patients will be approached and consent will be
      obtained. Before the clinic visit, the patient will complete a demographic survey, and the
      Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale revised for renal patients (ESASr:Renal) using Cambian
      Navigator, a web-based ePRO system hosted by Cambian Business Services Inc. Survey results
      will be printed and given to the nurse, transcribed and placed in the patient' chart as well
      as on their electronic chart. NARP patients will also complete the Kidney Disease Quality of
      Life (KDQOL-36), the Patient Assessment of Care for Chronic Conditions (PACIC-20), and the
      EQ-5D-5L after their clinic appointment. These 3 outcome evaluation measures will not be
      included in patient charts, or be used by clinicians at point of care. Usability testing and
      formative evaluation with NARP patients will also include up to 5 focus groups and 10
      interviews to discuss how they would like their PRO information to be used by clinicians.
      Usability testing and formative evaluation with NARP multidisciplinary clinicians will
      include a series of focus groups (3-4) to discuss the ideal process for ePROs surveys to be
      integrated in existing work structures. Findings from these focus groups will be used to
      refine the targeted workshops provided as an intervention in Phase 2.

      In SARP, the comparator group, all patients meeting inclusion criteria will be invited to
      complete the consent form, demographic survey, and the ePRO survey tools collected in NARP,
      but not to participate in focus groups and interviews. The ePRO surveys will not be seen by
      the clinicians, but they will be informed of the study.

      Phase 2:

      Using a prospective design, the workshops (intervention) will occur in NARP. Clinicians will
      receive ePRO feedback as well as targeted education about how to use PRO information.
      Workshops will be offered every 1.5 months over the 6-month intervention period. Evaluation
      survey feedback will be sought at the end of each workshop to tailor information to
      clinicians' needs. In NARP, patients will continue to complete the PRO surveys before and
      after their clinic appointments. If other PRO measures are requested by clinicians in Phase
      1, these will be added to Phase 2 data collection. Additionally, clinicians will be invited
      to complete an anonymous ticky-box form every 2 weeks, indicating if they reviewed the PRO
      information, and changed their decision-making based on the PRO information. All NARP
      clinicians will also be invited to participate in 1 interview (n=20). They will be asked to
      share examples of how they have used PRO information in their practice, and the challenges,
      benefits and facilitators of integrating ePROs in practice. Patient participants will also be
      invited to take part in a focus group (n=6) or interview (n=6) to discuss how they see
      clinicians following up on their PRO information.

      In SARP, clinicians will provide usual care. Clinicians will not receive PRO information or
      participate in workshops. Education will be provide to SARP clinicians following completion
      of the study, as a form of knowledge translation.

      Quantitative Evaluation:

      Descriptive methods and statistical tests will be used to examine the trajectories of outcome
      measures for patients in the comparator and intervention groups. The area under the curve
      (AUC) will be calculated for each trajectory during the period that the patient is
      participating to create a summary score. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used as the
      method of analysis to compare AUC scores of outcomes of both groups while controlling for
      within- and between-group differences, such as comorbidities, gender, age and dialysis type.

      Qualitative Evaluation:

      Qualitative data from focus groups and interviews will be recorded, transcribed verbatim and
      analyzed using the methodology of interpretive description. NVIVO, a qualitative software
      system, will be used to create a filing system and coding database. The first focus
      group/interview transcript in each phase will be read and re-read to generate an initial
      codebook. The codebooks will be iteratively refined throughout the analysis. Codes will be
      categorized and analyzed thematically. Patient and clinician data will be analyzed
      separately. Differences between pre- and post-implementation in NARP will also be examined.
    
  