
    
      Background:

        -  Malignant mesothelioma is a malignancy arising from the mesothelial cells of the pleura,
           peritoneum, pericardium, or tunica vaginalis.

        -  Mesothelioma accounts for 0.10% of deaths annually in the United States. Malignant
           pleural mesothelioma is the most common of these, comprising of 80% of the cases with an
           annual incidence of about 2,500 in the United States.

        -  The median survival from diagnosis of pleural mesothelioma is approximately 12 months.
           The majority of patients present with stage III or IV disease with 85-90% of patients
           considered unresectable at diagnosis.

        -  Peritoneal mesothelioma has a better prognosis than pleural mesothelioma; nevertheless,
           patients undergoing therapy for peritoneal mesothelioma have few well-studied treatment
           options due in large part to the rarity of the disease.

        -  In addition to mesothelioma, mesothelin is highly expressed in several cancers,
           including pancreatic, biliary adenocarcinomas, gastric and ovarian cancers; mesothelin
           is also expressed in a significantly larger proportion of thymic carcinoma than thymoma.

        -  Mesothelin expression level has been correlated with improved overall survival in thymic
           cancer and with reduced overall survival in patients with lung cancer.

      Objective:

      -To allow sample acquisition for use in the study of mesothelioma and other mesothelin
      expressing cancers.

      Eligibility:

        -  All patients age greater than or equal to 2 years with malignant mesothelioma

        -  All patients age greater than or equal to 18 years with thymic carcinoma, pancreatic or
           biliary adenocarcinoma or lung, gastric or ovarian cancers

        -  Must be able and willing to provide informed consent if 18 or over; parent or guardian
           must be able and willing to provide consent for patients under the age of 18

      Design:

        -  Up to 1000 subjects will be enrolled.

        -  Patients will be followed to determine the course of disease and to record any treatment
           received for the eligible mesothelin expressing cancer.

        -  Patients will undergo sampling of blood, urine, tumor and abnormal body fluids for
           tissue banking.

        -  Studies which may be performed on banked material include genetic and genomic studies,
           establishment of cell cultures and immunologic studies.
    
  