
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the efficacy and safety of Polyphenon E, a defined green tea catechin
           extract, in current or former smokers with bronchial dysplasia and increased
           inflammatory load as measured by C-reactive protein.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the ability of Polyphenon E to modulate other surrogate endpoint biomarkers
           of oxidation stress, inflammation, aberrant methylation, cell cycle regulation,
           apoptosis, oncogene/tumor suppressor gene expression, as well as phase I and II enzyme
           regulation in biological samples from these patients.

        -  To establish a library of optical coherent tomography (OCT) images of the bronchial
           epithelium with corresponding histopathology, nuclear morphometry, and other biomarker
           information.

        -  To assess the potential of OCT as a non-biopsy method for evaluating chemoprevention
           agents.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by gender. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral Polyphenon E twice daily for 3 months in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive a placebo twice daily for 3 months in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo standard white-light bronchoscopy and fluorescence bronchoscopy with optical
      coherence tomography (OCT) at baseline and at 3 months. During these procedures, patients are
      evaluated using the Onco-LIFE clinical device, which digitally records OCT images of abnormal
      areas or areas suspicious for intraepithelial neoplasia or invasive carcinoma. Once these
      areas have been localized, patients are biopsied under fluorescence bronchoscopy guidance to
      obtain both dysplastic bronchial epithelial tissue and normal bronchial mucosa. Biopsy
      specimens are examined by immunostaining for tissue-based biomarkers (i.e., Ki-67, cleaved
      caspase-3, p53, and VEGF). Patients also undergo oral brushing, bronchial brushing, and
      bronchoalveolar lavage at baseline and at 3 months to obtain bronchial epithelial cells for
      differential gene expression and methylation biomarker studies (e.g., cDNA microarray
      analysis, polymerase chain reaction, and northern blotting). Cytokines and other molecular
      biomarkers (i.e., C-reactive protein, surfactant protein D, oxidized glutathione, interleukin
      [IL]-6, IL-13, and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 levels) are measured in blood and
      bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples by enzyme-linked immunoassay. Plasma EGCG levels are
      assessed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Urine cotinine levels and exhaled carbon
      monoxide levels are also assessed.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 1 month.
    
  