
    
      The study will be presented to clients, who will be asked to formally consent to participate.
      Clients residing or working in Thailand and able to communicate with the counselor will be
      eligible. Foreigners staying in Thailand for vacation or retirement will be excluded, except
      if presenting together with their partner who is otherwise eligible for the study. At each
      visit, participants will be proposed an appointment for a re-test. If they wish, the study
      team will send them reminders.

      At the first visit, participants will be randomly assigned to one of three different methods
      for counseling on HIV, hepatitis B and C, and syphilis: standard face-to-face counseling,
      computer-assisted informational/educational counseling, or on-demand counseling (the
      counselor invites the participant to ask questions). Participants will then be randomly
      assigned to one of three reminder strategies: Appointment+reminder, Reminder only, or No
      appointment and no reminder.

      At each visit, blood sample will be collected to test for HIV, hepatitis B and C, and
      syphilis. Laboratory examinations will be free of charge for all participants. After the
      blood draw, participants will be invited to complete a questionnaire to assess their
      knowledge, attitudes and practices with regard to HIV and other infections. Test results will
      then be provided. In case of confirmed HIV infection, participants will be provided with
      further counseling, CD4 cell count measurement and referral options for immediate treatment.
      Blood samples collected during the study for the diagnosis will be stored for determination
      of the Fiebig stage (duration since HIV primary infection), evaluation of transmitted HIV
      drug resistance (sequencing) and investigation of viral transmission networks.

      In a substudy, we will compare liver fibrosis assessed by transient elastometry and serum
      biomarkers (i.e. APRI and FIB-4) in Napneung participants with HBsAg and those with anti-HCV
      antibodies, and compare the measures with that obtained in participants negative for these
      tests.

      The interim analyses have shown that that some strategies are better than the others and the
      Advisory Committee recommended to use only the most efficient strategies (Computer assisted
      counseling and Scheduling an appointment and sending reminder to clients). Thus the accrual
      to the arms "No appointment, no reminder" and "Reminder only" has been discontinued on 12
      January 2019.

      Following the published of CD4 cell count normal ranges in HIV uninfected individuals in
      Thailand since 1997 (Vithayasai, Sirisanthana, Sakonwasun, & Suvanpiyasiri, 1997), It is
      unknown whether these norms have changed in relation to changes in nutritional status and
      lifestyle in young adults. We will assess the number of CD4 cells/mL in the blood of the
      first 30 HIV-uninfected female and the first 30 HIV-uninfected male clients aged less than 26
      years to determine whether there is a trend for an increase in young people due to the
      changes in nutrition and lifestyle during the last decades. This sub-study will be conducted
      from 1 February 2019 to 31 January 2021.
    
  