
    
      The hypotheses is that participating to the mindfulness intervention improves students
      well-being and decreases their level of stress. These are measured by self-evaluation
      questionnaires and with hair samples, before the intervention, immediately after intervention
      and four months after the intervention.

      This is a randomized control trial. There are two different experiment groups and one
      waiting-list control group. The target group is all undergraduate students in the Faculty of
      Medicine, University of Helsinki. The participants are recruited with e-mail and informing
      students in different situations. The aimed amount of participants is 120-150 but the study
      will be conducted if 90 participants are recruited. The participants enroll to the study by
      signing consent format.

      This is a follow-up research. The person register (name, university e-mail address, student
      number) are used to recruitment and to ensure the participants identity.

      Time of data preservation is 10 years. The last student register data is going to be
      collected 2019. The data is preserved until age 2029.

      The questionnaire with which the main data is been collected is Webropol questionnaire tool.
      The data is removed from the Webropol after three months of the end of the questionnaire
      answer time. The person responsible for the data removes the data from University's server
      after ten years.

      Content of the register

        1. Mindfulness for Students questionnaire data

        2. Mindfulness for Students hair samples

        3. Mindfulness for students -observation log

        4. Mindfulness for students -interview data

        5. Data collected in Student Compass -internet environment

        6. Data of students' credits are collected from University's own credit register "Oodi", if
           participant has given a consent to that.

      Students are being recruited in information meeting. They will be informed orally in that
      situation and given a written communication paper. The students who want to participate the
      course, will fill and sign a consent format. In format there is a research number code given
      to the student. The connection between the student identity and the research code number is
      known only by the persons that are responsible for the database.
    
  