
    
      D2 dopaminergic receptor blockers, used to treat schizophrenia, can lead to the onset of
      drug-induced movement disorders, such as parkinsonism, dystonia, dyskinesia and akathisia.
      They seem to be associated with oxidative stress, as a result of an increase in free radicals
      generated from dopamine metabolism. A preclinical study showed that vitamin B6 (pyridoxine)
      and B12 (cobalamin), alone or in combination, prevented the development of orofacial
      dyskinesia induced by haloperidol in an animal model of schizophrenia.

      Specific Aim1: To conduct a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial
      to evaluate the efficacy of 12-week adjuvant treatment with 200mg of pyridoxine (B6) or 2mg
      of cobalamin (B12) to treat drug-induced movement disorders of patients with schizophrenia,
      schizoaffective or bipolar disorder. The investigators will randomly assign 45 patients into
      three groups: placebo, B6 or B12 and check whether administration of vitamin B6 (pyridoxine)
      or B12 (cobalamin) attenuates drug-induced movement disorders (IDDM) in patients with
      diagnosis of schizophrenia, schizoaffective or bipolar disorder.

      Specific Aim 2: To quantify changes in serum markers of inflammation and biomarkers of
      oxidative stress in response to adjunctive treatment with B6 or B12. The hypothesis is that
      changes in these biomarkers will mediate the clinical response to them.

      Research Plan: The investigators will carry out a proof of concept 12-week prospective,
      randomized, double-blind, controlled trial of vitamin B6 and B12, at doses of 200 mg/day and
      2mg/day, respectively, or identical placebo tablets, added to ongoing antipsychotics in 45
      stable patients (ages 18-60 years, 15 patients per group) with diagnosis of schizophrenia,
      schizoaffective or bipolar disorder. The study will be conducted at the Drug Research and
      Development Center (NPDM), at the Universidade Federal do Ceará, Fortaleza, Brazil. This
      center has a long history of performing placebocontrolled trials in clinical medicine
      (http://www.npdm.ufc.br/) and has the necessary infrastructure to successfully complete the
      proposed study protocol. All participants will give written informed consent prior to study
      enrollment.
    
  