
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to assess the long-term effects of budesonide via MAD (Mucosal
      Atomization Device) or INSI (Intranasal Saline Irrigation) on intraocular pressure, ACTH-axis
      function, and bone-density.

      Hypothesis:

      Budesonide delivered via MAD or INSI will be safe in the long-term (> 12 months) demonstrated
      objectively via IOP, ACTH stimulation test, and DEXA scan.

      Justification:

      The safety profile of both MAD and INSI has been widely studied in the literature. Although
      both modalities are generally considered safe, several studies have demonstrated asymptomatic
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPAA) suppression when used in the long-term. A
      cross-sectional study at St Paul's Sinus Centre, found 3% of study participants on long-term
      maintenance treatment via MAD to have asymptomatic HPAA suppression. However, the
      cross-sectional study design limited the ability to ascertain the timeline for this adverse
      event.

      Although the recent cross-sectional study at St Paul Sinus Centre was the first to study the
      long-term effects of budesonide via the MAD in CRS patients, it did not include baseline
      levels of HPAA function and IOP levels which served as a limitation to ascertaining the
      timeline of the aforementioned adverse events. Additionally, there is currently limited data
      on the effects of INCS on bone function in the setting of CRS treatment. Therefore, this
      study aims to prospectively assess the long-term effect of high-dose nasal corticosteroids
      (i.e. INSI and MAD) in CRS patients. The study design will obtain baseline measurements of
      ACTH function, IOP measurement, and a DEXA scan to identify and describe the timeline of
      adverse events should they develop during the 12-month study period. By determining the
      impact of nasal corticosteroids on these outcomes, potential improvements can be made in the
      safety monitoring practices of otolaryngologists. This may include more frequent monitoring
      of intraocular pressure, Bone Mineral Density (BMD), and HPAA-axis function in at-risk
      populations, development of budesonide tapering guidelines, and improved screening of
      patient-reported adverse events. Overall, the investigators hope the results from this study
      will be a step forward in the development of screening guidelines for monitoring patients on
      long-term IntraNasal CorticoSteroids (INCS) therapy.

      Primary Objective:

      To assess long-term safety (> 12 months) of budesonide delivered via MAD or INSI as measured
      objectively via IOP, ACTH stimulation test, and DEXA scan.

      Research Design:

      A Prospective Double-Cohort Study

      Statistical Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics will be used to analyze the baseline characteristic data and the data
      from the administered surveys and objective findings of ACTH stimulation test, IOP
      measurement, and DEXA scans. In addition, rigorous statistical analysis will be conducted on
      the Likert scale-based SinoNasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22) and EuroQuol health-related quality
      of life surveys (EQ-5D-5L). These analyses will include cross-tabulations (Pearson's chi
      square test) and confidence interval calculations. Due to the variations in baseline
      intraocular pressure measurements, the investigators will calculate an adjusted difference
      instead of absolute values.
    
  