
    
      POD is defined as a "fluctuating disturbance in attention that represents an acute change
      from baseline, accompanied by disturbed cognition or perception, and not due to a
      pre-existing neurocognitive disorder or occurring in the context of a severely reduced
      arousal level". Depending on the type of surgery and the studied population, it can occur in
      20 to 45% of the older patients. POD is a burden to the health care providers. Indeed, it is
      strongly associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The pathophysiology of POD is
      multifactorial and not yet completely elucidated. The aging brain is more vulnerable to the
      development of POD. However, more than the chronological age, the patient's overall
      vulnerability and their preexisting cognitive status are indicators of their ability to cope
      with these perioperative stressors. Indeed, the patient's cognitive status is a leading cause
      of POD and models predicting POD show poor accuracy because they do not take into account the
      patient's preoperative cognitive status. Preoperative neurocognitive assessment could be
      performed but these tests are time-consuming and subject to various influencing factors.
      Hence, objective tools are required to distinguish patients with preoperative cognitive
      impairment.

      First hypothesis: The presence of a specific intraoperative EEG signal pattern may provide a
      tool for such identification of patients with underlying preoperative cognitive frailty.
      Commonly used anesthestic agents for induction and maintaining general anesthesia (e.g.
      sevoflurane or propofol) provide a typical electroencephalographic pattern with slow/delta
      and alpha oscillations, predominantly in the frontal cerebral cortex. More specifically,
      alpha oscillations actually originate from parieto-occipital sites in awake patients and
      migrate towards frontal regions after the induction of anesthesia. This phenomenon is called
      the "anteriorization" of the alpha frequency band. Besides, amongst all EEG frequencies, the
      contribution of alpha oscillations to the global tracing evolve throughout adulthood : the
      alpha power tends to decrease with age, and this decrease is more pronounced in the presence
      of underlying cognitive disorder (e.g. mild cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease). More
      importantly, it has been demonstrated that a lower frontal alpha band anteriorization during
      general anesthesia is associated with lower preoperative cognitive scores. Moreover, these
      patients might be at higher risk of intraoperative EEG suppression in case of an overdose of
      anesthetics or, even often, despite a lower dose of anesthetics. In this regard, the presence
      and the power of frontal alpha oscillations under general anesthesia may be indicators of the
      patient's preoperative cognitive status and may therefore predict the risk of developing POD.

      Second hypothesis: Genetic studies have demonstrated a correlation between specific genotypes
      and the risk of cognitive decline. APOEe4 genotype is a known risk factor for Alzheimer's
      disease (AD), and has been shown to be also a risk factor of POD. However, APOEe4 allele is
      neither necessary nor exclusive to develop AD, and this may also hold true for POD, as this
      late hypothesis has been rejected in other previous studies. Otherwise, few studies have
      looked at some EEG particularities according to APOEe4 genotyping, in AD patients and control
      subjects. Unfortunately, their results regarding the presence of the e4 allele and associated
      EEG abnormalities are conflicting. To date, no study has related APOE genotyping and
      intraoperative EEG patterns under general anesthesia.

      Third hypothesis: In addition to perioperative episodes of cerebral hypoxia and/or
      hypoperfusion and neuroinflammation, pathophysiological mechanisms of POD also include a
      potential direct insult to the brain, induced by both anesthesia and surgery. Yet, the ideal
      biomarker, highly sensitive for brain injury, as well as highly specific for neuronal tissue
      remains to be identified. Indeed, the release of such proteins after a neuronal injury can
      ensue from many levels and some of them have extracranial sources. These sources may
      therefore influence the observed results. As a conseuquence, in clinical practice, none of
      the currently evaluated neurobiomarkers (e.g. interleukins, Neuron Specific Enolase, S100
      calcium-binding protein B) has emerged as a reliable diagnostic and/or prognostic tool for
      assessing postoperative neurological complications. Recently, much focus has been given to
      neurofilaments, as this group of proteins is part of the scaffolding of axons and is
      exclusively expressed in neuronal tissue. As a consequence, abnormally high levels of
      neurofilaments in extracellular fluids, such as cerebrospinal fluids (CSF) or serum,
      correspond specifically to neuronal cell damage, which represents a significant advantage
      compared to other biomarkers previously tested. Among the three subunits of neurofilament,
      neurofilament light (NfL) subunit has been shown to be promising. High levels of NfL have
      been found in a large range of neurodegenerative disorders, but also in acute events such as
      traumatic brain injury and stroke. Since it has been possible to measure NfL in serum,
      obviating the need for cerebrospinal fluid samples, their analysis in the perioperative
      period has been facilitated. Indeed, serum NfL levels have been recently investigated in the
      perioperative period in various surgical patient populations. These studies provide us
      information about the kinetics of perioperative NfL release but they show conflicting results
      regarding a potential correlation between high perioperative NfL levels and the occurrence of
      POD.
    
  