
    
      Objectives

        1. To determine the prognostic value of gastrointestinal symptoms alone and in combination
           with intra-abdominal pressure (IAP), and acute gastro-intestinal injury (AGI) grades in
           predicting the ICU-, 28 days and 90 days mortality of adult intensive care patients.

        2. To describe the blood and urine levels of the intestinal-specific plasma parameters
           (I-FABP, citrulline, ILBP, and D-lactate) in general cohort of intensive care patients.

        3. To compare the prognostic values of the intestinal-specific plasma parameters (I-FABP,
           citrulline, ILBP, and D-lactate) with the gastrointestinal symptoms, AGI grades, and the
           SOFA score in predicting of ICU-, 28 days and 90 days mortality of adult intensive care
           patients.

      Hypothesis

        1. GI symptoms, alone or in combination with IAP, and AGI grades as defined by WGAP
           statement improve the predictive capability of the SOFA score in critically ill
           patients.

        2. Intestinal-specific plasma and urinary markers are good to excellent predictors of
           outcome in critically ill patients.

        3. Best prediction is achieved by combination of GI symptoms, IAP and plasma markers.

        4. A clinical score developed based on the data from this study can be combined with
           existing SOFA score and thereby the predictive value of the SOFA score will be improved.

      To test these hypotheses, the study has two parts:

      Part A. Clinical data and routine laboratory parameters of 500 consecutive patients will be
      collected for 7 days after ICU admission. Standard treatment is implemented; no additional
      interventions solely for the study will be performed. Waived consent is expected.

      Part B. Blood and urinary samples for intestinal-specific laboratory markers will be drawn
      once daily from 200 patients enrolled in Part A, and analyzed in addition to standard
      clinical and laboratory data. First blood sample will be taken at admission to the intensive
      care unit. Informed consent will therefore be obtained from the patient or the next of kin
      after blood and urine sampling (delayed consent).

      Research questions Part A.

        1. What is the predictive capability of gastrointestinal symptoms, IAP and AGI grades in
           intensive care patients?

        2. Does the use of the AGI grades or a new AGI score based on GI symptoms alone or in
           combination with IAP improve the predictive capability of the SOFA score in the
           intensive care patients? Part B.

        3. What is the relationship between the intestinal-specific markers and the disease
           severity of the organ dysfunction, as described with the APACHE and the SOFA score?

        4. What is the predictive value of the intestinal-specific markers in predicting ICU-, 28
           days and 90 days all-cause mortality, ICU and hospital length of stay, and duration of
           mechanical ventilation?

        5. Is there a correlation between the intestinal-specific markers and the gastrointestinal
           signs and symptoms?

        6. Is the predictive value of the intestinal specific markers higher compared to the GI
           symptoms, IAP and AGI grades in predicting ICU-, 28 days and 90 days all-cause
           mortality, ICU and hospital length of stay, and duration of mechanical ventilation?

        7. Does the addition of the intestinal-specific plasma and urinary markers increase the
           predictive value of the SOFA score in predicting outcome?

        8. Is the combination of the intestinal-specific markers with the GI symptoms, IAP and AGI
           grades better in predicting outcome compared to two individual items?

        9. What in these comparisons is the best marker or combination of markers?

      Methods/design

      1. Study design, setting and patient population This is a prospective multicenter cohort
      study where 500 consecutive adult patients admitted to the intensive care unit will be
      monitored for gastrointestinal symptoms, IAP and AGI grades. Of these 500 patients, 200
      patients will be included in part B.

      All consecutive adult critically ill patients (25 to 50 patients for each study site) in need
      for intensive care admission during maximum 6 weeks.

      The study will consist of three phases:

        1. Screening assessment, documentation of admission parameters;

        2. Study period of 7 days for the individual patient;

        3. Follow-up period of 90 days.

      2. Study sites and the duration of the study The study will be conducted in ICUs of both
      university teaching hospitals and general (non-academic) hospitals. 20 ICUs from different
      countries will be invited and expected to participate, and each site is expected to enrol 25
      to 50 patients during the maximum period of 6 weeks.

      For individual patient the study period is 7 days or till ICU discharge and follow-up of 90
      days.
    
  