
    
      The present investigation develops in the framework of the EU project CONNECARE "Personalized
      Connected Care for Complex Chronic Patients (H2020 - BHC25 - 689802), whose registration
      number in the medical research ethics committee of Hospital Clínic of Barcelona is HCB /
      2018/0803. CONNECARE assumes that (i) the improvement of the continuity of care, associated
      with facilitating collaborative work among professionals of different levels of care, and,
      (ii) the increase in patients' self-efficacy, results in an optimization of the management of
      chronic patients with the consequent decrease in unplanned consultations, whether at primary
      care or at the hospital. This necessarily leads to an increase in the resolving capacity of
      primary care teams and an increase in the prevention of hospitalizations.

      Although the role of digital technologies, as an element of support for integrated care
      services, is well-demonstrated, at present, we still do not have adequate digital tools that
      provide adequate support for collaborative work between professionals and, in turn, encourage
      the empowerment for self-management of patients. We understand as such, technologies: (i)
      compliant with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), (ii) interoperable with
      existing health information systems, and, that (iii) facilitate the adaptive and
      collaborative management of chronic patients.

      The present study evaluates the potential of an industry 4.0 system, Health-Circuit, based on
      communication technologies and intelligent collaboration, for the improvement of the
      management of chronic patients, with the consequent increase of the resolving capacity of the
      community health teams. Health-Circuit allows patients and professionals to interact,
      bilaterally or in groups, from various information systems and devices, regardless of their
      physical location. The base technology platform, Circuit, is robust (TRL 9), located in the
      cloud (private, mixed or public) and complies with the General Data Protection Regulation
      (GDPR). Circuit allows multimedia corporate communication (chat, call, video-call, file
      exchange, etc.) between healthcare levels, increasing coordination among professionals with
      the consequent improvement of health outcomes. Its potential can be increased in the future
      with the use of intelligent Chatbots to guide patients and professionals through complex care
      processes, providing decision support for personalised service selection by means of enhanced
      health risk assessment and patient stratification.
    
  