
    
      Trocar site hernias have been considered as an underestimated problem by some surgeons. It's
      incidence varies in the literature between studies, which may be related to an insufficient
      diagnosis due to poor clinical manifestation and / or the lack of long-term follow-up of
      patients in some studies.

      There are many risk factors that have been related to the trocar site hernia development. On
      one side, the patient clinical factors as the age, presence of obesity, diabetes mellitus or
      the smoking habits. On the other side, some risk factors related to the surgical technique
      have been described, as the entry technique, the size and the locations of the trocars, the
      fascial closure, the duration of the surgery or the infection of the surgical wound.

      Regarding the location of the trocars, it seems that the middle line has more risk of
      incisional hernia than the lateral areas in the abdomen. However, the trocar locations out of
      the middle line is not always possible, especially in certain surgeries as the laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy where it can be necessary an expansion of the incision for removing the
      specimen. In the concrete case of laparoscopic cholecystectomy, the belly is usually the most
      popular region for placing the first trocar. However, there is not much evidence about the
      influence of the most popular locations of the umbilical trocar incision (supra or
      infraumbilical) in the development of incisional hernias.

      In the middle line, the infraumbilical region presents a great ability to adapt to pressure
      changes, as it physiologically occurs during the pregnancy. On the other side, while the
      primary hernias in the supraumbilical and umbilical region are common, these are not produced
      in the infraumbilical region. Besides, in anatomical studies of the linea alba, a higher
      thickness of the fibres in the infraumbilical region has been observed, along with a
      different spatial arrangement, predominating the transverse fibres in the infraumbilical
      region and the oblique ones in the supraumbilical region. Therefore, we hypothesize whether
      the infraumbilical location of the trocar in the midline, theoretically a more protected
      region, can reduce the incidence of trocar site hernia in our patients.

      The aim of this study is to compare the incidence of the Hasson trocar site hernia between
      the supra and infraumbilical locations a year after surgery, in high risk patients for trocar
      site hernia subjected to elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
    
  