
    
      In the context of development UTI in receptors of KT, some microbiological factors have
      raised great importance, mainly the antimicrobial drug resistance, which has been reported
      for TMP/SMX as high as 60 to 100%. Furthermore, it is also of increasing importance the
      recent isolation of multidrug-resistant bacteria, in particular ESBL-producing Escherichia
      coli and ampicillin-resistant Enterococcus. This phenomenon increases the rate of
      hospitalizations as well as the costs of hospital stay and antibiotic therapy. (1-3) In our
      institution, in receptors of KT the rate of TMP/SMX resistance is 89% and ESBL-production
      about 32% among E. coli recovered from urine. (4)

      Because of the increase in the rate of TMP-SMX resistance, there is a lot of interest to use
      other antibiotics for the prevention of UTI among different populations. In this sense,
      fosfomycin is an agent with a unique mechanism of action that does not share with other
      families of known antibiotics, this characteristic provides advantages to use this antibiotic
      alone or, even, synergistically in combination with other antibiotics. Fosfomycin (FOS) is a
      wall antibiotic (pyruvyl-transferase inhibitor) that has shown a good bioavailability,
      especially in the urinary tract. It has shown a wide antibacterial spectrum, but the
      important target seems to be enteric bacilli particularly Escherichia coli (the most
      prevalent cause of UTI). FOS has also shown a very good activity against E. coli producer of
      Extended Spectrum Betalactamases.

      Multiple clinical studies have shown FOS efficacy in the treatment of UTI's and especially in
      multiple-drug-resistant bacteria. (5) With regard to its use as a perioperative prophylaxis,
      in a systematic review with 8 trials, FOS proved to be effective to prevent health
      care-associated UTI's, however only one study showed no benefit. The oral dose regularly used
      is FOS 3 g, 3 hours before and 24 hours after the surgical procedure. (6)

      Our hypothesis is that in the seven weeks after kidney transplantation, perioperative
      prophylaxis with FOS will show greater efficacy in comparison with standard prophylaxis
      (TMP/SMX). Considering that the mean number of UTI and BA episodes per patient in the first
      seven weeks is 0.8 episodes / patient, if we want to decrease it to 0.4 episodes per patient,
      using the means comparison formula will require 40 patients per arm per treatment, this
      considering a power of 80% and confidence intervals of 95%. The primary outcome will be to
      compare the mean number of episodes of urinary tract infection and asymptomatic bacteriuria
      per patient in each treatment arm. Secondary outcomes refer to the development of
      UTI-associated sepsis, pyelonephritis, recurrent UTI and asymptomatic bacteriuria. Safety
      outcomes included hematological and gastrointestinal side effects, the acute rejection rate,
      glomerular filtration rate, graft loss and patient death.

      Patients eligible for a kidney transplant will be invited to participate in the study, prior
      to renal transplant surgery. They are given an informed consent, which is reviewed and
      approved by the ethics and research committees of our institution. The arms of the study are
      discussed in detail below. The study followed the Declaration of Helsinki recommendations and
      was approved by the Institutional Review Board (Ref: 1649). Randomization was conducted
      centrally by stratifying according to gender, with specific software (www.randomization.com).
      Patients were assigned to one of two parallel groups in a 1:1 ratio and in blocks of 4.

      Subjects will be followed up for 7 weeks from renal transplant surgery. The outcome variables
      are defined as follows:

        -  Positive urine culture: The isolated germ will be defined depending on international
           standards. For enterobacteria and gram positive ≥100,000 colony-forming unit (CFU) / mL.

        -  Urinary tract infection: Positive urine culture plus presence of associated signs or
           symptoms.

        -  Significant Asymptomatic Bacteriuria: Will be identified from isolation ≥100,000 CFU/mL.
           In the case of women, the same insulation should be corroborated in a second urine
           culture sample.

        -  Asymptomatic Bacteriuria not significant: It will be identified from isolation of ≥1000
           CFU/mL and will not be given antibiotic treatment.

        -  Hospitalization due to UTI: It will be defined as any UTI event that warrants
           hospitalization or that, having another reason for hospitalization, develop IVU that
           requires intravenous antimicrobial treatment.

      The urine cultures will be taken from the first urine in the morning, obtaining the sample of
      medium jet with an approximate volume to collect of 25 to 50 mL. Urine samples were processed
      within the first hour after obtention.

      The sample was inoculated in human blood agar and McConkey agar with a 1 microliter
      calibrated loop, and incubated at 35ºC, overnight. The report included the number of CFU. All
      clinical isolates were identified with the gram-negative and gram-positive identification
      cards by Vitek 2 (BioMérieux, Lyon, France) following the manufacturer´s instructions.
      AST-285 Vitek2 cards were used for gram-negative bacilli and the AST-591 Vitek2 card for
      gram-positive cocci (BioMérieux, Lyon, France); they were incubated and then interpreted by
      an expert in the system (version 7.01) and according to the Clinical & Laboratory Standards
      Institute (CLSI) M100-S24 (2014) guideline (20). Susceptibility to fosfomycin was determined
      by disk diffusion on cation-supplemented Müeller Hinton agar plates (CLSI, M07-A9); a
      bacterial suspension was inoculated in 0.5 mL Mc Farland, and a fosfomycin disk (200
      micrograms [mcg]) supplemented with glucose-6-phosphate was used (50 mcg). Interpretation of
      inhibition halos in E. coli and Enterococcus faecalis isolates was based on CLSI M100-S24
      (2014) criteria. The following were used as controls: E. coli ATCC 25922, E. coli ATCC 35218,
      Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 and S. aureus ATCC 43300. Antimicrobial sensitivity to
      fosfomycin was determined with the microdilution broth method in E. coli, Klebsiella
      pneumoniae and Enterococcus spp. isolates. Müeller Hinton broth supplemented with
      glucose-6-phosphate (25 mcg/ml) was used, E. coli ATCC 25922, S. aureus ATCC 29213 and
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853 were included as controls and results were interpreted
      according to the CLSI (M07-A10) and European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility
      Testing (EUCAST) 2015 criteria (20,21).

      Urine culture will be performed in the following situations: 1.- 48 hrs after the removal of
      the urinary catheter. 2.- Prior to removal of the ureteral catheter. 3.- At 4 weeks after
      renal transplantation. 4.- At 6 weeks after renal transplantation. 5.-In case of urinary
      storage symptoms suggestive of UTI or elevated creatinine (If the emergency department
      approach requires it). 6.- After antibiotic treatment of urinary tract infection or
      significant asymptomatic bacteriuria. In the case of women who have an episode of significant
      asymptomatic bacteriuria, this should be corroborated in two consecutive urine cultures.

      Subjects will have the following follow-up visits: before ureteral catheter removal (first
      visit), 4 weeks of renal transplantation (second visit), 6 weeks (third visit) and one final
      visit at week 7.

      Both follow-up visits and reports of urine cultures are recorded in the CRFs for each
      patient. In the follow-up consultations, adverse events will also be registered, if they are
      reported, are notified to the institutional committees and to the regulatory institutions of
      the health system of Mexico. An intermediate analysis will be carried out to determine both
      the effectiveness and safety of the interventions.
    
  