
    
      The study is conducted in two consecutive parts.

      For part one, to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the digital approach,
      participants are recruited to use the app for 6 weeks and were given coach support, where
      coaches message (MesC) and call (ad-hoc Call) and the participants. A control group (no app)
      is also separately recruited to compare with the menu planner group.

      For part two, to gain better understanding on the strategy to implement coach support with
      the menu planner app according to app engagement, a pilot multiple assignment randomized
      trial (SMART) design is conducted. Participants are equally randomised to either receive a
      stringent engagement criteria strategy or relaxed adherence criteria strategy. A stringent
      engagement criteria strategy requires the user to use the app at least twice a week at stage
      1, and at least 3 times a week at stage 2 to be considered a responder at stage 1 and stage 2
      (R1 and R2).

      A relaxed engagement criteria strategy requires the user to use the app at least once a week
      in week 1 of using the app at stage 1, and at least 2 times a week at stage 2, to be
      considered a responder at stage 1 and stage 2 (R1 and R2). Non-responders for both criteria
      strategies at stage 1 and 2 (NR1 and NR2) will be re-randomised to either continue with the
      app only or additional coach support (MesC + ad-hoc Call).

      Timeline wise,

      Stage 1: Participants will first receive app for 1 week and will be categorised as responder
      (R1) or non-responders (NR1) at the end of the 1 week.

      Stage 2: Responders to stage 1 (R1) will continue with the menu planner for 1 week.
      Non-responders to stage 1 (NR1) will either continue with the menu planner or receive
      additional coach support (MesC + ad-hoc Call) for 1 week. Participants are categorised again
      as responder (R2) or non-responders (NR2) at the end of the week.

      Stage 3: Responders to stage 2 (R2) will only have menu planner for 2 weeks. Non-responders
      to stage 2 (NR2) will either have menu planner only or receive/continue with additional coach
      support (MesC + ad-hoc Call) for 2 weeks.

      The SMART trial will take a total of 4 weeks to complete and have up to two randomisation
      points per participant. All re-randomisations are done at 1:1 allocation ratio.
    
  