
    
      The investigators will conduct a pilot randomized 1:1 controlled trial with 136 mother-infant
      dyads. Participants will be pre-screened for water insecurity and distributed equally across
      the two study arms using stratified block randomization. The intervention group (n=68) will
      receive the FSN home-visiting module, consisting of six 45-minute lessons delivered biweekly
      by trained local AI Family Health Coaches (FHCs), from 3 to 6 months postpartum. The lessons
      focus on elimination or reduction of Sugar Sweetened Beverages (SSBs) among infants while
      teaching mothers complementary feeding and responsive parenting practices. The control group
      (n=68) will receive three home-based lessons with home safety information (injury prevention
      is a priority identified by Navajo leadership that does not interfere with study questions).
      All families will receive delivery of drinking water from 6 to 9 months postpartum. Through
      this staggered design, the investigators will evaluate the impact of the FSN on infant
      feeding practices associated with increased risk for early childhood obesity, with a primary
      focus on delaying introduction of infant's SSB intake. The investigators will also be able to
      evaluate the impact of the availability of potable water on SSB intake, with or without
      family education. In addition, participants will have the opportunity to provide additional
      consent for a nested oral health study to evaluate the impact of the FSN curriculum and water
      provision on infant oral health indicators.

      Methods:

      Study implementation will include four phases:

      Phase 1 (Referral, Recruitment, Consent, Baseline Assessment and Randomization): Potentially
      eligible mothers will be referred to our study staff, who will screen for eligibility,
      consent/assent mothers, conduct baseline assessment, and assign randomization status.
      Randomization will be assigned after the completion of the baseline assessment, including
      scoring of the participant's water insecurity status. Two randomization lists (one for water
      secure mothers and one for water insecure mothers) will be created prior to study initiation
      using STATA 14 statistical software37.

      Part 2 (Home-Based Education Intervention): Local FHCs, trained and employed by Johns
      Hopkins, will deliver either the intervention (6-session FSN) or the control condition (3-
      Home-Safety Lessons) between 3 to 6 months postpartum.

      Part 3 (Water Delivery): All participants will have drinking water delivered to their home
      from 6 to 9 months postpartum. FHCs will deliver water either weekly or less often, depending
      on needs of family. The amount of water delivered will be based on number of adults and
      children residing in home during this period of the study.

      Part 4 (Assessment): Our assessment post-baseline consists of a mixed-methods assessment,
      including maternal self-reports and maternal FHC-administered interviews collected using
      REDCap at 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12 months postpartum and maternal and infant medical chart
      reviews. If consent is given for the nested oral health study, the additional assessments
      will include a maternal self-report measure, collection and microbiologic testing of infant
      plaque and saliva, an infant oral examination, tooth eruption evaluations and infant medical
      and dental chart reviews.
    
  