
    
      This prospective randomized case-controlled study was performed at the Obstetrics and
      Gynecology causality Department of Kasr El Aini University hospital, Cairo University, Egypt
      in the period from November 2015 to March 2016. The study was approved by the Hospital
      Ethical Committee. Informed consents were obtained from all patients after explanation of the
      aim of the study & the potential risks. The study was not supported by any pharmacological
      company.

      327 multigravidas with singleton living healthy fetus presented to the casuality department
      with spontaneous onset of labour & gave birth through the vaginal route were enrolled in the
      study. They were randomized into 3 groups: group A that included 109 women in whom labour was
      augmented by IV infusion of oxytocin using isotonic saline 0.9%, group B that included 109
      women in whom labour was augmented by IV infusion of oxytocin using glucose 5% & group C
      (control group) in which 109 women continued their labour course without any further
      augmentation.

      Inclusion criteria included: maternal age between 20 & 35 years old, gestational age 37 to 40
      weeks (confirmed by a reliable date for the last menstrual period and 1st trimester
      ultrasound scan), vertex presentation of the fetus & intact membranes. Women who had chronic
      or pregnancy induced diseases or any contraindication to vaginal delivery (e.g.
      malpresentation, contracted pelvis & placenta previa) were excluded. Additional exclusion
      criteria included rhesus (Rh) negative or (O) blood group mothers, prolonged labour (> 12h),
      fetal distress, instrumental delivery (forceps or vacuum extraction), abnormal fetal growth
      (IUGR or macrosomia), non-reassuring initial fetal CTG & epidural analgesia. Neonates with
      one or more of the following criteria were excluded: Apgar score < 5 or <7 at one minute or
      five minutes respectively, low birth weight (< 2.5 kg), birth trauma or abnormal G6PD enzyme
      levels.

      For all patients, full history was taken followed by complete physical examination &
      obstetric ultrasound. Initial baseline CTG was done to confirm fetal wellbeing. Patient was
      then randomized to one of the three groups. 5 units oxytocin was placed in 500 cc of isotonic
      saline 0.9% or 5% glucose With the beginning of active phase (defined as fully effaced cervix
      with 3-4 cm dilatation), the investigator gave the patient either 5 units oxytocin placed in
      500 cc of isotonic saline 0.9% (group A) or 5% glucose (group B). The rate of infusion in
      both groups was 2.5 mIU/min of oxytocin intravenous drip with the dose increased by 2.5
      mIU/ml every 20min till effective uterine contractions establishment (defined as the presence
      of 3 forceful uterine contractions over 10 mins span). Amniotomy was done at cervical
      dilatation ≥ 6 cm if spontaneous rupture of membranes did not occur. Opioid analgesia was
      given after the amniotomy (meperidine hydrochloride 50 mg IM). Oral fluid intake was not
      restricted in all patients.

      Participants were monitored in bed together with fetal wellbeing surveillance using
      continuous CTG monitoring. A partogram was maintained throughout labour and vaginal
      examinations were conducted and recorded every 2 hours.

      Following fetal delivery, cord was clamped within 2 minutes from birth Sodium and initial
      bilirubin levels were measured in the cord. Umbilical cord blood samples (10 ml) were
      obtained from the placental site of divided umbilical cord into heparin test tubes and plasma
      was separated immediately. Sodium, initial haemtocrit & bilirubin levels were measured. All
      babies were breastfed. Neonatal capillary blood (obtained by heel prick) bilirubin and
      haemtocrit concentrations were remeasured on day 1 and 2. Sodium measurement was done using
      flame photometry while bilirubin level was determined using spectrophotometry.

      Data collected included total volume of fluid & total oxytocin dose administered till
      delivery, neonatal Apgar score at birth (1 & 5 minutes), birth weight, cord sodium,
      haemtocrit & bilirubin levels at birth and neonatal plasma haemtocrit & bilirubin levels on
      day 1 & 2.
    
  