
    
      Gender, age, stage of disease, and pathologic factors were retrospectively obtained from
      electronic patient records. Staging was determined according to the classification
      established by the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC, 7th edition).Pelvic magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) were used for pretreatment staging. All patients enrolled in this
      study were treated with intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) concurrent with capecitabine
      (1600 mg/m2/d, administered twice daily for two weeks) before or after curative resection.
      The mean radiation dose was 50 Gy with daily fraction of 2.0 Gy.

      Acute treatment toxicity was scored according to the National Cancer Institute Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE; version 3.0) and late toxicity was classified
      according to the Late Effects in Normal Tissue-Subjective, Objective, Management and Analytic
      (LENT-SOMA) system.

      After the whole treatment procedure, all patients were subjected to a follow-up every three
      months for the first two years, every six months for the next three years, and every year
      thereafter. Physical examinations, routine blood test, serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)
      and Cancer Antigen 19-9 (CA-199) level were checked at each follow up. Chest, abdominal CT
      scan and total colonoscopy were performed annually except the suspicion of tumor recurrence.

      Overall survival (OS) time was defined from the date of completion of treatment to death from
      any cause and progression-free survival (PFS) time was defined as the time from the date of
      completion of therapy to the date of local recurrence or distant metastasis or death. Patient
      follow-up was lasted until death or the cutoff date of January 2017.Blood sampling reports
      from each enrolled patient were obtained within seven days before treatment. White blood cell
      count, neutrophil, lymphocyte and platelet counts were examined. The NLR was calculated as
      the absolute neutrophil count divided by the absolute lymphocyte count using baseline blood
      test results.
    
  