
    
      Past research in stable patients with coronary artery disease and those with non-ST elevation
      acute coronary syndromes (NSTEMI) has demonstrated the safety and efficacy of enoxaparin as
      an anticoagulant strategy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention 1-3.

      In patients with ST-elevations myocardial infarction (STEMI) receiving pharmacological
      reperfusion (fibrinolysis), enoxaparin has been shown to be an attractive alternative to
      unfractionated heparin based upon past modest scale trials (HART-2, ENTIRE TIMI 23, ASSENT-3,
      ASSENT-3+)4-6. These results were definitively extended by the ExTRACT-TIMI 25 trial which
      compared fibrinolysis with unfractionated heparin versus enoxaparin in 20,506 patients with
      STEMI 7. The primary endpoint of death and re-MI occurred in 9.9% of patients with enoxaparin
      and 12.0% of patients in the unfractionated heparin group (17% RR, p<0.001); major bleeding
      occurred in 2.1% and 1.4% respectively (p<0.001). This was achieved using a dose reduction
      strategy in the elderly (>75yrs) that omitted the intravenous enoxaparin bolus and decreased
      the subcutaneous injection to 0.75 mg/kg. After initial fibrinolysis, fewer patients
      underwent PCI through 30 days in the enoxaparin group versus the unfractionated heparin group
      (22.8% vs 24.2%, p=0.027). Among those who underwent PCI (n=4674) by 30 days the primary
      endpoint occurred in 10.7% with enoxaparin versus 13.8% unfractionated heparin randomization
      (0.77 RR, p<0.001); major bleeding was not different (1.4% vs. 1.6%, p=NS) 8.

      Despite existing data in stable coronary artery disease, NSTEMI, and STEMI patients treated
      with fibrinolysis there is limited data regarding the approach to anticoagulation therapy
      with enoxaparin in those STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI. Within a sub-study of the
      Which Early ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction Therapy study (WEST) we undertook systematic
      anti-Xa sampling to address the adequacy of anticoagulation with an enoxaparin based regime9,
      10. WEST patients undergoing primary PCI received aspirin, clopidogrel, and subcutaneous
      enoxaparin (1mg/kg) at the time of randomization. Subsequent administration of intravenous
      enoxaparin and abciximab at the time of PCI was encouraged. Those receiving supplemental
      intravenous enoxaparin (0.3 - 0.5 mg/kg) in addition to subcutaneous enoxaparin achieved
      anti-Xa levels > 0.5 units/ml (the proposed therapeutic concentration). Amongst those
      receiving 1 mg/kg of enoxaparin subcutaneous at randomization and 0.3 mg/kg intravenous
      enoxaparin at time of PCI, none had excessive anticoagulation (anti-Xa > 1.5 units/ml)
      suggesting that this may be an attractive dosing strategy.

      Recently a non-randomized comparison of unfractionated heparin and enoxaparin within the
      FINNESSE study was presented in STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI. Preliminary reports
      indicate superior outcomes amongst those receiving enoxaparin 0.5mg/kg intravenous as
      compared to unfractionated heparin intravenously.

      The STREAM study provides a unique and important opportunity to acquire randomized safety and
      efficacy data on anticoagulation with enoxaparin vs. unfractionated heparin in STEMI patients
      undergoing primary PCI.
    
  