
    
      The following data from a person tested positive for COVID 19 and hospitalized will be
      collected. Patient's anthropometry (height in cms, weight in kgs and body mass index in
      kg/m2), blood pressure, symptoms of COVID-19 (fever, fatigue, cough, cephalalgia, dyspnoea,
      rhinitis, pharyngeal symptoms, ageusia, anosmia, digestive disorders), history of smoking,
      hypertension, dyslipidemia, microvascular (retinopathy, nephropathy and neuropathy),
      macrovascular (coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease and peripheral vascular
      disease) complications and other co morbid conditions will be recorded. Fasting blood
      glucose, HbA1c and any other relevant investigations if available and treatment for COVID-19
      and other co morbid conditions will be recorded.

      Details of patients developing new symptoms, shifted to ICU, intubated or died during the
      course of treatment will be recorded. Appearance of any complication during the stay at
      hospital will be recorded. The changes in the treatment pattern during the course of the
      disease will also be noted.

      The registry will be fully anonymised and statistician will have no access to patients'
      personal identifiers. All "investigators" will have to register before entering data in the
      registry. Data about clinical observations for the individual patient will be entered by
      clinicians or by authorised research personnel of the care team in the web registry.

      Patients' name, date of birth, date of death, residential postal code, hospital number will
      be fully anonymised at source. In no circumstances, patients' identifiable data be available
      to anyone outside their own care teams or authorised local administration/research personnel.
      Patient data will not at any stage will be in identifiable form by the registry managers. The
      data to be collected from the patients are mentioned in the visit chart.
    
  