
    
      Despite surgical excision and radiation therapy, approximately 50% of patients treated for
      localised STS will experience local or distant relapse.

      Recurrent STS : current therapeutic strategies Although some patients may be salvaged with
      surgery, chemotherapy using doxorubicin-based regimens is in most cases indicated for
      patients with recurrent STS. Progression-free survival (PFS) is in most cases less than or
      equal to 6 months. Most patients die of their disease within 12-15 months following the
      diagnosis of advanced disease. Doxorubicin is considered as the standard of care in the first
      line setting for patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic STS. However, only
      15-25% of these patients exhibit objective response following this chemotherapy while 30-35%
      experiment rapid disease progression. Doxorubicin-based combinations have resulted in an
      inconsistent increase in response rate but no survival advantage versus single-agent
      doxorubicin. After doxorubicin-based regimens failure, most agents, including other agents
      approved for the treatment of STS such as dacarbazine, ifosfamide and trabectedin, have shown
      very low response rates and short PFS. The only approved agent in this setting is
      trabectedin, which has shown prolonged stabilization in approximately 20% of patients at 6
      months in several phase II trials. Gemcitabine-docetaxel combination, although not approved
      for the treatment of STS has shown interesting response rates in leiomyosarcomas, as well as
      other STS subtypes . Mechanisms of chemoresistance are poorly understood.

      Place of LBH589:

      LBH589 is postulated to have activity in sarcomas by being able to arrest gene transcription
      through the inhibition of HDAC, to cause the misfolding of important proteins for sarcoma
      biology such as fusion proteins or overexpressed genes (HDM2, cdk4, AKT…) via the disruption
      of HSP90 functioning . Some mechanisms similar to leukemia-associated fusion proteins, which
      have been shown to recruit HDAC to repress hematopoietic differentiation, might be involved
      by some translocation-associated sarcomas. The SYT portion of the synovial sarcoma
      oncoprotein SYT-SSX interacts with trithorax-group proteins and binds directly to the mSin3A
      HDAC component. SSX associates with polycomb-group proteins, which involve HDAC activity to
      mediate transcriptional repression; thus, aberrant epigenetic changes in gene expression seem
      to be a central effect of the fusion oncoprotein in this disease. HDAC inhibitors have been
      effective against both synovial sarcoma and Ewing sarcoma in preclinical studies . Evidence
      has also been presented for growth inhibition and induction of differentiation in clear cell
      sarcoma (Nielsen TO, Vancouver Coastal Health Research Institute, Vancouver, Canada,
      unpublished data) and chondrosarcoma by HDACi.

      Data from the phase I study involving patients with advanced solid tumors indicate that the
      MWF every week schedule of LBH589 is pharmacodynamically and clinically active. Histone
      acetylation was detected in peripheral blood cells for up to 72 hours (the maximum duration
      between doses on the MWF every week schedule) in 50% of patients at the 20 mg and 30 mg doses
      and CR and PR were observed in two and three patients respectively, with cutaneous T-cell
      lymphoma. Grade 3 fatigue was the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in 2 patients treated at the
      40 mg level and 1 patient treated at the 60 mg level. The 40 mg level seem to be tolerable
      and is felt to be the most likely to have activity in solid tumors.

      After first-line chemotherapy failure, efficacy of therapeutic alternatives is limited. The
      purpose of this trial is therefore to investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of 40
      mg of LBH589 given orally on a twice a week.
    
  