
    
      Uganda is among countries with the highest per capita consumption rates of alcohol as well as
      a high prevalence of HIV. Uganda is ranked the 28th in the world in alcohol consumption per
      capita and is 2nd top consumer of alcohol in Africa.

      Little is known about alcohol use and its impact on sexual risk behaviors and HIV disease
      progression from this setting Understanding alcohol consumption burden and testing an
      intervention measure directed against alcohol consumption will result in reduced alcohol
      consumption and potentially reduced sexual risk behaviors hence boost the success of ART and
      subsequently reduce potential further HIV transmission from Persons Living With HIV/AIDS.

      To increase the understanding of alcohol consumption among persons living with HIV in through
      a series of epidemiological studies by estimating the burden of alcohol consumption, its
      association with HIV disease progression and assess the effect of an alcohol motivational
      intervention plus standard positive prevention versus standard positive prevention counseling
      alone on alcohol and sexual risk behaviors among PLWHA at the IDI clinic.

      Specific Objectives

        1. To identify and determine the prevalence of clinical factors associated with any alcohol
           consumption among PLWHA attending the IDI clinic in Kampala Uganda

        2. To describe the association between moderate alcohol consumption and CD4 cell count at
           base-line among patients attending the IDI clinic.

        3. To determine the efficacy of standard positive prevention counseling plus Motivational
           intervention (SPP+MI) for alcohol consumption versus standard positive prevention
           counseling (SPP) only in reducing alcohol consumption among HIV infected moderate
           alcohol drinkers attending the IDI clinic in Kampala Uganda.

        4. To determine whether reduction in alcohol consumption is associated with reductions in
           risky sexual behaviors among HIV infected moderate alcohol drinkers attending the AIDC
           in Kampala Uganda.

      Risky Sexual Behavior for HIV transmission assessed as a summation of yes or no(Binary) if
      reporting ANY ONE or ALL of the following behaviors (non spousal sexual inter-course,
      unprotected sex with any partner who is HIV negative/unknown HIV status or reporting multiple
      Non spousal sex partners within the study period under inquiry.
    
  