
    
      The main aim of anticancer therapies is to exert cytotoxic effects on cancer cells. It
      recently emerged that some anticancer therapeutic modalities are capable of inducing a cell
      death subroutine called immunogenic cell death (ICD) that can mediate specific, sustained
      anticancer immunity. These observations have marked the beginning of intense research into
      immunoadjuvant or anticancer immunity inducing "side-effects" associated with anticancer
      therapies.

      At present, in humans, no ICD-associated predictive biomarkers have been identified, which
      hampers the development of immunological strategies. No published data about human biomarkers
      for ICD is available.

      In vitro, ICD has been found to be associated with the spatiotemporally defined emission of
      danger signals such as surface exposed calreticulin (CRT) or heat shock protein 90 (HSP90),
      secreted ATP and released TLR4 agonists like HMGB1 or HSP70. Moreover, recently it has
      emerged that ICD may also be associated with a "viral response-like chemokine signature
      (VCS)" capable of acting as both 'find me' signal (for granulocytic myeloid cells) and 'keep
      away' signal (for immature monocytic myeloid cells) - further details of this paradigm are
      under investigation.

      Thus, the presence of these molecular determinants of ICD can be used to monitor the host
      immune status and as a predictive biomarker. Examples include: danger signals as surrogate
      positive biomarkers (HMGB1, HSP70 and autoantibodies against CRT/HSP90); viral-response like
      chemokine signature as direct positive biomarkers (IFN1A, IFN1B and CXCL10>CCL2>CXCL1).

      The presence of determinants of ICD can be confirmed through the strategy of following
      biomarkers (in non-hematological cancers):

        -  Cancer cell-associated pro-tumorigenic cytokines/factors IL1A, IL10, IL6, TGF-B, VEGFA,
           VEFGC, IDO enzyme, CXCL12, IL8

        -  Immune cell-associated pro-tumorigenic cytokines/chemokines/factors IL10, IDO enzyme,
           TGF-B, IL4, IL5, IL13, TNF, M-CSF, GM-CSF, IL26, CXCl5, CCL7

        -  danger signals as surrogate positive biomarkers HMGB1, HSP70 and autoantibodies against
           CRT/HSP90

        -  Cancer cell-associated viral response-like chemokine signature IFN-a, IFN-b, CXCL9,
           CXCL10, CXCL1 and CCL2

        -  Immune cell-associated anti-tumorigenic cytokines or chemokines as positive biomarkers
           IL1B, IL12p70, IL15, IFNG, IL22, IL23, IL17A, IL2, CCL4, CCL5, CXCL13, CCL8, CCL19,
           CXCL11,CCL12, CCL17, CCL23, CCL22, CCL13, CCL24, CCL1, CCL26, CXCL2, CXCL16 Moreover,
           the investigators will also investigate serum-associated exosomes as possible biomarkers
           of an efficient antitumor response. Compared to certain soluble biomarkers (which are
           accessible and thus more susceptible to extracellular proteases), exosomal biomarkers
           can exhibit a longer half-life than their soluble equivalents, due to the "protection"
           provided by their encompassing lipid membrane. Therefore, the investigators are also
           interested in exploiting exosomes as a source of antitumor response information and as
           novel biomarkers of therapeutic success (those mentioned above and others under
           investigation).

      Radiotherapy has been established through various robust lines of in vitro and in vivo
      evaluation to be capable of inducing ICD and anticancer immune responses. As an exploratory
      analysis, we will integrate lipidomics into the workflow. This has already been done in
      multiple disease settings and NSCLC has already proven to change lipid content in a
      quantifiable manner. The aim of this pilot study is to investigate the hypothesis that
      certain biomarkers of ICD that were identified in vitro or ex vivo are detectable in patient
      sera following radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. Radiotherapy alone or concurrent
      cisplatin-doublet and radiotherapy will be investigated. The investigator will conduct this
      pilot study to gather initial data to build upon in future clinical trials, as there is no in
      vivo data available on this topic. Results will be published and used for future grant
      applications.
    
  