
    
      The onset of asthma is often during childhood, and when the child is atopic, it is more
      likely to persist into adulthood. Diseases such as asthma have a higher prevalence in
      childhood; and management that alters the morbidity of allergic disease in children may
      impact disease outcomes in future years.

      Asthma is the most prevalent chronic disease in childhood and accounts for the highest rate
      of hospitalizations in the ages between 0-4 years. Unfortunately, there are few noninvasive
      objective measurements of pulmonary health in children. Current techniques include
      determination of peak flow, spirometry, and measurement of nitric oxide (NO). Bronchial
      inflammation is a central feature of asthma and anti-inflammatory therapy is the mainstay of
      treatment. Expired NO (eNO) has been shown to correlate with bronchial inflammation. However,
      the collection of NO has only been available in research settings due to the limitations of
      collection and analysis. In contrast, exhaled breath condensate (EBC) is easily obtained and
      pH analysis technically simple.

      Determination of pH in EBC is a novel, non-invasive technique in clinical study as a means to
      evaluate the severity of pulmonary inflammation. In the protocol described, we will evaluate
      the utility of EBC in the measurement of airway disease in 60 children with asthma and
      compare them to 30 healthy cohorts in the same age range. We will determine if EBC pH is
      reflective of the degree of morbidity in children by correlating measurements with known
      parameters of disease including: 1) number of hospitalizations, 2) absenteeism from school,
      3) number of asthma exacerbations, 4) loss of work days (if applicable), 5) extent of rescue
      medication usage, 6) spirometry to evaluate obstruction, and 7) NO as a measurement of
      inflammation.

      Subjects will be evaluated and then categorized based on the National Asthma Education and
      Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines. We will measure the pH from EBC in children age 6 to
      less than 18 years of age and compare findings to clinical data, spirometry, and expired NO.
      In this way, we will determine if EBC is a potentially useful non-invasive measurement of
      airway disease. It is hoped that measurements of EBC will be helpful in identifying those
      children in which the addition of an anti-inflammatory medication is appropriate. We will
      also attempt to measure inflammatory mediators to determine if they can be used to assess
      inflammation.

      This method may also be useful in detecting airway inflammation due to an infectious agent
      before a systemic reaction (fever, respiratory distress, or cough) is apparent in children
      with various immunodeficiency diseases such as chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), recurrent
      respiratory infections without a defined host defect (RIND), or Job's syndrome.

      We will recruit 30 healthy control children in the same age range to compare the EBC pH
      values in children without allergic or other chronic pulmonary diseases. In addition, we will
      recruit 30 children (10 in each group) with CGD, RIND, and Job's to compare exhaled breath
      condensate pH and exhaled nitric oxide values to those from children with allergic airway
      inflammation to determine if these methods are useful for early diagnosis of infectious
      airway inflammation.
    
  