
    
      This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining
      brain activity after taking perampanel.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved perampanel as a treatment option for
      seizures. It has not been approved for the treatment of brain tumors. Recording of brain
      activity (electrocorticography) during surgery is an established clinical procedure, which
      will be performed for investigational purposes. This research study is studying brain
      recordings and perampanel treatment in participants with brain tumors for the following
      reasons:

        -  People with brain tumors commonly have seizures.

        -  Perampanel was developed as an anti-seizure medication, which works by blocking a
           signaling pathway between brain cells, mediated by AMPA receptors.

        -  Previous research has shown abnormal brain activity around tumors resulting from
           increased AMPA receptor activation.

        -  Perampanel is expected to decrease abnormal brain activity and prevent seizures by
           blocking AMPA receptor signaling.

      This study involves two groups of participants, one group who receives the antiseizure
      medication perampanel, and the other group who receives the usual antiseizure medication
      (typically levetiracetam) at the time of surgery. Participants have the option to choose
      which group to participate if they have a preference.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, recording brain activity
      during surgery, and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits. Participants
      will receive the study drug for as long as they do not have serious side effects and their
      disease does not get worse, up to a maximum of 12 months.

      It is expected that about 20 people will take part in this research study.

      The National Institute of Health (NIH) is supporting this study by providing funding for the
      research. Eisai Inc, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing
      the study medication.
    
  