
    
      The purpose of this study is to:

        1. Assess the ability of adults with and without nicotine dependence (ND) to activate
           reward-related brain regions (e.g., ventral tegmental area (VTA), striatum, prefrontal
           cortex).

        2. Evaluate whether fMRI and/or EEG neurofeedback improves the ability to increase
           reward-related brain activation in individuals with and without ND.

        3. Examine the relationship between activation of reward-related regions via neurofeedback
           and dopamine availability (as assessed genetically).

        4. Examine the effects of neurofeedback on clinically relevant outcomes, including reward
           responsivity and smoking related behaviors.

      Procedure:

      Prior to coming to a screening visit, all potential participants will undergo a phone
      pre-screening using an IRB approved phone script to pre-identify potentially eligible
      participants and to potentially decrease screen fail rate. These interested potential
      participants call or email the site in response to advertisements. The pre-screening will
      take place via phone. Participants who pass the pre-screening will complete some or all of
      the following visits: Screening, Camera Return Visit, Real-Time Neurofeedback Visit,
      Follow-up Phone Call/Debriefing.

      Screening Visit:

      Participants with nicotine dependence who pass the pre-screen will come to the lab at Duke to
      complete additional screening. All participants will undergo informed consent and those with
      ND will complete a urine drug screen. Participants who pass the urine drug screen (results
      are provided immediately) will complete questionnaires assessing mood, reward processing, and
      smoking behaviors.

      Some participants may also be given a camera to use to capture pictures of personalized
      rewarding objects (e.g., picture of their pet, favorite book, favorite food). Participants
      may be loaned the camera for a period of 1-2 weeks to capture pictures of rewarding objects.
      We will instruct participants that the camera is to be used exclusively for capturing
      pictures for the study and not for personal use. Some participants may not be asked to take
      their own pictures for the study protocol and may simply be shown neutral or positive
      pictures/images/objects provided by the experimenters (e.g., shapes, pictures, etc.). Note,
      no aversive images will be shown to participants.

      Camera Return Visit:

      Participants who were loaned a camera will be asked to come to the lab at Duke to return the
      camera. The experimenters will ensure that enough pictures have been acquired to use during
      the experiment. Participants will be given guidelines about what types of pictures are
      required for the study. Participants are also free to provide photos they already have by
      uploading them to a secure website or brining them in on a device (e.g., thumbdrive).

      Participants may also be asked to view and rate the pictures they provide along with neutral
      and positive images we provide (e.g., puppy, flower) on dimensions such as valence and
      arousal.

      Real-Time Neurofeedback Visit:

      Eligible participants will be scheduled for an fMRI and/or EEG session to assess and measure
      the ability to self-activate reward-related regions. The fMRI session will be conducted at
      the Duke Brain Imaging and Analysis Center (BIAC) and/or the UNC Biomedical Research Imaging
      Center (BRIC). Female participants will have a urine pregnancy test prior to fMRI scanning;
      the test will be verified to be negative in order to proceed with the scanning session. The
      EEG sessions will take place in private testing space in the Levine Science Research Center
      or the BIAC.

      Participants may complete some or all of the following tasks: Reward Activation Task, Passive
      Viewing Task, and Reward Learning Task. All of these tasks aim to assess how adults can learn
      to interact with neurofeedback provided from an fMRI or EEG system. The tasks vary slightly
      from each other in terms of stimuli used (personalized pictures, images provided by the
      experimenters, feedback display, etc.). It may be possible that we will not be able to get a
      good EEG signal for some participants, based on equipment error or head size. If this occurs,
      participants will be debriefed and paid for their time. We will be sure to emphasize there
      was no error on the participant's part, and that sometime the signal is difficult to acquire
      for a variety of reasons.
    
  