
    
      The purpose of the study is to understand how oxytocin affects brain and behavior. The study
      will compare Syntocinon Nasal Spray to placebo. The specific aims are to:

        1. Determine the default circuitry of oxytocin (OT).

        2. Determine time-course and gender differences for default neural response to OT.

        3. Using an iterative version of the classical neuroeconomic game (Trust Study),
           behaviorally test whether OT down-regulates reward learning, thereby enhancing the
           effects of kinship bias, to account for the polarizing effects (in which OT increases
           trust for 'in-groups' and increases aggression for 'out-groups').

        4. Identify the down-regulation of reward learning neurobiologically, via data-driven
           control systems modeling of the reward circuit using MRI (fMRI: time-series analysis of
           the orbitofrontal cortex, amygdala, anterior and posterior cingulate, and nucleus
           accumbens, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy: focusing on gamma-Aminobutyric acid
           neurotransmitters within the nucleus accumbens) and magnetoencephalography (focusing on
           the dynamics within the prefrontal cortex). FMRI and MRS will be conducted during the
           same MRI scan, while MEG will be conducted separately.

      STUDY PROCEDURES:

      Nasal Obstruction/Anosmia Screening: All potential subjects will be screened for total or
      partial anosmia and nasal congestion using the University of Pennsylvania Smell
      Identification Test (Psychological Assessment Resources, Lutz FL).

      Pregnancy and Lactation Screening: Oxytocin is often used clinically to trigger labor in
      late-stage pregnancy. Although none of our subjects will be in late-stage pregnancy and
      subjects will be receiving dosages far smaller that those used to trigger labor, to be safe
      all potential female subjects will be urine screened for pregnancy immediately during the
      history and physical. Lactation screening will be performed via self-report, and is conducted
      to avoid confounds due to endogenously produced OT during the milk-ejection reflex.

      Oxytocin/Placebo Procedures: Oxytocin intranasal spray is manufactured as the Syntocinon
      Nasal Spray. The typical dose oxytocin of for short-term intranasal use is 40IU, and has an
      expected half-life of 20 minutes. Placebos, identical in preparation except for the oxytocin
      component, will be administered in the same manner in a double blind procedure. To avoid
      bleed-through between conditions while controlling for order effects, sessions will not be
      mixed between drug and placebo conditions: each session, conducted on separate days, will be
      either 'drug' or 'placebo.'

      Scanning Procedures: Scanning procedure for MRI will include: structural scan (6 minutes),
      fMRI or MRS resting state (10 minutes), and a neuroeconomic task scan (10 minutes). Scanning
      procedure for MEG will include: resting state (10 minutes), and a neuroeconomic task scan (20
      minutes).

      Behavioral Task: During scans, subjects will participate in an interactive neuroeconomic
      game, an iterative version of the classical "Trust Study". During this game, the subject
      ('investor') is first provided a sum of money. He then has the choice in terms of how much to
      invest in a fictional computer-generated trustee or, in forced-choice versions, to choose
      between different trustees. The trustee then sends some percentage back to the subject
      ('investor'), and the game iterates over many trials. Previous research has shown that OT
      disrupts participant's use of the optimal solution, eliciting greater "trust" in the trustee
      than would be expected by Nash Equilibrium. To modulate reward learning, algorithms for
      trustee behavior will be modulated towards greater and lesser generosity. To modulate kinship
      bias, trustees will be represented on the screen using faces of greater and lesser similarity
      to that of the subject, created using MorphMan video-editing software (STOIK Imaging, Moscow
      Russia).
    
  