
    
      -  Indolent non-Hodgkin lymphomas (iNHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are among
           the most frequent B-cell neoplasms. They include different histologies (i.e. follicular
           NHL, marginal zone NHL and lymphocytic NHL/CLL) characterized by chronic course and
           prolonged survival. While some patients with limited stage disease may be cured, those
           presenting with advance stage or relapsing after local radiotherapy are generally
           considered not curable with standard treatments.

        -  First-line treatment of CLL/LL is currently based on the biologic profile of the
           disease. Excluding high risk patients harboring the del(17p) and/or TP53 mutations,
           first line chemoimmunotherapy options includes the use of either fludarabine,
           cyclophosphamide and rituximab (FCR) or BR. Despite the good results, treatment with FCR
           or BR regimens is associated with severe immunosuppression that worsens the immune
           dysfunctions already present at diagnosis in several patients. In the CLL phase III
           trial, high frequency of grade 3/4 infections was reported in FCR and BR, being observed
           in 39% and 25% of the patients, respectively. In iNHL, infections have been observed in
           37-55% of the patients treated with BR, with grade 3/4 events in 7-12% of the cases.

        -  Blinatumomab-expanded T cells (BET) are an Advanced Therapeutic Medicinal Product (ATMP)
           composed of autologous polyclonal activated T cells expanded in vitro using blinatumomab
           and rhIL-2, to be used for somatic cell therapy in an autologous setting. Indeed the
           investigators have developed a method using blinatumomab and rhIL2 to expand and
           activate ex vivo the T lymphocytes present in the peripheral blood from CLL and iNHL
           patients, while at the same time eliminating contaminating CD19+ neoplastic cells. The
           resulting polyclonal T cells can be used for immuno-reconstitution purposes. The Cell
           Factory "Centro di Terapia Cellulare G. Lanzani" showed the functionality of BET in a
           mouse B-cell NHL xenograft model. Upon in vivo inoculation, BET retain functional
           activity: upon engagement with blinatumomab in vivo, BET were able to efficiently kill
           the B-cell NHL cells. Importantly, BET did not showed any toxicity in animals, even at
           high doses and in presence of blinatumomab.

        -  About clinical experience, it has been previously shown that adoptive transfer of ex
           vivo (anti-CD3/anti-CD28) co-stimulated autologous T cells can successfully accelerate a
           robust T-cell recovery early after autologous transplant for multiple myeloma. However,
           the invariable presence of clonal disease in cell product of iNHL/CLL patients hampered
           this possibility up to now. In contrast BET cell expansion leads to lysis of
           contaminating neoplastic cells. BET can therefore be expanded from CLL patients
           peripheral blood in GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) conditions for adoptive therapy.
           Starting from only 10 mL of peripheral blood, a mean 5.15x108 CD3+ cells can be expanded
           in 3 weeks with a rapid clearance of CLL contamination. The resulting
           blinatumomab-expanded T cells (BET) were polyclonal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and mostly
           effector and central memory cells. They showed a normalized expression of the synapse
           inhibitors CD272 and CD279 compared with starting T cells and were functionally active,
           showing cytotoxicity against CD19+ targets in presence of Blinatumomab in vitro and in
           vivo.

        -  On the basis of these data the investigators hypothesize that BET infusion after
           first-line treatment of iNHL/CLL with either FCR or BR could lead to an adequate immune
           recovery.
    
  