
    
      The study is Randomized Control Trail , which is being conducted in Pakistan Railway hospital
      and Riphah international hospital (march 2019-june 2019) . Sample size of 50 individual was
      calculated using epitool with 95% confidence interval (CI), and power 80%. 50 individual are
      screened out according to inclusion criteria. Individuals are allocated randomly into two
      groups , 25 in experimental group and 25 in control group by sealed envelope method.Both
      groups will receive conventional physiotherapy protocol (hot pack, stretching exercises and
      strengthening exercises) and then experimental group will receive cervical sensorimotor
      control training. Assessment will be done on baseline, 2nd week, 4th week and 6th week.

      Myofascial trigger point (MTrP) is moreover removed or inactivate by means of mechanical
      stimuli through filiform needle. A swift and repetitious needle insertions into myofascial
      trigger point is a treatment technique use for dry needling commonly has many therapeutic
      advantages. It interrupts motor end plates, muscle fibers and distal axons of myofascial
      trigger points and shortening of related sarcomere of myocytes.

      Use of dry needling in combination Muscle Energy Technique (MET) has more significant effects
      in improving Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Pain Pressure Threshold (PPT) and Range of Motion
      (ROM) of females patients having latent trigger points in upper trapezius than alone use of
      MET.

      Laser therapy has verified as to be more successful than dry needling in treating MTrPs. It
      is a preferred option for the patients having apprehensive behavior towards dry needling and
      health practioners inexpert with the dry needling procedure.

      Dry needling is indicated for the treatment when MTrPs are present, may leads to functional
      restrictions. They are the source of constant peripheral nociceptive contribution which needs
      to be inactivated. Dry Needling (DN) is also indicated in fascial adhesions, soft tissue
      restrictions, shortened muscle fiber due to which restricted range of motion is
      present.Secondary trigger point (TrP) due to different neuromuscular dysfunctions for example
      in tendonitis, radiculopathies, disk pathology, migraines, carpal tunnel syndrome, tension
      type headache, joint dysfunction, cranio-mandibular dysfunction, phantom pain , additional
      regional urological syndromes and other exceptional neurogenic pruritus, Barre Lieou syndrome
    
  