
    
      Objectives and Rationale: Using a prosthesis allows many who experience lower leg amputation
      to regain functional abilities, but walking may be more difficult, and a sub-optimal
      prosthesis can substantially restrict participation in desired activities. Selecting an
      optimal prosthetic foot is an important aspect of maximizing mobility and the achievement of
      functional goals for people with lower leg amputation, however there is limited evidence to
      guide this process. The current prosthetic prescription process relies on clinician
      experience and typically does not allow people with a leg amputation to easily try out
      different prosthetic feet. The investigators have developed a customizable robotic prosthetic
      foot that mimics the mechanical properties of commercially available prosthetic feet without
      physically changing feet. This 'prosthetic foot emulator' (PFE) can be attached to the
      prescribed prosthetic socket and worn like a regular prosthetic foot within the laboratory or
      clinic, providing people with leg amputations the opportunity to quickly 'test-drive' many
      prosthetic foot designs within a single test session. Trial and error with actual commercial
      prosthetic feet can be inefficient given the time and expense required for the purchasing and
      fitting of prosthetic feet. The PFE could provide a means to explore a range of feet in a
      very short period of time. This study will evaluate the ability of the emulator to accurately
      reproduce the experience of wearing several commercially available (actual) prosthetic feet.
      The investigators will test whether brief in-laboratory experiences with emulated or actual
      feet can accurately predict longer-term foot preference, satisfaction, and walking ability in
      the community. Results from this study may provide evidence to support a new approach to
      prosthesis prescription and could resolve longstanding uncertainty in the prescription
      process for prosthetic feet.
    
  