
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the prophylactic phenylephrine infusion for preventing
      hypotension in elderly patients.

      This prospective double blinded randomized control trial will include elderly patients over
      60 years undergoing orthopedic lower limb surgery under spinal anesthesia single injection
      (10 mg of Bupivacaine 0,5% with 5 µg of Sufentanyl). We define 4 groups: (1) Patients from 60
      to 75 years receiving 100 µg/min of phenylephrine infusion; (2) patients from 60 to 75 years
      receiving saline infusion; (3) patients over 75 years receiving 100 µg/min of phenylephrine
      infusion; (4) patients over 75 years receiving saline infusion. Standard monitoring is
      applied including noninvasive arterial blood pressure, electrocardiography and pulse
      oximetry. The vasopressor solution and the saline solution will be prepared in identical 50
      mL syringes by an investigator not involved in patient care. The investigator administering
      the solution and the patient are blinded to the content of the syringe. The velocity of
      infusion will be the same between groups (1ml/min) and the infusion will start once the
      spinal anesthesia realized. Arterial blood pressure measurements are realized each 1 minute
      for the first 20 minutes and then each 5 minutes until the end of surgery. After each
      measurement of MAP, the infusion is stopped if the MAP is more than baseline, and it is
      continued or restarted if the MAP is less than or equal to baseline. Anyway the infusion is
      stopped at the end of motor block. Hypotension is defined as a 20% decrease of mean arterial
      pressure (MAP). Severe hypotension is defined as a 30% decrease of MAP. Hypertension is
      defined as MAP > 120% of baseline. Each time there is a MAP measurement showing hypotension
      while patients are under infusion, a 1 mL IV bolus of phenylephrine 100µg/ml is injected by
      the anesthesiologist involved in patient care. The total volume of study solution given by
      infusion and the total volume of phenylephrine given by bolus are recorded.

      We want to demonstrate fewer episodes of hypotension and fewer post operatory cardiovascular
      and neurologic events in the groups receiving prophylactic phenylephrine infusion.
    
  