
    
      The Emergency Departments (EDs) in North America are under duress because of overcrowding,
      delays and diversions, which increase to epidemic proportions. The aging of Canadian's
      population amplifies the magnitude of this situation because older ED users are the fastest
      increasing group of ED users and they have complex and specific needs.

      There are simple interventions with which providers must proceed in order to cure or prevent
      short-term ED adverse events. Delirium, motor deconditioning, polypharmacy-related adverse
      drug reactions, and inappropriate home support are the main conditions to target when taking
      care of older ED users. We previously demonstrated that acting on these conditions may
      significantly accelerate the discharge and significantly reduce the length of ED and hospital
      stay. Evidence-based medicine showed that simple and early interventions may prevent delirium
      (e.g., through hydration, avoiding restraint, mobilizing and satisfying basic needs, time and
      place reorientation) and motor deconditioning (e.g., through encouraging mobility, up to
      chair at mealtime during daytime hours, providing appropriate walking aid) in older patients.
      Medication reconciliation is also an efficient intervention to prevent adverse drug
      reactions. Furthermore, an early assessment of home support is a crucial step in adjusting
      services for an early and smooth discharge back home. Based on this evidence, we have
      modified the 6-item Emergency Room Evaluation and Recommendations (ER2) by adding an
      interventional component to the assessment portion of the tool. The interventional part
      depends on the assessment's results and is based on recommendations designed to encourage
      easy and basic interventions that prevent delirium, motor deconditioning, adverse drug
      interactions and inappropriate home support. These recommendations are based on answers to
      the ER2 items
    
  