
    
      Photoaging of skin and actinic keratoses Photoaging of the skin is the result of UV radiation
      in chronic sun exposure and its deleterious effects. Photoaging includes fine and coarse
      wrinkles, roughness, laxity, mottled pigmentation, coarseness, sallowness, telangiectasia,
      solar lentigines and dysplastic actinic keratoses. The process can be of both cosmetic and
      medical importance. Actinic keratoses (AK) are common dysplastic pre-malignant lesions that
      may develop into a malign invasive squamous cell carcinomas (SCC). SCCs have metastatic
      potential at up to 3%. The risk of malign transformation from AK to SCC is highest in chronic
      sun-damaged skin with confluent field-cancerization from multiple AK. National guidelines
      recommend treatment of the entire field of sun damaged skin with photodynamic therapy and
      several topical drugs, e.g. imiquimod, diclofenac, ingenol mebutate, and 5-fluoruracil.
      Repeat treatments are usually necessary to achieve the desired results in patients with
      chronic sun damaged skin.

      Photochemical treatment with photodynamic therapy

      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a treatment that uses a photosensitizer drug activated in the
      skin by light in the visible spectrum. Methyl aminolevulinate (MAL) is a photosensitizing
      agent with great affinity for dysplastic cells, and transforms into the light-sensitive
      Protoporphyrin PpIX. When exposed to light, photoactivated PpIX catalyzes a reactive oxygen
      species reaction, which leads to irreversible cell apoptosis of the dysplastic or neoplastic
      tissue. PDT can be used as treatment of a wide range of photoaging skin defects including
      actinic keratoses, and is exceedingly well suited for treatment of larger skin areas. PDT
      produces cosmetically pleasing results in extension of the excellent AK clearance.

      Physical intervention with fractional laser and light-based interventions

      Fractional laser and light-based treatments with lasers and microneedles are approaches that
      can be applied very precisely, and can be used to rejuvenate photodamaged skin.

      Laser-treatment for rejuvenation of skin can be achieved using a non-ablative 1927 nm
      fractionated thulium laser (NAFL), good results have been reported for many aspects of
      photoaging, and specifically for actinic keratoses with good results. The thulium laser works
      by creating vertical thermal laser-channels in the skin without the ablative effect to the
      epidermis. Laser-treatment with the thulium laser may be combined with other treatments like
      PDT to produce synergistic effects.

      Microneedling (MN) is a treatment option in which the skin epidermis is penetrated by closely
      arranged multiple microneedles. This can induce collagen production and stimulate the release
      of growth factors, and collagen synthesis and remodeling, producing the effects of
      rejuvenation. Radio-frequency (RF) microneedling (MN), also known as RF-MN, adds RF making it
      possible for insulated needles to emit heat at the needle-heads when the epidermis is fully
      punctured, possibly enhancing the described effects even further. Good results have been
      reported using MN as skin rejuvenation, and can the treatment be used in conjunction with
      PDT.

      The delicate skin of the décolleté is subject to a high amount of accumulated life-time sun
      exposure, and is thus highly susceptible to photoaging effects. A mild and effective
      treatment of photodamaged skin for this particular area is highly desirable, and may be
      achieved by developing new combination strategies, in which the thulium laser or a
      microneedling device can be used as effective pre-treatment for PDT. To our knowledge, no
      previous randomized study has compared the use of the non-ablative thulium laser or
      microneedling in combination with photodynamic treatment (PDT).
    
  