
    
      High pathological complete response (pCR)-rates are seen using different neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy schedules with trastuzumab and pertuzumab in HER2-positive stage II - III breast
      cancer patients. Total pCR rates in breast and axilla have been described as high as 64%, and
      with an even higher rate of >80% in patients with HER2-positive and hormone receptor (HR)
      negative tumors. PCR is associated with better long-term outcomes in patients with
      HER2-positive breast cancer. Three year progression-free survival ranges between 85-90%.
      Neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer typically consists of six to nine cycles
      of treatment. Longer duration of treatment is associated with higher pCR-rates but gives more
      toxicity. Pathological complete responses are sometimes seen after only 10-12 days of
      neoadjuvant treatment. It is therefore important to investigate which patients can safely be
      treated with less than six cycles of chemotherapy and who requires more than six cycles for
      maximum activity.

      The radiologic response of a breast tumor after neoadjuvant therapy is predictive of the
      pathologic response, although the accuracy differs between breast cancer subtypes. It is
      hypothesized that patients with an early complete radiologic response may not benefit from
      additional chemotherapy and can be referred for early surgery. Patients who have not achieved
      pCR after early surgery despite radiologic complete response (rCR) are candidates for further
      adjuvant chemotherapy to complete the initially planned number of treatment cycles and
      maintain maximum treatment activity. Imaged guided de-escalation in which the number of
      treatment cycles is determined by the radiologic response could thus reduce toxicity in
      neoadjuvant treatment while maintaining activity.

      This study will evaluate the efficacy of image-guided de-escalation of neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy in patients with HER2-positive breast cancer.

      To maintain efficacy, patients who do not achieve pCR will complete a total of nine cycles
      taxane-containing chemotherapy followed by 14 cycles of treatment with adjuvant T-DM1.
      Patients who achieve early pCR will continue treatment with Herceptin® and pertuzumab to
      complete one full year of treatment.
    
  