
    
      Juvenile offenders with substance abuse problems represent a large and underserved population
      that is at high risk of deleterious outcomes and long-term costs for themselves, their
      families, communities, and society. Moreover, a high percentage of substance abusing
      adolescents continue to abuse substances and engage in criminal activity into adulthood.
      Although one juvenile justice intervention, Juvenile Drug Court (JDC), has emerged as a
      promising model for reducing drug use and delinquency among youth, its effectiveness is
      variable. Drug court outcomes may be compromised by the lack of caregiver engagement in JDC
      processes and adolescent drug treatment. Incorporating easily implemented evidence-based
      incentive programs in JDCs might improve their effectiveness in reducing youth drug use and
      re-offending. An extensive body of research supports the critical role that families play in
      the etiology, maintenance, and treatment of adolescent substance abuse. Although family-based
      interventions for adolescent substance abuse have been shown to be superior to other
      treatment modalities, parents must attend treatment and participate in meaningful ways for
      these superior outcomes to be realized. This randomized clinical trial will examine the
      efficacy of a prize-based contingency management intervention for increasing caregiver
      engagement (attendance and participation) in JDC and adolescent drug treatment. This
      caregiver contingency management intervention (CCM) will be compared with drug court
      treatment as usual (TAU). Increased caregiver participation is predicted to improve
      adolescent outcomes (decreased drug use and delinquent behavior). One hundred and eighty
      youth enrolled in JDC will be randomly assigned along with a parent/caregiver to TAU or CCM.
      Analyses will examine measures of caregiver engagement in JDC as well as youth substance use
      (urine drug screens) and delinquent activity. Results from this study will demonstrate the
      effectiveness of CCM procedures for increasing caregiver attendance and participation in JDC
      and adolescent drug treatment above and beyond drug court and usual care. If effective, the
      CCM approach may ultimately be used to enhance JDC outcomes, thereby reducing substance use
      and recidivism in juvenile offenders served by this promising juvenile justice intervention.
    
  