
    
      Clinicians are increasingly confronted with HIV-positive children who have failed all
      available antiretroviral therapies and have few viable treatment options. Virologic failure
      in these patients may be a result of antiretroviral resistance, likely a result of poor
      adherence to the treatment regimen or inadequate dosing. This study is designed to achieve
      adherence through observation of drug administration for the first 8 weeks of the study and
      to further overcome resistance by intensive, high-dose, multi-drug therapy. Treatment with
      more than 4 drugs has not been studied formally in children, but pediatricians caring for
      children with AIDS have used such strategies off study with success. Dose intensification may
      also aid in overcoming resistance; therefore, in this trial, d4T, 3TC, and NFV are
      administered at up to twice their standard doses. Given the limited therapeutic options
      available to HIV-positive children with poor prognoses, high-dose, multi-drug therapy merits
      study. [AS PER AMENDMENT 01/07/00: Pancreatitis, which may be fatal in some cases, has
      occurred during therapy with ddI. The risk of pancreatitis may be increased when ddI is used
      in combination with HU. ACTG A5025, a study that had a d4T/ddI/HU arm, was terminated because
      of significant toxicity concerns related to the HU-containing arm. Patients enrolled in ACTG
      P1007 may be at increased risk of developing pancreatitis given their advanced disease state
      and the use of multiple drugs including HU. The study had been amended to address these
      concerns.] [AS PER AMENDMENT 12/19/01: HU has been removed from the drug regimen.]

      Patient enrollment is staged to allow study physicians to aggressively monitor patients for
      signs of toxicity. Initially, patients are admitted to a hospital or clinical research center
      for 2 weeks, where they initiate an [AS PER AMENDMENT 12/19/01: "8-drug regimen" is replaced
      by "7-drug regimen"] and undergo frequent physical exams and blood tests to assess [AS PER
      AMENDMENT 12/19/01: glucose levels], pharmacokinetics, virologic response, and toxicity. If
      investigators identify important drug interactions requiring modification of the combination
      regimen, or if there are early regimen-terminating toxicities, the trial will be halted to
      address these concerns. After 2 weeks, the patient is discharged to return home. Study
      personnel visit the patient's house twice a day for 6 more weeks to observe drug
      administration, and the patient continues to receive regular physical exams and blood tests.
      At the end of Week 24, all patients with plasma RNA levels of 10,000 copies/ml or less are
      offered the opportunity to continue their regimen to Week 48. Patients with plasma RNA levels
      above 10,000 copies/ml at Week 24 and patients who experience virologic rebound at or after
      Week 24 are taken off study unless the patient's family and the investigator feel it is in
      the best interest of the child to remain on study. [AS PER AMENDMENT 12/19/01: The 2-week
      hospital or GCRC stay is no longer required. A 2-day stay in a hospital or GCRC for the
      purpose of drug regimen training is recommended, but not mandatory. Study personnel visit the
      patient once a day for 6 weeks at an agreed upon location or by phone contact.
    
  