
    
      The proposed study evaluates a sequence and combination of implementation strategies that is
      tailored to the needs of stakeholders at different levels (health system, clinic, and
      prescriber). We will deliver an adaptive version of systems consultation that progressively
      and adaptively drills down to offer more and more personalized levels of implementation
      support. The intervention starts with academic detailing, a systems-level strategy consisting
      of an expert-led training session plus distance-based follow up support. This strategy
      continues for the 18-month intervention for all clinics, but at 3 months, half of the clinics
      will be randomized to receive practice facilitation. Practice facilitation is a clinic-level
      strategy in which a highly-skilled external change agent helps clinics improve processes
      related to opioid prescribing. At 6 months, half of prescribers will be randomized to receive
      physician peer coaching. Physician peer coaching is a clinic-level strategy in which a
      physician expert gives one-on-one support to prescribers in managing their patients on
      long-term opioid therapy. These 3 discrete strategies will be delivered in a sequential,
      multiple-assignment randomized trial to 38 clinics from 2 Wisconsin health systems. The study
      has 3 specific aims:

        1. Compare the effect over 18 months of (1). An adaptive systems consultation
           implementation strategy (intervention group) vs. (2). Academic detailing alone (control
           group) on average morphine milligram equivalent dose (the primary outcome).

        2. Develop an assessment of contextual factors that influence the effectiveness of
           different implementation strategies. This aim will test 4 moderators and assess other
           factors that affect implementation. The goal is to develop a tool that decision-makers
           can use to predict which implementation strategies will be most effective in different
           settings.

        3. Estimate the costs of delivering 4 different sequences and combinations of strategies,
           including the incremental cost effectiveness of adding facilitation and physician peer
           coaching. Results will help decision-makers weigh the costs and effects of using
           different implementation strategies.
    
  