
    
      Esophageal carcinoma (EC) remains difficult to cure with overall 5-year survival rates for
      locally advanced stages being poor. Definitive concurrent chemoradiotherapy (dCRT) remains
      the mainstay of treatment for locally advanced and unresectable EC. Oxaliplatin is a new
      generation platinum with a more preferable toxicity profile compared to cisplatin.
      Furthermore, S-1 combines 5-Fu prodrug (tegafur) and two modulators of 5-Fu metabolism,
      gimeracil (CDHP) and oteracil. Basic studies showed that S-1 has superior anti-cancer effects
      than 5-Fu and enhances the sensitivity of cancer cells to the effects of radiotherapy.
      Herein, we designed a prospective phase I/II study, which is combined S-1 and oxaliplatin
      with IMRT for the patients with locally advanced and unresectable esophageal cancer, and
      evaluated the tolerability and efficacy of this combination.

      <Phase I>

      Primary Objective:

      To establish the safety of combination chemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin (escalating doses:
      110, 120, 130 mg/m2, day 1 and day 29), fixed dose of S-1 (80 mg/m2, day1-14 and day 29-42)
      and IMRT (5040cGy/28fx/5W+) in unresectable locally advanced esophageal cancer.

      Secondary Objective:

      To observe the efficacy of this regimen in these patients.

      <Phase II>

      Primary Objective:

      To assess the response rate of combination chemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin (recommended
      dose determined in phase I study, day1 and day29), fixed dose of S-1 (80 mg/m2, day1-14 and
      day 29-42), and IMRT (5040cGy/28fx/5W+) in unresectable locally advanced esophageal cancer.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To determine the adverse reactions of this regimen in these patients. To determine
      PFS(Progression free survival) of patients treated with this regimen.

      To determine OS (overall survival) of patients treated with this regimen. To explore the
      Health-related Quality of life using EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-OES18 in these patients.
    
  