
    
      Patients are at risk for respiratory depression in the perioperative period. The opioids used
      in both patient controlled analgesia (PCA) and epidural analgesia can cause respiratory
      depression. The progression of opioid side effects usually starts with sedation, respiratory
      depression follows and, if left uncorrected, this can lead to respiratory and then cardiac
      arrest and death. Sedation is a common side-effect, occurring in about 13% of patients and
      the incidence of respiratory depression varies depending on the precise definition used and
      the analgesia modality, but it has been reported to occur in about 1% of cases. If you
      continuously monitor patients with oximetry and capnography the incidence of respiratory
      depression has been shown to be much higher, as high as 12%8. The incidence of cardiac arrest
      and death from opioid overdose has been estimated at about 2 cases per 10, 0009. Given that
      the number of patients undergoing surgery annually is about 100 million worldwide,
      respiratory depression occurs between 1 and 12 million times and it results in about 20, 000
      preventable deaths each year10. The troublesome aspect of this complication is that it often
      occurs in healthy patients where the family and clinical staff do not anticipate a bad
      outcome.

      The problem of unexpected respiratory depression amongst patients treated with opioids is
      compounded by the challenge of dealing with obstructive sleep apnea patients in the
      perioperative period. Obstructive sleep apnea, characterized by the complete or partial
      obstruction of the upper airway during sleep, is not rare, with about 25% of the general
      population (and a greater proportion of the surgical population) being at risk for this
      condition. These patients are at even greater risk of perioperative respiratory events and
      consequently the guidelines from the American Society of Anesthesiology recommend continuous
      monitoring of these patients13,14. These guidelines are expert-based as no clinical trials
      have established the efficacy of continuous monitoring in this population.

      These two problems (respiratory depression from opioids and obstructive sleep apnea) have
      caused significant logistic problems in hospitals as many institutions do not have the
      equipment to provide continuous monitoring of patients outside of the intensive care units
      and there is limited capacity in the critical care areas to monitor all the patients at risk.

      The impact of respiratory depression can be mitigated if it is recognized early enough and
      appropriate actions are taken to resuscitate the patient. Early recognition of this
      complication depends on frequent and regular vital sign assessments by nursing staff.

      he problem in many surgical wards is that nursing staff, particularly at night, are spread
      thin and patients can occasionally go several hours without being seen. In this a period a
      patient can spiral into trouble from sedation to respiratory depression and eventually into
      respiratory and cardiac arrest. Previously, cardiac monitoring with telemetry has been
      available and could be used for patients in the perioperative period. Although telemetry has
      been proven useful for some groups of patients (including those with an automated
      defibrillator that has fired, those with a prolonged QT interval and those with acute heart
      failure) this technology will only pick up cases of respiratory depression that progress into
      a cardiac event15.

      Recently technology has become commercially available to continuously monitor pulse oximetry
      and notify clinical staff wirelessly via a paging system. The advantage of such a system is
      that clinicians can be notified immediately when a patient begins to decompensate from
      respiratory depression within enough time to initiate resuscitation before the patient
      progresses to respiratory or cardiac arrest. Another benefit of these systems is that
      patients at risk can be monitored on regular surgical wards without utilizing additional
      nursing staff. A recent literature search (of MEDLINE) that searched the concepts of
      respiratory monitoring in the perioperative period (using the MESH keywords: monitoring,
      oximetry, postoperative period and clinical trial) was conducted to see if there was evidence
      to support the use of these systems. Only a single study was identified in the search that
      specifically investigated the postoperative period, a before-after study on a 36-bed
      orthopedic ward found that a respiratory monitoring system was effective in reducing the need
      for rescue resuscitations and ICU transfers16. Although there is a Cochrane review on pulse
      oximetry for perioperative monitoring, this study focused only on intraoperative and recovery
      room monitoring and did not address monitoring of patients while on surgical wards17.

      Given these promising results, a respiratory monitoring will be trialed on two surgical wards
      at the Juravinski Hospital in Hamilton, Ontario. In order to evaluate the impact of this
      technology the investigators designed a randomized controlled trial to determine if routine
      wireless respiratory monitoring for 72 hours of surgical patients on two surgical wards (that
      care for general surgery, urology and gynecology-oncology patients) reduces the need for
      rescue resuscitations - Naloxone resuscitation of opioid overdose, Code Blues
      (Cardio-respiratory arrests) and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) transfers. In addition, this study
      will also evaluate the risk factors for respiratory depression, the types and duration of
      respiratory alarms that occur and the impact on nursing workflow.
    
  