
    
      General experimental design:

      Pre-testing will require participants to become familiarized with performing maximal
      voluntary isometric contractions, as well as touring the laboratory facilities. Participants
      will be asked to complete dietary records for three days to determine habitual caloric
      intake. The experimental trial will be conducted in three phases. A baseline run-in phase
      (Phase 1) during which participants will consume a diet matching their estimated energy
      requirement to put them in a weight-stable phase. Energy requirements will be estimated using
      the Harris Benedict equation using an appropriate physical activity factor based on interview
      responses to a standard activity questionnaire. Participants will then be assigned to either
      the comparator group (n=10) or leucine-enriched protein food group (n=10). For the subsequent
      10d (Phase 2), participants will undergo a period of step reduction (< 1000 steps.d-1) whilst
      in a 500 kcal.d-1 deficit that will be adjusted for the reduced physical activity due to the
      step reduction. The reason for inducing an energy deficit is to mimic a situation where older
      individuals will be both physically inactive and 'undernourished', such as during home-bound
      periods of sickness or while in hospital. After completing Phase 2, participants will then
      return to their normal step count (from measured habitual steps pre-intervention) under
      energy balanced conditions for 10d that will serve as a recovery phase, Phase 3. We will
      complete assessments of body composition, leg lean mass, maximal voluntary isometric
      strength, measures of physical performance, and rate of force development will be made.
      Skeletal muscle biopsies will be obtained for biochemical analysis. At these time points,
      maximal voluntary isometric force, maximal leg press strength, a battery of physical
      performance measures and body composition will once again be obtained.
    
  