
    
      This is a pilot study designed as a randomized, controlled trial comparing clinical outcomes
      and contamination rates in jet nebulizers versus vibrating mesh nebulizers. The sample size
      will be one of consecutive convenience over an entire year (September 2013-September 2014) to
      include all seasons. The study will be performed at Rush University Medical Center (RUMC) in
      Chicago, IL.

      Each mechanically ventilated patient within inclusion criteria, with a physician order for
      aerosol treatment, will be randomized to either the jet nebulizer or mesh nebulizer group
      using SPSS computer software. The respiratory care staff will place the nebulization device
      in the ventilator circuit per hospital protocol. Both devices, jet and mesh nebulizers, are
      currently standard practice, therefore hospital protocol will be followed regarding placement
      and administration of ordered aerosol treatment.

      The study subject will remain on the device in which they were randomized to for the duration
      of their hospital stay in order to obtain clinical outcome data. Study staff to be notified
      of patient extubation from mechanical ventilation, discharge from intensive care unit or
      expiration, this will conclude participant involvement in study. Retrospective clinical
      outcome data will be obtained from study subject's electronic medical chart at conclusion of
      study.

      Retrospective data to include:

        1. LOS in ICU (days)

        2. LOS on mechanical ventilator (days)

        3. Drug administration information

             1. Drug and dose ordered

             2. Number of treatments delivered

             3. Treatment type

                  -  Continuous

                  -  Intermittent

        4. Ventilator-Associated Tracheobronchitis (# VATs)16

           a. Fever, increased volume and purulence of secretions, a positive culture (quantitative
           or semi- quantitative) of a respiratory sample (tracheal aspirates or bronchoscopic
           specimens), and the absence of a new or an evolving pulmonary infiltrate in the chest
           x-ray in a patient on mechanical ventilation >48 hours

        5. Ventilator-Associated Events in Adults15

             1. Ventilator-Associated Condition (# VACs)

                  -  After a period of stability or improvement on the ventilator, the patient has
                     at least one of the following indications of worsening oxygenation:

                  -  Minimum daily FiO2 values increase ≥ 0.20 over baseline and remain at or above
                     that increased level for ≥ 2 calendar days. -

                  -  Minimum daily PEEP values increase ≥ 3 cm H2O over baseline and remain at or
                     above that increased level for ≥ 2 calendar days.

             2. Infection-related Ventilator-Associated Complication (# IVACs)

                  -  On or after calendar day 3 of mechanical ventilation and within 2 calendar
                     days before or after the onset of worsening oxygenation, the patient meets
                     both of the following criteria:

                  -  Temperature > 38˚ C or < 36˚ C, or white blood cell count ≥ 12,000 cells/mm3
                     or ≤ 4,000 cells/mm3. AND

                  -  A new antimicrobial agent(s) is started, and is continued for ≥ 4 calendar
                     days.

             3. Possible Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia (# Possible VAPs)

                  -  On or after calendar day 3 of mechanical ventilation and within 2 calendar
                     days before or after the onset of worsening oxygenation, ONE of the following
                     criteria is met:

                  -  Purulent respiratory secretions

                  -  Positive culture

             4. Probably Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia (# Probable VAPs)

                  -  On or after calendar day 3 of mechanical ventilation and within 2 calendar
                     days before or after the onset of worsening oxygenation, ONE of the following
                     criteria is met:

                  -  Purulent respiratory secretions (from one or more specimen collections- and
                     defined as for possible VAP) and one of the following (positive culture of
                     endotracheal aspirate, positive culture of bronchoalveolar lavage, positive
                     culture of lung tissue, positive culture of protected specimen brush

                  -  One of the following without requirement for purulent respiratory secretions
                     (positive pleural fluid culture, positive lung histopathology, positive
                     diagnostic test for Legionella, positive diagnostic test on respiratory
                     secretions for influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, adenovirus,
                     parainfluenza virus)

      The Jet Nebulizer Protocol:

        -  Physician order received for subject, randomization to jet nebulizer occurred.

        -  Jet nebulizer, Misty Max 10™ (Carefusion, CA), placed into spring loaded t-piece between
           the humidifier and the ventilator (approximately 15 cm from the gas outlet).

        -  Aerosol treatment delivered per physician order at flow rates of 8-10 L/min.

        -  Jet nebulizer to be replaced every 3 days per hospital protocol.

             1. Prior to every nebulizer change or every 3 days, study staff to be notified in
                order to obtain cultures.

             2. Cultures

                  -  Jet Nebulizer Culture (3 plates): Sample to be collected from jet nebulizer by
                     running oxygen at a flow of 8-10 L/min through nebulizer (3 mL normal saline
                     in the reservoir) while directing the nebulizer towards plate for 1 minute.
                     Process to be repeated for 3 different plates. Plates to be labeled, have
                     edges sealed with tape, be placed in biohazard bag and sent to microbiology
                     lab for analysis.

                       1. Plate 1: MacConkey agar (id gram (-) organisms)

                       2. Plate 2: Chocolate agar (id fastidious organisms)

                       3. Plate 3: Blood agar (id gram(+) and gram(-) organisms)

                  -  Ventilator Circuit Culture: Material to be collected from rim of inspiratory
                     ventilator circuit at wye by rubbing a sterile swab along circuit 3x in a
                     circular motion. Swab to be sealed in test tube with lid and sent to lab for
                     analysis.

                  -  Sputum samples: Data obtained per electronic medical chart. Sputum sample data
                     to be analyzed in study when ordered by physician.

        -  After obtaining cultures, the jet nebulizer will be replaced with new one and labeled
           per hospital protocol.

        -  Further cultures are not necessary unless patient identified by study staff to have VAE.
           (appendix A)

        -  Study staff to be notified of patient extubation from mechanical ventilation, discharge
           from intensive care unit or expiration.

      The Vibrating Mesh Nebulizer protocol:

        -  Physician order received for subject, randomization to vibrating mesh nebulizer
           occurred.

        -  Aeroneb® Solo (Aerogen, Galway, Ireland) vibrating mesh nebulizer to be placed before
           the heater on the "dry side" of the heater water chamber on the inspiratory ventilator
           circuit.

        -  Aerosol treatment delivered per physician order.

        -  Mesh nebulizer to be replaced every 30 days per hospital protocol.

             1. Prior to every nebulizer change or every 3 days, study staff to be notified in
                order to obtain cultures.

             2. Cultures

                  -  Vibrating Mesh Nebulizer Culture (3 plates): Sample to be collected from
                     vibrating mesh nebulizer while directing the nebulizer(3 mL normal saline in
                     the reservoir) towards plate for 1 minute. Process to be repeated for 3
                     different plates. Plates to be labeled, have edges sealed with tape, be placed
                     in biohazard bag and sent to microbiology lab for analysis.

                       1. Plate 1: MacConkey agar (id gram (-) organisms)

                       2. Plate 2: Chocolate agar (id fastidious organisms)

                       3. Plate 3: Blood agar (id gram(+) and gram(-) organisms)

                  -  Ventilator Circuit Culture: Material to be collected from rim of inspiratory
                     ventilator circuit at wye by rubbing a sterile swab along circuit 3x in a
                     circular motion. Swab to be sealed in test tube with lid and sent to lab for
                     analysis.

                  -  Sputum samples: Data obtained per electronic medical chart. Sputum sample data
                     to be analyzed in study when ordered by physician.

        -  Vibrating mesh nebulizer replaced with new one and labeled per hospital protocol.

        -  Further cultures not necessary unless patient identified by study staff to have VAE.
           (appendix A)

        -  Study staff to be notified immediately of patient extubation from mechanical
           ventilation, discharge from intensive care unit or expiration.
    
  