
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center dose escalation study in
      subjects diagnosed with stable moderate to severe COPD. The study will be conducted in
      approximately 6 Clinical Research Units (CRUs).

      Subjects with a diagnosis of stable moderate to severe COPD will be screened and must
      demonstrate an improvement in FEV1 after bronchodilator treatment of at least 12% at Screen
      Visit 1. The subject's degree of dyspnea will be captured on the British Medical Research
      Council (MRC) questionnaire, and severity will be determined by the Global Initiative for
      Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) spirometric criteria. Subjects meeting entry criteria
      at Screen Visit 1 will be asked to return to the CRU for Screen Visit 2 within 14 days of
      Visit 1. Subjects confirming entry criteria including degree of COPD severity by spirometry
      at Screen Visit 2 will be randomized to receive either MN-221 or placebo. Serial spirometry
      will be performed over the 8 hour treatment period after initiation of study drug
      administration. Subjects will be discharged from the CRU after completing the Hour 8 study
      procedures and asked to return approximately 24 hours after initiation of study drug for
      follow up safety assessments including spirometry. A study diary will be provided to each
      subject upon discharge from the CRU to complete as instructed and return it to the site at
      the 24 hour Follow-up Visit.

      There will be three dose levels and each will include approximately 16 subjects randomized to
      receive either MN-221 or placebo in 3:1 ratio (12 subjects receive MN-221:4 subjects receive
      placebo). A risk/benefit evaluation will be performed by the study's Safety Review Committee
      at completion of each dose level prior to escalating to the next dose level.

      Safety and efficacy will be monitored throughout the treatment period. Blood samples for PK
      parameters and metabolite identification will be obtained.
    
  