
    
      In a 39 patient, single-centre pilot trial of phenobarbital as an adjunctive treatment for
      severe acute alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AAWS), the PHENOMANAL trial will demonstrate the
      ability to recruit, consent, and randomize participants and adhere to the assigned treatment
      protocol with minimal loss to follow up and infrequent adverse events. This pilot trial will
      provide data and proof of feasibility in preparation to conduct a multicentre randomized
      controlled trial of phenobarbital as an adjunctive treatment for severe AAWS. Patients will
      be recruited from the Emergency Department, Intensive Care Unit, Medical Step-Up unit, and
      wards of Unity Health Toronto - St. Michael's Hospital, a quaternary care centre located in
      downtown Toronto, Canada.

      Recruitment Patients will be identified by research personnel during daytime hours from
      Monday to Friday using a multi-modal approach. With the assistance of the hospital
      informatics department, personnel will collect a daily census of patients who have been
      started on symptom-triggered benzodiazepine therapy using the Clinical Institute Withdrawal
      Assessment (revised) (CIWA-Ar) protocol.

      Consent The investigators will use a hybrid consent model. Whenever possible, consent will be
      obtained from the patient or his/her substitute-decision-maker (SDM) at the time of
      recruitment. In this instance, Research Coordinators will ask one of the members within the
      'circle of care' (e.g., physician, nurse, respiratory technologist, social worker, etc) to
      ask for permission from patient or their SDM for a research coordinator to contact him/her
      about participation in research.

      Randomization To conceal allocation, central randomization will be conducted by the Pharmacy
      Department of St. Michael's Hospital using a list of random treatment assignments created on
      www.randomize.net.

      Intervention As soon as possible after randomization, patients will receive either a single
      intravenous (IV) dose of phenobarbital (7.5 mg per kg of ideal body weight, prepared in 250
      ml D5W; n=26) or placebo (250 ml D5W; n=13).

      Safety During the infusion patients will be monitored with continuous oximetry, non-invasive
      blood pressure measurement q 30 minutes (+/-, and continuous cardiac monitoring in a
      high-acuity unit (e.g Intensive Care, Cardiac Intensive Care, Emergency, Step-Up).
      Phenobarbital achieves peak serum concentration within one hour of administration; however,
      study participants will be monitored with continuous pulse oximetry and q 30 minute
      non-invasive blood pressure measurement for a minimum of 3 hours post administration. Each
      patient will thus receive a total of four hours of intensive monitoring (i.e. one hour of
      monitoring during the study drug administration, and three hours of monitoring subsequently
      to ensure clinical stability). Eligible female trial participants < 55 years of age will have
      a urine or blood ßhCG checked prior to treatment administration.

      Data Collection Research personnel will collect data on (i) Patient Demographics including
      age; sex; housing; relevant comorbidities; time since last alcohol consumption; baseline
      laboratory investigations; and baseline CIWA-Ar scores. (ii) Treatment including maximal
      CIWA-Ar score; number, dose and type of benzodiazepine or alternative treatments
      administrated (e.g., benzodiazepines, propofol, clonidine, dexmedetomidine, haloperidol);
      vital signs; need for admission to a monitored setting (i.e. vitals recorded more often than
      every 4 hours, or need for continuous oximetry); use of non-invasive or invasive ventilation;
      and the presence of a bedside sitter. These data will be recorded for a span of 7 days or
      until hospital discharge (whichever comes first). (iii) Clinical Outcomes including adverse
      events (aspiration, intubation, seizures); monitored care and hospital length of stay; time
      to Addictions Medicine assessment; and vital status at hospital discharge.

      Statistical Power Fifty patients will be recruited in the PHENOMANAL pilot trial. This sample
      size will ensure that clinicians gain experience with the treatment protocol, enable
      assessment of recruitment and consent practices, and provide preliminary estimates of
      treatment effect (safety and efficacy) to inform the design of a larger trial.

      Statistical Analysis In the primary analysis, recruitment will be considered feasible if the
      investigators can recruit 2 or more patients per month, on average, over the 24-month study
      period. In secondary analyses, compliance rates greater than 80% will be considered
      acceptable in both study arms. Similarly, a cross-over rate of < 10% from the control arm to
      the phenobarbital arm will be taken to be acceptable. Preliminary estimates of treatment
      effect will be compared between the alternative treatment strategies using the Chi-Squared
      test (alternatively, Fisher's Exact test) and Student's T-test (Alternatively, Wilcoxon
      Rank-Sum test) for binary and continuous data, respectively.

      Discussion This pilot randomized controlled trial will assess feasibility of a multicenter
      trial to investigate intravenous phenobarbital as an adjunctive treatment for severe AAWS.
      Randomization of 39 patients will allow us to assess feasibility metrics, including
      clinicians' ability to comply with the protocol and cross-over rates, and generate
      preliminary estimates of safety and treatment effect.

      This trial protocol has been designed in light of the unique challenges of studying patients
      with severe AAWS. It is important to clearly define the population of interest. Patients with
      mild alcohol withdrawal may not benefit from IV adjunctive treatment with phenobarbital, and
      may lead to over-sedation, complications (e.g., intubation, aspiration), and/or prolonged
      hospitalization. Oral phenobarbital administration may warrant further investigation in this
      patient population. In contrast, highly agitated patients suffering from AAWS may not show a
      clinically important response to the dose of IV phenobarbital that the investigators are
      evaluating. The investigators decision to limit enrollment to patients with a severely
      elevated CIWA score (>16) after receiving at least 60 mg of diazepam or equivalent represents
      an attempt identify the patient population that is most likely to benefit from treatment with
      adjunctive IV phenobarbital. Base on pharmacokinetics, phenobarbital is most likely to be
      useful if administered early in the course of treatment and thus enrollment will be
      accordingly limited to the first 16 hours after patients are identified.
    
  