
    
      Sepsis is a life-threatening organ dysfunction that results from the dysregulated host
      response to an infection. Accumulating knowledge suggests that this dysregulated host
      response has a broad spectrum where some patients lie to the two extremes of this spectrum
      whereas the majority of patients lie in between. The first extreme encompasses patients who
      are dominated from a hyper-inflammatory response to an infectious insult. On the other
      extreme lie patients who do not have any hyper-inflammatory response; instead these patients
      are dominated by an exhausted immune response to an infectious stimulus. The remaining
      patients have features of both hyper- and hypo-inflammatory responses.

      Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) that have investigated the effects of immunotherapy in
      sepsis have all failed to establish beneficial effects for the patients. The reasons for that
      are multiple but one of the most important is the current notion that sepsis is a complex
      disorder with heterogeneity regarding patient characteristics. Thus, it is necessary to try
      and find ways to personalise the immunomodulatory treatment of sepsis. In the clinical trial
      proposed here, two personalised approaches will be investigated.

      Some 25 years ago, there were high expectations of the blockade of interleukin (IL)-1 in
      sepsis using the human recombinant IL-1 receptor antagonist, anakinra. The expectations were
      based on animal experiments as well as positive results in a single-centre clinical trial.
      However, in a large international trial, anakinra did not show benefit over placebo. Still,
      it became clear from this study, enrolling 906 patients that intravenous anakinra was a very
      safe drug: there was neither excess mortality in these critically ill patients, nor increased
      susceptibility to secondary infections. In a post-hoc analysis of this trial published in
      2016, it was demonstrated that a subgroup of 34 patients showed a clinical picture compatible
      with macrophage activation syndrome. Since bone marrow was not performed in these patients,
      the investigators prefer to call this macrophage activation like syndrome (MALS). MALS is a
      dreaded complication with a mortality rate in the order of 70%. The post-hoc analysis showed
      that patients receiving anakinra had 30% significant survival benefit compared to those
      receiving placebo. From these data it can be concluded that it is important to recognize
      patients with this complication of sepsis and that anakinra might be a beneficial drug.

      A survey of the database of sepsis patients in the Hellenic Sepsis Study Group revealed that
      5% of the patients with septic shock suffered from MALS. It was found in this study that MAS
      can be easily and reliably diagnosed by measuring ferritin in the blood. A cut off of
      4.420ng/ml had specificity more than 97%.

      Another important clinical phenomenon in sepsis is that patients may run into a phase of
      immunoparalysis. In this situation, the immune cells do not produce any more proinflammatory
      cytokines and switch to production of anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-10; they also
      loose important functional markers such HLA-DR. Patients with immunoparalysis have a 50% risk
      of dying in the subsequent 28 days. There is evidence from preclinical studies and from the
      endotoxin challenge model in human volunteers that immunoparalysis is reversible at least to
      some extent. The best candidate drug for this would be interferon gamma (IFNγ).
      Immunosuppression established in healthy volunteers after experimental endotoxemia was
      reversed after administration of recombinant human interferon-gamma (rhIFNγ). rhIFNγ was also
      investigated for this purpose in nine patients at septic shock in a small open-label and
      non-randomized clinical trial; reversal of immunoparalysis was achieved. The extensive
      experience with IFNγ teaches that it is a safe drug, the main side effect being fever and
      flu-like syndrome, which can be mitigated by premedication with a prostaglandin inhibitor
      like paracetamol. In patients with autoimmune diseases like systemic lupus erythematosus
      (SLE) and multiple sclerosis flares of the disease induced by IFNγ have been described. So
      these diseases are contraindications for the drug.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate in a randomised placebo-controlled clinical trial
      with a double-dummy design in patients with septic shock, whether personalised immunotherapy
      directed against either MALS or immunoparalysis is able to change the perspective for these
      critically ill patients.

      MALS is considered as a more direct life-threatening manifestation of sepsis than
      immunoparalysis. For that reason all patients will be randomised with evidence of MALS for
      anakinra or placebo, irrespective the state of immunity as measured by HLA-DR positivity.

      The aim of the study is to conduct one RCT of personalized immunotherapy in sepsis targeting
      patients who lie either on the predominantly hyper-inflammatory arm or on the predominantly
      hypo-inflammatory arm of the spectrum of the host response. These patients will be selected
      by the use of a panel of biomarkers and laboratory findings and they will be allocated to
      placebo or immunotherapy treatment according to their needs.
    
  