
    
      Objectives

      Objective is to evaluate the efficacy of doxycycline in treatment of early stages of mycosis
      fungoides (IA, IB and IIA) and to assess its apoptotic enhancing effect by studying the
      expression of BCL2 by the T lymphocytes.

      Study Design

      Randomized controlled trial

      Population of study & disease condition

      30 patients with early stage mycosis fungoides (Stage Ia,Ib and IIa)

      Methodology in details

      After signing an informed consent, each participant will be subjected to:

      I. Baseline evaluation:

        1. Baseline biopsy to document the current state of the disease and to assess
           immunohistochemically the expression of CD3 and Bcl2 by the lymphocytes.

        2. Detailed history taking including onset, course, duration of the disease and history of
           any previous treatments used.

        3. Detailed examination of skin lesions and scoring using:

             -  Modified Severity of Index Weighted Assessment (mSWAT)

             -  Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Severity (CAILS)

        4. Pruritus scoring using a visual analog scale from 0-10, where 0=no pruritus and 10=worst
           imaginable pruritus

        5. Photography

      II. Treatment and dosing protocol:

      Participants will be randomly allocated in either one of the treatment groups:

      Group A: Will receive oral doxycycline in a dose of 200 mg daily for three months.

      Group B: Will receive PUVA with dosing & increments according to the standard protocols of
      the Phototherapy Unit, Dermatology Department, Cairo University; 3 sessions per week for 3
      months.

      III. Timings of follow up visits and clinical assessments done:

      Patients will be regularly assessed at weeks 4, 8, and 12. Patients continuing for another
      three months, as mentioned above, will be assessed at weeks 16, 20 and 24. The following will
      be done at these follow up visits: mSWAT, CAILS, pruritus scoring and photography. Side
      effects will be monitored and managed accordingly.

      IV. Follow up biopsies:

      A repeat biopsy will be taken at initial improvement in CAILS (or at week 12) for
      immunohistochemical re-assessment of the expression of CD3 and Bcl2 by the lymphocytes.
    
  