
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the safety, dose-limiting toxicities and maximally tolerated dose of
      hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy concurrently with nelfinavir in patients with
      locally advanced pancreatic cancer given as part of a neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy
      regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the surgical complete resection rate. II. To evaluate the pathological
      response. III. To evaluate tumor response on computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI).

      IV. To evaluate the correlation between the radiologic response and pathologic response.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure phospho-AKT expression in pancreatic tumor tissue prior to and following the
      neoadjuvant chemo-radiation program. (Correlative) II. To measure nelfinavir pharmacokinetics
      at steady-state. (Correlative) III. To measure the pharmacogenomic status of CYP2C19*2
      (G681A) in the study population. (Correlative)

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT) and concurrent
      nelfinavir mesylate.

      NEOADJUVANT THERAPY: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes, leucovorin calcium IV over 30 minutes, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 24
      hours on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive nelfinavir mesylate
      orally (PO) twice daily (BID) beginning in week 9 and continuing until the completion of SRT
      or until 14 days after the completion of SRT. Patients undergo concurrent SRT once daily for
      5 days in week 11.

      SURGERY AND ADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY: Approximately 2-3 weeks after completion of SRT, patients
      undergo restaging to evaluate disease response. Patients with resectable or potentially
      resectable disease and no metastasis undergo definitive surgery 2-3 weeks later.
      Approximately 1 month after surgery, these patients receive three additional courses of
      gemcitabine hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as above. Patients with
      unresectable disease that is stable or responsive at the time of surgical exploration may
      resume treatment with gemcitabine hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as
      above in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      metastatic disease at the time of restaging are removed from the study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4
      months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  