
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common psychiatric illness that will affect at least 15%
      of the population. The burden of MDD is staggering, considered by the World Health
      Organization to be the leading cause of disability in developed countries for people aged
      15-44.

      Oral antidepressant therapy for MDD is notoriously ineffective. At least 3 weeks of treatment
      is usually required to achieve response rates that rarely exceed 40% (only 10% better than
      placebo); furthermore, treatment can be complicated by serious side effects serious (e.g.
      falls, weight gain) including increased suicidality. Up to 15% of patients will eventually be
      diagnosed as having treatment-resistant depressions (TRD), defined as the failure to respond
      to at least two antidepressants from different pharmacologic classes after adequate treatment
      duration at therapeutic dosages. The gold standard therapy for TRD is electroconvulsive
      therapy (ECT) with general anaesthesia (GA), which produces rapid antidepressant effects
      after only a few sessions. Propofol is the traditional anaesthetic agent used in GA for ECT,
      although recently this research group showed that ECT with ketamine as the primary
      anaesthetic produced faster depression remission compared to ECT with propofol.

      Despite its efficacy, ECT is associated with considerable problems. More than 10% of patients
      will experience amnesia and confusion, which can persist for weeks. These cognitive side
      effects limit the frequency of ECT treatments to two or three times per week. There is also a
      risk of rare but devastating cardiorespiratory adverse events, at least part of which can be
      attributed to the need to induce chemical paralysis (for safety) and administer opioids (for
      pain control) during ECT with GA. Lastly, ECT requires specialized psychiatric expertise,
      dedicated resources, specially trained nurses, and an anaesthesiologist - requirements that
      are both costly and not readily available in many settings.

      In contrast to ECT, daily short-acting anaesthesia, including ketamine, is well tolerated. A
      recent study found that only three treatments of intravenous ketamine produced a greater
      early improvement in depression scores compared to ECT under non-ketamine-based GA. This
      suggests a possibility of achieving early disease remission in TRD with ketamine-only
      infusions while avoiding the safety risks and treatment delays associated with ECT under GA.

      The efficacy, feasibility, and improved side-effect profile of frequent successive ketamine
      treatments suggest it may be the preferred treatment for TRD compared to ECT with
      ketamine-based GA. There may, however, be a small subgroup of TRD patients who do not respond
      to ketamine alone and require ECT, although with a daily treatment regimen, ketamine
      non-responders could be quickly identified and given a standard course of ECT. The
      researchers propose that a treatment protocol of daily High Intensity Ketamine with ECT
      Rescue (HIKER) will be superior to ECT Therapy with ketamine anesthesia standard therapy
      (EAST) in facilitating early disease remission, while at the same time yielding similar
      overall remission rates by allowing ketamine non-responders to be quickly identified and
      given ECT.
    
  