
    
      Chronic wounds are a debilitating affliction, affecting a substantial portion of the
      population worldwide and incurring staggering healthcare economic costs (1,2). Included among
      chronic wounds are venous leg ulcers, which are known to cause considerable pain, and can
      impact patient quality of life, thereby complicating wound care (3). The exact
      pathophysiology and etiology of the prolonged course of chronic wounds are poorly understood,
      but are thought to be multi-factorial in nature. Given the exposure of chronic wounds to the
      environment, they harbor a diverse microbial flora. Specifically, there is evidence that
      biofilm produced by these microbes are a large contributor to their non-healing nature (4).
      Debridement is considered an integral part of wound management with its ability to remove
      necrotic tissue and bacterial biofilm, in addition to stimulating release of cytokines and
      growth factors that promote wound healing (5). However, sharp debridement, the gold standard
      in wound care, is often ineffective for painful wounds.

      The effect of lasers on wound healing have been well-studied both in in vitro and in vivo
      models. Beneficial effects of low-level laser therapy in wound healing in animal and human
      studies has been established. However, extrapolation of this data is limited by study design
      and light dosimetry (6). Laser energy used for surgical excision is a lesser-known
      debridement technique that has been largely limited to burn scar treatment (7,8,9,10). Lasers
      are electro-optical devices that emit a focused beam of intense monochromatic light in the
      visible and infrared radiation spectrums. Since their start in the 1960s, lasers have been
      successfully utilized in many fields of medicine. Lasers for wound debridement began in the
      1970s, with the successful report of a continuous-beam carbon dioxide (CO2) laser used for
      skin graft preparation of infected decubitus ulcers (11). Laser debridement is based on the
      controlled vaporization of the superficial layers of the wound bed. This results in the
      removal of the tissue containing unwanted microbial and necrotic particles. The laser type
      and the number of passes performed determine the depth of tissue ablation (12). Unlike other
      methods dependent on the clinician's manual control, laser debridement is electronically
      controlled, improving precision and reducing the risk of healthy tissue damage. Advantages of
      laser debridement include precision and uniformity of tissue ablation, which reduces trauma
      to the wound bed, improving patient comfort. To reduce thermal damage to healthy tissue,
      several improvements in laser technology have been made over the years. By utilizing a
      pulsed-beam system, laser energy is delivered in high-power, rapid succession pulses,
      resulting in short duration and high temperature exposure of target tissue, thereby
      minimizing thermal injury.

      Erbium:YAG (Er:YAG) lasers, with a wavelength of 2940-nm are widely used in the dermatologic
      community for skin resurfacing, for anti-aging and acne-related purposes (13). Skin ablation
      with the erbium laser is very precise, and allows for accurate assessment of the resurfacing
      depth (12,14,15). Since Er:YAG laser energy has greater than twelve times more water
      absorption efficiency than CO2 lasers, water in the tissue is rapidly expanded to eject the
      charred debris from the wound surface without leaving behind a necrotic eschar (12,16,17).
      The Er:YAG laser provides distinct advantages in precise ablation control and the reduction
      of residual necrotic tissue burden with minimal procedural discomfort, making the Er:YAG
      laser the most suitable device for laser wound debridement. Preliminary studies demonstrate
      remarkable patient pain reduction after laser debridement, resulting in more thorough removal
      of necrotic tissue and biofilm/bacterial load. Additionally, the extent of laser debridement
      is determined by the laser settings, as opposed to the individual operator's dexterity and
      skill, thereby providing better control over the wound bed preparation, producing more
      predictable and reproducible outcomes.
    
  