
    
      Rationale:

      Respiratory infections are considered to carry a potential risk of adverse events in children
      undergoing surgery.

      Rhinovirus is a common cause of respiratory infections and congenital heart disease is a risk
      factor for severe rhinovirus infection. However, we do not know what the impact of clinical
      or subclinical rhinovirus infections is on postoperative course following congenital heart
      surgery in children.

      Based on our clinical experience, one case-controlled study , and a case reported in the
      literature, we hypothesize that paediatric patients with per-operative rhinovirus positive
      Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) testing have a longer paediatric intensive care unit (PICU)
      admission , compared to children who test negative.

      Objectives:

      Primary: To identify whether PCR-proven rhinovirus is a risk factor for prolonged PICU
      admission in children undergoing cardiac surgery.

      Secondary: to develop a preoperative algorithm to identify children with increased risk for
      prolonged PICU admission after cardiac surgery.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective single-center observational cohort study in the Leiden University
      Medical Center (LUMC).

      Methods Parents of the selected patients will receive the information folder and a
      questionnaire by mail (asking for signs and symptoms of current and/or recent respiratory
      infections) when they receive the letter with the date of admission and operation.

      On the day of admission (day -1) all (parents of) children admitted for cardiac surgery will
      be asked to participate in this study and fill out a written informed consent.

      At day 0, the operation day, in the operating theatre a nasopharyngeal swab will be collected
      following anaesthetic induction and tested for rhinovirus. All clinicians will be blinded for
      the PCR results and will only be made known to the investigator from the virology department.

      Clinical and laboratory data will be collected for all patients until discharge from the
      hospital. Of all the patients still on mechanical ventilation at day 4, an additional
      nasopharyngeal swab will be sampled and scavenge samples blood will be requested at the
      chemical laboratory if available. Rhinovirus PCR will be performed on nasopharyngeal swab and
      blood to determine shedding and viremia.

      Residual blood (for infection parameters) will be collected at three time points: after
      induction of anaesthesia, directly after operation at PICU admission and at day four (4) when
      the patient is still on ventilator support.
    
  