
    
      Background: With the escalating numbers of persons with Alzheimer Disease and related
      dementias (ADRD) in Canada, the Rising Tide report suggests that supporting family care
      partners of persons with AD is critical. Family caregivers provide about 90% of in-home care
      for persons with ADRD. The care is often difficult and complex due to co-morbidities in
      persons with ADRD. Family caregivers of older persons with ADRD and MCC experience
      significant, complex, distressing transitions such as changes to their environment, roles and
      relationships, physical and mental health, isolation, and taking on new tasks. A Transition
      Toolkit was developed for family caregivers of persons with AD living at home initially as a
      paper copy and since has been developed in an on-line format. The purpose of the Toolkit is
      to support caregivers through transitions and increase their self-efficacy, hope, and quality
      of life. Sections include About Me, Common Changes to Expect, Frequently Asked Questions,
      Resources, and Important Health Information. Data from a pilot study of the Toolkit suggest
      that it is feasible, acceptable, and may support caregivers through transitions. The on-line
      version of the Toolkit (My Tools 4 Care) includes interactive activities to help caregivers
      deal with their transitions and as such will be a novel online intervention. The
      investigators expect that "My Tools 4 Care" will result in improved caregiver outcomes,
      compared to an educational control group.

      Research Questions: (1) Does a transition intervention (My Tools 4 Care) increase hope,
      self-efficacy and health related quality of life of caregivers of persons with AD and MCC
      compared with an educational control group from baseline, one month, 3 and 6 months? (2) What
      are the costs of use of health services at 3 and 6 months of the transition intervention
      compared with the control group, from a societal perspective? Methods: The design is a
      pragmatic, multisite, mixed-methods randomized controlled trial (Quantitative +qualitative)
      with family caregivers of persons >65 years of age who have ADRD and MCC. Participants will
      be English-speaking family or friends ≥ 18 years of age who provide physical, emotional, or
      financial care to persons with ADRD. Family caregivers will be recruited through multiple
      community associations, newspaper ads, posters, the Alberta Caregivers Association, the
      Alzheimer Society (AS) of Ontario and Alberta. Participants will be randomly assigned to:1)
      the on-line Transition toolkit (Group 1) or 2) an educational control group (Group 2) who
      will receive a copy of the Alzheimer's Society's The Progression of Alzheimer's Disease -
      Overview Booklet. The intervention group (Group 1) will receive instructions on how to access
      "My Tools 4 Care" for 3 months. To assess dosage of the intervention, caregivers will be
      asked to document their use of the intervention using a checklist. For the Educational
      Control Group (Group 2), the participants will receive a copy of the Booklet. Data for all
      participants will be collected at baseline, and again at 1 month, 3 and 6 months.

      Outcome measures are a) hope [Herth Hope Index (HHI)] b) health related quality of life
      {Short Form 12 (SF-12v2)]) c) self-efficacy [General Self Efficacy Scale (GSES) which
      measures ability to deal with adverse situations]; and d) use and costs of health services
      [Health and Social Services Inventory (HSSUI)]. Trained data collectors will administer the
      instruments using audio-taped telephone interviews at baseline, 1, 3 and 6 months after the
      start of the intervention. A sample size of 180 caregivers (45 per group x 2 groups x 2
      provinces) will provide 80% power (alpha = 0.05) to detect a mean difference of 2 increases
      in the HHI, GSES, and SF-12 v2, with a standard deviation of 2.5. At 3 months, all
      participants in group 1 will be interviewed using open-ended questions to further assess
      perceived effectiveness and mechanisms of change associated with the intervention.

      Time Line: Recruitment and data collection will begin April 1, 2015 for 2 years (March 31,
      2017). Analysis and report writing April 1, 2017-March 31, 2018.

      Expected Outcomes: The investigators expect that family caregivers receiving the on-line
      Toolkit will show greater improvement in hope, self-efficacy and quality of life at no
      additional cost from a societal perspective, compared with those receiving the educational
      brochure.

      Impact: The findings of the study will inform policy and practice as the Toolkit can be
      easily revised for local contexts and scalable in terms of posting on websites such as the
      Alzheimer Society.
    
  