
    
      Study disease:

      In 2014 it was estimated that 36.9 million people worldwide were living with HIV and since
      the beginning of the epidemic, about 36 million have died of HIV.

      There are many research strategies underway to try to reduce the devastating effects of this
      disease and to prevent onward transmission, and it is likely that a range of these used
      simultaneously will be required to bring the epidemic under control. These include the
      development of a vaccine, microbicide, antiviral treatment and agents used in prevention.
      Amongst these, a HIV neutralising antibody that is safe when infused intravenously could play
      an important role either in post exposure, or when HIV is driving an aggressive disease and
      there is a need to lower the viral load abruptly or when mothers present in labour with high
      viral loads.

      The clinical advancement of monoclonal antibodies has been hampered by the inability to
      manufacture the specific recombinant proteins with a system that would be scalable for the
      global market. There is also a valid perception that even if manufacturing was possible, it
      would be at a totally unaffordable cost. Thus, neutralising monoclonal antibodies such as
      MAbs b12 have only reached efficacy studies in rhesus macaques. In the case of monoclonal
      antibodies it is generally believed that a cocktail of at least 3 antibodies would be
      necessary to avoid viral escape, thereby potentially tripling the cost of a product, as
      compared with a conventional single monoclonal antibody therapeutic. It is clear that in
      order to progress these promising anti-HIV monoclonal antibodies, new methods of manufacture
      need to be developed.

      Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP):

      P2G12 is a human IgG1 class monoclonal antibody (MAb) which has been expressed in tobacco
      plants (referred to as "P2G12" to indicate plant origin). The parent molecule ("2G12") is one
      of a handful of MAbs with potent neutralising activity against HIV and has been produced by
      CHO cell fermentation (referred to as "C2G12" to indicate CHO-cell origin). A number of
      studies have demonstrated that passively infused monoclonal antibodies can protect against an
      intravenous challenge by the infectious SHIV reagent in rhesus macaques. Furthermore, HIV
      neutralising MAbs can affect transmission and subsequent disease course after vaginal
      SHIV-challenge in macaques In studies in humans, the MAb C2G12 was safe after repeated
      intravenous infusions to asymptomatic HIV-1-infected individuals . Similarly, another MAb
      4E10 was safe after intravenous infusions, alone and in combination with other MAbs including
      C2G12, to HIV-1-infected individuals These studies prepared the way for the introduction of
      these MAbs for human immunoprophylaxis against HIV infection and indeed new generation
      anti-HIV MAbs are currently being advanced in prophylactic and therapeutic children and adult
      clinical trials with children and adults With respect to the MAb 2G12, in a number of human
      clinical trials, 4 to 16 infusions of C2G12 were given in doses ranging from 0.5g to 1g alone
      or in combination with other MAbs. The safety results from these studies were reassuring with
      minimal adverse drug reactions observed. Those that were reported were of myalgia and
      arthralgia. In a recently conducted study, P2G12 was safe to use when administered
      intravaginally at a concentration of 7, 14 and 28mg/ml.

      Pre-clinical toxicity studies of IV use (bolus) of P2G12 were completed on rats at doses of 7
      and 35mg/kg (equivalent to 490mg and 2.45g for a 70Kg human respectively). No adverse events
      were observed up to 14 days post-administration, no safety concerns were raised.

      Study design:

      This will be a phase 1, randomised, single blinded dose escalation study in healthy adult
      volunteers. There will be three groups of 6 volunteers receiving increasing doses of the MAb.
      0.125g dose group , the 0.25g dose group and the 0.5g dose group The volunteers will be
      followed up for 3 months post dose when safety and immunogenicity will be assessed.

      Prior to any study specific procedures, each suitable participant will be given written
      information about the planned procedures and schedule. Each volunteer will be provided
      sufficient time to consider participation in the study. Any questions about the study will be
      answered by trained personnel. If the volunteers are still willing and interested they will
      be asked to sign the informed consent form (ICF). Participants will be advised that they are
      under no obligation to enter the trial and that they can withdraw at any time during the
      trial, without having to give a reason.

      A copy of the signed ICF along with a copy of the most recent approved Patient Information
      Sheet (PIS) will be given to the study participant. An original signed & dated consent form
      will be retained in the medical notes (if available) or trial notes where medical notes are
      unavailable and a copy will be placed in the ISF.

      To ensure informed consent, volunteers will go through the following processes in detail with
      a member of the study team:

        1. Pre-HIV risk assessment and discussion

        2. Safe sex counselling

        3. That it is unknown whether or not the study vaccine will protect against HIV infection

        4. The level of care that will be made available to them should they be found to be HIV
           infected at any time during their participation in the study, including the screening
           period

        5. That they, or their partner should continue to use a reliable form of contraception for
           14 days prior to the immunisation period and for 4 months afterwards

        6. That they should continue to use condoms with sexual partners whose HIV status is not
           known

        7. Risk assessment and discussion of intravenous infusions

      After ICF has been collected, assessments and investigations will be undertaken according to
      the visit schedule.

      Participants will be required to make a minimum of 8 scheduled outpatient visits over the
      course of 20 weeks.

      Following informed consent at the screening visit, demographics, medical history, information
      about contraceptive practices and concomitant medication will be collected and safe sex
      consultation will take place. Height, weight and temperature will be recorded and full
      physical examination will be performed, vital signs and ECG will be recorded.

      Peripheral blood will be collected and the following will be assessed:

        -  Hb, total WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes and platelets

        -  Clotting screen

        -  creatinine, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, AST, ALT and glucose

        -  serology for HBV (hepatitis B surface antigen), HCV (hepatitis C antibody) and
           HIV-1/HIV-2 (4th generation HIV antibody/antigen test) Urinalysis using a dipstick for
           protein, ketones, blood, leukocyte esterase, and nitrites and urine test to exclude
           pregnancy will be tested.

      Results of the assessments taken place prior to administration of the IMP will be considered
      as baseline values.

      Peripheral blood for serum will be collected for immunogenicity testing.

      Medical report will be requested from the volunteer's GP to confirm eligibility.

      As soon as the medical report is received and all required test results are available, this
      will be reviewed and eligibility signed off by the PI.

      The participant will then be invited to receive the IMP on a mutually agreeable date

      A simple randomisation schedule for each dose cohort will be generated using the web service.
      Infusion will be administered intravenously using an infusion pump. Participants will be
      blind to dose of IMP.

      All patients will be given a study specific 24hrs emergency contact card with out of hours
      contact details in case of emergency.

      Dosing visit:

      P2G12 4mg/ml in sodium Chloride 0.9% w/v represented as sodium chloride 0.9% w/v to be
      administered over a total infusion period of 30 minutes. P2G12 infusions are clear solutions,
      this will allow single blinding.

      The infusions will be delivered over 30 minutes with continuous monitoring throughout this
      time.

      To ensure no IMP remains in the line the investigators will flush it with 50ml of sodium
      chloride 0.9% w/v upon completion. Volunteers will be observed for 6 hours post infusion.

      Participants will be monitored during the infusion and vital signs will be recorded. Vital
      signs will be evaluated using a study specific Early Warning Score system.

      In case of a medical emergency (e.g. anaphylaxis) infusion will be stopped immediately and
      action will be taken in accordance with national guidance from the UK Resuscitation Council.

      There will be a delay of at least 4 hours between volunteer doses and escalation to the
      higher dose will not occur until 2 week safety data of the lower dose cohort has been
      reviewed by the trial management group. The maximum number of participants receiving IMP
      infusion per day will be two.

      Subsequent assessments:

      Serum will be collected for immunogenicity at screening, time 0 (baseline), 1, 2, 6, 24 and
      48 hours, 2, 4, 8 and 12 weeks and weekly for 12 weeks.

      Time 0 is defined as start of infusion. Adverse events will be assessed during the enrolment
      visit following the infusion and at every visit thereafter. Routine laboratory safety
      parameters and urine will be collected at screening, immediately post infusion and during the
      follow up period. ECG and vital signs will be monitored throughout the study, Volunteers will
      be asked to complete a diary card up to 2 weeks post-injection. Clear instruction will be
      provided during the immunisation visit.

      Additional visits:

      Additional visits and assessments may be required to evaluate an adverse event, and/or
      identify a diagnosis.

      Referral to an independent specialist with the appropriate expertise will be arranged if
      there is uncertainty about the causal relationship to the IMP.

      Data will be recorded directly onto the participant's medical notes or where these do not
      exist in the participant's trial notes and the CRFs in the most logical order.

      Safety information will be collected and reported as per GCP, casualty assessment of all
      adverse events in relation to the IMP will also take place.

      All data will be handled in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998.
    
  