
    
      6% to 13% of the western industrialized population suffer from obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).
      During sleep in the pharyngeal airway a relaxation of the muscles occurs with increasing
      depth of sleep. Finally, this relaxation, due to the anatomical conditions, lead to
      obstructions of the respiratory tract, resulting in respiratory arrest (apnea) and minor
      respiratory changes such as hypopneas or flow limitations. The symptoms of this disease
      manifest themselves with varying degrees. Increased daytime sleepiness, snoring, and
      increased risk of cardiovascular disease can result. A significant reduction in overall
      quality of life can be associated with OSAS. The gold standard treatment for obstructive
      sleep apnea is CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure). But only about 50% to 70% of
      patients continue to use their device after 2 years of initial CPAP therapy. This means that
      30% to 50% of patients are no longer cared for their obstructive sleep apnea. A certain
      proportion of younger patients, in particular, reject nocturnal ventilation therapy with CPAP
      from the beginning. For these patients selective upper airway stimulation (UAS) is a therapy
      option.

      Therefore the patient receives surgically a subcutaneous stimulation device under the
      clavicle, which receives a signal from a respiratory sensor to selectively stimulate the
      hypoglossal nerve. The respiratory sensor is located in the 4th or 5th intercostal space
      between the patient's external and internal rib muscles. This can be used to record the
      patient's breathing, which allows a matched stimulation of the hypoglossal nerve. The actual
      stimulation lead is attached to the medial branches of the hypoglossal nerve, which are
      responsible for the protrusion of the tongue, in order to enable appropriate stimulation.

      In this prospective cohort study, selective upper airway stimulation (UAS) will now be
      compared with CPAP therapy. Patients receiving CPAP therapy are compared to UAS patients who
      receive an upper airway stimulation. Both methods are procedures established in clinical
      routine, and during this investigation, the general clinical course is not deviated.
      Randomization does not occur because CPAP therapy is a conservative therapy and UAS therapy
      is a surgical therapy. Furthermore, for UAS therapy, there must be a CPAP incompliance, so
      that a surgical concept is justified. The CPAP group should comply with the body mass index
      and age of the UAS group.
    
  