
    
      This is a prospective observational cohort study monitoring trends in glucose in patients
      with early stage breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients
      will wear a noninvasive glucose monitoring sensor, the Freestyle Libre Pro for the duration
      of chemotherapy. The primary goal of this trial is to evaluate the prevalence of
      hyperglycemia in patients with early-stage breast cancer during neoadjuvant/adjuvant
      chemotherapy. Fifty patients will be enrolled. During each chemotherapy encounter, subjects
      will have their glucose sensor scanned in order to download subjects' glucose data. If the
      sensor has become no longer adherent to the participant's skin, participants will bring the
      sensor with them to the chemotherapy infusion center to be scanned. During each chemotherapy
      encounter, the Free Style Libre sensor will be replaced by the study team. Participants who
      receive chemotherapy every three weeks will be asked to come in 10-14 days after their
      chemotherapy infusion to replace the sensor. The sensors will be worn through completion of
      chemotherapy (the duration will vary based on the individual's chemotherapy regimen).
      Patients will have fructosamine, a glucose biomarker, and serum creatinine testing at
      baseline and every 3 weeks (weeks 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24) until week 24 (note: week 15,
      18, and 21 are optional). Patients will have additional glucose biomarker testing (hemoglobin
      a1c, glucose, and insulin [fasting preferred]) at baseline, week 12 and week 24. Patients
      will also complete questionnaires assessing for symptoms of chemotherapy induced peripheral
      neuropathy, quality of life, and fatigue at baseline, week 12 and week 24. Visits will be
      conducted within the below specified windows forbidding unexpected circumstances such as
      missed appointments or loss to follow-up.
    
  