
    
      This is a randomized, double-blinded study. All patients in the study will be treated with
      the conservative standard of care for anal fissure. Study medication will be used as an
      add-on to conservative therapy, and will consist of 3 groups:

        1. Treatment Group 1- 12 mg of Nifedipine to be self-administered twice daily.

        2. Treatment Group 2- 12 mg of Nifedipine to be self-administered once daily in the morning
           hours and placebo to be self-administered in the evening.

        3. Placebo Group - Placebo to be self-administered twice daily. Approximately 330 subjects
           will participate in this study. A screening visit will be used to determine subject
           suitability for inclusion in the trial. Within one week of the screening visit, subjects
           who meet all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will receive either
           Nifedipine 12 mg X2 a day (BID) (24 mg/day total) or Nifedipine 12 mg X1/day to be
           administered in the morning hours and a matching placebo X1/day to be administered in
           the evening hours (12 mg/day total) or a matching placebo X2 a day (BID) (0 mg/day
           total) for a period of 8 weeks. During this period, 4 study visits (at 0, 2, 5, and 8
           weeks) will take place. Study medication and placebo will be administered BID (in the
           morning and in the evening). In addition to receiving study medication, subjects will be
           maintained on a conservative standard treatment for Anal Fissure: sitz baths, high fiber
           diet, stool softeners and plenty of fluids.

      Upon completion of the treatment cycle, patients will be contacted by phone (at weeks 10, 13
      and 16) and will be questioned about recurrent symptoms e.g. pain or bleeding.

      Patients that:

        1. Were enrolled to one of the investigational groups ,and completed the 8 weeks treatment
           period or discontinued treatment because the investigator deemed them as healed AND

        2. Experience symptoms of recurrence AND ARE

        3. Willing to participate in an open label extension will receive Nifedipine 12 mg X2 a day
           (BID) for a period of 8 weeks. During this period, 4 study visits (at 0, 2, 5, and 8
           weeks from the start of retreatment) will take place.
    
  