
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a highly prevalent, but undertreated atherosclerotic
      disease with a disproportionately poor cardiovascular prognosis, as compared with other
      cardiovascular diseases. Cardiac events are, however, only one manifestation of PAD.
      Patients' health status (symptoms, function, and quality of life) are critical outcomes from
      patients' perspectives. To date, there have been no systematic prospective evaluations of
      disease-specific health status outcomes in PAD and how these vary by treatment and patient
      characteristics. The long-term goal of our work is to create an evidence-based multi-modal
      PAD management program that can be individualized to each patient. Following our preparatory
      work in Pilot PCORI grant 1 IP2 PI000753-01, the current proposal will develop a multi-center
      observational registry called PORTRAIT (Patient-centered Outcomes Related to Treatment
      Practices in peripheral Arterial disease: Investigating Trajectories). PORTRAIT will
      prospectively define and relate patients' care to their health status outcomes as a function
      of their treatment received at specialty clinics for new-onset, or exacerbations, of their
      PAD. We hypothesize that there will be substantial variability in treatment patterns across
      providers and by patient characteristics and that these will explain much of the variation in
      patients' health status outcomes. Four hypothesis-driven specific aims will be tested; the
      5th aim will result in a direct deliverable from this study:

      Aim 1: We hypothesize strong associations between the severity of patients' health status and
      the use of revascularization and that these will vary by age, gender, race, and
      socio-economic status. This aim will examine variations in treatment by patient
      characteristics as a foundation for identifying disparities in care.

      Aim 2: We hypothesize that revascularization will be associated with more rapid, and larger,
      improvements in health status as compared with non-invasive options, and that these benefits
      will vary by age, gender, baseline health status, smoking cessation, minority race, and
      depressive symptoms. The primary objective of PORTRAIT is to quantify patients' PAD-specific
      health status outcomes overall, and as a function of treatment and patient characteristics.

      Aim 3: We hypothesize that variations in performance measure adherence exist across
      providers, with greater adherence to pharmacologic therapies for prevention, than exercise
      treatments to improve function. We will compare real world PAD care against 4 PAD performance
      measures to provide insights into the quality of PAD care.

      Aim 4: We hypothesize that variations in pharmacologic and supervised exercise will be
      associated with differences in health status outcomes and provide the evidence to suggest
      that failure to prescribe these evidence-based treatments will result in lower health status
      scores.

      Aim 5: Use the new information to create educational tools to assist patients in selecting
      treatments.
    
  