
    
      Ankle osteoarthritis (OA) is a debilitating and mobility limiting condition. It can commonly
      stem from the result of a traumatic injury - such trauma has a high prevalence in military
      service. If cartilage is not severely damaged in that trauma, the stability and alignment of
      the joint may be. Over time, an unstable or misaligned ankle joint can experience abnormal
      rates of cartilage wear and tear due to aberrant kinematics. While OA may take decades to
      develop, the resulting arthritic state from this trauma will ultimately require ankle
      replacement or fusion, consequences with a tremendous financial burden and quality of life
      impact.

      With regards to alignment, particularly in the coronal plane, current clinical diagnosis
      relies on static X-ray of the ankle joint. Static images may not indicate dynamic
      misalignment during gait. Further, the effect of wedged insoles, a potential conservative
      treatment, on the restoration of ankle function is undocumented.

      This proposal aims to use biplane fluoroscopy, an X-ray based dynamic imaging approach, to
      measure ankle kinematics in OA subjects (with varus, neutral and valgus ankle alignment) and
      controls. With this method, tibio-talar kinematics during gait can be measured. Furthermore,
      subjects classified as neutral from their static radiograph, but that exhibit ankle varus or
      valgus alignment during gait, will be identified. Improving the accuracy of a diagnostic
      outcome provides a patient group with additional avenues for treatment. The investigators
      will investigate correlations between the investigators' 3D kinematics and clinical 2D
      imaging - to the benefit of clinical diagnostics. The investigators will also be able to
      measure the effect of wedged insoles on the restoration of ankle function. With this in mind,
      the following aims and methodology are proposed.

      Specific Aim 1: To investigate ankle kinematics in controls and subjects with OA. In support
      of Specific Aim 1, 90 ankle OA subjects will be recruited (30 each of varus, neutral or
      valgus aligned ankles). The investigators will also recruit 20 control subjects. Subjects
      will receive CT scans of their feet to quantify bone geometry (a step necessary for biplane
      fluoroscopy). Subjects will then be imaged in the biplane system during gait trials and while
      wearing neutral study shoes. This will yield tibio-talar kinematics during gait for these
      populations. Specific Aim 2: To identify dynamically misaligned ankles in OA subjects who are
      currently classified as neutrally aligned using static analysis. The investigators will
      compare the static X-ray and the gait kinematics of OA subjects, particularly those with
      clinically determined neutral alignment. The investigators will determine what proportion of
      neutral OA subjects actually exhibit misalignment during gait and are thus improperly
      categorized. The investigators will also re-create 2D clinical X-ray views from the
      investigators' 3D data in an attempt to translate the investigators' improvement (with 3D
      fluoroscopy) to more accurately classify alignment to clinical 2D diagnostics. Specific Aim
      3: To evaluate the potential of lateral or medial wedging to restore alignment in misaligned
      ankle OA subjects. OA subjects will be imaged wearing shoes with wedged insoles which
      correspond to their type of misalignment. Neutral OA subjects, who demonstrate misalignment
      during gait, will be recalled for a wedged insole session. This yields conservative treatment
      kinematics.

      This study will generate baseline data describing the kinematics of control and ankle OA
      subjects. This data is not currently available in the literature, and represents a novel
      contribution to the field. Second, this proposal determines how accurate current 2D X-ray
      methods are at detecting dynamic misalignment. This information can inform clinicians about
      the accuracy of their diagnostic tools, and may lead to improvements. Third, this proposal
      will generate data to evaluate the utility of wedged insoles for the conservative management
      of ankle misalignment. In Summary, this study has immediate impact potential on the diagnosis
      and treatment of ankle OA. Last, there are numerous additional avenues of classification,
      diagnostic, and preventative research for the benefit of the Veterans which will stem from
      this Career Development Award.

      "As a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with the appropriate
      research oversight, regulatory and monitoring entities, screening and enrollment has been
      placed on temporary administrative hold as of 03/16/2020."
    
  