
    
      The development of an innovative imaging agent capable of non-invasively detecting vulnerable
      plaques is a major objective of research in cardiovascular pathology. Such a tool would allow
      for better identification of patients at risk of acute events. We showed that
      99mTechnetium-labelled fucoidan was able to target P-selectin expressed by activated
      platelets in vitro in humans and in vivo in a model of abdominal aortic aorta thrombus and
      endocarditic vegetations in rats.

      NanoAthero is a monocenter, interventional, open-labeled, first-in-man study to evaluate
      tolerance of 99mTc-Fucoïdane in healthy volunteers.

      Healthy volunteers registered in the Bichat Centre for Clinical Investigations (CCI) will be
      contacted by email to participate in the study. The selection visit will be organized by the
      CCI according to the availability of the healthy volunteer.

      V0: selection/inclusion visit: pre-audit of eligibility criteria, demographic data, medical
      examination, clinical examination and measurement of vital signs, urinary pregnancy test for
      women of childbearing potential, blood samples (hematology and biochemistry analyses) and
      12-lead ECG.

      V1: 99mTc-Fucoidan scintigraphy. The delay between the inclusion visit and the completion of
      the scan is 30 ± 7 days. The visit will include verification and confirmation of the consent
      of the healthy volunteer, clinical examination and measurement of vital signs, urinary
      pregnancy test for women of childbearing age, blood samples (hematology and biochemistry
      analyses) and 12-lead ECG.

      Whole-body scintigraphic acquisitions will be performed 30 min, 90 min, 3 hours, 6 hours and
      24 hours after intravenous administration of 99mTc-Fucoidan for the evaluation of
      biodistribution and dosimetry. Vital signs will be monitored 5 min, 15 min, 30 min, 60 min,
      90 min, 3 hours, 6 hours and 24 hours after intravenous administration of 99mTc-Fucoidan.
      24-hour urine collection will be performed for dosimetry assessment.

      V2: End of research visit will be carried out 7 ± 3 days after administration of
      99mTc-Fucoidan, and will include medical interview, clinical examination, measurement of
      vital signs, blood samples (hematology and biochemistry analyses) and 12-lead ECG.
    
  