
    
      Background: The British Columbia (BC) Farmers' Market Nutrition Coupon Program (FMNCP) is a
      healthy eating initiative funded by the BC Ministry of Health. The program provides
      low-income households with $21/week in coupons to purchase healthy foods at farmers' markets
      and supportive nutrition skill-building activities. It is not clear if the BC FMNCP is
      achieving its aims of improving the diet quality, well-being and health of low-income adults,
      as its outcomes have not been investigated, and studies of similar programs are limited by
      weak designs that cannot demonstrate causality. This randomized controlled trial will assess
      the impact of the FMNCP on the overall diet quality (primary outcome), diet quality
      subscores, mental well-being, sense of community, experiences of food insecurity, risk of
      malnutrition (secondary outcomes) and subjective social status (exploratory outcome) of
      low-income adults immediately post-intervention and 16 weeks post-intervention. A qualitative
      investigation will also explore mechanisms of action and strategies to maximize positive
      program impacts.

      Methods: Low-income adults (≥ 18 years) from up to 15 rural and urban communities will be
      randomized to a FMNCP intervention (n=132) or a no-intervention control group (n=132), with a
      1:1 allocation ratio. An independent researcher from the Clinical Research Unit at the
      University of Calgary will generate a blocked randomization sequence that stratifies
      participants into blocks according to sex (male, female), geographic location (rural, urban),
      pregnancy (yes, no) and breastfeeding (yes, no). In the existing BC FMNCP, community partners
      distribute one to two sheets of coupons per week (each sheet contains $21 in coupons) to
      program participants for a total of 16 sheets. Coupons can be used over 16-20 weeks to
      purchase fruits, vegetables, dairy, meat/poultry/fish, eggs, nuts, and cut herbs at
      participating BC farmers' markets. However, to allow sufficient time to recruit participants
      for this study, community partners will distribute 16 coupon sheets to the FMNCP group over
      10-15 weeks (households with 5-8 individuals will receive 32 coupon sheets). To ensure
      participants receive all 16 coupon sheets, community partners will provide two coupon sheets
      per household during the first 1-6 weeks of the intervention. Participants in the FMNCP group
      will also be invited to participate in nutrition skill-building activities (e.g., cooking
      classes). At baseline (0 weeks), immediately post-intervention (10-15 weeks) and 16 weeks
      post-intervention (26-31 weeks), participants will access a pilot-tested web-based platform
      to report sociodemographics, health-related variables, mental well-being, sense of community,
      experiences of food insecurity, risk of malnutrition and subjective social status. Dietary
      intake will be assessed via two 24-hour dietary recalls at each time point using the
      Automated Self-Administered Dietary Assessment Tool for Canada (ASA24-Canada-2018). Diet
      quality scores will be calculated using the Healthy Eating Index-2015. In addition,
      immediately post-intervention only, participants will report whether they received FMNCP
      coupons and attended nutrition skill-building activities (to assess contamination of the
      control group), how often and how much of their own money was spent at farmers' markets
      during the intervention period and the types of foods purchased.

      Data analysis: Descriptive analyses will be conducted to examine participant characteristics
      by group at each time point. Characteristics of study completers (i.e., provided data
      16-weeks post-intervention) and non-completers will also be compared.

      Analyses will be intention-to-treat, in which participants will be analysed within the groups
      to which they were randomized regardless of adherence (e.g., failure to redeem coupons) or
      dropout. The analyses will include all participants who provided data at baseline. Repeated
      measures mixed-effect regression will assess differences in changes in mean HEI-2015 scores,
      HEI-2015 subscores, mental well-being, sense of community, and subjective social status
      between the FMNCP and control groups immediately post-intervention and 16-weeks
      post-intervention. Multinomial logistic regression will be used to assess differences in the
      odds of experiencing household food insecurity and risk of malnutrition for the FMNCP group
      compared to the control group immediately post-intervention and 16-weeks post-intervention.
      Statistical models will include intervention group (FMNCP vs control), time from baseline,
      intervention-by-time interaction, blocking variables (i.e., sex, rural/urban, pregnancy,
      breastfeeding), baseline values of the outcome, questionnaire/dietary recall mode (online,
      phone), household size, and place of data collection (community partner, other) as fixed
      effects covariates. Participant-specific (i.e., repeated measures) and rural/urban variations
      in outcomes will be modeled using random effects. Models will also include covariates
      specific to each outcome to increase the precision of estimates (86). For the primary outcome
      of overall diet quality, models will include the following: children living in the home (yes,
      no), sex, age, BMI, marital status, race/ethnicity, perceived health, smoking, day of data
      collection, and dietary recall number (i.e., dietary recall 1 or 2). Models that are and are
      not adjusted for an indicator of energy intake misreporting (the ratio of reported energy
      intake to total estimated energy expenditure) will be presented. Adjusted group differences
      (i.e., FMNCP group vs control group) in outcomes will be estimated using 95% confidence
      intervals and corresponding p-values.

      Subgroup analyses will examine whether the impact of the intervention on primary and
      secondary outcomes differs according to age group or sex. Dose-response analyses will examine
      whether the impact of the BC FMNCP on overall diet quality depends on the number of coupons
      redeemed and the number of nutrition skill-building activities attended. Interactions will be
      retained in statistical models if p<0.10. Analyses will be conducted in Stata (v15.1, Stata
      Corp, TX, USA), with p<0.05 indicating statistically significant differences between groups.
      Data interpretation will jointly consider effect sizes, confidence intervals and statistical
      significance.

      Expected outcomes: Findings will show whether and how a scalable population-level policy that
      links the agricultural and health sectors influences diet quality, psychosocial well-being
      and other outcomes among low-income adults. Study findings will inform program adjustments to
      improve participant outcomes. Other jurisdictions can use these data to determine whether and
      how to initiate similar programs.
    
  