
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare overall survival of patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer treated
           with chemoradiotherapy comprising cisplatin, etoposide, and once vs twice daily
           radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare local progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare metastasis-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare response rates in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the cytotoxic dose intensity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the dose intensity of two different schedules of radiotherapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, controlled study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center, ECOG performance status (0-1 vs 2), and lactic
      dehydrogenase, sodium, and alkaline phosphatase levels. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1-3 OR on day 1 only and
           etoposide IV over 45-90 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6
           courses. During course 2, patients undergo concurrent radiotherapy once daily 5 days a
           week for 6½ weeks (total of 33 fractions).

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cisplatin and etoposide as in arm I. During courses 2 and 3,
           patients undergo concurrent radiotherapy twice daily 5 days a week for 3 weeks (total of
           30 fractions).

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Beginning 3-4 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients in both arms achieving a
      complete or partial response with no evidence of brain metastasis undergo prophylactic
      cranial irradiation once daily 5 days a week for 2 weeks (total of 10 fractions).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6
      months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 532 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  