
    
      CHF is one of the most common diagnoses for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) patients.
      Cost of care, particularly inpatient hospitalization, is high dollar expenditure in the
      budget.

      Study subjects, recruited from the enrolled patient population of the STVHCS, are identified
      by a diagnosis of CHF in VA clinical databases. Administrative and clinical inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be applied by review of medical records. Subjects who appear to meet
      inclusion criteria will be mailed a pre-enrollment letter containing an Information Sheet
      describing the program. A follow-up phone call by an RN will go over the program in detail,
      review the Information Sheet, and initiate enrollment if the subject wishes to participate.
      As a less than minimal risk study, verbal consent or refusal will be documented in the
      respective subject's computerized medical record. Assenting subjects will be randomized by
      the last digit of the social security (odd and even) in a 1:1 ratio to the control group
      (standard care at STVHCS) or the intervention group (receiving the telephonic disease
      management services in addition to standard care). The intervention group will receive a
      telephonic intervention for one year that consists of formal scheduled nurse telephone
      education sessions, 24-hour access to a nurse counseling and symptom advice telephone line,
      printed action plans, workbooks, and individualized assessment letters, medication compliance
      reminders, vaccination reminders, and physician alerts about signs and symptoms of
      decompensation. Once enrolled, the RN conducts a telephonic assessment at intake, 6, and 12
      months to assess each participant's knowledge, behavior, and health status related to the HF
      condition.

      All subjects enrolled in the study will continue to receive comprehensive heart failure care
      from the STVHCS with those subjects randomized to the program receiving the additional
      telephonic intervention. Risk stratification is determined from a combination of review of
      the medical record patient admission history, and other self-reported information. Factors
      considered include: Goldman Specific Activity Scale, self-management practices, medical
      history, medical management, and psychosocial factors. The algorithm employs Boolean logic
      and sorts patients into one of three categories that determines the frequency of scheduled
      calls over the course of the year. The communications to physicians occurs through the VA
      CPRS system regularly, usually after each scheduled patient call. Pre-specific clinical,
      process, and economic outcomes will be collected on all subjects and analyzed at 6 and 12
      months post-randomization.

      Comparisons: The study will compare resources consumed in providing care to patients with
      heart failure post-randomization receiving standard care with resources consumed with
      standard care supplemented by the Health E Heart Disease Management Program. The study will
      measure direct VA medical care costs.

      Study subjects will all receive comprehensive medical care for congestive heart failure from
      the STVHCS. Experimental subjects will receive additional telephone calls, patient education
      sessions, customized treatment and self-management plans, and written patient education
      materials. All subjects will receive telephonic assessments of health status, and functional
      status at 6 and 12 months after randomization.
    
  