
    
      Our current Central Venous Catheter placement protocol for PICC includes the resort to
      UltraSonography (US) and requires fluoroscopy and plain radiographies throughout the PICC
      insertion and until the confirmation of best placement.

      This verification is mandatory to avoid the risks, delays and costs of repositioning the tip,
      but obtaining a fluoroscopy and plain radiographies in operating rooms can be time consuming
      and exposes the patient, nurses and physicians to radiations.

      The use of endocavitary electrocardiogram for tip position confirmation has been developed
      since 1985 and is now recognized as an alternative method. It has been recognized as the best
      technique in other indications, such as hemodialysis. It helps to position PICC tip in
      proximity to the cavoatrial junction. In Europe, Italian and German teams already use this
      new method.

      A new ultrasound machine offering external sensors and Endocavitary ECG guide is now
      available (Site Rite and Sherlock 3CG - Tip Confirmation System), which allows the
      installation and proper placement in the same operation. This Sherlock 3CG TCS has already
      been approved by the Food and Drug Administration in the US and is indicated for PICC tip
      placement confirmation in adult patients.

      This new ECG guidance method will allow the PICC insertion without any radiation in the
      operating room.

      For the moment, according to the local recommendations, French patients will have to continue
      to perform one post-procedural X-ray to confirm tip position. This exam will be performed in
      a dedicated room of the radiology unit. But guidance and confirmation of CVC placement only
      by ECG may provide a faster means of confirmation and eliminates radiation exposure to the
      patients, nurses and anesthesiologists.

      In addition, it would eliminate the costs associated with confirmatory chest X-ray (exam
      costs and time consumption).
    
  