
    
      Introduction Colorectal surgery (CRS) has improved immensely over recent decades as a
      consequence of better presurgical preparation, antibiotic prophylaxis, surgical technique,
      and postoperative management. However, it is may still be associated with somehow high
      morbidity and mortality rates. Prospective multicenter studies have demonstrated that 30-day
      morbidity and mortality may go up to 35% and 9% respectively. The most frequent postoperative
      complications include surgical site infection, intraabdominal abscess, ileus, hemorrhage, and
      anastomotic leakage (AL). Of these, AL is considered the most serious, with an incidence that
      varies from 3% to 15% and is responsible for up to a third of mortality in these patients. It
      is worth noting that most of them become evident between postoperative days 5 and 7, and the
      highest rates occur in coloanal anastomosis (10 to 20%). Early detection of serious
      postoperative complications such as AL in patients who undergo CRS is crucial for effective
      decision-making that anticipates septic complications. Although few markers have been studied
      as predictors of postoperative complications, in an era of enhanced recovery after surgery
      (ERAS) or Fast Track Surgery in which patients are discharged rapidly, the identification and
      use of pre-clinical inflammatory biomarkers may become of utmost importance to allow early
      diagnosis of serious complications. C-reactive protein (CRP) is an acute-phase reactant of
      hepatic synthesis, which raises in most of the inflammatory processes in response to
      proinflammatory cytokines as interleukin (IL) 6, IL-1 beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and
      interferon-gamma. It has been noted that high concentrations of CRP at the third and fourth
      postoperative day may be associated with the development of septic intra-abdominal
      complications such as AL after CRS. On the other hand, pre and postoperative
      neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), a simple and costless marker of a subclinical
      inflammatory response, has recently been identified as a useful predictor of major
      complications after surgery. Moreover, it has been recently suggested that preoperative NLR
      might be better than CRP as a predictor of 30-day morbidity after major abdominal surgery.
      With regards to CRS, it has been recently suggested that an elevated preoperative NLR may be
      a risk factor for major surgical complications following colorectal resection, with a trend
      towards the occurrence of AL. Although NLR may be advantageous in the clinical setting given
      that it has shown a faster kinetic pattern than CRP in response to surgical trauma, whether
      postoperative NLR can early predict the occurrence of AL in after CRS remains unknown.

      The aim of the present study was to determine the value of postoperative NLR as an early
      predictor of AL in patients who undergo CRS and compare its diagnostic performance with CRP.

      Material and methods Study design and population: The current report represents a
      single-institution retrospective cohort analysis of a prospectively maintained database. Data
      for consecutive patients submitted to colorectal surgery from June 2015 to April 2019 at a
      General Surgery Service of a tertiary referral University Hospital was extracted. All
      colorectal resections were included in the study analysis regardless on the approach used
      (open or laparoscopic), the confection of a diverting loop ostomy or the timing of surgery
      (urgent or scheduled). From a total 152 patients, 36 were excluded due to incomplete medical
      records, hematological diseases, extra-abdominal infections, definitive colostomy (i.e. Miles
      operation), or those who did not have a primary anastomosis (e.g. Hartmann's operation).
      Informed consent was obtained for all patients before surgery.

      Surgical Technique and follow-up: All the procedures were performed by staff surgeons,
      including a colorectal surgery specialist. Regarding the techniques used for the anastomosis,
      all colorectal or ileorectal anastomosis were performed used staplers and ileocolic
      anastomosis were either performed using staplers or hand-sewn technique. After discharge, all
      patients were controlled through clinical evaluation and routine laboratory tests in an
      outpatient office at 2 weeks and 1 month after surgery, and every 4 months thereafter in
      oncological patients. Data on each patient was recorded prospectively from the date of index
      operation up to a minimum of 12 months after surgery or until death whichever occurred first.

      Study variables and definitions: Patients demographics, indication for surgery, timing of the
      operation (elective or emergency), surgical risk according to ASA (American Society of
      Anesthesiologists), resection type, surgical approach (open or laparoscopic), need of
      diverting ileostomy, hospital stay and postoperative complications were analyzed. The
      Comprehensive Complication Index (CCI) was used to grade postoperative morbidity, which
      integrates in a single formula all the complications suffered by the patient according to the
      Clavien-Dindo score, summarizing postoperative (POP) morbidity in a grading score that goes
      from 1 to 100. Serum concentration of CRP and NLR during the first 5 postoperative days was
      recorded. All patients had complete cytology every day up to day 5 in order to calculate the
      ratio between the absolute value of neutrophils and the absolute value of lymphocytes. A CRP
      level below 5 mg/dL was considered normal. We analyzed the relationship between the variables
      and the development of AL. According to laboratory findings and clinical judgement,
      additional imaging studies were employed to rule out AL. AL was defined as suture line
      disruption with intestinal content leakage or abscess formation, associated to fever or
      abdominal pain, and confirmed by a CT-scan or re-operation up to 3 months after CRS.

      Statistical Analysis: Continuous variables are expressed as means and standard deviation (SD)
      for symmetrically distributed, and median (range) for non-symmetrically distributed data.
      Categorical variables were expressed as frequencies (percentages). The Mann-Whitney test was
      used for comparison of continuous variables and Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test was
      used for comparisons of categorical variables between patients with and without AL. The
      differences between variables were considered significant at a value of p≤0.05. Receiver
      operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of CRP
      and NLR as predictors of AL, determining sensitivity (Se), specificity (Sp), positive
      predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV). The diagnostic accuracy of the
      plasmatic markers studied was based on the area under the ROC curve (AUC). We used the Youden
      Index to find the cutoff point with the best diagnostic performance of CRP and NLR on the
      first five postoperative days. SPSS versión 24 and GraphPad version 7 were used for
      statistical analysis.
    
  