
    
      Purified polyphenols extracted by table grape can decrease cell proliferation in vitro and
      exert anti-atherosclerotic and antithrombotic activities, regulating endothelial function.
      Literature studies have already evaluated the cytostatic and apoptotic effects produced by
      table grape extracts from different cultivars, demonstrating a different behavior based on
      extract composition. The beneficial effects of polyphenols have been attributed exclusively
      to their direct antioxidant action; however, in recent years it has emerged that polyphenols
      can interact with intracellular signaling mechanisms, modulating the activity of
      transcription factors involved in cell lipid metabolism. Lipidomic analysis studies the
      lipids in a "dynamic" way, monitoring the changes in membrane phospholipids content, caused
      by inflammation, stress, or malnutrition. These changes can also affect the cellular and
      plasmatic prothrombotic potential, which results altered in metabolic diseases. Recently,
      alterations in erythrocytes lipidomic profile have been detected in subjects with steatosis.
      Moreover, in patients with colorectal cancer patients, the presence of metastases at the time
      of surgery was associated with an altered profile of fatty acids in the membrane of colonic
      tissue cells.

      Moreover, data in literature show how diet and functional foods can modify serum lipid
      content, in particular, an important role in the onset of dysmetabolic diseases is
      undoubtedly played by the different fractions of Low-Density Lipoproteins (LDL). The presence
      of smaller LDL fractions in the serum, such as fraction 3 and fraction 4, has been associated
      with the onset of cardiovascular disease and myocardial infarctions. Therefore, understanding
      the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of nutraceuticals is essential to develop
      prevention and intervention strategies on subjects at risk for metabolic syndrome.

      On this basis, the aim of this study is the evaluation of possible changes happening in
      lipidomic profile, plasma antioxidant activity and plasma prothrombotic potential induced by
      a diet enriched with table grape polyphenols in subjects with metabolic syndrome.
    
  