
    
      Patients with relapsed Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) who are refractory to or relapse
      within 12 months of first-line rituximab-based therapy, have poor outcomes with conventional
      approaches to autologous stem cell transplantation as detailed above. The investigators
      hypothesize that the intensive mobilization strategy developed can overcome some of the
      obstacles to successful autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) by both eliminating
      residual disease following salvage therapy and by facilitating stem cell collection. Even
      though there is clinical experience in the cooperative group setting with intensive pre-ASCT
      mobilization, it has never been prospectively validated in DLBCL and concerns exist as to its
      ability to improve outcomes with ASCT in this high-risk, and heavily pretreated group of
      patients. Furthermore, most patients in the study site's registry treated with intensive
      mobilization were rituximab-naïve and the findings may not translate in the
      rituximab-refractory population. The investigators also believe that ofatumumab, a novel
      monoclonal antibody against a distinct cluster of differentiation antigen 20 (CD20) epitope
      may in fact overcome rituximab resistance in DLBCL patients and through more effective
      complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) may eliminate minimal residual disease in the patient
      and contaminating tumor cells in the stem cell graft.

      General Design

      This is a single-institution, single-arm, prospective phase II study. Patients with high-risk
      DLBCL (defined as either achieving less than complete remission (CR) to initial
      rituximab-containing therapy or relapsing within 12 months of initial therapy) will be
      enrolled on this study and will undergo staging prior to receiving intensive mobilization
      with ofatumumab, etoposide, and high-dose ara-C (OVA). Following successful stem cell
      collection, patients will proceed to standard autologous transplantation with
      cyclophosphamide, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), and etoposide (CBV)
      preparative regimen. Response evaluation will occur after salvage therapy, following
      intensive mobilization therapy (d42), at day +90 after ASCT, and at 6, 12 and 24 months
      thereafter. Event-free, progression-free, and overall survival will also be assessed until 48
      months. The primary study endpoint is mobilization-adjusted complete metabolic response rate
      (maCR) following OVA. Subjects who are not chemosensitive to salvage therapy (i.e. do not
      achieve a partial response or complete response) will be re-evaluated after an additional
      salvage regimen. If they are still not chemosensitive at this point, they will be withdrawn
      from the study and replaced.
    
  