
    
      RPM Software The Remote Patient Monitoring application that will be used for this study was
      created by Vivify Health. Vivify Health was founded in 2009, and their Remote Care Management
      platform utilizes consumer electronics and wireless health devices that patients can use
      easily from home. Using this platform, providers can create customized care plans for
      patients, as well as provide education through multimedia and face-to-face interaction
      through video conferences.

      The Glooko mobile application allows patients to download diabetes data, including blood
      sugar readings, directly from their meter to compatible iOS and Android devices. The data can
      then be uploaded by the patient and viewed by providers.

      Subjects Prospective study participants will be screened for by review of HbA1c values of
      patients with upcoming Endocrine clinic appointments, or during diabetes-related hospital
      admissions. Qualifying patients will be invited to participate in the study and written
      consent will be obtained from their parents (and assent from patients 10 years of age and
      older) prior to their randomization. Patients agreeing to participate in the study will be
      randomly assigned using sealed, blinded envelopes to Group A or Group B. Each group will have
      25 patients.

      Pre-Study Measurements Both groups will have HbA1c measured at the pre-study clinic visit or
      hospital admission as part of standard of care. After consenting to participation, each
      subject will schedule a brief telephone check-in with an investigator within 1 week of the
      initial encounter. Successful adherence to this telephone appointment will be used as a
      barometer of ability to follow through on scheduled remote communications, and will be
      required for randomization. After completing the telephone check-in, each patient will return
      within 2 weeks of the initial encounter. At this visit, randomization will occur, and they
      will complete 2 questionnaires at the beginning of the study: one knowledge assessment (the
      Diabetes Knowledge Test 2 (DKT2)) [15] and one assessment of self-efficacy (the
      Self-Management of Type 1 Diabetes in Adolescence (SMOD-A)) [16].

      Intervention Groups Group A will be taught the remote monitoring expectations and will
      receive training on how to use the Vivify RPM software at the same visit that randomization
      occurs. Subjects in this group will be enrolled in the RPM protocol for the first 12 weeks of
      their participation in the study. While on the RPM protocol, subjects will be required to
      complete the Care Plan questions on a daily basis. They will also have scheduled video
      conferences with study team physicians or advanced practice nurses on a weekly basis, and
      will be expected to upload their blood glucose readings to Glooko each week for review. A
      web-based provider dashboard will allow the study team to monitor patients' usage of the
      software on a daily basis. Video visits are anticipated to last 15-20 minutes. During this
      time the study team will review the data collected during the previous week, discuss ongoing
      diabetes management and any barriers to care, and review selected diabetes self-management
      educational topics with study participants. The Care Plan questions, Weekly Conference
      questions, and Educational Objectives intended to be covered during the video visits are
      appended to the end of this document. Patients in Group B will complete all pre-study
      measurements at randomization, but remain on a quarterly visit schedule as per standard of
      care for the first 12 weeks of their participation in the study.

      After the first 12 weeks, patients in Group A will return to quarterly office visits with
      their endocrinology team as per standard of care while patients in Group B enter into the RPM
      protocol. Both groups will have a clinic visit with HbA1c checked, and will complete the DKT2
      and SMOD-A questionnaires for the 2nd time.

      The study will conclude with the 6 month visit for both groups. Both groups will have a HbA1c
      checked, and will complete the post-study DKT2 and SMOD-A questionnaires for the 3rd and
      final time.
    
  