
    
      The detrimental effects of elevated intra-abdominal compartment pressure have been known for
      some time and are actively managed by most surgical critical care physicians. Similarly, it
      is well known that occasionally the abdomen cannot be immediately closed in some patients due
      to concern of elevated intra-abdominal pressure or ongoing contamination; these patients
      typically stay in hospital, often in expensive ICU's until final closure - and even then,
      some patients do not get definitive reconstruction of the abdominal wall until many months
      later, again adding to the expense of their care. Thus, there has been a move to give these
      patients early, aggressive closure of the abdomen, often using a combination of negative
      pressure wound therapy and biologic mesh. Currently these groups of patients who have early
      aggressive closure are incompletely studied; although abdominal compartment pressure
      measurements are routinely made on them, this is not commonly done intra-operatively when
      closure is being performed; nor have these patients been studied with continuous monitoring.
      This is especially striking considering the occlusive nature of negative wound therapy
      dressings: anecdotal increases in abdominal pressures have been noted in these patients,
      sometimes to dangerous levels. As there is accumulating evidence that diligent management of
      intra-abdominal pressure can improve outcomes in a variety of patients, there is an
      opportunity to apply accurate monitoring to a patient group that is also likely to benefit.

      The investigators propose a prospective observational study on patients who are unable to be
      definitively closed at the time of surgery and are candidates for early aggressive abdominal
      closure. The investigators will monitor abdominal pressure using the AbViser continuous
      abdominal pressure monitoring device to ascertain whether there are episodes if
      intra-abdominal hypertension in these patients, and whether this improves or not after
      definitive closure. The research team will then attempt to correlate abdominal pressure
      measurements to outcomes. Finally the team will compare patients to historical controls using
      propensity scoring to explore differences in outcome.

      Intra-abdominal pressure monitoring will be initiated when a patient has been identified as
      requiring an open abdomen. The monitoring will be done until the patient's abdominal wound
      has been closed and there are no elevated measurements. Once the patient has been discharged
      from the intensive care unit, the AbViser system will be discontinued. Patients will continue
      to be followed for the duration of their hospital stay and outcome measures will be assessed
      until discharge from the hospital, an expected average of 2 - 3 weeks.
    
  