
    
      Corneal ulceration is a leading cause of visual impairment globally, with a disproportionate
      burden in developing countries. Corneal opacity after ulceration is responsible for a
      significant proportion of blinding eye disease in Africa and Asia. While antimicrobial
      treatment is generally effective in eradicating infection, "successful" treatment is often
      associated with a poor visual outcome. The scarring that accompanies the resolution of
      infection leaves many eyes blind. It has been difficult to discern differences between
      different antimicrobials in a randomized controlled trial (RCT). In fact, only a single RCT
      with more than 50 subjects has found any significant difference between ulcer treatments.
      Thus, prevention of corneal ulceration may be our best opportunity to reduce morbidity
      associated with corneal ulceration.

      Several non-randomized prevention studies in Nepal, Myanmar, and Bhutan have suggested that
      antibiotic ointment applied promptly after a corneal abrasion could dramatically lower the
      incidence of ulcers, relative to neighboring or historic controls. In Madurai, South India, a
      clinical trial demonstrated that abrasions randomized to topical antibacterial and antifungal
      prophylaxis were not significantly less likely to develop fungal ulcers than those randomized
      to antibacterial ointment alone, even though the region had a high incidence of fungal
      infection. This same trial also found that the incidence of ulcers in villages outside the
      prophylaxis program was far higher; these control villages were neighboring but not
      randomized, and it is possible that they were in some way different from the villages
      included in the program.

      VIEW was designed to determine whether we can prevent corneal ulcers on a large scale. VIEW
      is a community-randomized trial comparing villages randomized to receive an intervention
      consisting of a trained community health volunteer providing antimicrobial ointment after a
      corneal abrasion to control villages receiving no additional intervention. The primary
      outcome of corneal ulcer will be measured by baseline and annual population-based census
      performed in both intervention and control villages by masked examiners from baseline to 36
      months. The examiners will photograph corneas of all residents who are suspected of having a
      corneal ulcer, with photographs later read by masked examiners. Each resident in the village
      will be examined for evidence of a corneal opacity and asked about their ocular history. In
      villages randomized to intervention, the trained community health volunteers will actively
      promote their services through regular meetings with local women's groups by encouraging
      residents to notify the village eye health worker within 24 hours of ocular trauma. In
      control villages, abrasions and ulcers will be treated if they present to a clinic or are
      found during the annual monitoring visits, but active promotion of corneal abrasion care will
      not be offered.
    
  