
    
      Investigators have demonstrated the in vitro viridical efficacy of both Listerine Antiseptic®
      and 1% dilute baby shampoo solution, a commonly used nasal rinse, against a SARS-CoV-2
      surrogate and Meister et al. have similar findings with SARS-CoV-2. With an urgent need to
      expand the armamentarium of widely available, low-cost interventions, that are safe for
      repeated human use and reduce viral transmission, investigators seek to determine the impact
      of a combined regimen of oral and nasal rinsing with these agents on naso-oropharyngeal viral
      loads in college students with SARS-CoV-2 infection.

      Rationale for the intervention: a combination of nasal washes with 1% solution of baby
      shampoo and oral washes with Listerine Antiseptic® Available data indicate that SARS-CoV-2 is
      most likely to spread, like most other common respiratory viruses, primarily through
      respiratory droplet transmission. With the naso-oropharynx being both the primary site from
      which the virus is expelled by people with infection and the nasal and oral mucosal cells is
      one of the sites of initial infection and viral replication. Specifically the ACE2 receptor,
      that SARS-CoV-2 binds for cell entry, are highly concentrated in the goblet and ciliated
      cells of the nose and on the tongue. Thus a reduction of viral load through topical treatment
      of these sites could potentially lead to reduced transmission of SARS-CoV-2.

      Each of the two proposed agents to be tested have independently demonstrated virucidal
      activity with short contact time in vitro. With over 140 years of usage worldwide, the safety
      of gargles with Listerine Antiseptic® is well established. Topical nasal lavage using a
      dilute solution of baby shampoo has also been demonstrated to be safe and effective both as a
      mucoactive and microbicidal agent. Both agents are readily available and cost-efficient for
      daily usage.

      While there are a number of ongoing trials of interventions with similar approaches, most of
      them focus on a single intervention, either nasal or oral rinses. This potentially leaves a
      viral reservoir in the untreated site, with the potential for recolonizing the entire
      oronasopharynx thereby limiting the utility of intervention. There is a single trial treating
      both the oral and nasal spaces. However, the agent being tested is povidone-iodine, that has
      known adverse effects limiting its use. These adverse effects include discoloration of teeth,
      ciliary dysfunction, iodine overdose and possible drug interactions, such as with lithium.

      Investigators believe that the proposed intervention for this study is likely to be
      well-tolerated, highly acceptable and result in elimination from the key sites in the
      oronasopharynx. Additionally, the proposed four-arm design will allow investigators to
      compare the combined intervention with each of the component treatments. A decision was made
      to use saline rinses as the control arm as the investigator's in vitro data revealed that
      saline had no virucidal activity against human coronavirus.

      Based on recent literature describing viral load dynamics during the course of SARS-CoV-2
      infection, investigators believe that a four-day trial, initiated within 5 days of Covid
      testing, will allow for the testing of change in viral load close to/or within the 7-10 day
      timeframe of greatest SARS-CoV-2 viral load. The study period will also fall within the 2-3
      week period of the mean duration of SARS-CoV-2. Mohamed et al suggest that 4 days of oral
      Listerine washes three times daily may be efficacious in decreasing viral load. Several other
      rinse trials also employ this rinse frequency. The rinse times of 60 secs and 30 secs for
      nasal wash with 1% dilute baby shampoo and oral Listerine respectively, are based on the
      successful virus reduction demonstrated at these contact times in vitro.

      Rationale for study population: College students

      While the elderly have borne the most devastating impact of COVID-19, there is evidence that
      SARS-CoV-2 seroprevalence among those aged 18-24 years is higher than those above 55 years of
      age.

      The coronavirus pandemic has required institutions of higher-education to make difficult
      decisions about allowing in-person instruction. As students have returned to campuses, there
      have been large outbreaks of SARS-CoV-2 infection with individual institutions reporting
      thousands of cases. While data are limited, there has been an estimated 397,000 cases across
      colleges and universities that participated in the National Collegiate Athletic Association.
      These institutions account for less than half of all colleges in the United States. Thus, it
      is likely that the total number of cases in this student population is significantly higher.
      According to the preliminary data from the CDC, it is likely that this population of young
      adults contributes to the community spread to people over the age of 55.
    
  