
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease in the world,
      considering the central nervous system disorders that affect movement. In addition to motor
      impairment, the literature reinforces changes in ventilatory parameters, such as restrictive
      lung dysfunction, obstructive airway disease, and upper airway obstruction. Pulmonary
      disorders are more evident in patients in later and advanced stages of PD, and are
      responsible for most of the morbimortalities resulting from the disease. Objectives: To
      evaluate the effects of a protocol of diaphragmatic awareness, in association with the global
      exercises, on the pulmonary function of individuals with Parkinson's disease. Methods: This
      is an experimental, uncontrolled clinical trial. Participants are patients with Parkinson's
      disease referred for care at the UEAFTO / CER-II UEPA neurofunctional outpatient clinic whose
      records will be consulted for the collection of epidemiological data and postural assessment
      of cognitive functions through protocol Montreal Cognitive Assessment (Brazilian experimental
      version) and classification by modified Hoehn and Yahr scale. Those who meet the inclusion
      criteria will be evaluated through the evaluation form, Pulmonary Functional Status and
      Dyspnea Questionnair protocol, submitted to Pulmonary Function Test and respiratory muscle
      strength assessment by Spirometry and Manovacuometry, respectively. They will be submitted to
      an intervention protocol prepared by the physiotherapy team of UEPA's Elderly Care Center for
      20 sessions lasting 60 minutes twice a week, consisting of global exercises and diaphragmatic
      awareness, being re-evaluated in the 10th and 20th sessions. The protocol used will be
      registered in the Clinical Trials database. All participants will sign a Free and Informed
      Consent Form and the research will be submitted to analysis by the Human Research Ethics
      Committee of the University of the State of Pará (UEPA). The data collected will be tabulated
      in a Microsoft Excel 2016® worksheet for further statistical analysis using BioEstat® 5.3
      software. Expected results: to obtain an improvement in the variables related to pulmonary
      function in the experimental group after the application of the intervention protocol and in
      relation to the control group.
    
  