
    
      Exposure to traumatic events may lead to mental health problems, such as post-traumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD). PTSD is a type of anxiety disorder that is characterized by the
      presence of persistent frightening thoughts and memories of the traumatic event.
      Additionally, people with PTSD often feel emotionally numb, and they may experience sleep
      problems or be easily startled. Homeless people, in particular, are at risk for experiencing
      a variety of traumas. Homeless women tend to experience more traumatic events and develop
      PTSD at higher rates than housed women. Although effective treatments for PTSD are available,
      homeless women are unlikely to seek them out. There is a need for PTSD treatment approaches
      that are specifically designed for these women. This study will develop a
      cognitive-behavioral therapy treatment that will be adapted to best serve the needs of
      homeless women. The study will then determine the therapy's effectiveness in treating a group
      of homeless women with PTSD.

      This study will consist of three phases. The first phase will be used to gather and analyze
      information about PTSD in homeless women and methods of treating the disorder in this
      population. Focus groups consisting of homeless women, shelter directors, case managers, and
      mental health service providers will be used to obtain the necessary information. Phase two
      of this study will consist of developing an adaptation of an existing PTSD treatment manual
      to make it relevant to the lives of homeless women. The third and final phase of this study
      will recruit 32 homeless women with symptoms of PTSD, and who did not participate in either
      of the first two phases of the study. Participants in this 4-week study will be randomly
      assigned to receive either the adapted cognitive behavioral therapy treatment or no treatment
      at all (assessment-only). The treatment group will attend twice weekly sessions for a total
      of 4 weeks. All participants will be evaluated immediately prior to the start of treatment
      and 1 week after treatment ends. Outcomes will include PTSD symptoms and depression symptoms.
    
  