
    
      Achieving and maintaining recommended blood pressure goals in hypertensive African Americans
      is paramount to addressing racial disparities in hypertension-related morbidity and
      mortality. Because antihypertensive therapy is the cornerstone of hypertension management,
      good medication adherence is the key to adequate blood pressure control. Successful
      approaches to racial disparities must address how to increase adherence to anti-hypertensive
      medications.

      Adherence to anti-hypertensive medications is likely multifactorial, and not solely related
      to SES or access to medical care. Psychosocial factors such as stress and depression have
      been implicated as important determinants of medication adherence. However, little is known
      about how other psychosocial factors such as perceived racism impact anti-hypertensive
      medication adherence. Understanding these relationships may assist in the development of
      targeted strategies to achieve good medication adherence in hypertensive patients.

      The objective is to understand the relationships between perceived racism and medication
      adherence, while examining the role of depression, psychological stress, and self-efficacy in
      a population of hypertensive African-American patients. 262 African American adult
      hypertensive patients will be recruited from an urban academic general medicine practice.
      Baseline data collection will include assessments of demographics and socioeconomic status,
      clinical history and hypertension characteristics, depressive symptoms, perceived stress, and
      medication adherence. Patients will be followed for 1 year, when final evaluations will take
      place, including assessment of hypertension, stress, depression, medication adherence and
      level of perceived racism (measured by a validated instrument). The primary outcome is the
      change in medication adherence scores from baseline to 12 months. Statistical models will be
      developed to determine if level of perceived racism is associated with medication adherence,
      and whether stress and depression play a role in this relationship.
    
  