
    
      Cognitive dysfunction is common in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), observed
      in as many as two-thirds of patients. Cognitive dysfunction of long duration or with
      deterioration can have a significant impact on occupational functioning of SLE patients and
      also compromise compliance to treatment.

      The pathogenesis of cognitive dysfunction in SLE patients is likely multifactorial, including
      vascular origin, direct neuronal damage due to autoantibodies or cytokines, metabolic
      effects, or effects of certain medications. More than one half of SLE patients have anti-DNA
      antibodies, and it was recently demonstrated that a subset of anti-DNA antibodies
      cross-reacts with a pentapeptide consensus sequence (residues 283-287) of the human
      N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor NR2a and NR2b subunits and can cause excitotoxic death
      of neurons. NMDA receptors are important in memory function and learning, and thus such
      antibodies may mediate cognitive dysfunction in SLE.

      In this cross-sectional study, up to 60 patients with SLE may be enrolled. Participants will
      undergo neuropsychological testing, neuroimaging studies, and blood tests for antibody with
      the reactivity to the pentapeptide consensus sequence of the human NMDA receptor NR2a and
      NR2b subunits (anti-pentapeptide Ab).

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the association between cognitive
      dysfunction and serum anti-pentapeptide Ab. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be
      performed for evaluation of potentially confounding central nervous system (CNS) disease such
      as cerebral infarction, and of blood brain barrier breakdown by employing gadolinium
      enhancement. Furthermore, in participants who agree, a lumbar puncture will be performed and
      cerebrospinal fluid will be obtained for preliminary evaluation of the intrathecal levels of
      the anti-pentapeptide Ab associated with cognitive dysfunction.

      If the anti-pentapeptide Ab is associated with cognitive dysfunction, therapeutic
      interventions via NR2 receptor blockade or the blockade of the anti-pentapeptide Ab may be
      considered in a future study.
    
  