
    
      This is a single arm, non-randomized phase II study. Eligible, fully registered patients will
      receive preoperative chemotherapy consisting of gemcitabine plus erlotinib. Preoperative
      chemotherapy will be followed by exploratory laparotomy and pancreaticoduodenectomy. Patients
      will then receive postoperative chemotherapy consisting of gemcitabine plus erlotinib. Up to
      123 patients will be accrued to this study, with the expectation that 78 patients will remain
      fully eligible and evaluable for the primary endpoint. The primary and secondary objectives
      for the study are listed below.

      Primary Objective:

      To estimate the proportion of patients alive at two years from the date of registration

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine the resection rate (defined as the fraction of patients who proceed to
           planned surgery with removal of primary tumor [R0/R1]) following induction treatment
           with gemcitabine plus erlotinib

        2. To estimate the time to disease progression/relapse

        3. To evaluate the rate of R0, R1, and R2 resections (defined as per the 6th edition of the
           AJCC Cancer Staging Manual) in patients treated with preoperative gemcitabine plus
           erlotinib chemotherapy

        4. To evaluate the toxicity profile of preoperative gemcitabine plus erlotinib and the
           feasibility of postoperative gemcitabine plus erlotinib

        5. To evaluate response rates to preoperative chemotherapy for patients treated with
           preoperative gemcitabine and erlotinib

        6. To identify molecular predictors of pancreatic cancer response to gemcitabine combined
           with erlotinib

        7. To identify genetic profiles of pancreatic adenocarcinoma that may be associated with
           response to neoadjuvant therapy

      After completion of postoperative chemotherapy treatment, patients are followed every 3
      months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  