
    
      Acne vulgaris is one of the most prevalent skin disorders of sebaceous follicles, affecting
      more than 85% of adolescents in United States. Acne can persist throughout the adulthood, and
      even a mild form of acne might progress to permanent scarring on the face, chest and back,
      thereby causing significant physical and psychosocial morbidities. Acne is a multifactorial
      disease of which etiology has not been fully elucidated, although considerable progress has
      been made in understanding its pathogenesis during last decade. The major pathogenic features
      of acne include abnormal ductal keratinization, sebum overproduction, Propionibacterium
      acnes, and inflammation. Common acne medications such as topical retinoids, antibiotics and
      isotretinoin are associated with irritation and incomplete responses, increased bacterial
      resistance or untoward side events, respectively. Thus there is a continuing need for a
      novel, effective agent targeting different aspects of acne pathogenesis, with minimal side
      effects.

      In the recent decade, epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), the major polyphenolic constituent
      in green tea, has attracted much interest on account of its potent anti-carcinogenic,
      anti-inflammatory, anti-proliferative, and antimicrobial activities. Preclinical,
      observational, and clinical trial data have indicated that EGCG can inhibit tumor initiation,
      promotion, progression, and angiogenesis. EGCG also suppresses neutrophil chemotaxis, and has
      been suggested to improve many diseases that have inflammatory components such as diabetes,
      kidney injuries, arthritis, allergies, dental caries, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and
      neurodegenerative diseases. In skin, EGCG has been investigated mainly in light of
      antioxidative, immunopotentiating and anticarcinogenic properties against chemicals or
      ultraviolet irradiation. Moreover, EGCG has lipid-lowering and antiandrogenic properties, and
      can downregulate peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ expression. Based on these
      observations, it can be inferred that EGCG might be effective in the treatment of acne.
    
  