
    
      When breast MRI is used to determine the extent of local disease, the management changes,
      resulting in improved outcomes. Studies have indicated that breast MRI plus mammography is
      better for detecting tumors. surgeons are now utilizing breast MRI to determine the extent of
      disease in women diagnosed with breast cancer. It has not been established how management of
      breast cancer patients has been affected by the use of breast MRI or how that management has
      affected the outcome for these patients. This retrospective chart review will document
      management and outcome for breast cancer patients who have had pre treatment breast MRI.

      The medical records of patients who received breast MRI for pre-treatment staging of breast
      cancer will be retrospectively reviewed to see if the MRI information affected management.
      UAMS surgeons will be asked if the breast MRI resulted in:

        1. no change in management

        2. Moderate change in management-what (modified lumpectomy-larger or smaller)

        3. Significant change-what (contralateral breast, additional quadrants, lump to mast,
           neoadjuvant chemo)-note less dz than w/o MRI, more dz than w/o MRI. The medical record
           of patients who were imaged will be reviewed for presenting symptom, clinical exam,
           imaging studies (mammogram, breast ultrasound, breast MRi) and pathology results. This
           study is limited to retrospective chart review with the only foreseeable risk being that
           of disclosure of PHI. To minimize this risk, data collection forms will be identified by
           subject ID number. A master list of these ID numbers linked to subject medical record
           number will be maintained in the investigator's file and kept in a secure location
           accessible only to the study team for purposes of verification of data and validation of
           results. The medical record number will not be recorded on any other form containing
           subject PHI. The only foreseeable breach of confidentiality would be for the security of
           the investigator's files to be compromised.
    
  