
    
      The use of mobile technology is already part of the investigator's daily life and its
      presence is increasing exponentially. The term mHealth (mobile health) was used and defined
      for the first time in 2000. This concept was subsequently employed in the 2010 mHealth Summit
      of the Foundation for National Institutes of Health (FNIH) to refer to "the provision of
      medical attention services through mobile communication devices". Around 40% of the over
      300,000 applications available in the different apps stores are related to health themes,
      with those focused on the monitoring and management of diseases standing out. One of the
      characteristics of mobile applications is the sending and receiving of messages through a
      system of notifications known as "PUSH", that consists of requests appearing on the display
      of the Smartphone at a scheduled time, permitting them to be customizable both in their
      contents and at the time of sending them

      PUSH notifications are pro-active as they offer visual and/or aural alerts to inform the
      recipient of a message or event received and invite them to act on them, even without the App
      being in use. On receiving the notification, the user can interact in different degrees, from
      simply reading it to answering it, thus permitting feedback. Also, there is evidence of the
      PUSH notifications being effective in communications between professionals.

      The objective of this study is to compare the effect of the implementation of a monitoring
      system, goal to achieve, on physical activity in overweight and obese adults. A clinical
      three-armed assay has been established to permit an evaluation of the effectiveness of
      implementing PUSH notifications in the actions orientated towards improving body composition
      through the establishment of dietary patterns and an increase in physical activity.

      Participants (n=90) will be recruited through outpatient from private clinics in Cádiz,
      Andalucía, Spain, as well as through community presentations. Overweight or obese and
      sedentary adult will be randomly assigned into three groups.

      For 6 months, all of the adults shall follow the same diet with an identical distribution of
      macronutrients. There will be a weekly check up of weight, fat, body water and muscle mass
      for all of them. The status of the number of steps in Accupedo is also checked every week.
    
  