
    
      Background: Radiation dermatitis, also known as radiodermatitis or radiation skin reaction,
      is a widely reported side effect of radiation therapy in cancer. The most common radiation
      therapy-induced side effect is acute skin reaction, which can range from mild erythema to
      confluent moist desquamation. Almost all patients receiving radiation therapy have a risk of
      developing radiation dermatitis (Trueman, 2012).

      When not managed appropriately, radiation dermatitis can affect patients' physical
      functioning and quality of life. It can also cause pain and discomfort and may result in
      infection and/or interruption of treatment (Feight et al., 2011). An important role for
      oncology nurses is in educating, assessing, and monitoring patients for radiation dermatitis.
      Many nursing interventions are in use, including those based on tradition, physician
      preference, and published reports. In routine practice, most interventions for radiation
      dermatitis are institution-specific and not reliably evidence based.

      At the investigators institution, Hydrophor (Aquaphor), an ointment containing petrolatum,
      mineral oil, ceresin, and lanolin alcohol is the current standard of care for preventing and
      treating radiation dermatitis. Some women under treatment for breast cancer report disliking
      the smell and/or texture of Hydrophor. Rarely reported side effects have included allergic
      reactions, burning, stinging, and/or redness. Honey is an ancient remedy that has most
      recently shown promising results in treating burns, oral infections, and promoting surgical
      wound healing and palliation. The topical application of honey has been reported to be
      advantageous in radiation mucositis (Biswal et al., 2003). In a continuing effort to identify
      those treatment options that can make the investigators patients more comfortable and reduce
      complications from radiation dermatitis, the investigators are interested in conducting a
      small pilot study comparing the effectiveness of a honey-based treatment (Medihoney) with
      that of the investigators current standard of care (Hydrophor).
    
  