
    
      A lower respiratory tract infection is a serious situation that can abruptly become
      complicated by sepsis, respiratory failure, lung tissue necrosis, and multiple organ
      dysfunction. Hence, empiric antibiotic treatment is commonly initiated as soon as infection
      is suspected and cultures and/or other diagnostic tests are procured, representing a major
      reason for antibiotic prescription. Widespread antibiotic overuse and misuse have led to the
      emergence of multiple resistant bacterial strains, posing a major health threat. There exists
      a critical need for practical solutions to prevent antibiotic overuse, especially in
      communities where antibiotics are available without prescription.

      Pathophysiologic studies show that infection does not result from bacterial or viral
      overgrowth alone, but rather from the microorganisms' penetration beyond the host immune
      system. Therefore, infection assessment requires investigation of both microorganism presence
      and the defense mechanisms activated within the patient's body. Bacteria overgrowth leads to
      lung tissue inflammation, recruitment of white blood cells to the infected area, and
      chemokine and cytokine production and release, which can cause the alveoli to become filled
      with fluid, leading the patient to develop a cough with phlegm or pus, fever, chills, and
      dyspnea.

      Microbiological diagnosis of lower respiratory tract infections requires assessment of the
      invading microorganism by examination of sputum using microscopy, quantitative culture, and
      PCR. However, such microbiological investigations have limited value in pneumonia management.
      Polymicrobial flora make it difficult to interpret cultures from patients with chronic
      bronchitis. It is also difficult to evaluate cultures from nosocomial pneumonia since the
      pathogenic bacteria are often identical to those appearing in the throat flora.
      Immunosuppressed patients frequently produce sputum containing low number of white blood
      cells. The patient's clinical signs, such as respiratory and circulatory status, are the most
      reliable markers for determining treatment efficacy.

      In practice, most physicians choose to examine additional markers at early stages to closely
      monitor the effects of therapy, particularly in high-risk patients who have been admitted to
      intensive care units. Commonly used systemic markers include body temperature, C-reactive
      protein (CRP), procalcitonin (PCT), and interleukin 6 (IL-6). Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)
      concentration reportedly increases during organ damage, such as that caused by infectious
      diseases. Studies show increased HGF concentrations in serum and exhaled-breath condensate
      from patients with pneumonia, with HGF presence being significantly correlated with survival.
      Moreover, HGF levels markedly decrease within 48 hours of initiating appropriate antibiotic
      therapy. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) results indicate that HGF produced during acute
      infection shows high affinity for the extracellular matrix component heparan sulfate
      proteoglycan (HSPG). These findings suggest that HGF assessment in sputum could be a tool for
      detecting bacterial infection at the site of injury.

      Proteins can be detected based on their specific interaction with a corresponding antibody.
      However, this measurement system relies on specialized resources, limiting its usefulness in
      non-equipped centers or as a self-test. Metachromasia is a characteristic color change
      exhibited by certain aniline dyes upon binding to chromotropic substances. This phenomenon
      has been widely used in histology. Methylene blue (O-Toluidine) is an excellent metachromatic
      dye that changes from blue to pink upon binding to high-molecular-weight polysaccharides,
      such as sulfated glycan. The pink dye will then quickly turn back to blue following addition
      of a proportional amount of a protein with high affinity to sulfated glycan (inverted
      metachromacia).

      Here the investigators used this approach to develop a new strip test-referred to herein as
      the index text-to assess the presence of dextran-sulfate-binding proteins in sputum. The
      investigators then assessed the accuracy of this strip test for detecting bacterial infection
      in sputum, by analyzing leftover sputum samples that were sent for examination to the
      Department of Microbiology, University hospital in Linköping.
    
  