
    
      Veterans and other Americans who survive stroke often face disabling motor impairments that
      impede performance of activities of daily living and limit free-living activity. Prominent
      among these are diminished locomotor function and impaired balance that not only foster a
      sedentary lifestyle and physical deconditioning, but also increase the risk injuries due to
      falls. Recent research has demonstrated how motor learning based interventions can modify
      brain activity and improve motor functions in persons with stroke. Now there is a major
      research opportunity to advance the effectiveness of these interventions by applying new
      robotics technologies to improve neuromotor control of essential functions such as gait and
      balance. One critical area for performance of walking and standing balance is the control of
      the ankles, as they are a major conduit of mechanical power in gait and also modulate torques
      affecting the motion of the whole body center of mass when balancing. Thus the current
      proposal is designed to investigate two approaches for using an impedance controlled ankle
      robot to improve gait and balance function among stroke survivors with chronic lower
      extremity hemiparesis. One approach uses the ankle robot in a seated visuomotor training
      program that focuses on improving paretic ankle motor control that may transfer to gait and
      balance functions. The other approach follows the dominant rehabilitation paradigm of
      task-specific training by integrating use of the ankle robot during treadmill exercise
      training to assess effects on the same outcomes. The effectiveness of both robotics
      approaches will be compared to that of a treadmill exercise program without robotics.

      The study tests the hypothesis that, in persons with chronic lower extremity hemiparesis, 6
      weeks of seated ankle robot training will improve paretic ankle motor control with major
      improvements in standing balance and moderate improvements in gait, whereas the same amount
      of training on the treadmill with the ankle robot will improve gait function more than
      balance. Both robot-trained groups will outperform the treadmill only group on balance, while
      the treadmill + robot group will make the greatest gains in gait and the seated robot group
      will make some improvement in gait but will show greater gains in ankle motor control and
      balance.

      Aims: In a 6-week intervention (18 sessions) with persons with chronic lower extremity
      hemiparesis 1) Compare effects of seated visuomotor ankle robot training vs. treadmill +
      robot training on paretic ankle impairments and motor control; 2) Compare effects of
      seated-robot vs. treadmill + robot training on functional mobility and balance outcomes; and
      3) Compare the effectiveness of both robotics approaches to a standard treadmill exercise
      protocol of the same duration. This proposal will establish the initial comparative efficacy
      of two motor learning based approaches using a modular impedance controlled ankle robot and
      contrast motor control and functional gait and balance outcomes among them. As a pilot study
      we also will establish initial deficit profiles for users that respond to each intervention
      across the 6-week period.
    
  