
    
      As patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) live to adulthood, the chronic impact of sustained
      hemolytic anemia and episodic vaso-occlusive events take their toll, with the progressive
      development of cardiopulmonary organ dysfunction. This culminates in the development of
      pulmonary hypertension, left ventricular diastolic heart disease, dysrhythmia, chronic kidney
      disease and sudden death, all major cardiovascular complications of SCD for which there are
      no approved or consensus therapies. The risk of having pulmonary hypertension and diastolic
      heart disease can be non-invasively assessed by laboratory tests (NT-proBNP) and
      Doppler-echocardiography (estimated pulmonary artery systolic pressure). A recent
      meta-analysis of approximately 6000 patients with SCD demonstrated that patients with
      elevated tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity (TRV), which is an Doppler-echocardiographic
      measurement that estimates the pulmonary artery systolic pressure, walked an estimated 30.4
      meters less in a 6 minute walk test than those without elevated TRV, and elevated TRV was
      associated with high mortality (hazard ratio of 4.9). In two large registry cohorts of adult
      patients with SCD, the investigators found that approximately 20% of the adult SCD population
      have high values for both biomarkers, defined as a TRV ≥ 2.5 meters per second AND a
      NT-proBNP ≥ 160 pg/mL, and that the 12-month mortality rate is 7.9% in this group as compared
      to 0.5% in patients with normal TRV or NT-proBNP values, with a risk ratio for
      hospitalization of 1.6. This suggests that a simple screening profile of TRV and NT-proBNP
      can identify about 20% of patients with SCD at the highest risk of death and hospitalization.

      Given the increased mortality and early loss of functional capacity associated with
      cardiovascular disease in SCD adults, it is important to test effective therapeutic
      interventions in such patients. Red blood cell transfusions are administered by either simple
      or exchange transfusion, the latter removes the patients blood and replaces it with
      transfused red blood cells. Exchange transfusions have proven effective for acute treatment
      of almost all SCD complications, including severe acute chest syndrome, stroke, splenic or
      hepatic sequestration, and multi-organ failure, and are also used chronically for stroke
      prevention and recurrent acute chest syndrome. In this study the investigators hypothesize
      that monthly exchange transfusion will limit disease progression, improve exercise capacity,
      and prevent interval episodes of vaso-occlusive painful crisis and the acute chest syndrome
      that acutely increases pulmonary pressures and cause right heart failure.

      The investigators propose to perform a clinical trial to evaluate the effects of automated
      exchange blood transfusion on patient morbidity and mortality, compared to standard of care
      among 150 adult high risk SCD patients. The trial will leverage existing coordinating center
      infrastructure at the University of Pittsburgh and will involve 22 experienced clinical
      sites. Despite the safety and wide utilization of erythrocytapheresis in adult patients with
      SCD, there is no consensus or quality efficacy data on its use to improve outcomes in our
      aging high-risk SCD patients with progressive end-organ dysfunction.
    
  