
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      Primary Aim 1: Evaluate the safety of a melodica training program to teach pursed lip
      breathing among Veterans with COPD with moderate to severe dyspnea. We hypothesize that a
      melodica training program can be safely implemented among COPD patients with severe dyspnea.

      Primary Aim 2: Evaluate the feasibility of implementing a melodica training program to teach
      pursed lip breathing among Veterans with COPD with dyspnea. We hypothesize that it will be
      feasible to implement a melodica training program to teach pursed lip breathing among
      Veterans with COPD and dyspnea; specifically that enrolled participants will attend >50% of
      sessions. We also hypothesize that transportation to the VA Medical Center to attend sessions
      will be identified as a significant barrier to participation.

      Secondary Aim: Collect pilot-efficacy data of a melodica training program to teach pursed lip
      breathing among Veterans with COPD and dyspnea. The objective is to understand whether
      melodica training improves dyspnea both in the short-term and in the longer-term over the
      course of the 8-week training program. We hypothesize that a melodica training program will
      reduce dyspnea by 30% in the short-term and 10% in the long-term. We also hypothesize that
      intervention participants will show gains in the secondary efficacy outcome measures of
      exercise endurance, pulmonary function, entering pulmonary rehabilitation, quality of life,
      patient global impression of change, and anxiety relative to controls.

      RANDOMIZATION AND INTERVENTION:

      Randomization:

      Participants will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to the intervention group (N=50), usual care
      control group (N=50), and education control group (N=50) using a block randomization design.
      We will also seek to identify N=30 Veterans who met the COPD diagnosis and spirometry
      eligibility criteria but who chose not to participate in the intervention; these Veterans
      will be invited to participate in a brief interview to identify barriers to participation.

      Melodica Program Intervention:

      The intervention program will include: education about pursed lip breathing, instruction in
      the melodica instrument, and participation in a melodica playing group which will meet
      twice-weekly for a 8-week period. Participants will be given instructional materials for use
      in practicing the instrument in their homes and encouragement to use pursed lip breathing not
      only while playing the instrument but also in their activities of daily living. Each session
      will last one hour in duration with approximately 20 minutes for instruction, 30 minutes in
      group music-making, and 10 minutes allocated for educational information about COPD, tobacco
      cessation, and pulmonary rehabilitation.

      Education Group:

      The patients in the education control group will receive the same educational materials that
      are provided to the intervention group; however, they will receive them in a single
      educational session. As described above, the educational materials include information about
      pursed lip breathing, COPD, medications used to treat COPD, how to use an inhaler, smoking
      cessation, pulmonary rehabilitation, oxygen therapy, exercise, and travelling with COPD. The
      materials include handouts as well as links to web pages.
    
  