
    
      This is a non-randomized, Phase 1/2 clinical trial to study the safety and efficacy of a
      single dose gene transfer vector AAV9/GLB1 (AAV9-GLB1) by intravenous infusion to subjects
      with Type II GM1 gangliosidosis. Subjects in this study will be male and female, greater than
      or equal to 2 years old and less than or equal to 12 years old, with genetically confirmed
      mutations and phenotype consistent with diagnosis of Type II GM1 gangliosidosis and be
      seronegative for anti-AAV9 antibodies. Other inclusion/exclusion criteria apply. Each subject
      will receive 1.5 x 10^13 vg/kg of the gene transfer agent. A total of 4 subjects will be
      treated at the NIH Clinical Center in Bethesda, MD.

      The primary objective of this first-in-human study is to assess the safety of the AAV9-GLB1
      vector following intravenous infusion. Secondary objectives include: 1) Assess developmental
      change in the Growth Scale Scores on the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales Third Edition
      (Vineland-3) instrument between pre- and post-treatment, 2) Assess brain volume using a 3T
      MRI, and central nervous system (CNS) metabolite levels by magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (MRI) between pre- and post-treatment and compared to historical controls, 3) Assess motor
      function using mobility scales developed as part of the natural history study, 4) Assess
      change in disease severity using the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale.

      Exploratory objectives include: 1) Plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and urinary biomarkers
      of disease progression 2) Examine differences in resting state functional connectivity (RSFC)
      using functional MRI (fMRI), 3) Assess neurological symptoms based on clinical and
      developmental rating scale scores and a structured videotaped neurologic exam pre- and
      post-treatment, 4) Assess immune tolerance to the gene transfer vector with antibody titers
      to AAV9 in serum and CSF, 5) Measure GM1-galactosidase enzyme activity in CSF pre- and
      post-treatment, and 6) Measure GM1 ganglioside levels in CSF pre- and post-treatment.

      GM1 gangliosidosis is an autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder
      resulting from mutations in the GLB1 gene, encoding the enzyme beta-galactosidase (betagal).
      Betagal functions by removing terminal galactose moieties from GM1 ganglioside, a
      glycosphingolipid present in highest quantity in the CNS, primarily found in neurons. Betagal
      deficiency leads to accumulation of GM1 ganglioside and its asialo derivative (GA1) in the
      CNS. The age of onset and progression of GM1 gangliosidosis differs depending on the amount
      of residual betagal activity, but the disease is generally divided into three clinical forms:
      Type I (infantile), Type IIa and IIb (late-infantile and juvenile), and Type III (adult or
      chronic). This clinical trial will treat GM1 Type II subjects. This form of GM1 generally has
      onset between 3 and 5 years with plateauing, then regression of developmental milestones
      (juvenile) or onset of symptoms after 12 months but before 24 months, plateauing of
      milestones then regression (late-infantile). Clinical features vary but in addition to CNS
      manifestations typically include a degree of skeletal involvement and mild
      hepatosplenomegaly. The primary symptoms are frequent falls, poor coordination, dysarthria
      and cognitive decline. Disease progression is variable, with subjects surviving well into the
      third decade (juvenile) or into the late teens (late-infantile), but with severe cognitive
      and physical disabilities. GM1 gangliosidosis is extremely rare, with an incidence estimated
      at 1:100,000 to 1:200,000. The disease is uniformly fatal with no effective therapy. Care is
      limited to symptomatic medical management. Intravenous administration of a gene transfer
      vector to deliver a normal copy of the GLB1 gene to the CNS could potentially provide an
      effective treatment for GM1 gangliosidosis.
    
  