
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is common and complicated. Recent estimates suggest that
      over 610,000 US Veterans treated by the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) suffer from
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a disorder that can be chronic and debilitating. The
      heterogeneity of the 20 symptoms of PTSD; comorbidity with disorders such as depression,
      panic, and substance use; high rates of concurrent and lingering effects of physical injury,
      and suicidality all contribute to complex clinical presentations and can exact a significant
      toll on functioning, quality of life, and well-being decades after exposure to the trauma.
      The complex and enduring challenges inherent in PTSD and their effect on patients'
      functioning pose significant hurdles for patients and clinicians.

      Impairments in psychosocial functioning are an important, but less well-attended, facet of
      PTSD. While significant impairment in functioning is clearly a requirement for the diagnosis
      of PTSD as indicated by Criterion G of the diagnostic criteria for PTSD, resolution of
      functional impairment is not considered to be a primary therapeutic target in evidence-based
      PTSD treatment protocols. Improvements in domains of functioning and, more broadly, quality
      of life and well-being, are most typically considered secondary outcomes in RCTs, if they are
      reported at all. This seeming lack of attention to impairments in functioning stands in stark
      contrast to patients' reports of the meaningfulness of these impairments in their lives. In
      fact, it is often precisely these types of impairments that drive patients suffering from
      PTSD to seek treatment, arguably more so than the 20 core symptoms of the disorder.

      Researchers and providers alike recognize the importance of well-being and seek to maximize
      functional recovery. It has theoretically been difficult to directly target impairment in
      functioning (PTSD Criterion G) in manualized therapies, perhaps because "functional
      impairment" is quite variable across patients in breadth and scope. Including explicit and
      manualized instruction on "treating functional impairment" is impossible and is likely the
      reason that no single PTSD psychotherapy exists that is specifically designed to "treat"
      functional recovery. Trauma-focused EBPs instead are specifically designed to directly target
      the core symptoms of PTSD. Functional impairment is targeted indirectly through relief in the
      core symptoms. For example, improvement in occupational functioning may be achieved through
      decreases in avoidance, mood or anger symptoms that might be interfering with job
      performance. Gains in functioning (e.g. improving marital relations or workplace functioning)
      and large effects in well-being and quality of life have historically been difficult to
      operationalize and are often considered more longterm therapeutic goals, perhaps beyond the
      scope of brief therapies. However, given the importance of functioning to patients with PTSD,
      intentionally and thoughtfully building on the success of the skills acquired in
      evidence-based psychotherapies (EBPs) and expanding those skills to specifically target
      functional outcomes warrants further exploration.

      Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) is effective at reducing PTSD symptoms and is widely used.
      CPT is one of the therapies with the most accumulated empirical support to date. Recent
      meta-analyses indicate that CPT has the largest effect size of existing evidence-based
      treatments for PTSD in soldiers and Veterans and across trauma populations (mean ES = 1.69).
      The effectiveness of CPT extends across patient populations suffering from a range of
      comorbid conditions including TBI, chronic child abuse histories, comorbid psychiatric and
      substance use disorders, and ongoing peritraumatic situations. CPT has been designated a
      first-line treatment in a number of clinical guidelines, including the VHA / Department of
      Defense (DoD) PTSD Clinical Practice Guidelines. Since 2007, VHA has dedicated substantial
      resources and effort to the historic, large-scale dissemination of CPT via the Mental Health
      Dissemination Initiative. To date, over 4,150 VHA providers have been trained in CPT and at
      least 20,774 Veterans have begun CPT in the last year. Yet the impact of CPT on both PTSD
      symptoms and psychosocial functioning can be improved.

      Veterans with PTSD present to treatment with challenges in psychosocial functioning and other
      clinical complexities; the failure of manualized treatments for PTSD to provide guidance on
      how to address these concerns is negatively impacting outcomes. Nearly all (87%) Veterans
      with PTSD presenting to VHA primary care have at least one comorbid psychiatric condition
      and, on average, Veterans with PTSD had 2.95 comorbid mental health diagnoses and over 50%
      reported suicidal ideation. Across trauma populations, PTSD is associated with severe
      impairments in social and occupational functioning, exerting a more deleterious effect than
      most mental health diagnoses. Clinical presentations in Veterans suffering from PTSD are
      further complicated by a host of psychosocial stressors, impairments in major domains of
      functioning, and comorbid physical conditions. Veterans are more likely to be homeless, be
      under- or unemployed, and have poor physical health status as compared to non-Veterans. Prior
      work suggests that unaddressed difficulties in these domains contributes to suboptimal
      outcomes and premature dropout from CPT among Veterans. The investigators posit that
      frontline treatments for PTSD must be expanded to directly and intentionally target
      functional impairments and improve holistic outcomes.

      While fidelity to the CPT protocol is essential, skillful divergences can be clinically wise.
      Administering EBPs in a standardized manner is critical to ensuring that patients receive an
      accurate and adequate dose of the intervention. Yet, as outlined above, strict protocol
      adherence (e.g., failing to assess and address psychosocial stressors and other clinical
      complexities) may result in premature abandonment of trauma-focused therapy and/or suboptimal
      outcomes. Modifications to the CPT protocol can enhance therapy outcomes. The next step in
      this program of research is to leverage the success of CPT in treating core symptoms of PTSD
      and expand the protocol to directly target functional outcomes. Thoughtfully and
      intentionally enhancing the latitude of the CPT protocol to target clinical complexities that
      pose a risk to holistic outcomes personalizes the delivery of care to best meet the
      individual patient's needs.

      There is little to no guidance in trauma-focused therapy protocols to address clinical
      complexities and modify therapy accordingly. The perception of a forced choice between 1.)
      adherence to a manualized therapy and 2.) personalizing the protocol to best meet the
      patient's needs, leads to higher levels of dropout and poorer outcomes. Overly rigid
      adherence to the treatment protocol is a common contributor to CPT dropout. In the face of
      treatment challenges, one-half of patients received a modified trauma-focused therapy.
      However, patients who completed modified trauma-focused treatment had significantly worse
      outcomes than Veterans who completed standard trauma-focused therapy. The rationale for and
      content of the modifications was unknown. The other half of complex cases were switched to a
      different type of therapy and PTSD was no longer the target of treatment. When faced with
      clinical complexities, there is no guidance for therapists to expand and enhance the protocol
      to accommodate patient needs, leaving therapists to initiate strategies lacking in evidence
      or abandon treating PTSD altogether to target the clinical complexity.

      Integrating a case formulation (CF) approach into the existing CPT protocol will enable
      providers to simultaneously address Veterans' clinical complexities that interfere with CPT
      delivery and enhance functional outcomes, while maintaining fidelity to effective CPT
      principles. CF is a patient-centered, collaborative process between providers and patients.
      CF allows providers to tailor cognitive-behavioral treatments to specific patients' unique
      clinical complexities within clear parameters of what justifies divergence from the standard
      protocol. Integrating a case formulation approach into CPT provides therapists with the tools
      to effectively navigate the fine line between maintaining the trauma-focus necessary to treat
      PTSD and attending to the clinical complexities and functional impairments that contribute to
      suboptimal doses of therapy and/or poorer outcomes. This study seeks to improve the clinical
      effectiveness of CPT by integrating a CF approach that will enable providers to directly
      target impairments in functioning and flexibly address clinical complexities that arise
      during the delivery of the CPT protocol.

      Methods To accomplish the study aims, this randomized controlled trial will utilize a
      national sample of VHA CPT providers. This study will increase the external validity of the
      project by including: (a) broad provider and Veteran inclusion criteria, (b) using
      field-based providers, (c) employing CPT delivered in accordance with VHA's CPT Dissemination
      Initiative as the comparison condition, (d) avoiding the use of study-team strategies to
      improve Veterans' engagement, and (e) utilizing ITT analyses. A national sample of CPT
      providers (n = 50) will be randomized to deliver either CPT or CF-CPT. Each provider will
      deliver the treatment to 4 consecutive Veterans presenting for CPT treatment in his/her
      clinic who consent to study participation (n=200 Veterans. Key features of this pragmatic
      design include substituting centralized study processes and reliance on the existing network
      of CPT providers instead of relying on recruitment sites and local site investigators.
      Methods will include (1) centralized recruitment, enrollment, & data collection, (2)
      enrollment & consent of study providers, and (3) consent of Veteran participants by phone
      with a waiver of documentation of informed consent.

      Description of Treatments. Cognitive Processing Therapy: CPT is a brief therapy for PTSD
      predominantly based on cognitive theory. Traditionally delivered over 12 one-hour sessions
      weekly or twice weekly, CPT is now variable length depending on patient's recovery from PTSD.
      CPT is delivered in three phases: education, processing, and challenging and focuses on
      challenging beliefs and assumptions related to the trauma, oneself, and the world. Changing
      dysfunctional beliefs alters negative emotions emanating from those beliefs.

      Case Formulation + CPT (CF+CPT): The CF approach builds on the success of CPT in reducing
      core PTSD symptoms and alters the protocol in two important ways: expanding the protocol to
      intentionally and systematically address impairment in functioning, and enhancing the
      providers' latitude to navigate challenges to optimal therapy outcomes (COTOS) that threaten
      patient engagement. CPT protocol expansion will occur for all patients, intentionally
      increasing the focus of the intervention to explicitly assess, track and intervene with
      impairments in functioning (Criterion G of PTSD). To accomplish this, CF-CPT begins with a
      formal CF assessment session; elements of CF are then integrated throughout CPT. CF
      modifications to the original CPT protocol occur in each session by intentionally attending
      to cognitions that are impeding the patient's functional recovery. The goal of the case
      formulation approach to CPT is to provide guidance to the therapist in increasing the
      patient's active involvement in CPT and personalizing the approach to best meet the patient's
      needs while ensuring that the trauma-focused work is prioritized.

      The second modification to the original CPT protocol includes enhancing the provider's
      latitude to diverge from the protocol when clinically wise. The clinical complexities
      commonly observed during care delivery and identified as risk factors in empirical research
      present challenges to optimal therapy outcomes (COTOs) during recovery from PTSD. COTOs
      constitute any and all potential patient-level challenges or clinical issues that might arise
      during therapy and present obstacles to standardized administration of a manualized therapy
      protocol such as CPT. COTOs are central to functional outcomes and, as such, present risks to
      holistic recovery insofar as they 1.) increase the likelihood of premature drop-out resulting
      in inadequate doses of treatment, and 2.) are often considered outside the scope of
      trauma-focused treatment and are subsequently left unattended. The universe of possible COTOs
      cannot be quantified in any single protocol as they are idiosyncratic to the patient, but
      they can be categorized into five larger domains for ease of assessment: 1) emotional
      dysregulation, 2) significant avoidance behaviors 3) ambivalence and beliefs about therapy,
      4) comorbid conditions, and 5) significant psychosocial and environmental stressors and
      crises.

      Intentional assessment of these domains and identification of COTOs provides the opportunity
      to monitor and address the COTO before the protocol is irreparably ruptured or abandoned. As
      COTOs present themselves during the protocol-driven delivery of CPT, therapists face multiple
      decision points. In weighing competing patient needs, therapists struggle with balancing
      fidelity to the treatment manual and simultaneously ensuring that the patient's multifaceted
      needs are met. As with other single disorder protocols, CPT offers little guidance for
      navigating existing and emerging COTOs during treatment. By default, the global
      recommendation for clinicians is to stay on CPT protocol and maintain the focus on PTSD or
      administer a different treatment. However, too much rigidity negatively impacts patient
      engagement and modifications to the protocol have significantly enhanced CPT effectiveness
      and are now considered the standard of care. CF-CPT thus provides guidance around the
      identification, monitoring and management of COTOs, and, importantly, the expedient return to
      the CPT protocol with continued attention to the patient's idiosyncratic COTOs.

      Aim 1 Methodology: Compare the effectiveness of CF-CPT as compared to CPT in improving
      Veterans' functioning and quality of life.

      Provider Inclusion / Exclusion Criteria. Providers will include up to 56 licensed VHA
      clinicians who have been trained in CPT, are listed on the CPT National Provider Roster, and
      who self-report administering CPT to at least 7 Veterans during the prior twelve months.

      Provider Recruitment. Provider recruitment and participation will occur nationally over 4
      waves. From the pool of interested providers, a random, stratified sampling frame of
      providers who meet inclusion criteria will be developed. Stratification will include
      oversampling for providers who engage female patients to have an adequate representation of
      both genders and will be stratified by VISN to increase the likelihood that the study sample
      will be representative of the racial/ethnicity diversity of Veterans with PTSD nationwide.
      Using phased provider recruitment will enable enrollment of providers and patients at a
      manageable rate, adequately staff the study, and begin participation as soon after provider
      recruitment and training as possible to reduce the chances of therapist attrition Provider
      Randomization. Using a 1:1 allocation ratio, a computer-generated randomization sequence will
      randomize eligible providers to each study condition. Randomization will be blocked within
      recruitment wave. Providers will only be delivering the therapy in the condition to which
      they have been randomized. This will minimize therapist drift and possible contamination
      effects.

      Veteran Inclusion / Exclusion Criteria and Recruitment. Each of the 50 providers will treat 4
      CPT patients (total sample = 200) with either CF-CPT (n = 100) or CPT (n = 100), as dictated
      by provider randomization. To avoid selection bias in patient population, all consecutive
      Veterans with whom the provider is intending to begin a course of individually-delivered CPT
      will be offered study participation until 4 Veterans are enrolled. Thus, in order to be
      invited to participate, Veterans will have been identified as PTSD positive per clinic
      screening processes. Once Veterans express interest in participation to the CPT provider,
      they will complete a diagnostic interview with study staff blinded to condition in order to
      confirm a full diagnosis of PTSD. Study exclusion criteria include active suicidal ideation
      with intent, homicidality, current mania, psychosis, or serious drug or alcohol abuse that
      requires immediate medical attention (e.g. inpatient care). Patients should not be
      participating in another trauma-focused therapy at the time of enrollment but can continue
      any psychiatric medications (dose must be stable for one month prior to enrollment).
      Medication changes will not be prohibited for Veterans in either treatment arm following
      baseline assessment and randomization.

      Study Procedures and Data Collection. Patient participants will be assessed prior to
      treatment (pretreatment), mid-treatment (after session 6 or 6 weeks post-randomization for
      treatment dropouts), 2 weeks post- treatment or 14 weeks after study initiation for treatment
      dropouts (posttreatment), and 12 weeks after the posttreatment assessment (follow-up). Over
      the course of the study, patient data will be collected by a) interviews delivered via phone,
      b) mailed paper and pencil survey, and c) retrieval from EMR. Veterans will complete the
      phone interview and survey at each assessment interval (pre, mid, post, and follow-up) and
      will be paid for each completed interview and for each completed packet of questionnaires.

      Phone Interviews. All diagnostic clinical interviews will be conducted by an independent
      evaluator (IE), blinded to study condition, by telephone. IEs participate in four stages of
      training: relevant readings, expert-led classroom instruction, mock interviews with national
      experts, and co-rating exercises with previously taped assessments. After training, all IEs
      will engage in weekly calibration exercises to ensure maintenance of high quality standards
      and prevent drift in scoring.

      Self-report surveys. Self-report measures will be collected at all assessment intervals
      online via Qualtrics or by paper and pencil. Depending on participant preference.

      Measures. In addition to outcomes specified in the study specific aims, the investigators
      will measure constructs and conditions associated with each COTO domain. While not able to
      formally assess the universe of possible COTOs for each participant, the investigators
      selected standardized measures for those believed are most likely to arise. For those
      randomized to CF-CPT, the investigators will also utilize the Daily Monitoring Diary
      completed throughout the course of treatment as an idiosyncratic measure of all relevant
      COTOs for the individual patient.

      Treatment Delivery. All treatment will be delivered in in-person individual therapy sessions
      by rostered CPT providers and will be audio-recorded.

      Delivery of CPT. Providers randomized to the CPT intervention will be asked to continue to
      deliver the treatment in accordance with the CPT manual.

      Delivery of CF-CPT. The CPT protocols will be modified with the CF-CPT approach in three
      ways. First CF-CPT will begin with the case formulation assessment. Feedback from the case
      formulation session will be incorporated into the traditional CPT session 1, allowing time to
      continue developing the individualized monitoring tool (daily diary). Second, patients in
      CF-CPT will monitor identified COTOs throughout therapy via the daily diary. Third, patients
      in CF-CPT will also be instructed to apply CPT specific skills to COTOs and functioning
      related cognitions during practice assignments, etc. Some portion of the CF-CPT group's
      identified COTOs will increase during the course of CPT. For only those patients for whom it
      is necessary, the content of the therapy may be altered accordingly.

      Clinical Case Consultation and Fidelity Assessments. To ensure that each condition is
      delivered in the way in which it was intended, case consultation will be provided to all
      providers on a weekly basis. Adherence and competence will be determined by independent and
      expert raters who are not otherwise involved in the project.

      Power Analysis. Power calculations based on mixed model tests for two means in a two-level
      hierarchical design with level-2 randomization to intervention group confirmed that the
      proposed sample (200 Veterans) adequately powers the study to detect meaningful between group
      differences. With an estimated sample size of 200, the study would have 83% power to detect
      an 8-point difference (d = 0.47) on the total IPF score.

      Data Analysis: Analyses will follow ITT methodology. The investigators will test Aim 1
      hypotheses using generalized linear mixed models. Continuous patient Aim 1A & 1B outcome
      measures (all but treatment completion), within the assumed and appropriate fitted
      distributions, will be modeled with treatment and training wave as fixed effects and a random
      provider effect (clustering by provider). The time (pretreatment, mid-treatment
      posttreatment, three-month follow-up) by treatment interaction term will provide the test of
      the investigators' primary hypothesis that CF-CPT will be superior as compared to CPT.

      For the dichotomous measure of treatment completion (Aim 2), logistic mixed models with a
      random provider effect will be used. Given that the amount of divergence from the CPT
      protocol will vary across patients, the investigators will augment the primary analysis with
      secondary analyses comparing subsamples of the CF-CPT group (e.g., those with and without
      divergences) to the CPT group. This secondary analysis will require adjustments for possible
      covariate imbalance, as the investigators will lose the balance induced by randomization. The
      investigators will use propensity analysis and will estimate average treatment effect on the
      treated (ATT) and the corresponding sensitivity analysis to gain more insight on the
      magnitude of the effect. Post hoc power will also be calculated to assess the
      generalizability of these estimates.

      Finally, the investigators will examine the COTO reduction score as a predictor of
      improvements in functioning and symptoms - i.e., testing whether more improvement in COTO
      scores is associated with greater improvement in study outcomes (Aim 3). The investigators
      propose adapting an idiosyncratic method of assessment via locally constructed diaries used
      in previous studies to track PTSD symptoms to monitor idiosyncratic COTOs and provide data to
      evaluate the effectiveness of the CF intervention on the individual challenges in patients'
      lives by calculating a Composite Primary COTO Reduction (CPCR) score. This score is an index
      of overall change in COTO level and can be conceptualized as a percentage of improvement. The
      CPCR score also provides a means for describing clinically significant improvement in
      symptomatology, functioning, etc.
    
  