
    
      Low back pain is the common problem of our society, 80% of people experience back pain at
      some stage of their life. Low Back pain lifetime prevalence is 65% to 80% and It is estimated
      that 28% experience disabling low back pain sometime during their lives. Point prevalence
      ranged from 12% to 33%, the 1-year prevalence ranged from 22% to 65%, and lifetime prevalence
      ranged from 11% to 84%. Back pain peak prevalence age is 40-50, First episode of start in the
      '20s and recurrence rates between 39-71%. Women tend to be affected more in cervical spine
      problems than men and men tend to more affected in lumbar spine problems than women. The
      majority (80-90%) of low back disorders occur at the L4/5 and/or L5/S1. The occupational risk
      factor include driving (P<0.001), lifting, carrying, pulling, pushing, and twisting (P<0.001
      for all variables) as well as nondriving vibrational exposure (P<0.001).

      Maitland divides lumbar spine problems into two groups, in the first group the L4/5 and L5/S1
      intervertebral discs are frequently a source of symptoms and the second group has postural,
      muscle balance, muscle weakness, muscles spasm degenerative changes, and mechanical movement
      disorders problems. The L5-S1 Segment is the most common site of problem in the spine because
      this level bears more weight, Center of gravity passes directly through this vertebra,
      transition L5 Mobile and S1 Stable, Large angle B/w L5 & S1 and a great amount of movement.

      The intervertebral disk makes up 1/3 of the total length of the vertebral column. The disc
      contains 85% to 90% of water, but the amount decreases up to 65% with age. The water-binding
      capacity of the disc decrease with age and degenerative changes begin to occur after 2nd
      decade of life. The Facet joint carries 20-25% axial body load but this may reach 70% with
      degeneration of the Disc. The most significant biochemical change to occur in disc
      degeneration is the loss of proteoglycan. This loss is responsible for a fall in the osmotic
      pressure of the disc matrix and therefore a loss of hydration. Loading may thus lead to
      inappropriate stress concentrations along the endplate or in the annulus.

      CT Classification of Annular Tears There are five possible severities of the radial annular
      tear as seen on an axial CT image.

        -  The grade 0 is a normal disc, where no contrast material injected in the center of the
           disc has leaked from the confines of the nucleus pulposus.

        -  The grade 1 tear has leaked contrast material but only into the inner one-third of the
           annulus.

        -  In the grade 2 tear, the contrast has leaked from the nucleus into the outer two-thirds
           of the annulus.

        -  The grade 3 tear has leaked contrast completely through all three zones of the annulus.

        -  The grade 4 tear the contrast has spread circumferentially around the disc, often
           resembling a ship's anchor. Pathologically, this represents the merging of a
           full-thickness radial tear with a concentric annular tear.

        -  The grade 5 tear completely ruptured the outer layers of the disc and is leaking
           contrast material from the disc into the epidural space. This type of tear is thought to
           have the ability to induce a severe inflammatory reaction in the adjacent neural
           structures. In some patients, this inflammatory process is so severe that it causes
           painful chemical radiculopathy and sciatica without the presence of nerve root
           compression.

      Low-back pain with leg pain may be caused by a herniated intervertebral disc exerting
      pressure on the nerve root. Most patients will respond to conservative treatment, but in
      carefully selected patients, a surgical discectomy may provide faster relief of symptoms. The
      Patient's history and physical examination along with MRI confirm the disc herniation
      diagnosis. In the case of spinal disc herniation, the management is Surgical and
      conservative. In surgery, we have percutaneous procedures such as chymopapain injections,
      Annuloplasty, Percutaneous disc decompression, and Endoscopic percutaneous discectomy and
      Open Surgery such as Laminectomy, Discectomy/Microdiscectomy, Artificial disc surgery, and
      Spinal fusion. The Conservative Management includes Oral Analgesic, Gentle traction, Spinal
      Decompression, Spinal Stabilization, Exercise, and Fascia Stretching (ELDOA).
    
  