
    
      The problem: Knee Osteoarthritis (OA), the most common form of arthritis, is a chronic,
      widespread disease with a steadily increasing prevalence that places a major economic burden
      on the society. Patients with knee OA suffer from chronic knee pain and functional
      disabilities. The treatment that patients with knee OA are offered varies largely, and is
      often not in coherence with clinical guidelines. The guidelines recommend patient education,
      exercise, and weight control as core interventions for all patients with knee OA and surgical
      intervention for end-stage knee OA. However, the timing of surgery is debated, and whether
      the outcome of different treatment strategies depend on individual factors such as the
      patients symptoms, OA severity, or prior treatment, has not been established.

      The solution: This large-scale study aims at improving the understanding of which treatment
      should be offered to which patient with knee OA at which time. The study is an
      interdisciplinary, collaborative effort, including orthopaedic surgeons, physiotherapists and
      general practitioners from two different regions in Denmark. At least 5,000 patients with
      primary referrals to orthopaedic surgeons due to knee OA, at two public hospitals, will be
      recruited through a two-year inclusion period. Patients' prior treatment and symptom severity
      will be registered at the first consultation with the orthopaedic surgeon using a patient
      self-reported questionnaire. OA severity will be defined on plain standing knee radiographs
      using a well-established classification system. The course of treatment will be registered
      after 6 months and 2 years through a self-reported questionnaire with additional questions
      asking whether patients can accept their current symptom state, or, if not, whether they
      consider the treatment to have failed.

      Societal impact and clinical implications: The understanding of knee OA treatment will
      advance in three ways: Firstly, our results will improve the overview by describing the
      different treatment pathways that are currently being used for knee OA. Secondly, predictors
      of good and poor treatment outcomes of different treatment modalities, or combinations hereof
      will be identified. And finally, the cost-effectiveness of different treatment modalities
      will be evaluated. These results will be used to develop a treatment algorithm to help
      patients with knee OA and clinicians to tailor the right treatment at the right time through
      shared decision-making.
    
  