
    
      The study is multi-centric, randomized, open label, active treatment controlled, two
      parallel-group, pragmatical intervention trial with 5 years of follow-up, to assess
      superiority of an intensive treat-to-target strategy (including lifestyle and pharmacological
      interventions) for correction of major cardiovascular risk factors compared to usual care in
      decreasing incidence of first cardiovascular events in non complicated type 2 diabetic
      patients at high risk, as defined by presence of 2 or more cardiovascular risk factors. All
      high-risk patients identified during phase 1 who accepted to participated were allocated to
      usual or intensive treatment based on the recruiting center. Centers were randomly assigned
      to treatment arm before phase 2 beginning. Investigators from Intensive Care centers received
      centralized training to ensure the application of the intensive care program on their
      patients.

      HbA1c values and lipid profile are assessed in peripheral laboratories (one per each study
      site) with an external, centralized, quality control program and the adjustment for
      systematic differences among study labs.

      Participating investigators are left free to decide upon patient's treatments. In
      intensive-care centers, investigators are provided with a multi-factorial step-wise protocol
      to support the application of a treat-to-target approach. Intensive care strategy includes
      intervention on lifestyle.

      Dietary intervention goals: BMI<25 or 5% reduction of body weight; dietary assumption of
      saturated fat <10% of total caloric intake; fibers= 15-20 g/1000 Kcal. Methods defined to
      reach the dietary goal: A) Patients with BMI 25-30 kg/m2: reduction of caloric intake =
      300-500 Cal/d; B) Patients with BMI >30: reduction of caloric intake 500-800 Cal/d.

      Physical activity intervention goal: 200-300 calories per day. Example: brisk walking for 30
      min every day or biking (18-25Km/h 45-60 min). Alternatives: swimming 1h , dancing 1h, gym
      exercise 1h;-avoiding isometric exercise and exercise with intensity >50-60 % of maximal
      oxygen consumption. Frequency: everyday or at least 3 times a week; Pharmacological
      intervention: Blood glucose control, multi-step intervention. In obese patients: 1) Metformin
      (M, 500-2500mg); 2) M+Sulphonylureas (S) or S-like drugs, increasing progressively the dose;
      3) M+S+Acarbose; 4) M+S+insulin bed-time; 5) insulin basal-bolus. In normal weight patients:
      1) S; 2) S+acarbose; 3) S+ bed-time insulin; 4) insulin basal bolus; Blood pressure control
      --> 1) Ace-inhibitors or AT-II receptor antagonists; 2) add long acting calcium-channel
      blockers or beta-blockers or low dose diuretics; 3) add a third drug; lipid control: 1) diet
      + physical activity; 2) if LDL > 130 mg/dL statins (with a stepwise increase of dose if
      necessary); if triglycerides > 200 mg/dL fibrates; anti-platelet treatment: aspirin 100 mg/d
      in all patients (alternative drugs for aspirin-intolerants).

      The scheduled visits were defined as follows:

        -  Intensive-care group: mandatory visit every three months with annual visit for MIND.IT
           data collection.

        -  Usual-care group: at least one MIND.IT visit every year + the usual organization of the
           center.
    
  