
    
      This will be a prospective, single-blind, placebo-controlled study with a crossover design.

      Visit Procedures: After a 1 month run-in period during which there will be no changes in
      medications, physical activity or diet, patients will be randomly divided into 2 groups of 6
      patients each. Subjects have a 50:50 chance of being randomized to either group 1 or group 2.

      In Group 1, (n=6), liraglutide will be started first with 0.6 mg/d for 1 week, then increased
      to 1.2 mg/d from week 2 to week 12, followed by 1.8 mg/d from week 12 to week 24. Group 1
      patients will then be switched from liraglutide to placebo injections for another 12 weeks.
      For subjects in Group 1 the placebo period (weeks 24 to 36 will be the washout period.

      Group 2 patients (n=6) will be started with placebo for 12 weeks and then switched to
      liraglutide for the next 24 weeks (0.6 mg/d for 1 week, 1.2 mg/d for 11 weeks and 1.8 mg/d
      for 12 weeks).

      Assessment of Efficacy

      Outpatient visits:

      During the entire study, all patients (Groups 1 and 2) will perform home glucose monitoring 7
      times/day (pre and ~ 2 h post breakfast, lunch and dinner and bedtime) and will be seen at
      Temple University Hospital as outpatients at 4 week intervals.

      One week before the first, second or third and final inpatient visit, patients will undergo a
      75, gram 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test.

      Inpatient visits:

      All patients (Groups 1 and 2) will be studied in our Clinical Research Center (CRC) at Temple
      University Hospital in the morning after an overnight fast, at the end of the run-in period
      (Week 0 ) and again at Weeks 12, 24 and 36. All study patients will be admitted to the CRC
      the evening before their study and discharged in PM of the following day.

      During the inpatient visits, the following procedures will be performed.

        1. At baseline and again at weeks 12 and 36, subcutaneous fat biopsies will be obtained
           from the lateral aspect of one thigh by a surgeon as described (8) for determination of
           ER stress markers. In brief, the skin will be cleaned with betadine and anesthetized
           with 1% lidocaine without epinephrine in a field block pattern (at 2 X 3 in). (We have
           found that injection of lidocaine too close to the biopsy site interfered with the
           measurement of acetyl-CoA). After an incision (~ 1 in.) will be made through the skin, ~
           300 mg of fat will be mobilized and excised. The fat will be dropped immediately into
           isopentane, kept at its freezing point (-160°C) by liquid nitrogen. The frozen fat will
           be stored at -70°. To screen for changes in unfolded protein response (UPR) genes, we
           will first perform an UPR PCR microarray (SA Biosciences, Frederick, MD) using pooled
           fat biopsy extracts. This array profiles expression of 84 key genes recognizing and
           responding to misfolded protein accumulation in the ER. Significant changes (> 1.5 fold
           comparing post vs. pre drug biopsies) will then be confirmed by real time RT-PCR of the
           UPR mRNAs. Thus, mRNAs of the identified UPR markers (for instance, GRP78, XBP-1s, ATF4,
           ATF6, PDI, calreticulin, calnexin) will be measured by real time RT-PCR in triplicate
           and normalized against 18s and β-actin mRNAs and will be expressed as arbitrary units.
           The respective proteins will be analyzed by Western blots.

        2. Glycemic control will be assessed by

             1. measurement of HbA1c

             2. patients home glucose monitoring records

        3. Determination of insulin resistance will be determined (with euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic
           clamping with use of stable isotopes for determination of peripheral (GRd) and hepatic
           (GRa) insulin action as described (18).

        4. . Determination of energy balance, which will be calculated as change in fat mass (by
           bioelectric impedance analysis) plus total energy expenditure (determined with indirect
           calorimetry and the doubly labeled water method) (17).

        5. Postabsorptive blood samples will be obtained for determination of plasma lipids (total
           cholesterol, LDL, HDL and triglycerides).

        6. Assessment of changes in insulin secretion will be determined with Oral Glucose
           Tolerance Testing.
    
  