
    
      The primary objective of this Phase 2 clinical trial is to compare the safety and
      antimicrobial activity of a moxifloxacin-containing regimen (moxifloxacin, rifampin,
      pyrazinamide, ethambutol [MRZE]) in which moxifloxacin has been substituted for isoniazid, to
      the standard control regimen (isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol [HRZE]) in the
      first two months of treatment of sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis. The assessment
      of antimicrobial activity will be sputum culture-conversion. Higher rates of sputum culture
      conversion after 2 months of treatment with a moxifloxacin-containing regimen would support
      Phase 3 clinical trials of moxifloxacin in treatment regimens of less than the current 6
      month standard regimens.

      Rationale - Current treatment of smear positive pulmonary tuberculosis requires a minimum of
      6 months, a treatment duration that is challenging for patients and tuberculosis control
      programs. Therefore, a high priority in tuberculosis research is the identification of agents
      that can shorten treatment. Several fluoroquinolone antibiotics have potent activity against
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) in preclinical testing. Of the currently
      available fluoroquinolones, moxifloxacin has excellent activity in vitro and in animal models
      of tuberculosis, a favorable pharmacokinetic profile (serum half-life of 10-12 hours), lack
      of problematic drug-drug interactions, no need for dosage adjustment for renal and hepatic
      insufficiency, and an excellent safety profile. In addition, in the murine model of
      tuberculosis, the substitution of moxifloxacin for isoniazid resulted in significant
      reductions in the time to culture conversion and the time to sterilization when compared to
      the standard combination rifampin, isoniazid and pyrazinamide. However, moxifloxacin has not
      been fully evaluated in humans for tuberculosis treatment. There is a need to assess not only
      the anti-tuberculosis activity of moxifloxacin-containing regimens, but also the safety of
      more prolonged therapy with moxifloxacin.

      Two-month culture conversion rates are a well-accepted surrogate marker for the sterilizing
      activity of anti-tuberculosis drugs. Rifampin and pyrazinamide, the key drugs in current
      6-month regimens, markedly increase 2-month culture-conversion rates. Therefore, this study
      will use 2-month culture conversion rate as the measure of antimicrobial activity of
      moxifloxacin.
    
  