
    
      Barrett's esophagus (BE) is the pre-malignant lesion for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and
      esophagogastric junction. It is a condition in which the squamous mucosa of the distal
      esophagus is replaced by columnar mucosa, specifically intestinal metaplasia. The incidence
      of esophageal adenocarcinoma has been rapidly rising and has increased 3-6 fold over the past
      two decades. This has driven efforts to identify patients with the pre-malignant lesion i.e.
      BE. Intestinal metaplasia within the columnar lined esophagus is the epithelial type that
      predisposes patients to the development of adenocarcinoma; the other two epithelial types
      being cardiac and fundic.

      Since intestinal metaplasia is now included in the definition and is the epithelial type
      associated with cancer, obtaining biopsies from the columnar lined distal esophagus is
      mandatory. The sensitivity and the positive predictive value of standard EGD for diagnosing
      BE has been reported as 82% and 34% respectively. This is secondary to the patchy and mosaic
      presence of intestinal metaplasia in the columnar distal esophagus. Endoscopic screening is
      advocated in patients with chronic GERD symptoms for detection of BE with random biopsies
      being obtained if a columnar appearing distal esophagus is visualized. Once intestinal
      metaplasia is detected with these random biopsies and the diagnosis of BE is confirmed,
      patients are subsequently enrolled in a surveillance program. Similarly, the presence of
      dysplasia or early adenocarcinoma within a segment of BE is patchy and focal and standard
      endoscopy and random biopsies may fail to detect these lesions. New endoscopic imaging
      techniques to improve the accuracy of endoscopic diagnosis have recently been developed, and
      most are currently under evaluation.

      METHODS Study Overview:Patient presenting to GI lab for BE screening and surveillance
      Informed consent signed and patient randomized, if endoscopic BE is suspected to NBI target
      biopsies or standard endoscopy with biopsies as the first procedure If randomized to NBI
      first: patterns noted, target biopsies obtained from specific patterns Same patient returns
      in 3-6 weeks for 2nd procedure Standard endoscopy: 4 quadrant every 2 cms. random biopsies
      (i.e. standard BE surveillance) Findings of NBI and random biopsies compared after all
      patients complete protocol and results analyzed A process similar to the one outlined above
      will be used in comparing autofluorescence imaging to conventional endoscopy in patients with
      Barrett's mucosa.

      Study Design:This study is part of a multicenter randomized controlled trial being conducted
      at two sites, the other one being Medical University of South Carolina. Patients will be
      randomized (opaque sealed envelopes generated by statistician) to undergo NBI/AFI or standard
      endoscopy with biopsies on day 1. The same patient will return for the alternative procedure
      with biopsies within 3-6 weeks of the 1st procedure and will be maintained on acid
      suppressive therapy during this time interval. Each patient will thus act as his/her own
      control. At the time of performing the 2nd procedure (either NBI/AFI target biopsies or
      standard endoscopy), the endoscopist will be blinded and will not be aware of the biopsy
      results from the 1st procedure. Every attempt will also be made to keep the endoscopists
      blinded to the past history of the patient i.e. non dysplastic BE, LGD, HGD etc.

      Risk and benefit to the study participant:Data on newer imaging method like NBI and AFI are
      mostly in the form of case series. This has not led to a change in the standard of care. The
      early data is very encouraging but not conclusive due to lack of randomized, controlled
      trials. Hence, we chose a study design of randomized controlled trial of the newer modalities
      versus the existing conventional endoscopy. This design necessitates the performance of a
      repeat endoscopy. Upper endoscopy is very safe, routinely done procedure with a low risk of
      complications. A repeat procedure may, indeed, increase the potential for risks associated
      with the procedure but the magnitude is small. The added advantage of second endoscopy would
      be increased detection of dysplasia and adenocarcinoma resulting in potential benefit to the
      patients. The main reason for the performance of the current study is the limitation of
      conventional endoscopy with the implication that dysplasia and adenocarcinoma will be missed
      on the initial endoscopy. In clinical practice, this usually warrants a follow up endoscopy
      that is performed at 1-3 yr intervals due to time and cost constraints. For the study
      population of this trial, the second endoscopy has the potential for increased detection of
      dysplasia/early adenocarcinoma in the Barrett's segment that could lead to initiation of
      curative therapy.

      Study Population:Patients undergoing BE screening and surveillance will be enrolled after
      written, informed consent. BE definition- columnar mucosa in the distal esophagus of any
      length with intestinal metaplasia on biopsy. The BE length will be measured from the
      gastroesophageal junction to the proximally displaced squamo-columnar junction. The patient
      demographics (age, gender and ethnicity) and the BE length will be recorded. Total time
      required for each procedure will be recorded - from endoscope insertion to removal.

      Narrow Band Imaging: Patients will be evaluated with a standard magnification endoscope
      (Olympus GIF Q240Z, 115x or GIF-H180 or equivalent) using a NBI light source (already
      available at both centers). The outer diameter of the endoscope is 10.8 mm similar to
      standard diagnostic endoscopes. No special processing or cleaning of the endoscope is
      required - similar to the standard Olympus GIF-100. A cap may or may not be fitted on the
      distal tip of the endoscope allowing the mucosa in contact with the cap to be magnified
      without the motility of the esophagus affecting visualization. The different patterns will be
      grouped into ridge/villous, circular and irregular/distorted. Target biopsies with standard
      biopsy forceps will be obtained from the different visualized patterns in separate jars.

      Autofluorescence Imaging: Patients will be evaluated using a prototype autofluorescence
      endoscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan; excitation 395-475 nm, fluorescence detection 490-625 nm,
      red reflectance 600-620 nm and green reflectance 540-560 nm). The AFI scope has two different
      CCD (charge coupled device to detect the light waves emitted/reflected from the biological
      tissue - similar to the chip used in a digital camera), one for conventional and another for
      AFI endoscopy. There is also a rotary filter that allows blue, red or green light to be
      generated selectively. The video processor constructs video images (AFI images or normal
      optical images) based on the signals provided by CCD at the distal end of the endoscope. In
      this system, normal squamous and non-dysplastic BE appears green while the dysplastic areas
      appear magenta/purplish. Targeted biopsies will be obtained from the areas with abnormal
      fluorescence. Both the NBI and AFI equipment will be supplied by Olympus America Inc.

      Standard Endoscopy: Patients will undergo EGD with biopsies using a standard diagnostic video
      endoscope (Olympus, GIF 140 or 160) using the Seattle protocol - 4 quadrant biopsies using
      standard biopsy forceps every 2 cms; stored in separate jars.

      Histology: All biopsy specimens will be stained with H&E and alcian blue at pH 2.5 & will
      then be reviewed by two pathologists (SM) and (DL), one at each site, who will be blinded to
      the NBI/AF results and patterns. Any disagreement in the histological diagnosis will be
      resolved by a consensus diagnosis. Dysplasia will be classified as no dysplasia, LGD, HGD and
      adenocarcinoma.

      Data Collection:Patient demographics, order of randomization, endoscopy findings (BE length,
      NBI patterns, AFI patterns), procedure time, number of biopsies and histology reports will be
      collected and recorded by the study coordinator. All this information will be transferred
      into an ACCESS database

      Statistical Power & Data Analysis:For the primary outcome, to determine if NBI/AFI target
      biopsies can diagnose BE (intestinal metaplasia) in 90% of the patients assuming that
      standard endoscopy with biopsy can diagnose Barrett's in 70%, we would need 122 patients in
      order to detect a significant difference between the two with 80% power and a type I error
      rate of 5% using McNemar's test for paired dichotomous responses.

      For the secondary outcome of detection of HGD will be based on number of biopsies harboring
      HGD. If we assume that NBI/AFI can detect areas of HGD (within the BE segment) in 90% of the
      biopsies from irregular/distorted patterns compared to 60% by standard endoscopy, we would
      need to study 59 areas/biopsies of HGD in order to detect a significant difference between
      the two with 80% power and a type 1 error rate of 5% using McNemar's test for paired
      dichotomous responses. If we enroll at least 10-12 patients with HGD with an average BE
      length of 5 cms, we will be able to evaluate > 60 areas of HGD with each procedure. Each site
      will have to enroll approximately 30-35 BE patients (including 5-6 with HGD) each year.

      McNemar's test will be used to compare paired categorical data while continuous paired data
      will be compared using non-parametric methods such as the Wilcoxon Sign Rank Test. A p value
      of <0.05 will be considered significant.

      For the initial 30 consecutive patients enrolled in the study, inter-observer variability
      will be studied on the mucosal and vascular patterns and autofluorescence patterns.
    
  