
    
      This study will investigate the metabolic effects of daily RS4 consumption in overweight and
      obese adults. The investigators will recruit approximately 50 (BMI: 23-34.9kg/m2) adults ages
      18-65yrs, who have elevated to borderline-high LDL-cholesterol (116-159mg/dL) to an 8-week
      randomized controlled intervention. Participants will be recruited in three waves of 16
      participants each. Following a 7-10-day run-in where fiber intake is monitored, participants
      will be randomized to either the control or the RS4 group. The RS4 group will consume a high
      fiber bar, daily, for 8-weeks that will contain approximately 60-70% of the daily reccomended
      allowance of fiber. The primary outcome for this study will be fasting plasma LDL-Cholesterol
      (LDL-c). Secondary outcomes include body composition following daily RS4 consumption for
      8-weeks. All health assessments will be conducted before the intervention begins, at the
      4-week mid-point, and immediately following the 8-week intervention. Participants will fast
      for 10 -12 hrs. before reporting to the PAN-CRC for each testing session. The meal consumed
      prior to each testing session will be standardized so that it does not vary within the
      individual between testing sessions.

      Treatments. The two treatment conditions are RS4 and control. Participants will be asked to
      consume one nutrition bar as part of their breakfast each day with no other changes to their
      diet. The control group will consume one native wheat starch bar per day. The RS4 group will
      consume one nutrition bar per day formulated using Fibersym® RW containing 20g fiber. This
      amount would likely put individuals in the recommended dietary fiber intake range according
      to the dietary recommended intake ( Institutes of Medicine: 14g fiber/1000 kcal). All
      nutrition bars will contain the same ingredients and be matched for calories; however, fiber
      will vary between the bars.

      Health assessments. The KSU Nutrition team will conduct all health assessments at each time
      point. Height (cm), weight (kg), and waist circumference (cm) will be measured to determine
      basic anthropometrics, and a dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scan (DXA) will be used to
      determine body composition (body fat percentage and non-fat mass). Blood pressure (systolic
      and diastolic (mmHg) will be measured using a standard automated monitor. Fasting total
      cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TRG), glucose, LDL-c, and HDL-c will be measured via an LDX
      Cholestech using a single venous blood draw for assessment. Plasma glucose and insulin will
      be determined via the same venous sample. Satiety will be measured during each testing
      session to determine how Fibersym® RW impacts feelings of fullness and hunger.

      Compliance Checks. To ensure compliance with consumption of the nutrition bars provided,
      participants will be asked to return to the PAN-CRC to return any leftover bars at the end of
      each intervention week (if any remain), and to pick up a new supply of their assigned bar.
      Participants will also be given a checklist that indicates their daily consumption of the
      given bars. The checklist will include options such as: I consumed the 100% of the bar,
      forgot to consume, consumed part of the bar (with options to check a percent of the bar
      consumed). To ensure that habitual dietary intake is maintained, participants will be
      instructed to complete a 3-day dietary record (two weekdays and 1 weekend day) prior to each
      testing session, allowing the investigators to determine any dietary changes that may occur
      during the 8-week intervention.
    
  