
    
      It is useful to consider time in critical illness from two perspectives. The first of these
      begins logically with onset of the pathology. With the exception of conditions such as
      myocardial infarction or trauma where this moment is marked by a classic symptom or an
      external event, then defining time zero is difficult. For this reason, an organisational
      frame of reference, such as hospital admission or time of referral to specialist team, is
      more commonly used. Delay following this organisational time is important because it is often
      a modifiable factor with regard to the delivery of health care. However, pathophysiological
      timing remains relevant because if the disease process is dynamic (and this is part of the
      hypothesis of this study) then it determines the phenotype of disease at any particular
      moment.

      This project proposes to measure delay to admission to Intensive Care (ICU) using both
      organisational and pathophysiological timing. Delays in the United Kingdom NHS are widely
      reported {McQuillan:1998p127, Hillman:2001p90} possibly because there are fewer ICU beds than
      in many other developed health care systems.{Wunsch:2008p121} We intend to measure the
      chronological time between the moment when a patient is 'referred and assessed as requiring
      Critical Care', and their actual time of admission. We will determine how often delays occur,
      and whether they affect outcome. Requirements for critical care are not, however, absolute.
      Importantly, the assessment of a prospective patient is not made in isolation. If ICU beds
      are already fully occupied, then decision makers must organise a transfer to another unit
      (with risks to the patient), organise a premature discharge of another patient, or defer
      admission. We will also therefore consider such deferments alongside delays, and their impact
      on survival.

      In addition, the project will consider pathophysiological timing. This is of particular
      importance in sepsis where current biological models suggest that there is a phased response
      to infection.{Riedemann:2003p82} In this case, it is possible that patients are admitted to
      critical care at different phases of disease; moreover, these phases may be clinically
      relevant and affect response to treatment. pathophysiological delay will be estimated using
      the concept of illness trajectories (which also may have a biological
      correlate){Osuchowski:2006p2107}. This means that a patient who is slowly deteriorating is
      likely to have been ill for longer. In other words, their pathophysiological time zero will
      be earlier than another patient who is is rapidly deteriorating. This illness trajectory will
      be estimated by measuring the change in severity of illness between ward assessment and ICU
      admission. The effect of these illness trajectories, and therefore of the pathophysiological
      timing of ICU admission, will be evaluated with particular attention to severe sepsis.
    
  