
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cerivastatin (Baycol), an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin), was approved and marketed in
      early 1998 for the treatment of dyslipidemias. Soon afterwards, suspected adverse drug
      reaction (SADR) reports in cerivastatin users often cited rhabdomyolysis, an uncommon
      condition in which the breakdown of skeletal muscle cells causes pain, weakness and, in-some
      cases, renal failure or death. By the time that cerivastatin was withdrawn from the market in
      2001, the FDA had received 1,899 SADRs for rhabdomyolysis associated with cerivastatin
      compared to 1,440 for all other statins combined. In an analysis conducted by FDA scientists,
      the relative reporting rate (RRR) of fatal rhabdomyolysis was 40 times higher among users of
      cerivastatin than among users of other statins. For the outcome of all fatal and non-fatal
      rhabdomyolysis, the RRR was 54 times higher. About half of the rhabdomyolysis cases occurred
      in subjects who had taken both cerivastatin and gemfibrozil. Subsequently, pharmacokinetic
      studies demonstrated that gemfibrozil inhibits both major metabolic pathways for
      cerivastatin-not only the Cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 2C8-mediated oxidation, but also the
      glucuronidation by uridine diphosphate glucuronysyltransferases (UGT). The investigators
      hypothesize that rhabdomyolysis cases who were taking cerivastatin but not gemfibrozil had
      one or both of two types of risk factors: (1) medications that are known inhibitors of these
      enzymes; or (2) functional genetic variants in one or more of the CYP or UGT enzymes.

      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the U.S. and
      statin agents are commonly employed for the treatment of hyperlipidemia, one of the principal
      risk factors for CHD. Given the hundreds of thousands to millions of Americans presently on
      statin therapy, and the potentially serious (though relatively rare) complication of
      rhabdomyolysis, this is a significant topic to study.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators hypothesize that rhabdomyolysis cases who were taking cerivastatin but not
      gemfibrozil had one or both of two types of risk factors: (1) medications that are known
      inhibitors of these enzymes; or (2) functional genetic variants in one or more of the CYP or
      UGT enzymes. This project is a case-control study of factors that increased the risk of
      rhabdomyolysis in cerivastatin users. Cases will be cerivastatin users who had
      rhabdomyolysis, and statin users from two on-going epidemiologic studies will serve as two
      complementary control groups. "For cases, identified with the assistance of attorneys, a
      review of medical records and telephone interview will verify the diagnosis and provide
      information on medication use. Subjects will also return a mouthwash buccal sample for DNA
      extraction. All subjects will be genotyped for known functional variants in CYP2C8, UGT1A1
      and UGT1A3. In the hypothesis-testing part of this case-control study, medications known to
      be inhibitors of these enzymes and functional variants in their genes will be evaluated as
      risk factors for rhabdomyolysis in cerivastatin users. Additionally, pharmacoepidemiologic
      analyses of the FDA AERS data will be conducted to identify other potential new drug-drug
      interactions. Power to detect expected effect sizes is 80% or greater. In the discovery phase
      of the project, the DNA of rhabdomyolysis cases who did not take gemfibrozil will be
      sequenced to identify new single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in CYP2C8, UGT1 Al and UGT1
      A3. The functional significance of new pharmacoepidemiologic associations will be evaluated
      in in vitro pharmacokinetic inhibition studies. Additionally, newly discovered SNPs in CYP2C8
      will be expressed in E. coli and evaluated for their functional significance.
    
  