
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to learn more about the rate of CMV breakthrough in lung
      transplant patients who are CMV mismatched and receiving prophylaxis. The rates of negative
      side effects caused by the antiviral prophylaxis will also be monitored. For patients who do
      have a breakthrough of CMV viremia while on study the investigator will also evaluate the
      rate of resistance mutations.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigator wants to demonstrate that breakthrough CMV DNAemia is common in CMV mismatch
      lung transplant recipients on ganciclovir/valganciclovir prophylaxis. In addition, the
      investigator will show that leukopenia and neutropenia related to prolonged prophylaxis is
      very common and discontinuation of ganciclovir/valganciclovir prophylaxis because of side
      effects explains most cases of breakthrough CMV DNAemia. The investigators findings will be
      relevant because they will answer the following questions:

        1. Prophylaxis with ganciclovir/valganciclovir in mismatch lung transplant patients should
           include intensive CMV DNA monitoring.

        2. Side effects related to the use of ganciclovir/valganciclovir can result in potential
           life-threatening infections due to the development of neutropenia and increased cost due
           to the use of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor.

        3. Alternative prophylaxis with new antivirals with safer profile of side effects would
           result in a safer profile of adverse events. As resistance to ganciclovir may lead to
           death, the development of CMV infection in patients receiving antivirals targeting
           different enzymes than those targeted by ganciclovir/valganciclovir will not prevent
           future use of ganciclovir/valganciclovir to treat CMV infection or disease.

      Justification:

      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is the most common opportunistic infection in lung
      transplantation leading to direct and indirect effects that can result in life threatening
      complications. The risk of CMV infection is highest in CMV seronegative lung recipients from
      CMV seropositive donor (CMV mismatch). Antiviral prophylaxis for 6 to12 months with
      valganciclovir is indicated in CMV mismatch lung transplant recipients according to
      International Guidelines. Despite prolonged antiviral prophylaxis, the risk of CMV infection
      post-prophylaxis is high in this group of patients. Valganciclovir was approved for antiviral
      prophylaxis in organ transplant patients in 2004. Rates of breakthrough CMV infection may be
      higher after 6 months of prophylaxis due to an increased risk of bone marrow toxicity and
      neutropenia from Valganciclovir that may lead to temporary prophylaxis discontinuation.

      Resistance to ganciclovir is a major complication in all solid organ transplant patients, but
      lung transplant recipients are the subgroup of patients at highest risk. The rate of
      ganciclovir-resistant CMV infection in CMV mismatch lung transplant recipients is the highest
      among all organ transplants and its occurrence is associated with increased risk of death.
      Although CMV mismatch lung transplantation has been found to be a risk factor for
      ganciclovir-resistant CMV infection in most of the studies, the underlying pathophysiological
      mechanisms are not fully understood. Discontinuation of valganciclovir can lead to CMV
      replication with exposure to sub-therapeutic levels of ganciclovir in blood, and this may
      lead to the development of antiviral resistance.

      Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the incidence of breakthrough CMV infection in CMV mismatch lung transplant
           patients receiving 6-12 months antiviral prophylaxis with ganciclovir/valganciclovir.

        2. To evaluate the rates of leukopenia, neutropenia and antiviral prophylaxis
           discontinuation due to side effects of antiviral prophylaxis with
           ganciclovir/valganciclovir in CMV mismatch lung transplant patients.

        3. To evaluate the rates of ganciclovir/valganciclovir resistance mutations in CMV DNA from
           mismatch lung transplant patients with breakthrough CMV viremia.

      Research Method/Procedures:

      This will be a prospective, multicenter, non-randomized, non-interventional study in 40 CMV
      mismatch lung transplant patients receiving standard of care prophylaxis according to each
      center. At baseline the patients medical history will be reviewed with them. Post transplant
      weeks 1 to 24 or 52 a CMV Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) will be done every two weeks.
      Standard of care blood work and the patients chart will be monitored to look for any relevant
      side effects or changes in medication. In case CMV viremia is detected during prophylaxis,
      the local PI can decide either to treat the CMV infection with therapeutic dose of antivirals
      (ganciclovir, valganciclovir or Foscarnet) or to maintain prophylaxis and CMV PCR monitoring.
      In all cases of CMV breakthrough viremia, a whole blood or plasma sample will be sent to
      Provincial Microbiology Lab in Edmonton to perform antiviral resistance by next-generation
      sequencing. From post transplant weeks 24 to 36 or 52 to 64 weekly CMV PCR will be done as
      per standard of care, all other standard of care blood work will also be monitored. Chart
      reviews will be completed to look for any relevant side effects.

      Plan for Data Analysis:

      For the analysis of data the investigator will have the support of the Northern Alberta
      Clinical Trials and Research Centre (NACTRC). Incidence rate of breakthrough CMV viremia,
      leukopenia, neutropenia and severe neutropenia will be calculated as number of case per 1,000
      patients/week. The percentage of CMV infection post-prophylaxis in patients with and without
      breakthrough CMV infection will be compared by Fisher's exact test. Cox-regression analysis
      will be performed to identify independent variables associated with CMV breakthrough viremia.
    
  