
    
      Great progress has been made in preventing mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV in
      resource-rich settings with the use of combination antiretroviral regimens during pregnancy
      and peripartum. In the resource-limited world simple inexpensive regimens administered
      peripartum, such as single dose nevirapine to mothers and infants, have been effective in
      reducing transmission but at the cost of development of resistance. Strategies that will
      allow women to preserve their antiretroviral options when they will need therapy for their
      own HIV disease and will improve efficacy are urgently needed. Moreover, co-infection with
      hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a problem for a substantial proportion of HIV-infected pregnant
      women. HIV alters the course of HBV disease by increasing levels of HBV DNA replication and
      thus risk of transmission to the newborn. HBV immunization in the infant with the first dose
      started soon after birth has decreased the bulk of such transmission, but the risk remains,
      particularly for mothers with HBe antigen positivity. Ideally an antiviral regimen
      administered during pregnancy with activity against both viruses would minimize transmission
      of both HIV and HBV to the infant.

      The investigators propose to study a combination of tenofovir/lamivudine/lopinavir-ritonavir
      started between 14 and 28 weeks of pregnancy in HIV and HBV co-infected women. This regimen
      provides potent antiviral activity for prevention of MTCT. In addition, tenofovir and
      lamivudine both have activity against HBV, and could play a role in decreasing transmission
      of HBV to the infant. This regimen will be compared to the WHO-recommended and locally
      practiced standard of care, consisting of zidovudine/lamivudine/lopinavir-ritonavir, also
      starting at 14-28 weeks of pregnancy. This will be a phase II study evaluating the safety of
      the test regimen in pregnant women and their newborns, in particular renal, bone mineral
      density and hepatic toxicity (including hepatic flares post discontinuation of therapy). The
      study will recruit 80 pregnant women of at least 20 years of age in China and follow them and
      their infants for 12 months post-delivery. The investigators will recruit from prenatal
      clinics in some of the districts most heavily affected by HIV in the Guangxi province in
      China. China is selected for this study as it is hyperendemic for hepatitis B and has a
      rising HIV epidemic. Although not powered to examine efficacy, preliminary estimates of
      transmission of HIV and HBV to the infants and of the rate of resistance development will be
      obtained. The study will be done in collaboration with CDC-GAP China and the Chinese Ministry
      of Health-National Center for AIDS, which will coordinate recruitment, study visits and data
      collection through the local HIV/AIDS coordinators.
    
  