
    
      Pregnancy and childbirth process is a natural life event for women, as well as a period of
      physiological, psychological and social changes. Biopsychosocial changes experienced during
      this period increase the risk of encountering factors that may cause anxiety and stress. For
      this reason, psychosocial health can be negatively affected during pregnancy. One of the most
      important factors threatening psychosocial health during pregnancy is the fear of childbirth.
      Fear of childbirth emerges especially in the last trimester, causing the woman to spend the
      unique and special pregnancy process in restlessness and tension. Fear of childbirth may
      cause consequences such as preferring not to pregnant, as well as bring about complications
      related to the childbirth process and postpartum period. Within the scope of studies to
      manage the fear of childbirth, many approaches are used, such as childbirth preparation
      classes, breathing techniques, hydrotherapy, hypnosis, doula support, holistic care and
      support, cognitive and behavioral therapies, psychoeducation. One of the most current methods
      used in the management of childbirth fear is solution-oriented approach. Solution Focused
      Approach leads the individual to solution again and again instead of focusing on solving the
      problem as a separate method, it offers an approach focused on the solution itself. It is
      stated that the philosophy of solution-oriented approach in line with the individual-centered
      perspective, principles and values is compatible with the basic value and philosophy of
      nursing. As a result of the studies, it has been determined that the solution-oriented
      approach method is a shorter-term and effective counseling approach compared to other
      alternative approaches, after the approach, improvement / decrease in related behavioral
      problems is observed and it provides significant positive benefits. It is also stated to be
      more economical due to its wide application areas. This study was planned as a randomized
      controlled experimental study with posttest and control group in order to evaluate the effect
      of the solution focused approach method applied to primigravidas on psychosocial health, fear
      of childbirth and postnatal security sensations.

      Preliminary evaluation in the study will be made in the pregnant policlinic of a university
      hospital in the city center of Konya. Verbal and written permission will be obtained from
      pregnant women who meet the inclusion criteria according to the result of the preliminary
      evaluation made in the outpatient clinic. For the sample calculation of the study, an
      experimental study evaluating the effect of childbirth preparation education on the fear of
      childbirth, postpartum self-efficacy and posttraumatic stress disorder was taken as
      reference. The sample calculation of the research was made in G * Power (3.1.9.2) program. In
      the calculation based on the reference study data (90% power, effect size 0.96, alpha level
      0.05, beta level 0.90), it was found that a total of 48 cases, 24 for the experimental group
      and 24 for the control group, were suitable for statistical analysis.

      In the literature, it has been determined in the experimental studies on this issue that
      there is loss of subjects between 10% and 40%. In this study, considering the loss rates in
      the literature, assuming that there would be 40% loss, it was decided to take 68 pregnant
      women, 34 to the experimental group and 34 to the control group. Pregnant women included in
      the research will be assigned to the experimental and control groups by block randomization
      method according to the randomization list.

      In the collection of the data,

        -  The introductory information form developed by the researcher using the literature,

        -  The Wijma Delivery Expectancy/Experience Questionnaire (W-DEQ version A and B)

        -  Psychosocial Health Assessment Scale in Pregnancy,

        -  Data collection form on the childbirth process and its results developed by using the
           literature

        -  The Mother's Postnatal Sense of Security Scale will be used.

      İmplementation of the Research

      Pregnants in the experimental group will be administered the Wijma Delivery
      Expectancy/Experience Questionnaire (W-DEQ version A) and Psychosocial Health Assessment
      Scale in Pregnancy before the intervention. Pregnant women in the experimental group will be
      given 4 sessions of counseling based on Solution-Oriented Approach to coping with the fear of
      childbirth, starting at the 32th week of pregnancy.

      The sessions in the solution-focused approach program will be held in groups of 5, taking
      into account the hours when group members are available. In the solution-focused approach
      program, sessions will be completed once a week, with a total of 4 sessions. Each session
      will be scheduled for approximately 90 minutes with 15 minutes intervals.

      After the counseling program is completed (at the 35th week), a training booklet will be
      provided for pregnant women to repeat the information they have learned until the childbirth
      process. In addition, the pregnant women will be given follow-up counseling by telephone at
      two-week intervals from 35th gestational week to delivery, and repeated measurements will be
      made (at 35, 38 weeks of gestation and when hospitalization for childbirth).

        -  The Wijma Delivery Expectancy/Experience Questionnaire (W-DEQ version A) will be
           repeatedly measured at 35 weeks and 38 weeks of pregnancy and when the pregnant women
           are hospitalized for childbirth (by visiting the hospital by the researcher).

        -  When the pregnant women are hospitalized for childbirth, the Psychosocial Health
           Assessment Scale in Pregnancy (posttest) measurement will be made.

      In the first 24 hours after childbirth mothers will be visited by the researcher in the
      hospital, posttests will be applied and the application phase of the research will be
      completed.

        -  The researcher will visit the hospital within the first 24 hours of the postpartum, and
           the Data Collection Form on the Childbirth Process and Results and Wijma Delivery
           Expectancy/Experience Questionnaire (W-DEQ version B) (only posttest) will be measured.

        -  At the end of the first week of the postpartum, follow-up counseling will be made by
           phone, and the Postnatal Sense of Security Scale (only the posttest) will be filled.

      Pregnant women in the control group will only receive routine care. Pregnant women in the
      control group will be administered the same scales simultaneously with the experimental
      group.

      Evaluation of the Data

      Coding and evaluation of data will be done in computer environment with SPSS 22.0
      (Statistical Program for Social Sciences) package program. The suitability of the research
      data to normal distribution will be determined by Kolmogorov-Smirnov test with Lilliefor,
      normal distribution curve, Skewness and Kurtosis test. Descriptive statistics will be
      evaluated by the number, percentage, average and standard deviation. For the implementation
      of the study, the ethics committee permission numbered 2020/2352 was obtained from Necmettin
      Erbakan University Meram Medical Faculty Pharmaceuticals and Non-Medical Research Ethics
      Committee and the institutional permission numbered E.33709 from Necmettin Erbakan University
      Meram Medical Faculty Hospital Chief Physician. Pregnant women who will be included in the
      research sample will be informed before the study that the purpose of the study and
      participation in the study is in line with the principle of volunteering, and "Informing and
      Consent of Volunteers Consent Form" will be signed.

      Dependent Variables

        -  Pregnant women (W-DEQ) A version scale mean scores,

        -  Pregnant women (W-DEQ) B version scale mean scores,

        -  Psychosocial Health Assessment Scale in Pregnancy mean scores,

        -  Childbirth results of pregnant women (cesarean section frequency, childbirth time,
           intervention status during childbirth, complication development, newborn's health
           status, 1st and 5th minute APGAR score, newborn's weight).

        -  The mean scores of the Postnatal Sense of Security Scale of the pregnant women.

      Independent variable

      • Counseling based on Solution-Oriented Approach to coping with the fear of childbirth.
    
  