
    
      According to the World Malaria Report, there were significant decreases in the number of
      P.falciparum (PF) malaria cases worldwide in the past decade. On the Thai-Myanmar border
      where transmission is low and seasonal and where incidence of Multi-drugs resistant
      P.falciparum parasites is the highest, the same trend has been observed with a clear decline
      in malaria episodes and the ratio of P. falciparum/P. vivax (PF/PV).

      Economic development, unprecedented financial support, renewed efforts in vector control, a
      wider use of rapid diagnosic tests (RDTs) for malaria and the deployment of artemisinin based
      combination treatments (ACT) are the main contributing factors to those successes against
      malaria.

      However the emergence in Cambodia and on the Thai-Myanmar border of P.falciparum isolates
      that exhibit resistance to artesunate is threatening those gains . This is characterized by a
      slow parasite clearance rate observed in patients treated with artesunate.

      At the same time, recent SMRU surveys along the Thai-Burmese border using a new cutting-edge
      technology i.e. highly sensitive quantitative Real Time PCR (RT-PCR) able to detect very low
      parasitaemia (10 parasites per ml), found up to a 3-5 fold increase in the prevalence of
      malaria compared to what is found with the usual diagnostic tools such as microscopy, RDT or
      even conventional PCR.

      It seems that a large number of asymptomatic carriers with very low parasites counts (a large
      potential malaria reservoir) go undetected. If confirmed, this might pose the greatest
      obstacle for malaria elimination in the region and containment of artemisinin resistance.

      The purpose of the survey is to further study and understand the epidemiology of malaria in
      the refugee camp population using cutting-edge technology (RT-PCR) .

      The necessity of research in Humans With the double mission of malaria elimination and
      artemisinin-resistance containment, there are intensive malaria activities currently
      implemented in the refugee camps in the Tak province (a province in Thailand that is on the
      Thai-Burmese border). The malaria risk among the refugee camp is higher than the Thai
      residences inside Thailand.

      To avoid resource wastage, it is thus essential to conduct a simple questionnaire to
      understand the current situation of malaria prevention in the camps, especially information
      regarding the mosquito net ownership and usage (mosquito net distribution has been a major
      malaria prevention activity among the NGOs in the camps).

      PCR method is being used more and more in recent year due to its sensitivity compared to
      slide reading. PCR is considered being able to capture more cases with sub-microscopic
      infection. However, the current PCR methods conventionally used in malaria survey usually use
      finger prick to obtain only few microliters of capillary blood , the detectable level of
      parasitaemia is therefore limited due to minimal amount of blood from which Plasmodium DNA
      can be extracted. Thus the RT-PCR method proposed here using 2ml venous blood well
      compensates these shortcomings.

      The comparison of test results of conventional microscopy (currently still as the universal
      golden standard in the clinics) and RT-PCR will not only enable detection of both symptomatic
      and asymptomatic malaria cases but help define the epidemiology apart from our conventional
      understanding of malaria.

      Thus this study is necessary and is strategically important for the next roadmap development
      of malaria elimination and resistance containment.
    
  