
    
      Objective:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the LMA StoneBreakerTM to the current standard of
      pneumatic lithotripsy, the Swiss LithoClastR, during percutaneous nephrolithotripsy (PNL).

      Rationale:

      Percutaneous nephrolithotripsy (PNL) is the preferred treatment modality for renal stones
      greater than 2cm in diameter.

      The pneumatic lithotriptor functions as a pneumatic jackhammer, providing either a single
      pulse or a train of pulses at 2Hz as determined by the operator. Its chief advantage is its
      ability to fragment even the hardest calculi. The pneumatic lithotriptor, while extremely
      effective, does not utilize thermal energy and therefore has no risk of thermal damage to the
      surrounding tissue. The pneumatic lithotriptor currently in use, the Swiss LithoClast is
      powered by compressed medical air. The primary disadvantage of this device is that the
      residual calculi must be individually removed with forceps following fragmentation.

      The StoneBreaker, manufactured by the Laryngeal Mask Airway Company, is a novel hand-held
      pneumatic lithotriptor. This device is powered by a compressed carbon dioxide cartridge.

      Hypothesis:

      The LMA StoneBreaker, provides more efficient lithotripsy of renal calculi treated by PNL
      over the existing pneumatic intracorporeal lithotriptor the Swiss LithoClast.

      Methods:

      Patients would be recruited to the study from the clinical population who present for stone
      management at VGH. None of the physicians involved has a financial interest in either of the
      devices being evaluated. The purpose is to compare the pneumatic lithotripsy devices and is
      not an evaluation of PNL, a procedure whose safety and efficacy is well established.

      Patients who consented to PNL for management of their renal stone would be approached about
      entry into the study by either of the primary surgeons, the research coordinator, or the
      research fellows. Patients would understand that PNL is not an experimental procedure and
      that the research project specifically is comparing the two lithotripsy devices with similar
      mechanism of action and safety profile. The goal in all cases would be to render the patient
      stone free. The patients care would not deviate from our standard PNL care protocol,
      summarized below, with the exception of the use of a different lithoclast.

      Pre-operatively, the patients are assessed in the Preanaesthetic clinic as necessary. Blood
      tests including CBC and differential, blood type and antibody screen, creatinine and
      electrolytes are routinely obtained. Urine samples will be sent preoperatively for culture
      and sensitivity. If the urine culture is positive, organism specific antibiotics will be
      prescribed prior to treatment. If the urine culture is negative, prophylactic antibiotics
      will be ordered and administered, prior to the induction of anaesthesia, by the treating
      surgeon.

      Our standard operative protocol for PNL as described next will be followed for all cases.
      After receiving a general anaesthetic, cystoscopy and placement of a ureteral catheter on the
      affected side may be performed. The will be used to perform retrograde pyelography in order
      to determine the optimal access site to the kidney. A Foley catheter will be placed to drain
      the bladder throughout the procedure. Next, under fluoroscopic guidance, access to the
      affected renal collecting system will be obtained with a needle down which a guide wire is
      passed by the interventional radiology department or the operating surgeon.

      The tract will be dilated to accommodate the 30F working sheath. The stone will then be
      visualized and fragmented with either of the two devices, determined by randomization.
      Remaining fragments will be removed using grasping forceps and an ultrasound suction device
      until the patient is rendered stone free. A final visual inspection of the collecting system
      will ensure the patient is stone free. The choice of renal drainage method after the
      procedure will be left to the discretion of the treating surgeon.

      Statistical Analysis: Student's t-test and ANOVA will be used to determine statistical
      significance. P-values < 0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  