
    
      Eligible participants were allocated to one of two groups after induction of anesthesia and
      immediately prior to the operation and just before skin incision. they received 1-gram
      tranexamic acid (10 ml) in 100 ml saline infusion or placebo (110 normal salines) by slow
      intravenous injection at an approximate rate of 1 mL per min. The abdomen was exposed through
      a midline or Pfannenstiel incision, after skin incision, the subcutaneous fat and abdominal
      fascia were opened crosswise, and the rectus muscle was opened on the midline. The parietal
      peritoneum was opened longitudinally to reach the pelvic cavity. Uterus was inspected for a
      number, location, and shape of myomas and other pelvic organs were inspected for associated
      pathology. a lower uterine incision will be performed to deliver the baby and Uterine
      incisions on top of myoma were performed. The incision was performed using monopolar
      diathermy. Intracapsular enucleation of myomas was performed by gently dissecting between the
      myoma and the pseudo-capsule. The myoma was grasped by Collins forceps and gently enucleated
      out.,. Myoma bed was closed by 1 or 2 layers of interrupted vicryl sutures (Vicryl 1-0
      polyglactin 910; Egycryl, Taisier CO, Egypt). At the end of the surgery, 1 intraperitoneal
      suction drain was routinely used in all patients the drains were removed on the second
      postoperative day unless otherwise indicated. Number and size of myomas were recorded. Myoma
      size represented the mean size of each myoma. Enucleated myomas were sent to histopathology.

      Blood loss estimation Intraoperative blood loss was measured by adding the volume of the
      contents of the suction bottle and the difference in weight (in grams) between the dry and
      the soaked operation sheets and towels (1 gram = 1 ml.). Post-operative blood loss was
      measured through intraperitoneal suction drain which measured every 12 hours and on removing
      the drain. After that, the total blood loss was calculated by the addition of intraoperative
      and postoperative blood loss.
    
  