
    
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa infects the airways of 80% of adults with Cystic Fibrosis (CF). In
      these patients, P. aeruginosa forms extremely antibiotic resistant biofilm communities that
      accelerate progression of obstructive lung disease. Current treatment of airway infection
      focuses on monthly cycles of inhaled antibiotics. However up to 20% of adults are infected
      with multi drug resistant P. aeruginosa for which we have no effective inhaled treatments.
      These isolates are more common as patients age so with the increasing life expectancy of the
      CF population, MDR P. aeruginosa is likely to remain a clinical problem. Another 10% of
      patients are infected with other Gram-negative organisms such as Burkholderia cepacia and
      Achromobacter species, for which we have inadequate suppressive treatment. Following lung
      transplant, MDR airway infections remain a problem as the allografts are colonized by strains
      carried in the paranasal sinuses. Sodium nitrite may present a new antimicrobial approach to
      treating respiratory infection with Gram-negative organisms, because it is able to prevent
      biotic biofilm formation.

      Within the CF lung, P. aeruginosa grows as a biotic biofilm in association with airway
      epithelial cells and mucous plaques. This environment has an acidic pH and low oxygen tension
      with many bacteria subsisting through denitrification (both conditions where traditional
      antibiotics are less effective). Because biotic biofilms can be up to 500-fold more resistant
      than biofilms grown on abiotic surfaces, with support from our CF Research Development
      Program (RDP) Cores, we showed that nitrite prevents biofilm formation on the surface of
      primary CF airway epithelial cells. Moreover, nitrite dose-dependently potentiates the
      effects of colistin sulfate in liquid culture, and in biotic biofilms on airway epithelial
      cells. These data support the hypothesis that nebulized sodium nitrite will inhibit growth of
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa in CF airways, and identify a potential therapeutic benefit for
      nitrite alone and cooperatively with colistin as a novel therapy to inhibit P. aeruginosa in
      CF airways. Nebulized nitrite has been through extensive animal toxicology, and is well
      tolerated by subjects with pulmonary arterial hypertension where it is being studied as a
      pulmonary vasodilator.

      To determine the therapeutic potential of sodium nitrite for CF, we propose two specific
      aims:

      Aim 1: Determine the safety of nebulized sodium nitrite administered in two doses to patients
      with CF.

      Aim 2: Explore the effects of inhaled sodium nitrite on measures of lung function, exhaled
      airway nitric oxide, and bacterial burden as measured by quantitative sputum cultures.

      To accomplish these aims, we propose a Phase I/II open-label study of sodium nitrite in CF.
      Key inclusion criteria include individuals over the age 18 with cystic fibrosis as documented
      by clinical features of CF, and genotyping or a positive sweat test. Exclusion criteria
      include advanced lung disease, inability to discontinue inhaled antibiotics for four weeks,
      hospitalization or medication change within 4 weeks of enrollment, baseline systemic
      hypotension (SBP<90 mm hg), chronic kidney disease (Cr >2.5), severe anemia (Hgb <9 gm/dL in
      the last six months). The primary outcome is safety, defined as FEV1 measured before and
      after initial doses on days 0 and 7, and at week 4. Other safety data for the initial doses
      include pulse oximetry and transcutaneous methemoglobin levels. Secondary endpoints include
      quantitative sputum cultures, exhaled nitric oxide, sputum nitrite concentration, and patient
      symptoms as assessed by a CF specific respiratory questionnaire.

      Completion of this study will guide the development of sodium nitrite as a single agent for
      CF infections, and inform future studies examining the effects of sodium nitrite in
      combination with inhaled colistin for patients with drug resistant bacterial pathogens that
      are an increasing problem. In addition, the study will provide important safety and efficacy
      data that may inform future development of inhaled sodium nitrite as a therapy in young
      patients to augment airway host defense and prevent biofilm formation.
    
  