
    
      This is a phase IV study of sixty 21-40 and >65 year old adult volunteers who previously
      participated in vaccine studies with our program. All participation is by invitation only.

      The volunteers will be enrolled into two groups. Group A: Up to 30 healthy adult volunteers
      age 21-40 who will be given seasonal quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV4) prior
      to flu season for each of 5 years. They will also be given an inactivated Hepatitis A vaccine
      in the spring of years 1 and 2. Each volunteer will complete a total of 4 visits for each
      immunization: Day 0 (pre-immunization), Day 6-8, Day 12-15, and Day 26-30
      (post-immunization). All visits will consist of drawing blood for study assays and monitoring
      for serious adverse events (SAEs).

      A subset of this group will be randomized to receive either a Typhoid Vi Polysaccharide
      Vaccine or Typhoid Vaccine Live Oral Ty21a vaccine in year 3. Each volunteer will complete a
      total of 4 visits for this immunization: Day 0 (pre-immunization), Day 6-8 post completion of
      injection or final oral dose, Day 12-15 and Day 26-30 (post-immunization). All visits will
      consist of drawing blood for study assays and monitoring for serious adverse events (SAEs).

      Group B: Up to 30 healthy adult volunteers age 65 plus who will be randomized and given
      seasonal trivalent high dose inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV3) or trivalent adjuvanted
      trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (Fluad) prior to flu season for each of 5 years. They
      will also be given an inactivated Hepatitis A vaccine in the spring of years 1 and 2 and
      aTyphoid Vi Polysaccharide Vaccine in year 3. Each volunteer will complete a total of 4
      visits for each immunization: Day 0 (pre-immunization), Day 6-8, Day 12-15, and Day 26-30
      (post-immunization). All visits will consist of drawing blood for study assays and monitoring
      for serious adverse events (SAEs).

      A subset of subjects (with a target of 10 younger and 10 older subjects depending on health),
      will undergo bone marrow aspirates one or two years after typhoid vaccination.
    
  