
    
      The vision of Mil Familias is to reduce the burden of cardio-metabolic disease among Latino
      families in Santa Barbara County and beyond. The aim is to establish an observational cohort
      of 1,000 Latino families, with at least one family member currently living with diabetes, in
      order to understand better the impact of the 5 determinants of human health (genetics,
      biology, behavior, psychology, and society/environment) in this population. Once the
      1,000-family cohort is established, evidence-based intervention studies will be developed and
      implemented based on new knowledge, with collaborators from the healthcare, public policy,
      academic, pharmaceutical, medical device and technology industries. The strategy involves 4
      coordinated and iterative components to achieve its mission:

        1. Especialistas: Trusted, bilingual community health workers specially-trained in diabetes
           education, clinical research methodologies, and care referral. The Especialistas will
           engage directly with participants to conduct research activities, answer questions, and
           when necessary, refer participants to appropriate, local community resources.

        2. Data: Facilitated by Especialistas, each individual participant will contribute
           information on up to 100 different variables relating to their genetics, biology,
           psychology, behavior and society/environment, thus creating a one-of-a-kind database and
           associated specimen biobank on Latino health and lifestyle ("Living Information Bank").

        3. Interventions: Based on the data, evidence-based, collaborative, culturally-relevant
           prevention and treatment strategies are planned to develop once the cohort of 1,000
           families has been established.

        4. Allies: This community-based participatory research study requires engagement from key
           stakeholders from the Latino community, healthcare sectors, hospitals, payers,
           businesses, people with diabetes and philanthropists. Organizations and individuals
           support Mil Familias by contributing their resources, experiences, and skill-sets.
    
  