
    
      Hepatitis C (HCV) is an important global public health problem, disproportionally affecting
      HIV positive populations. Asia and Africa account for most of the co-infection burden, but
      access to HCV screening and treatment is still very limited. The high cost and complexity of
      current diagnostic and treatment algorithms are major bottlenecks and the linked lack of
      accurate HCV prevalence estimates and treatment-need data do not allow for robust treatment
      advocacy and program planning. Cambodia is not an exception.

      It is expected though, with the recent therapeutic advances and increasing global advocacy
      efforts, that HCV treatment should become a feasible option in the near future. Sihanouk
      Hospital Center of HOPE (Phnom Penh, Cambodia) is catering for one of the largest HIV cohorts
      of the country, and it is planning to engage in HCV treatment from 2014 2015 onwards, with a
      double objective of direct patient benefit and catalyst role at national level, as in the
      past when starting its antiretroviral (ARV) program.

      Within this specific setting, the researchers plan to determine the prevalence of HCV
      co-infection, HCV genotype diversity and severity of liver disease in this HIV patient
      cohort, followed in an ambulatory setting. The researchers will also explore the performance
      of simple blood tests/panels as predictors of significant fibrosis and/or cirrhosis .

      The current HCV diagnostic procedures (and tools), as applied in this study, are too
      expensive and resource-demanding to allow for scalability in resource limited settings. Thus,
      the researchers plan to set up during this study a biobank with samples of a clinically well
      described HIV patient population. These samples should allow constituting a well-balanced
      panel for evaluation of future 'more scalable' HCV diagnostic tools.

      Patients will attend two study-visits. All adult patients of the HIV cohort will be proposed
      HCV testing during their next regular HIV follow-up consultation. HCV testing will follow the
      latest algorithm of the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) (May 2013). During this same
      consultation, anamnesis and clinical examination will focus, additionally to routine practice
      ,on presence of general and HCV liver-disease related features. Laboratory analyses will also
      include basic HIV (CD4), and tests for liver function such as Hepatitis B surface antigen
      (HbsAg).

      During the following routine HIV follow-up consultation (2-3 months later), the results of
      HCV testing will be explained to the patient. If the patient is HCV negative, his/her study
      participation ends here. If currently infected with Hepatitis C, the clinician will repeat
      the HCV liver-disease (extra-hepatic & hepatic) related anamnesis and clinical examination
      and prescribe additional blood tests for the non-invasive liver fibrosis/cirrhosis blood
      panel tests, liver and kidney function. Patients will moreover be asked to undergo a liver
      ultrasound and liver stiffness measurements.

      The biobank will be set up with left over biological samples (whole blood plasma and serum)
      and comprehensive clinical information of all patients who give additional consent for this
      scope. Both biological samples and clinical information will be coded, to ensure
      confidentiality.
    
  