
    
      After the approval of the Ethical committee of each institute, and consent signed by the
      patient, 100 patients with retained placenta were divided into 2 groups in 5 tertiary care
      centers, university hospitals. By using the program research randomizer (from www.
      Randomizer.org/form.htm), with the block of 10 and the numbers within the concealed
      envelopes, totally 100 patients with retained placenta will be divided into 2 groups to have
      either 100-200 microgram of IV, NTG or IV placebo. Due to unequal number of the cases
      enrolled in each centers, they will receive 10 envelopes for 10 cases (5 NTG and 5 placebo)
      at a time. When they finish the first 10 cases, they will start another 10 cases of the next
      set until all 10 sets has been started. Each of 5 centers might enroll the cases between 10
      to 40 cases up to their populations..

      Once a diagnosis of retained placenta has been made ( ≥ 30 min after delivery), Hematocrit
      will be checked and IV crystalloid solution 500 ml has been rapidly perfuse and noninvasive
      monitored included pulse oximetry, electrocardiogram and noninvasive blood pressure will be
      monitored.

      Patients with signs of hypovolemia ( SBP < 100 mmHg, or pulse > 100/min), or ASA
      classification > II will be excluded from the study.

      First step: In the treatment group, 100 microgram of NTG will be given and wait for 80
      seconds ( maximum relaxation effects of IV NTG)(5,6) before starting gently cord traction
      (1min). If the placenta can not be extracted, another 100 microgram NTG from the same syringe
      will be given and wait for another 80 seconds before starting another extraction (1min), If
      the placenta can not be extracted, it will be considered failed. In the placebo group, NSS
      will be used instead of NTG.

      Second step: To give a chance for patients in placebo group, another syringe with 200
      microgram will be given as in the first step for the placebo group. In the treatment group,
      NSS will be used instead of NTG. The outcome in the second step will not be included in the
      first step.( The solutions in both syringes which will be prepared by the research assistant
      who will not involve in the study, will be blinded to the patient, the obstetrician, the
      anesthesiologist and the investigator) General anesthesia will be used for manual removal of
      placenta in cases that placenta can not be extracted after the second step.

      Once the placenta had been delivered, oxytocin or ergometrine will be administered. Fentanyl
      50-100 microgram can be given if the cord traction is considered painful.

      Vital signs will be recorded before the first NTG bolus and thereafter at 1 min interval for
      5 min then every 2 min for 10 min then every 5 min. for 20 min(see the CRF).

      The patient will be followed up closely for 24 h postoperatively and Hct will be checked ,
      including the final results upon discharge home.
    
  