
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the external validity of a scale for emotional
      connection between children and their parents through a retrospective longitudinal study. The
      Welch Emotional Connection Scale (WECS) is a screen that allows healthcare providers to rate
      the emotional connection of a mother-child relationship in just a few minutes of observed
      interaction, and shows preliminary predictive properties when performed in the first year of
      the child's life. Administration of the WECS involves watching interactions of a child
      sitting face-to-face on a parent's lap, and scores the interaction on sliding scales in 4
      domains. During the WECS development, the Nurture Science Program of Columbia University
      Medical Center created and coded hours of parent-child interaction videos. This video data
      set will be used to determine how clinical WECS scores, where raters are familiar with
      mother-child dyads over time, compare to research WECS scores, where rate-rs are blinded to
      each case. The WECS scores of clinical coders, who are exposed to the same case at different
      time points, will be compared to blinded coders who see cases at just one time point. To
      simulate implementation of the WECS in a clinical setting, two primary care nurse
      practitioner (PNP) students who are trained in rating emotional connection will view videos
      to rate the emotional connection of mother-child dyads collected at different time points. To
      recreate WECS used in a research setting, blinded coders trained in rating emotional
      connection will rate the emotional connection of the same video data set. Each blinded coder
      will only view a dyad once, to not be influenced by previous time points of the same subject.
      The inter-rater reliability of the blinded and clinical coders will be determined. The
      comparison of inter-rater reliability scores between clinical and blinded coders is the main
      outcome of this study.
    
  