
    
      Study Groups:

      Dose Escalation Group:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a either
      Arm A or Arm B based when you joined this study, the disease type, and the drugs you have
      taken in the past. Up to 5 dose levels of the study drug will be tested in each arm. Up to 6
      participants will be enrolled in each dose level of arms A and B. The first group of
      participants in Arm A will receive the FDA approved dose of crizotinib plus the lowest dose
      level of dasatinib. The first group of participants in Arm B will receive the FDA approved
      dose of dasatinib plus the lowest dose level of crizotinib. Each new group will receive a
      higher dose of the study drug combination than the group before it, if no intolerable side
      effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of the study drug
      combination is found.

      The dose level of the study drug combination that you receive may be lowered if you have
      intolerable side effects.

      Dose Expansion Group:

      After the highest tolerable dose level of the study drug combination for each arm is found,
      up to 10 additional participants will be enrolled in the dose expansion group and will
      receive the highest dose of the study drug combination that was tolerated in the dose
      escalation group.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is 28 days.

      All participants will take dasatinib by mouth 1 time each day. You will take this drug alone
      on Day 1 of Cycle 1, before the first day you receive the study drug combination.

      Then starting on Day 2 of Cycle 1, you will begin taking crizotinib by mouth 1 time daily, 1
      time every other day, or 2 times daily depending on the dose level of the study drug you are
      assigned to. You should take dasatinib and crizotinib at least 1 hour before meals.

      Study Visits:

      You will have study visits on Days 1 and 15 of Cycle 1, and again before you begin each new
      cycle (once every 28 days). At each study visit, you will be asked about any drugs you may be
      taking and any side effects you may be having.

      Blood/Tumor Samples and Imaging Scans

      If you are in the dose expansion group:

        -  On Day 1 of each cycle, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for pharmacodynamic (PD)
           testing before your take the first dose of study drug. PD testing measures how the level
           of study drug in your body may affect the disease.

        -  If you are one of the first ten patients enrolled in your cohort, you will take
           Dasatinib only on your first day of treatment (Day -1 of Cycle 1). On Day -1 and on Day
           1 of Cycle 1, blood (about ½ teaspoon each time) will be drawn for pharmacokinetic (PK)
           testing before you take the drug and 1, 2, 4, and 8 hours after you take the drug. PK
           testing measures the amount of study drug in the body at different time points.

        -  If you are one of the first ten patients enrolled in your cohort, on Day 1 of Cycle 3
           and beyond, blood (about ½ teaspoon) will be drawn for PK testing before you take the
           study drug.

        -  If you are one of the first 10 patients enrolled in your cohort, you will have a biopsy
           at screening and after Cycle 1. The type of biopsy you have will be based on the type of
           disease you have. The procedure, and its risks, will be discussed with you in more
           detail.

      All study participants:

        -  On Week 3 of Cycle 1, blood (about 1 teaspoon) and urine will be collected for routine
           tests.

        -  On Day 28 of each cycle, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      During Week 4 of Cycle 2 and then every 2-3 cycles:

        -  You will have a CT scan, MRI scan, PET scan, and/or a bone scan to check the status of
           the disease. The actual type of scan you have will depend on what types of scans were
           taken at screening.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
           measure tumor markers.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if intolerable side effects
      occur or if you are unable to follow study directions. If the disease gets worse, you may be
      eligible to continue taking the study drug. The study doctor will discuss this with you.

      Your participation on the study will be over after you have completed the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within 30 days after your last dose of study drugs, you will have an end-of-study visit and
      the following tests and procedures performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and side effects you may be having.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
           measure tumor markers.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a chest x-ray, CT scan, MRI scan,
           and/or PET scan to check the status of the disease.
    
  