
    
      BACKGROUND:

      For decades excess sodium intake has been implicated in the etiopathogenesis of high blood
      pressure. Data from epidemiological, clinical, and animal experimental studies all suggest a
      direct casual association between excess salt intake and hypertension. Several investigators
      suggest that hypertension is the result of an inability of the kidney to excrete salt and
      water normally. It is hypothesized that the development of chronic blood pressure elevation
      results from the kidney's need to increase urine volume and sodium excretion -- in the
      presence of habitual high sodium intake -- in order to maintain homeostasis of the
      extracellular fluid volume.

      Diurnal variations in excretion of sodium, chloride, potassium and water have been observed
      in several studies. Water and electrolyte excretion in normal individuals generally reaches a
      maximum sometime around midday with a minimum toward the end of the sleep period. These
      studies suggest that the daytime excretion rate exceeds the nighttime rate by 50 to 100
      percent. Overnight urine collections have been used in many studies since they are easier to
      obtain, but they do not provide a direct estimate of the actual intake of sodium or
      potassium. In order to estimate actual intake, overnight values must be corrected to 24-hour
      values, that is, by multiplying the overnight values by previously determined ratios of
      24-hour to overnight excretions. Preliminary studies by this group of investigators in
      hypertensives were the first which computed 24-hour to overnight ratios for excretion of
      sodium, potassium and creatinine in a definite way. This study in hypertensives showed a
      reversal of the diurnal cycle of sodium excretion. What is not clear in this study and others
      is whether the reversal is associated with hypertension or reflects decreased renal function
      with age or whether deterioration of renal function is due to the kidney readjusting its
      output of salt and water to maintain homeostasis in the face of both an excess sodium intake
      and a highly variable day to day intake. In addition, it may be that an abnormal diurnal
      pattern of sodium excretion may indicate that one is at risk of development of hypertension.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Each participant provided three 24-hour urine collections, divided into daytime and overnight
      specimens for the assessment of sodium, potassium, creatinine, and water excretion. Four
      blood pressure measurements were made. Height and weight were measured. Information was
      collected on demographic variables, alcohol intake, history and treatment of blood pressure,
      medication use, family history of high blood pressure, cigarette use, and changes in dietary
      habits. Analysis of variance was the primary method of data analysis.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  