
    
      The workshop is a 6-week online workshop for caregivers of people with traumatic brain
      injury, post traumatic stress disorder, or dementia. It is being conducted jointly by the
      Stanford Patient Education Research Center and the VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System
      and is supported by a grant from the Department of Veterans Affairs, Patient Care Services,
      Office of Care Management and Social Work.

      The goal of the study is to determine whether an online caregiver education and support
      workshop can have lasting beneficial effects in helping caregivers improve their
      self-management of health skills, stress, and improve their caregiving abilities.

      This study is designed to enroll 120 participants living in California, Hawaii or Southern
      Nevada. Your participation in the workshop is expected to last six weeks, and the study will
      last 1 year.

      This workshop is aimed at helping you to better manage your own health and the demands placed
      on you because of caregiving.

      With the moderators and other workshop participants, you will discuss:

        -  Stress reduction

        -  Goal setting

        -  Maintaining your health

        -  Dealing with difficult emotions

        -  Handling difficult behaviors

        -  Better decision making

        -  Communicating better with health care professionals

        -  Communicating better with your friends, family and coworkers

      If you participate in the workshop, you will take it online with 20-25 other people like you
      who are caregivers for veterans with TBI, PTSD, or dementia, or are veterans giving care to
      someone with these disorders. Each week you will log on to the study web site at least three
      times for a total time per week of about 2 hours. The first time you log on each week should
      be on the first or second day of the workshop, but you may log on at any time you find
      convenient. You may log on as often as you wish and at any time during the week. There is no
      time when all of you must log on at the same time.

      Each week, you will be asked to read material on line, to complete activities on the web
      site, to make and share an action plan (for something you choose each week), to share your
      caregiving-related problems with others in your group, and most important of all, to help and
      support other group members with your experiences and wisdom. You will participate by using
      an anonymous screen name, and none of the other workshop members will know your real name.

      Everyone in the study will be asked to fill out 4 brief online questionnaires about your
      health, medical care, activities and mood. You will fill out one questionnaire now, one two
      months after the beginning of the workshop, and another one in six months, and one in one
      year. Each questionnaire will take about 30 minutes to complete. Shortly after the workshop,
      we may ask you to participate in an email discussion group designed to get your feedback
      about the workshop. For the follow up questionnaires at 2, 6 and 12 months after you start
      the workshop you will receive a $10 Amazon.com certificate for each questionnaire to
      compensate you for your time and effort.
    
  