
    
      Medical treatments and disease pathophysiology can result in prolonged immobilization that
      places hospitalized infants and children at risk for serious musculoskeletal complications
      including bone loss, fragility fractures, and muscle atrophy. Patients at the highest risk
      for inpatient fracture include premature infants, children with cerebral palsy, spinal cord
      injury, neuromuscular disorders (e.g., Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy or Spinal Muscular
      Atrophy), lengthy post-operative immobilization such as esophageal atresia (EA), and
      prolonged use of parenteral nutrition (PN). These fractures can result in significant
      discomfort, increase medical costs, may require surgical intervention, and may result in long
      term deleterious effects on musculoskeletal health.

      Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (O3PuFA) are important bio-mediators modulating bone
      formation and remodeling. We demonstrated that O3PuFA provide protection of bone
      microstructure by increasing the number of trabecular elements and subsequently strengthening
      the trabecular network in young mice. Human studies suggest an association between O3PuFA
      intake and increased bone mineral density (BMD) in adults, and we also demonstrated decreased
      fracture risk in infants. O3PuFA may reduce bone resorption by modulating inflammatory
      cytokines and inhibiting osteoclast differentiation and activity, and may also increase bone
      formation by increasing osteoblast differentiation and activity, which may provide the
      explanation for the observed skeletal benefits.

      In this study, we propose the use of intravenous O3PuFA (Omegaven® , Fresenius Kabi, Bad
      Hamburg Germany) administration for the prevention of musculoskeletal complications due to
      immobilization in infants. Boston Children's Hospital (BCH) has more than 15 years'
      experience with this O3PuFA product, having treated more than 250 infants and children.
      Omegaven is currently under review by the FDA for treatment of infants with PN-associated
      liver disease.

      The proposed study is a randomized, double blind clinical trial using comparing Omegaven®
      administration to the current standard of care (soybean-based lipid formulation, Intralipid®)
      on musculoskeletal health in high risk infants with EA admitted at BCH. Infants with EA have
      been observed to have dramatic bone loss and a very high fracture rate (over 40%) related to
      their prolonged post-operative immobilization; therefore, these patients represent the ideal
      model to evaluate this intervention. By targeting this particular patient population at such
      high risk for musculoskeletal complications and limited confounding factors, the effects of
      our intervention will have the highest probability of being identified if such a benefit does
      exist.

      In this pilot study, thirty-two infants with EA will be randomized to either treatment arm
      for a four-week treatment period. Safety outcomes will include regular laboratory monitoring
      as per routine standard of care. Efficacy outcomes will include (1) computed tomography (CT)
      of the bilateral distal femurs at baseline and at 4 weeks, which will provide skeletal
      outcomes including volumetric bone density, bone geometry, and bone strength estimates, (2)
      serum and urine markers of bone turnover, and (3) incidence of fracture in the post-operative
      period. All subjects will continue to receive treatments according to standard of care
      regardless of group assignment, including physical therapy, nutritionist consult, fracture
      precautions, and regular laboratory monitoring per discretion of the primary medical team.
    
  