
    
      Introduction According to research there is a positive link between physical activity and
      academic performance in children and young people, which means that exercise not only benefit
      physical health and well-being, but also cognition and performance in a learning context.
      However, developing and engaging in physical activity (PA) requires motivation and most
      importantly research shows that people who are intrinsically motivated are more likely to
      engage in PA consistently. When integrating PA in a school context the role of the teacher
      becomes crucial, as the teacher is responsible for developing and carrying out qualified PA
      activities. It is therefore important to understand the underlying factors of motivation -
      especially teachers' motivation for using PA as a tool for learning.

      There can be both potential and barriers for integrating PA in a learning context. A recent
      study from the University of Southern Denmark suggests that teachers are willing to implement
      PA, and that it can be, but not always is, meaningful to use in a school setting and as a
      tool for learning. Furthermore, a number of teachers believe that PA and PE activities have a
      positive impact on concentration and learning, however, they find it hard to integrate and
      carry out qualified PA activities with suitable learning objectives during school lessons.
      The study also suggests that implementing PA as a tool for learning depends on how much
      teachers know about the didactics in relation to using PA.

      With the implementation of The Danish School Reform in 2014, PA became a mandatory part of
      the school day, stating that all children must engage in at least 45 minutes of daily
      activity. The 45 minutes must either be part of the pupils learning process or separately
      from subject and lessons. It is, however, not stated in the reform what kind of activity, of
      what intensity, and at what time during the school day PA must be carried out. The reform is
      therefore open to interpretation and can be perceived by teachers in many ways. As a
      consequence schools and teachers carry out the 45 minutes of daily activity very differently
      - not only based on the lack of information in the Reform, but also based on their experience
      with and knowledge of PA. It is therefore important to examine and understand how teachers
      can be supported in the process of using PA as a tool for learning with particular focus on
      how to frame their learning process by using the theory of Scaffolding as an approach.

      Over all aim

      1) Analyse teachers' underlying factors of motivation for using PA as a learning tool using
      The Self Determination Theory (SDT), and 2) analyse how to support teachers' motivation by
      using the theory of scaffolding.

      This objective will be investigated through the following research questions:

        -  What type of motivation structures and patterns from The Self-Determination Theory occur
           when using PA as a tool for learning?

        -  How and why are elements such as didactics, the learning environment and professional
           identification important and furthermore how do they relate to teachers' motivation?

        -  How can motivation be supported and framed by using the theory of scaffolding?

      The goal is to: 1) Reach a systematic view and understanding of motivation by analysing how
      it affects teachers' use of PA as a tool for learning; 2) understand how to maintain and
      support motivation; 3) offer new and scientifically based knowledge for working with PA in a
      school context particularly for teachers responsible for developing and engaging in PA; and
      4) offer teachers an insight into their own motivation towards PA.

      Self-Determination Theory As a tool for analysing the patterns and structures of motivation
      The Self-Determination Theory (SDT) is used. The SDT is highly suitable when analysing
      underlying factors of motivation within an individual, and will be used as a starting point
      for understanding the elements of the teachers' motivation - both intrinsically and
      extrinsically.

      According to Deci and Ryan, who developed the model, all human motivation is based on three
      innate psychological needs: competence, autonomy and relatedness. In this theory the
      distinction between self-determined or autonomous and controlled types of motivation will
      offer a way of measuring structures and patterns related to the teachers motivation focusing
      on motivation as an psychological process. These different types of motivation (autonomous
      and controlled) reflect individual reasons for participating in activities: autonomous is
      defined as engaging in an activity because it is perceived to be consistent with intrinsic
      goals. In contrast, controlled means engaging in an activity for external reasons such as
      rewards or approval from others. The model offers four types of extrinsic motivation:
      external, introjected, identified and integrated. These four types of extrinsic motivation
      are viewed as a motivation process from external to internal regulation. Using these four
      types of extrinsic motivation, it is possible to understand what kind of motivation patterns
      and structures occur when using PA and furthermore enable a nuanced look at teachers'
      intrinsic or extrinsic motivation for using PA as a tool for learning.

      Scaffolding motivation- and learning processes By using elements from the scaffolding theory,
      it is examined how to support and maintain motivation in a learning process where PA is
      implemented. The method was originally developed as a way of examining children's learning
      processes, however, in previous research on this area, it was found that scaffolding teachers
      is equally important as scaffolding children in a learning process - especially when the
      learning process is new. The approach or method of scaffolding is basically a way of framing
      and supporting a learning process dividing it into six levels. Wood, Bruner and Ross pointed
      out that all learning processes require some sort of scaffolding where a more competent
      person offers support in the learning process using the appropriate amount of structure and
      guidance. By using this method, it is possible to point out how and where to support teachers
      in the process of developing and integrating PA and furthermore to point out, based on the
      findings from the SDT, how to support and more importantly to maintain teachers motivation
      for using PA as a tool for learning. In this sense the teacher is viewed as the learner
      undergoing a learning process. Inspired by the Russian psychologist Lev Vygotski's theory of
      The Zone of Proximal Development, Wood, Bruner & Ross identified six levels of scaffolding.
      The six levels are: 1) Recruitment - gaining the interest from the learner; 2) Reduction in
      the degrees of freedom - simplifying the task; 3) Direction maintenance - keeping the learner
      on track; 4) Marking of critical features - marking the relevant and irrelevant parts of the
      task; 5) Frustration control - offering support and guidance; and 6) Demonstration - showing
      the learner the solution.

      Research design The research design in this Ph.D. project uses mixed methods and is based on
      the methods mentioned below. Applying these different types of both quantitative and
      qualitative methods, it is possible to examine and analyse the objectives from different
      angles making sure that the point of data saturation is reached and at the same time answer
      the over all aim and research questions. This Ph.D. project does not contain a comparative
      study, but instead focus on gaining a deep insight into what is at stake regarding teachers'
      motivation after the implementation of the Danish School Reform.

        1. A thorough literature review based on current national and international literature will
           be carried out. This will be conducted in accordance to the key research questions of
           this project.

        2. Survey: A survey will provide a basic knowledge of teachers' motivation and furthermore
           give the opportunity to define teachers' motivation based on the SDT. The questionnaire
           will be distributed to minimum 500 teachers in Denmark, who will be selected from a
           variety of Danish Public Schools based on the following criteria: Size, location, and
           socio-demographics.

           The sample will consist of key respondents (teachers) that potentially will provide the
           data that will make it possible to answer the main objectives of this Ph.D. project and
           at the same time make sure that maximum variation is obtained. Teachers will therefore
           be selected based on the following differentiation, where teachers from both categories
           are needed: Age, gender, subject, class and experience.

           The questionnaire will be based on the The Work Task Motivation Scale for Teachers
           (WTMST).

        3. Based on the knowledge gained from the questionnaires, where it is defined how the
           selected teachers are motivated in-depth interviews will be conducted with 10 teachers.
           The sample will consist of teachers that show different levels of both intrinsic and
           extrinsic motivation in accordance to the SDT and picked from the survey.
    
  