
    
      Single centred randomised controlled trial with subjects recruited from a hospital
      orthodontic outpatient department in Dundee Dental Hospital.

      If informed consent is obtained, then the subject details will be delivered to the trial
      coordinator for randomisation to one of the groups, NSAIDs or acupressure group.

      All subjects who are eligible for inclusion will be advised of the nature and purpose of the
      trial. The total number of subjects recruited will be approximately 36 with the acupressure
      and NSAID group containing approximately 18 subjects each.

      All subjects who meet the inclusion criteria will be informed of the study and written
      consent sought for their participation. Subjects will be recruited from the new patient
      clinics and routine treatment waiting list. .

      The subjects will be asked to measure the level and duration of pain and discomfort using a
      pain diary to record their experiences using visual analogue scales (VAS). The pain diary
      will be completed from 4 hours to 7 days after treatment after the insertion of the first
      orthodontic aligning archwire.

      Intervention Groups In the acupressure group the subjects will be given an advice sheet and
      advised to use a definitive acupressure point on the back of the hand region to control
      orthodontic pain.

      In the NSAID group the subjects will be given an advice sheet and advised to take Ibuprofen
      for the orthodontic pain

      Pain scores via VAS will be analysed at 4hours, 24 hours, and 7 days after the orthodontic
      treatment. The VAS consists of a horizontal line, 100 mm in length with descriptive words at
      each end of the line which act as anchors e.g. no pain, great pain. The patient marks on the
      line the point that they feel represents their perception of their current state. The VAS
      score is determined by measuring in millimetres from the left hand end of the line to the
      point that the patient marks
    
  