
    
      ACTG 388 was designed to evaluate two four-drug regimens compared with a three-drug regimen
      in patients who were relatively treatment naive. Based on the increased complexity and
      toxicity of four-drug regimens and the resultant negative impact on response as compared with
      three-drug regimens, studies evaluating simplified potent regimens appear warranted. This
      study will evaluate simpilified drug regimens designed to enhance virologic activity without
      necessarily increasing the number of antiretroviral drugs. The study regimens will be
      assessed for both virologic control and tolerability. The study population will include
      patients previously enrolled in ACTG 388 and patients with prior advanced HIV disease who
      received and responded to potent antiretroviral therapy without evidence of virologic
      relapse.

      Patients will be stratified according to ACTG 388 treatment or non-ACTG 388 study
      participation. Patients will then be randomized to receive either a protease inhibitor
      (PI)-sparing regimen of 2 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) with efavirenz
      (EFV) (Arm I) or an NRTI-sparing regimen of EFV with lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) (Arm II).
      Arm I options are enteric-coated didanosine (ddI-EC) plus lamivudine (3TC), ddI-EC plus
      zidovudine (ZDV), ZDV plus 3TC (or Combivir), stavudine (d4T) plus 3TC, or ddI-EC plus d4T
      (with exceptions as noted in the protocol). Only LPV/r, EFV, d4T, and ddI are provided by the
      study; other medications are obtained by nonstudy prescription.

      All patients are evaluated for safety and for virologic and immunologic responses at Weeks 4
      and 8, then every 8 weeks until the study ends. In addition, all patients have assessments
      for fat redistribution, fasting lipid profiles, fasting insulin levels, venous lactate
      levels, and treatment adherence. Patients will be followed for 1.5 to 3 years. Interim safety
      analyses will be conducted in June 2002 and June 2003. Patients in this study may also enroll
      in A5125s, a fat distribution and bone mineral density substudy.
    
  