
    
      Day 1 Study Visit:

      If you are found eligible to take part in this study, the following tests and procedures will
      be performed on Day 1 (the same day you complete the screening tests and sign this consent
      form):

        -  You will be asked to complete some computer-based questionnaires or paper/pencil
           questionnaires that will include questions about your feelings, moods, and smoking
           status. These will take 60-90 minutes to complete.

        -  You will have your height, weight, and waistline measured.

        -  Your blood pressure will be measured by a trained research staff member

        -  You will complete a breath test to help researchers estimate (guess) the amount of
           cigarette smoke you inhale. The breath test uses a disposable cardboard tube that is
           attached to a machine, and you will be asked to blow a long, slow, steady breath into
           it.

        -  You will be given an accelerometer to wear for 7 days. An accelerometer is a small
           device that is worn on the waistline of your pants that measures your level of physical
           activity. After 7 days, you will be asked to "turn off" and mail back the accelerometer
           using a prepaid envelope provided by the study staff.

        -  You will give a saliva sample at this visit. To collect the saliva sample, you will
           place a piece of cotton in your mouth for 3 minutes. The saliva sample is used to check
           the amount of cotinine in the body. Cotinine is a chemical that is produced in your
           saliva when your body breaks down nicotine.

      Study Groups and Study Procedures:

      At the Day 1 study visit, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) into 1 of
      2 study groups. There is an equal chance of being assigned to either group.

      Participants in both groups will receive health education on Day 1, and again 6 and 12 months
      later. You can also ask to receive a 6-week supply of nicotine patches, whenever you are
      ready to try to quit smoking and a home-based exercise kit when you are ready to begin an
      exercise program.

      At the Day 1 health education session, the following will take place:

        -  You will have a brief counseling session with a study staff member to talk about
           smoking, diet, and your physical activity level.

        -  You will be offered referrals to available resources for help with your smoking
           cessation, diet, and physical activity.

        -  You will be given a home-based exercise kit, along with self-help materials that are
           designed to help you learn how to quit smoking and how to improve your diet and physical
           activity.

      At the Months 6 and 12 health education sessions, the Day 1 activities will be repeated, and
      the following procedures will also take place:

        -  You will complete a computer-based or paper/pencil questionnaire about your mood, diet,
           and physical activity. This will take 60-90 minutes to complete.

        -  Your weight and waistline will be measured.

        -  You will complete a breath test. The breath test uses a disposable cardboard tube that
           is attached to a machine, and you will be asked to blow a long, slow, steady breath into
           it.

        -  You will give a saliva sample. To collect the saliva sample, you will place a piece of
           cotton in your mouth for 3 minutes. The saliva sample is used to check the amount of
           cotinine in the body. Cotinine is a chemical that is produced in your saliva when your
           body breaks down nicotine.

        -  You will be given an accelerometer to wear for 7 days. After 7 days, you will mail back
           the accelerometer using a prepaid envelope provided by the study staff.

      You will also have a follow-up study visit at Month 18. During this visit, the same
      procedures from the Month 12 visit will be performed. However, you will not have a health
      education session at Month 18.

      Wellness Program:

      In addition to the health education visits and materials, participants in Group 2 will also
      take part in the wellness program. For the wellness program, you will receive 18 counseling
      phone calls over the 18 months you are on study. Each of these phone calls should last about
      20-30 minutes.

      The telephone counseling sessions will be digitally recorded. Audio recordings will be erased
      once the data have been published. The recordings will be used to help the researchers make
      sure that the counselors are following the correct procedures and may be used in the future
      to help the researchers better understand or improve the counseling treatment. No one but the
      researchers and their staff will be allowed to view or listen to the recordings, and the
      identity of the participants will be kept strictly confidential. Your study identification
      number will be stated by the counselor at the beginning of the taped session. The recordings
      are stored digitally, encrypted, and password protected.

      Questionnaire Data:

      Your questionnaire data will be used for research purposes only. Your responses will not be
      shared with your doctor. If you feel you need a doctor's opinion about anything that is asked
      about in the questionnaires (such as mental or emotional difficulties or symptoms), please
      contact either your personal doctor or the study chair.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on the study for up to 18 months. Your participation on this part of the
      study will be over once you complete the study visit at Month 18.

      Other Important Information:

        -  You may be contacted by phone, mail, and/or email at any time while you are taking part
           in this study to be reminded about the study visits. You will be asked to give the study
           chair the names and contact information for family members and/or friends that the study
           staff can contact if they cannot reach you.

        -  If the accelerometer is lost or stolen, you will not be responsible for the replacement
           cost, but you should tell the study chair right away.

      This is an investigational study. The nicotine patch is FDA approved and commercially
      available. Up to 500 participants overall will take part in this research study. Up to 400
      participants will take part in this portion of the study. All will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson.
    
  