
    
      This study aims to evaluate a standardized procedure of medical regulation based on a
      validated predictive score of eminent delivery (SPIA) in comparison with usual inhomogeneous
      practices. It will therefore focus on the issues of medical regulation at SAMU - Center 15.
      The goal of the regulator is to provide the right care in situations of constrained medical
      resources, that is to say the need to bring the right answer in the most appropriate time and
      to direct the parturient in the structure which is the most adapted. Currently, very few
      studies are conducted in this area. However, maternal and fetal morbidity out off medical
      presence exists and deserves special attention. Unexpected childbirth outside a maternity
      ward is an emergency for the mother and the child, with maternal-fetal excess mortality 2 to
      3 times higher. In this area, the modalities of response to the call - after assessment by
      the regulator of the foreseeable delay of delivery - are very unequal in France. The
      hypothesis of this study is that a decision-making aid using score SPIA will provide better
      management by reducing the risk of delivery without the presence of a doctor or midwife.

      The expected benefits for the patients are a decrease in the maternal-fetal morbidity and
      mortality, an adapted orientation of the patient according to the foreseeable delay before
      delivery. This is to avoid the patient's referral to a maternity ward that is not her own
      when it is not necessary - that is, an orientation in a maternity ward that is inappropriate
      for her condition and / or with a risk of delivery outside maternity. Finally, another
      expected benefit is the patient delivery in the presence of a doctor and / or midwife.

      The expected benefits for public health are an adapted sending of means, principle of the
      "just care" and the good use of the medical resources, to avoid the situations of deficiency
      of SMUR following an inappropriate sending (accessibility of the offer of care) and improved
      practices, without additional cost to public health (improve the efficiency of the UAS
      regulation - Center 15).
    
  