
    
      Clinical improvement is monitored by telephone/email and or E-mail up to 3 years after FMT.
      Minor clinical management of the subject with over the counter medication (e.g. loperamide,
      acetaminophen and Saccharomyces boulardii [probiotic]) will be performed in the case of mild
      diarrhea and abdominal pain.

      All subjects will be followed up by phone the day after FMT to assess health status during
      week one. Study subjects will be monitored on approximately days 7, 14 and 30, monthly for
      the first 3 month and quarterly for 3 years after FMT, at which time the recipient diary will
      be reviewed with the recipient to review any adverse experience or medication taken since the
      medical history obtained at FMT.

      Investigators should determine if any adverse experience or medication need to be further
      studied. Donor will be contacted and tested if it is necessary. All actions will be recorded
      on with medical condition, dates of adverse experience and medication taken, indication for
      new medication taken, and total daily dose.

      Recipients should be instructed at FMT to contact the Investigator if they have any questions
      regarding adverse experience or the appropriateness of a medication after FMT.

      The following definitions of terms are guided by the International Conference of
      Harmonization and US Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR 312.32).

      An adverse experience is any unfavorable or unintended sign, symptom, of disease temporally
      associated with FMT procedure, whether or not considered related to the procedure, including,
      but not limited to:

        -  Any symptom not previously reported by the recipients (Recent Medical History)

        -  An exacerbation of a pre-existing illness, increases in the frequency and/or severity of
           the signs or symptoms of CDAD (defined as positive C. difficile toxin test and enteric
           symptoms)

        -  A significant increase in frequency or intensity of a pre-existing episodic event or
           condition

        -  A condition first detected or diagnosed after study drug administration even through the
           condition may have been present before the procedure Details of all adverse experiences
           that occur after FMT through approximately day 90 visit will be collected as indicated
           above. Then the subject will be followed on quarterly basis for 3 years about their CDAD
           and other medical concerns

      Serious adverse experience is any adverse experience that:

        -  Results in death

        -  Is life threatening (at immediate risk of death from the procedure as it occurred)

        -  Requires inpatient hospitalization (overnight stay) or prolongs a current
           hospitalization

        -  Causes a persistent or significant disability/incapacity

        -  Medical important (any event that requires medical or surgical intervention to prevent
           one of the outcomes listed above) The investigator will exercise medical and scientific
           judgment when deciding whether expeditious reporting is appropriate in other situations
           not strictly meeting the listed criteria above. The investigators will meet/discuss with
           experts in the field if there is a question of whether the adverse experience would be
           considered serious.

      Severity - The adverse experience will be documented on the appropriate page in the Patient
      Diary according to the following descriptors:

        -  Mild: associated with no limitation of usual activities or only slight discomfort

        -  Moderate: associated with limitation of usual activities or significant discomfort

        -  Severe: associated with inability to carry out usual activities or very marked
           discomfort

      Relationship - the relationship of adverse experience to FMT will be assigned by the
      Investigator according to the following definitions:

        -  Probable: a reaction that follows a reasonable temporal sequence from the procedure that
           follows a known or expected response pattern to the suspected procedure and that could
           not be reasonably explained by the known characteristics of that patient's clinical
           state

        -  Possible: a reaction that follows a reasonable temporal sequence from the procedure that
           follows a known or expected response pattern to the procedure but could readily have
           been produced by a number of other factors

        -  Unlikely: a reaction that does not follow a reasonable temporal sequence from the
           procedure but for which causality from FMT cannot be ruled out.

        -  Not related: a reaction for which sufficient data exist to indicate that the etiology is
           unrelated to the procedure Pre-existing signs and symptoms and medical conditions
           Medical conditions that are present at or before the procedure that manifest with the
           same severity or frequency will not be recorded as adverse experience. Similarly, signs
           or symptoms related to a pre-existing disease will not be recorded as adverse experience
           unless there is an increase in the severity or frequency of the signs or symptoms. These
           pre-existing conditions, signs, or symptoms will be recorded on the Recent Medical
           History Form.

      Progression of underlying conditions as an adverse experience

      If the progression of the underlying condition might be reasonably anticipated given the
      nature and severity of the underlying condition, then the progression of the underlying
      condition per se will not constitute an adverse experience. However, if the progression of
      the underlying condition is fatal, then the progression of the underlying condition should be
      reported as an adverse experience.

      Recording and documenting adverse experience

      The Investigator must completely and promptly record each new adverse experience and serious
      adverse experience, even if the relationship of adverse experience to the procedure is
      assessed by the Investigator to be "unlikely" or "not related". In addition, the investigator
      must document and follow serious adverse experiences that occur from the procedure through 3
      years after the FMT. The Investigator should attempt, if possible, to establish a diagnosis
      based on the presenting signs and symptoms. If an adverse experience meets the definition of
      a serious adverse experience then the Investigator must also complete the serious adverse
      experience, and also send any supporting source documents directly to the University of Texas
      Health Science Center IRB as soon as the event is discovered. At each visit, after the
      patient has had an opportunity to mention any problems spontaneously, the Investigator (or
      designee) will inquire about adverse experience by asking the standard questions listed in,
      such as:

        -  Have you had any medical problems since your last visit?

        -  Have any medical problems present at your last visit changed, i.e., stopped, worsened,
           or improved?

        -  Have you taken any new medicines, other than study drug, since your last visit? Any
           spontaneous adverse experience information provided by the patient will be reported. If
           an adverse experience has not resolved at the time of the Final Visit, the Investigator
           should evaluate the status of the adverse experience at the Follow-Up telephone/email
           contact (day 60) and update to reflect the status of the adverse experience (e.g.
           ongoing or resolved).

      Investigator reporting of serious adverse experience All serious adverse experience must be
      reported to the University of Texas Health Science IRB using the serious adverse experience
      facsimile or email or by telephone/email as soon as the serious adverse experience is
      discovered, and within 24 hours after the Investigator recognizes or classifies the event as
      a serious adverse experience. A brief description of the event must be provided at the time
      of the initial serious adverse experience report. The initial serious adverse experience
      report should be followed up by additional information using the serious adverse experience
      within 48 hours. The reports should identify the patient by their unique patient number
      instead of names. The completed serious adverse experience Form will be used by the
      investigators in regulatory filings. The investigator is responsible for continuing to report
      to the University of Texas Health Science IRB any new or relevant follow-up information
      obtained concerning the serious adverse experience. The results of any additional assessments
      conducted must be also reported to the University of Texas Health Science IRB.

      Notification of post-study serious adverse experience Investigators are not obligated to
      actively seek follow-up information for patients with adverse experience after the conclusion
      of the study (i.e., > 3 years after the FMT procedure). However, if the investigator becomes
      aware of an adverse experience that occurs after the patient completes and the adverse
      experience is considered by the Investigator to be at least possibly related to study
      procedure, the investigator must notify the University of Texas Health Science Center IRB.
    
  