
    
      Patients with cutaneous tumors undergoing excision of either a biopsy-proven or a suspected
      cutaneous malignancy in the head and neck area were between April 2010 and November 2011
      included in the trial. Patients were not included if they were less than 18 years old or if
      skin flaps or grafts were used. For patients with several cutaneous changes removed at the
      same time each excision was registered separately. The excisions were performed by 11
      surgeons. Four surgeons performed 66% of all the procedures.

      The assisting nurse documented data in a standardized form at wound closure. Patient factors
      such as age, sex, diabetes and corticoid treatment was recorded. The width and the length of
      the skin excision were measured, the number of sutures placed in the wound was counted and
      the size of the needle was documented. Whether wound edges were undermined or not, whether
      the excision was oriented in the natural skin tension line and whether subcuticular sutures
      were used or not was recorded. Skin closure was with monofilament nylon (Ehilon®) sutures
      (size 5.0 or 6.0). After the sutures were placed, adhesive tapes were placed perpendicular to
      the wound edges. The location of each wound was marked on a cartoon for later use at follow
      up. Patients were randomized in blocks of 8 to removal of sutures after either 7 or 14 days.
      Randomization was by opening sealed envelopes after wound closure.Thus the surgeons were
      blinded to the suture removal time.

      All Participants received written information about wound care on which they were instructed
      not to wet the wound for 48 hour after the operation. After that they could take showers but
      not take baths until the sutures were removed. After suture removal new adhesive tapes were
      placed in the same manner as before and participants were informed to leave these in place
      for at least 7 days and also to protect the scar from sunlight for at least 6 months. For
      practical reasons patients with several excisions were randomized to one suture removal time.
      Sutures were removed at the surgical department conducting the trial.

      Photographs were taken at one and twelve months after skin closure. Photographs of the wounds
      were taken in a standardized fashion at one month follow up by using a Canon EOS 550 by a
      research assistent. At the twelve month follow up the scar width was measured at three points
      in the scar and a mean value was calculated. The photographs at the twelve month follow up
      were taken by a professional photographer using Canon EOS Mark 2.

      The images were assessed by two blinded otorhinolaryngologist an one blinded plastic surgeon
      all three stationed at University Hospitals. Each image was rated twice. A validated visual
      analogue scale (VAS) for overall cosmesis was used. The VAS is a 100-mm line with 0
      representing the worst cosmetic outcome possible and 100 representing the best possible
      result. The minimum clinically important difference (MCID) of the 100-mm VAS is 10-25 mm.
      Using the line as a continuous entity, the surgeons marked the line, where it in their
      opinion best reflected the overall cosmetic outcome. The score was then measured in
      millimeters from the 0 point. Raters were instructed to take into account variables such as
      scar width, contour irregularities, step-off borders and presence of inflammation. Raters
      were also asked to note (twice) whether they noticed puncture marks in the scars or not.

      This study had a power of 90% to discriminate with a MCID of 15-mm on the VAS for which 37
      patients/scars were required in each group (p=0.05). This was based on using a standard
      deviation of 19.4 in a previous study using the VAS. Statistical analysis was performed with
      computer software (Microsoft Excel 2011 and SPSS) together with a statistician from the
      Department of Research and Development at Sundsvall hospital.

      Ethical committee approval was granted for the study, and informed written consent was
      obtained before patient participation. The study was conducted at an Otorhinolaryngology
      division of the Surgical Center at Sundsvall Hospital receiving referrals from the
      dermatology division, primary health sector and private practicing otorhinolaryngologists
      (ORLs).
    
  