
    
      Huperzine A improves cognitive function by inhibiting the enzyme acetylcholinesterase. This
      enzyme is responsible for the degradation of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. inhibition
      of acetylcholinesterase may allow for greater availability of acetylcholine, which may allow
      for better nerve conduction and therefore enhanced cognitive function and possibly muscular
      contraction.

      Huperzine A (200 mcg, Swanson®, Fargo, North Dakota) and placebo capsules will be
      administered in a single oral dose. The dose of Huperzine A to be used is comparable to
      previous research (Xu et al, 2011). Placebo capsules will consist of rice flour. The
      participants will ingest the capsules with 250 mL of water 30-45 minutes before exercise is
      initiated.

      A paired-sample t-test with alpha set to p ≤ 0.05 for statistical significance will be used
      to analyze the data. Outcomes measured during the first and second experimental sessions will
      be compared to each other. The participants will be compared to themselves during previous
      sessions, so a paired sample t-test will be used to calculate the difference between the
      sessions. Data will be presented as means ± SE. Data analyses will be performed with
      Microsoft Excel; and other analyses may be performed as needed to gain further insights about
      the data.

      A statistical power analysis was performed (G*Power software, version 3.1.5, University of
      Kiel, University of Dusseldorf, and University of Mannheim, 157 Germany) based on the
      following inputs: two-tailed paired t-test, alpha=0.05, desired power=0.80, sample size=15
      subjects. The results indicated that a standardized effect size of 0.78 (i.e. large effect)
      will be detectable. As many as 20 subjects will be recruited and enrolled to ensure that
      complete data on 15 subjects are available in the event of screen fails and dropouts.
    
  