
    
      Ocular biometry is the act of measuring the geometric properties of the eye, in particular
      distances between and thicknesses of the visual axis of the cornea, lens and retina, as well
      as curvature of the anterior cornea. These measurements are used mainly to determine implant
      type and dimensions for cataract surgery.

      Corneal topography is the act of measuring the shape of the cornea, in particular of the
      anterior cornea, but, depending on the device and the application, also of the posterior
      cornea, as well as the distance between the anterior to the posterior of the cornea. These
      measurements can be used in the context of ocular biometry, but are also useful for many
      other applications where knowledge of the optical and structural properties of the cornea are
      of interest.

      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a well-established imaging modality in ophthalmology.
      It uses interferometry to obtain a scattering profile of the eye along the direction of
      propagation of a laser beam which is directed onto the eye. In analogy to ultrasound imaging,
      this scattering profile is called A-Scan. By laterally translating the measurement beam,
      several A-scans can be combined to form a 2-dimensional image or 3-dimensional (3D) tomogram
      of the eye. The main use of OCT is the cross-sectional imaging of the retina or the cornea,
      primarily for diagnostic purposes[4]. Recently, anterior segment OCT has also been used for
      corneal topography[5], as well as for biometry and cross-sectional imaging along the entire
      length of the eye[6].

      EYESTAR 900 is a device developed by Haag-Streit which utilises 3D OCT for quantitative
      measurements of the geometry of the entire eye, including ocular biometry and corneal
      topography. CE approval for EYESTAR 900 with software version i9.4.0.0 is pending and
      expected before the start of this clinical trial.

      The development of this device has been continued, and the following additions have been made
      in software version i9.5.1.0 used for this clinical study with respect to the software
      version i9.4.0.0:

        -  Extended corneal topography: corneal topography can be evaluated over an extended area
           (diameter of trajectory d=13mm with respect to d=8.6mm in "standard corneal
           topography").

        -  Irregularity segmentation: segmentation methods (identification of corneal surfaces)
           used in corneal topography now incorporate an improved algorithm for segmentation of
           irregular corneal surfaces.

        -  Irregularity visualization: visualization of topography maps has been supplemented by an
           overlay of regions with irregular corneal surfaces.

        -  Zone-based keratometry: visualization of topography maps has been further supplemented
           by an overlay of local keratometry values (power and axes of flat and steep meridians in
           the centre, middle and outer corneal surface).

        -  Crystalline lens tilt: the tilt of the crystalline lens normal vector with respect to
           the visual axis can be visualized and quantified.

      Both irregularity visualization and zone-based keratometry are applicable to corneal
      topography data acquired with the standard corneal topography protocol, as well as corneal
      topography acquired over the extended area (diameter 13mm, extended corneal topography).

      The primary objective of this clinical trial is to assess the clinical performance of
      extended corneal topography using irregularity segmentation, standard corneal topography
      using irregularity segmentation and crystalline lens tilt. To that end, for each measurand,
      the in-vivo repeatability will be quantified. For "standard corneal topography" and "extended
      corneal topography", the limits of agreement and the mean measurement deviation, with respect
      to three comparators are analyzed.

      As a secondary objective of the study, raw measurement data will be collected to allow for
      the improvement of existing algorithms, development of additional measurands and for
      retrospective analysis.

      Examinations with EYESTAR 900 and the other study devices are non-contact examinations. No
      diseases are studied as part of this study.
    
  