
    
      Hospitalized patients with chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) are at high risk of venous leg
      ulcers (VLU) due to lower leg edema and skin changes. Since VLU are associated with prolonged
      morbidity and appreciable financial burden to the patient and society, prevention of VLU by
      reduction of lower leg edema is paramount. Although the mainstay of VLU prevention is
      compression, there is a gap in the acute care toolbox to manage the symptom of CVI edema.
      Currently, ACE bandages are the single most common 'compression wraps' stocked on inpatient
      units. The disadvantages of ace wraps, which are long-stretch bandages, are two-fold: 1)
      lower working pressure impeding venous return to the heart, and 2) higher resting pressure
      that may cause a tourniquet effect and consequent tissue ischemia. A newer moderately-priced
      mild compression product (15-20 mmHg), EdemaWear速 longitudinal elastic compression stockinet,
      offers an alternative for hospitalized patients. There is limited evidence about the
      effectiveness of EdemaWear速 (that is, modest reduction of lower leg edema) derived from one
      case series and two comparative evaluations involving only patients in out-patient clinics.
      This pilot study will expand the evidence related to the effectiveness of EdemaWear速 in
      reducing lower leg edema to include hospitalized patients with CVI. .

      The proposed pilot interventional study which involves a single-group repeated measures
      design with mixed methods has three aims:

        1. evaluate the effectiveness of EdemaWear fuzzy wale elastic compression stockinet in
           reducing lower extremity edema in hospitalized adult patients with chronic venous
           insufficiency as measured by the difference in the volume of each lower extremity from
           Day 1 and Day 5 of data collection or the day of discharge if it occurs in less than
           five days

        2. determine through interviews the experience of patients continuously wearing EdemaWear
           compression garment for up to five days or hospital discharge if it occurs in less than
           five days

        3. qualitatively describe nurses' perceptions of their patients experience with
           continuously wearing EdemaWear compression garment for up to five days or hospital
           discharge if it occurs in less than five days

      The procedure:

        -  Initial data collection related to demographic variables (age, gender, race, ethnic
           background), primary diagnosis, comorbid conditions (Charlson Comorbidity Index), CEAP
           classification of chronic venous disease, medication / treatment regimen, degree of
           lower extremity edema, volume of lower leg peripheral pulses, ankle-brachial indexes

        -  Daily data collection related to changes in health status and treatment

        -  Daily measurement of the girth of both lower extremities at 10 cm intervals from
           mid-foot, up the legs, to just below the knees.

        -  Daily interviews of patient and nursing staff related to experience of continuously
           wearing EdemaWear for up to five days or hospital discharge if it occurs in less than
           five days

      Data analysis:

      - Descriptive statistics will be performed on demographic and physiological variables,
      including number / percent for nominal variables and mean (+SD) for continuous variables.
      Data will be analyzed to decide whether they meet the assumptions of the planned analyses.
      Repeated measures ANOVA will be used to determine whether there are significant differences
      in the volume of the lower legs treated with EdemaWear速 across the five time periods. The
      alpha level will be set at p < .05.

      Qualitative data from daily interviews of patients and nursing staff will be analyzed by

        -  the PI and Co-Is of this study. Content analysis will be used to analyze the data. The
           unit of analysis will be phrases or sentences contained in responses to questions in the
           Interview Guides. Content Analysis is a qualitative research method that is used to
           isolate and interpret themes, issues, and repeated patterns. They refine understanding
           as new insights about the data emerge. The strategies for analysis outlined by Downe -
           Wamboldt will be followed.
    
  