
    
      Primary Hypothesis: There is no difference in failure rate between patients receiving
      anterior chamber or posterior chamber intraocular lenses following vitreous loss in
      extracapsular cataract extraction (ECCE).

      Secondary Hypothesis: None

      Intervention: 1) Anterior chamber intraocular lens, 2) Posterior chamber intraocular lens.

      Primary Outcome: Failure defined as best corrected visual acuity less than 20/40 one year
      following ECCE.

      Study Abstract: Extracapsular cataract surgery with posterior chamber intraocular lens
      implantation is one of the most common and most successful of surgical procedures. In the
      United States alone approximately 1.4 million cataract extractions were performed in 1990. Of
      these the overwhelming majority do well. However, the principal complication, vitreous loss,
      occurs in about 5% of cases. It is often sight-limiting.

      Placement of an intraocular lens in the presence of vitreous loss is controversial. The
      standard approach following anterior vitrectomy usually involves placement of an anterior
      chamber intraocular lens (AC IOL). However, it has been suggested that implantation of a
      posterior chamber intraocular lens (PC IOL) in many of these patients is not only possible,
      but preferable.

      In this study, eligible patients were VA patients who had vitreous loss during attempted
      ECCE. At each occurrence of vitreous loss, the patients were randomly assigned to have an AC
      IOL or PC IOL. Patient recruitment was terminated early with 438 patients enrolled in 15
      centers. Patients were followed to the completion of at least one-year follow-up.

      An ?Index Group?of 500 patients without vitreous loss also was followed according to study
      protocol. These patients will be compared to those in the PC and AC IOL groups with respect
      to outcome and baseline characteristics in order to assess the effect of vitreous loss on
      complication rates.

      Results: More PC IOL patients (91%) achieved visual acuity of 20/40 or better at one year
      than AC IOL patients (79%). A highly significant difference (p=0.003). There was no
      significant difference between the two groups for patients' rating of vison or adverse
      events. Over 84% of the PC IOL patients and over 77% of the AC IOL patients rated their
      vision as good or better at one year as opposed to only 7% giving such ratings prior to
      surgery. For at least one rating period during the first year, 13.2% of the combined study
      patients had cystoid macular edema, 8.5% had posterior capsule opacification, 5.7% had
      glaucoma, and 3.7% had retinal detachment.

      Conclusion: In the presence of sufficient capsular support, a PC IOL should be implanted
      after vitreous presentation during ECCE.

      Collins JF, Krol WF, Gaster RN, Colling CL, Kirk GF, Smith TJ - A Comparison of Anterior
      Chamber and Posterior Chamber IOL's after Vitreous Loss during Cataract Surgery. The VA
      Cooperative Cataract Study. American Journal of Ophthalmology. 136:1-9, 2003

      Collins JF, Krol WF, Kirk GF, Gaster, RN - The Effect of Vitreous Presentation During
      Extracapsular Cataract Surgery on the Postoperative Visual Acuity at One Year. American
      Journal of Ophthalmology. 138:536-542, 2004

      Collins, JF, Gaster,RN, Krol,WF and the VA Cooperative Cataract Study Group. Outcomes in
      Patients Having Vitreous Presentation During Cataract Surgery Who Lack Capsular Support for a
      Nonsutured PC IOL. American Journal of Ophthalmology, Vol 141:71-78, 2006
    
  