
    
      The colour of gingiva has a tremendous impact on the esthetics of the smile. Clinically
      gingival melanin hyperpigmentation is presented as 'black gum' which is common esthetic
      problem especially for those who have gummy smile. Currently the growing aesthetic concerns
      among the patients require the removal of hyper pigmented gingival areas to create an
      aesthetically-pleasant smile. The harmony of the smile is determined not only by the shape,
      position and colour of the teeth or lips as well as by the by the gingival tissues.Several
      attempts have been made for removal of gingival pigmentation by different techniques like
      scalpel, electrocautery, LASER etc. Each technique has its own advantages and disadvantages.
      In the present study an effort has been made to compare two different modes viz. Continuous
      mode and Pulsed mode of LASER in the treatment of depigmentation.Diode LASERs for dentistry
      operate in the near infrared region. The most commonly used wavelengths are 810, 940 and 980
      nm , because these wavelengths are very well absorbed by pigmented tissues, haemoglobin and
      melanin.There are several different ways LASER light operates: Continuous wave (CW), Pulse
      wave mode (PM). The continuous wave diodes emit continuous LASER energy with a fixed power
      output for the entire duration. Pulse modulated diodes create a 'pulse' by cutting the beam
      or turning LASER on & off [1s] at regular intervals.

      During the first years of diode LASER treatment in dentistry only CW mode was possible but
      application of 3-4 Watt in CW mode led to carbonization of the soft tissue.To approach better
      results in soft tissue treatment without much carbonization it was necessary to interrupt the
      CW mode. That was done by chopping the CW mode. Pulses down to several 100μs were
      released.LASER in Continuous wave mode is suggested in some studies to cause increase in
      surgical site temperature which may cause necrosis or jeopardize healing. Application of the
      LASER in Pulsed mode prevents overheating of surrounding tissues. This study aims to
      determine the comparative increase in the onsite temperature between the two modes.Decrease
      in post-operative pain is likely to reduce the consumption of Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory
      Drugs (NSAID's). The study aims to quantify the need for NSAID's post-operatively in both
      Pulsed and continuous wave modes and also in 300µ and 400µ fibers.

      The change in the diameter of the fibers used in LASER irradiation could bring about a change
      in the outcome of the procedure as small diameter fibers means high energy density, faster
      cutting and more heat whereas with larger diameter fibers more energy is needed to cover a
      broader area to work more quickly and less heat.
    
  