
    
      In this study, 342 women with non-metastatic hormone receptor positive breast cancer with an
      indication for treatment with endocrine therapy will be include. Participants will be
      recruited at Dijon cancer center (Georges Francois Leclerc- center) in France. This center is
      specialized in cancer management, therefore clinicians are experienced in patient's HRQoL
      evaluation and are accustomed to take this criterion into consideration in the routine
      patient management. The study will be proposed to eligible participants by their doctors
      (oncologists, surgeons, radiation oncologists). Participants will be included at the time of
      the first prescription of ET (at the end of the treatments by surgery +/- chemotherapy +/-
      radiotherapy). Once included, participants will be randomized (ratio 1:1) by minimization and
      stratified by: age, stage, type of ET prescribed and presence or not of comorbidities, in 2
      arms. Participants will then be referred to the clinical research associates, whose role will
      be to collect participant data (clinical and sociodemographic) in both study arms and to
      instruct participants in the interventional arm on how to use the Computer-based Health
      Evaluation System (CHES) software. For participants who wish to access the platform from
      home, a login and password will also be provided. If needed, clinical research associates
      will also assist participants to complete HRQoL questionnaires. This information will be
      collected in the case report form, to take into account the social desirability bias. The
      intervention will consist of numerical HRQoL assessment using the CHES software before each
      consultation (with delivery of scores to clinicians) coupled with therapeutic information.
      HRQoL assessment will be performed at each visit. As the aim of this project is to integrate
      this intervention in daily clinical practice, it will be performed in agreement with
      patients' routine follow-up. Participants will complete the questionnaires prior to each
      consultation, either at home via access to the web portal within 24 hours before
      consultation, or at the time of consultation. During consultation physician will have access
      to the results immediately, via the secure web portal, and will be able to discuss them with
      the participant. Therapeutic information will consist on 3 workshops. Workshop 1, entitled
      "Understanding the Prescription" will provide information on ET and its benefits. Two
      additional optional workshops on nutrition and fatigue will also be offered. Every month, a
      letter encouraging participants to regularly take their medication will be sent. Participants
      in the control group will follow standard care. Both in two arms, HRQoL will be evaluated at
      baseline using the FACT-G questionnaire to ensure the comparability of groups concerning
      HRQoL at inclusion, and again at 12 months. HRQoL assessment will be performed using a
      traditional paper questionnaire and scores will not be provided to clinicians. Anxiety and
      depression, social support and participant satisfaction with care will also be assessed in
      both arms at baseline and 12 months after. Sociodemographic characteristics, medical and
      surgical history, date of tumor diagnosis, tumor characteristics, previous treatments,
      participant clinical characteristics at inclusion and at each follow-up visit (weight,
      height, overall patient condition), concomitant treatment, type of ET received, HRQoL data
      (FACT-G), anxiety and depression (HADS), social support (SSQ6), treatment modification
      (change in the type of ET), treatment-related toxicities and their grade will be collected.
      Participant satisfaction with provided care will be measured. Clinicians' perceptions of
      systematic HRQoL assessment will be collected via an ad hoc questionnaire. Sociodemographic
      data and reasons for refusing to participate will also be documented for patients who refuse
      to participate. Data on patients' withdrawal or death will be documented in the case report
      form. Reasons for study withdrawal should also be documented. All data from this study will
      be transcribed in an electronic case report form. A descriptive analysis of participants'
      clinical and socio-demographic characteristics at inclusion will be performed for each arm.
      All HRQoL scores will be calculated according to FACT-G guidelines and described according to
      the arm (interventional arm or control arm). A logistic regression model will be used to
      assess the capacity of HRQoL to predict 12-month compliance with endocrine therapy. The
      modulatory potential of social support on compliance will be assessed using an interaction
      term between the availability / satisfaction of social support that patients receive and
      HRQoL in a logistic regression model. The modulatory potential of psychological distress on
      compliance will be assessed using an interaction term between patient anxiety / depression
      and HRQoL in a logistic regression model.

      An analysis of missing HRQoL data profiles will also be performed. If a Missing Not At Random
      (MNAR) profile is demonstrated / suspected, multiple imputation of missing data can be
      performed in sensitivity analysis, taking into account the variables associated with the
      occurrence of missing data. As a sensitivity analysis, the investigators will performed a
      contamination-based intent-to-treat analysis to account for potential cross-contamination
      between the arms.
    
  