
    
      The incidence of neurologic events in right mini-thoracotomy mitral valve surgery compared
      with that of conventional surgery is a controversial issue and has been extensively studied.
      In the meta-analysis published by Modi et al, equal occurrence of neurologic events between
      patients who underwent MIMVS and those who underwent a median sternotomy was found.
      Conversely, the Thoracic Surgeons Adult Cardiac database and the Cleveland Clinic group
      concluded that the risk of stroke is significantly higher in the less invasive group.

      Moreover, recent data have suggested that retrograde arterial perfusion, particularly in
      patients with severe arch/ascending aortic atherosclerosis, could be the source of the
      significant increase in the incidence of cerebral complications. The meta-analysis of Cheng,
      documents a 1.79 fold increase in the risk of stroke in the right thoracotomy group, but on
      subgroup analysis this appeared driven by a higher stroke risk in those studies reporting
      endoaortic balloon occlusion and not transthoracic clamping. Murzi et al. report a 4.28 fold
      increase in stroke risk with RAP in 1280 primary MIMVS patients. Grossi and colleagues show
      that the only significant risk factor for neurologic event was the use of retrograde
      perfusion in high-risk patients with aortic disease.

      The purpose of this randomized blinded study is to prospectively evaluate major and minor
      neurologic events in patients undergoing right thoracotomy mitral valve surgery with
      retrograde perfusion and endoaortic balloon clamp (Endoreturn) or transthoracic clamp. Major
      neurologic events will be evaluate through standard neurologic evaluation; minor neurologic
      events will be evaluate through magnetic resonance assessment.

      MR evaluation will be performed by blinded radiologists. MR will be performed with a 3T
      system (Philips INGENIA 3T). The protocol includes conventional sequences for the
      morphological and quantitative assessment (3D-FLAIR, 3D-T1-TSE, DWI, T2-FFE) and non
      conventional sequences for the white matter microstructural evaluation (Diffusion Tensor
      Imaging - DTI with fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity). No contrast enhanced will be
      used.

      Patients who have no contraindications will undergo cerebral MR before surgery as baseline
      assessment. Then, they will be randomized in one of the 2 groups.

      If no contraindications arise in the postoperative period (eg definitive pacemaker
      implantation), patients will undergo cerebral MR before the discharge, to highlight the
      presence of new ischemic lesions, even clinically silent.

      After 6 months, patients who developed new ischemic lesions revealed by the post-operative
      cerebral MR will repeat a new MR to assess evolution of cerebral damage Neurologic assessment
      will be performed by blinded specialists of the Neurology Department.

      Type of the study:

      Single center randomized blinded study that will be performed at the University of Turin,
      Città della Salute e della Scienza Hospital and will include:

      Cardiac Surgery department. Neuroradiology department.

      Aims of the study:

      To determine the incidence of new lesions on pre-discharge MR in patients undergoing right
      mini-thoracotomy mitral valve surgery according to different aortic clamping techniques.

      To assess the correlation between clinical neurological peri-procedural events (TIA, Stroke),
      and the occurrence of new lesions on pre-discharge MR.

      To assess the evolution of new cerebral ischemic lesions between pre-discharge MR and
      follow-up MR (more than 6 months later).

      To the investigators knowledge this is the first randomized blinded study that will compare
      two right mini-thoracotomy techniques for mitral valve surgery on a selected population
      (without risk factors for neurological events) with MR.

      The result of this study will be able to allow surgeons to choose the best and less dangerous
      method in case of mini-invasive operations. This could rapresent a fundamental step in
      confirming the efficacy and safety of mini-invasive approaches for mitral valve surgery and
      resulting, in addition, in the reduction of the costs of these procedures.
    
  