
    
      A) Research Objectives

        1. General Objective

           To evaluate the effectiveness of mobile health intervention program and to explore the
           perceptions and experiences of mobile health intervention among mothers to prevent
           stunting among infant and young children in Kelantan, Malaysia

        2. Specific Objectives

      Phase 1 - Development of a mobile health education package to prevent stunting among
      maternal, infant and young children

        1. To develop the mobile health education package for pregnant women, lactating mothers and
           mothers of young children in preventing stunting among children

           Phase 2 - Evaluation of the effectiveness of mobile health intervention program to
           prevent stunting

        2. To compare the changes in anthropometric measurement and dietary intake after 6 months
           of intervention among pregnant women, lactating mothers, infants and children in
           Kelantan

        3. To compare the changes in knowledge, attitude and practice of breastfeeding after 6
           months of intervention among lactating mothers

           Phase 3 - Qualitative study

        4. To explore the perceptions and experiences of mobile health intervention among lactating
           mothers and their husband

      B) Study Location

      This study will be conducted in selected 6 districts in Kelantan, Malaysia which are Jeli,
      Gua Musang, Kuala Krai, Tanah Merah, Pasir Mas and Kota Bharu

      C) Sample Size

      Sample size for each study group (pregnant women, lactating mothers and children) were
      calculated by using G-power software.

      Total sample size for each group = 150 subjects After including 15% of dropout compensation,
      the final total sample size calculated for each group of this study = 172 subjects Thus, the
      total sample size for each arm (intervention and control groups) for each group of study = 86
      subjects

      For face-to-face interview, subjects will be recruited until saturation is achieved. An
      estimated 20-30 subjects will be recruited in this study (Mason, 2010). The face-to-face
      interview will be audio recorded.

      D) Population and Sampling Method

      This study will involve antenatal mothers with husband, lactating mothers with infant and
      husband, and children's with mother that will be selected by using multistage sampling method

      E) Research Tools

        1. Questionnaire

             1. Socio-demographic and socio-economic questionnaire

             2. Belief toward feeding practice questionnaire

             3. Validated food security questionnaire i. 10 items Radimer/Cornell hunger scale

        2. Nutrient intake questionnaire i. 3-days 24-hour diet recall

        3. Validated mental health questionnaire i. Depression, anxiety and stress scale

        4. Validated knowledge, attitude and practice on breastfeeding and infant and young child
           feeding questionnaire

        5. Programme satisfaction questionnaire

      F) Anthropometric measurement instrument:

        1. Baby weighing scale

        2. Adult weighing scale

        3. Height measuring scale

        4. Measuring tape

        5. Body composition analyzer

      G) mHealth Intervention Package

      All the messages will be created in Malay language based on the books, booklets, topics and
      modules that have been developed by World Health Organization (WHO) 2012 and UNICEF 2012, and
      also have widely and officially used by Ministry of Health Malaysia to educate their
      patients. Basically, the source of messages that will be created and use are from:

        1. Knowledge on breastfeeding (based on 13 breastfeeding topics for antenatal and
           postnatal)

        2. Knowledge on infant and young child feeding (10 key messages for complementary feeding
           by WHO 2012 & key messages booklets for Infant and Young Child Feeding (IYCF) practices
           from UNICEF, 2012 in simplified form)

        3. Knowledge on bottle handling and bottle feeding

        4. Knowledge on formula milk preparation

        5. Knowledge on hand washing

        6. Information on healthy nutrition intake

      H) mHealth Mode of Intervention

      Intervention will be conducted by using a mobile phone. Thus, a "call centre" for this mobile
      health intervention program will be set up in Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) Health Campus.
      All the information about breastfeeding, infant and young child feeding, bottle handling and
      bottle feeding, formula milk preparation, hand washing and nutrition intake will be
      disseminate through a mobile apps known as WhatsApp and by a phone call. There will be a
      total of 50 messages for 6 months of intervention which are 2 messages per week (every
      Tuesday & Thursday). The understanding of information will be evaluate 2 times per month by a
      phone call. The type of messages that will be used are:

        1. Text messages

        2. Voice messages

        3. Video/graphic messages

        4. Voice calls

      A child growth chart (height) also will be give to respondents with infants and children.

      I) Data Collection Procedure

      Data collection will be conducted at selected districts and health clinics after obtaining
      approval from USM Research Ethics Committee and Medical Research and Ethics Committee,
      Ministry of Health Malaysia. This intervention study will be conducted over 6 months. All of
      the subjects who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be recruited from the health
      clinics and will be referred to the call center of this study by a trained nutritionist. The
      purpose of the study and the randomization process will be explained to the subjects by a
      nutritionist during subjects recruitment.

      All subjects (wife and husband only) will sign the informed consent form and parents
      permission form (for infant and children). The baseline and after 6 months of intervention
      data will be collected by a researcher and research assisstants of this study while a
      face-to-face interview will be collected by a researcher. Thus, this research will involve
      several procedures for mother, children and husband/father.

      Mother:

      Each mother will involve in anthropometric measurement (including body weight, height/length,
      body composition) and have to answer the questionnaire during the first and at the end of the
      intervention sessions.The questionnaire consist of sosio-demography, sosio-economy, medical
      history, belief toward food intake, food security, nutrient intake, mental health, knowledge,
      attitude and practice of breastfeeding and infant nutrition and children, and satisfaction of
      the programme. The estimate time taken to complete the questionnaire is 30 minutes.

      For each mother selected in group 2, additional health related information will be provided
      periodically through mobile phone for 6 months. Health education information also will be
      given conventionally at health clinic. Whereas mother in group 1 will receive health
      education information conventionally at health clinic for 6 months. The subjects will be
      randomly assigned. The selected subject will also be interviewed at the end of the study.

      Children:

      All children involved will undergo anthropometric measurements (body weight, length, body
      composition) during the first and at the end of intervention.

      Husband/Father:

      For husband/father whom their spouse are selected in group 2, additional health related
      information will be provided periodically through mobile phone for 6 months. Health education
      information also will be given conventionally at health clinic. Whereas husband/father whom
      their spouse are selected in group 1 will receive health education information conventionally
      at health clinic for 6 months. A few husband/father whom their spouse selected to be
      interviewed also will be interviewed at the end of intervention.

      Each interview will take about 40 to 60 minutes to complete.

      Group 1 - Control group; Group 2 - Intervention group
    
  