
    
      In a National Institute on Drug Abuse-funded R34 pilot study of pain self-management training
      for prescription opioid taper support, it was demonstrated that 22 weeks of opioid taper
      support promotes opioid dose reduction more effectively than usual care (43% vs 19% dose
      reduction from baseline) with no increase in pain intensity and significantly reduced
      activity interference. This intervention will now be adapted and tested in a large integrated
      primary care system. To address patients' fears of opioid taper that limited recruitment into
      this pilot study, subjects will be randomized to pain self-management training and then
      offered the option of self-paced opioid taper. Specifically, the effectiveness of this
      intervention will be tested, compared with usual care, on opioid dose and pain outcomes among
      patients on moderate-high dose (≥ 40mg morphine equivalent dose) long-term opioid therapy
      (LtOT) in a randomized controlled trial. This intervention will have 4 components: a)
      telephone-delivered evidence-based pain self-management training, b) web-based video of
      successfully tapered patients with motivational interviewing debriefing, c) a voluntary,
      self-paced opioid taper, and d) opioid and non-opioid prescribing guidance for the patient's
      primary care provider. Specific Aim 1: To adapt a previously developed prescription opioid
      taper support intervention into a telephone-delivered pain self-management training that
      provides the option for supported opioid taper (PSMOT). This will be delivered in multiple
      primary care clinics by a nurse interventionist trained and supervised by a pain psychologist
      and will include guidance in opioid and non-opioid medication prescribing. Specific Aim 2: To
      test in a randomized trial the effects of this intervention on: a) opioid outcomes: daily
      opioid dose (primary outcome), percent dose reduction from baseline, problem opioid use
      (questionnaire and electronic health record text indicators), and patient-reported opioid
      difficulties; and b) pain-related outcomes: PEG (self-report of Pain intensity, Enjoyment of
      life interference, General activity interference; primary outcome), pain self-efficacy, and
      anxiety and depression symptoms. Hypotheses pertaining to opioid use: Patients receiving LtOT
      for chronic non-cancer pain (CNCP) randomized to the STRIPE intervention, as compared with
      those randomized to usual care, will have lower opioid doses, greater percent reduction of
      opioid dose, lower proportions with problem opioid use, lower opioid craving, and lower
      levels of patient-reported opioid-related difficulties at 6 and 12 months after
      randomization. Hypotheses pertaining to pain outcomes: Patients receiving LtOT for CNCP
      randomized to the STRIPE intervention, as compared with those randomized to usual care, will
      have lower PEG scores, higher levels of pain self-efficacy, higher global impression of
      change, and lower levels of anxiety and depressive symptoms at 6 and 12 months after
      randomization. The proposed trial will determine whether pain self-management training can
      promote prescription opioid taper in moderate-higher-dose long-term opioid therapy patients
      without increasing pain level or activity and enjoyment interference. If this trial is
      successful, then prescribers and patients may be able to pursue supported opioid taper
      without fear of escalating pain.
    
  