
    
      Study site(s) and number of subjects planned 8 level-3 hospitals across West China will
      participate in this study. 40 not well controlled asthma patients will participate the
      structured interview in stage1 and a total number of 300 patients are expected to participate
      cross sectional survey in stage 2.

      Study period Estimated Time CSP approved Oct. 2016 First subject in Jan. 2017 Last subject in
      Aug. 2017 Database lock Dec. 2017 CSR Mar. 2017

      Study design It is study including 2 stage, stage 1 of structured patient interview by
      investigators, Stage 2 of a multi-center, cross-sectional survey. 40 eligible asthma patients
      and/or their family supporter will be invited to participate in a one-time face to face
      structured interview in stage 1. Around 350 eligible asthma patients will be invited to
      participate in cross sectional survey which all Information and relevant data of their
      compliance to inhaled treatment therapy and response to measurement of compliance risk
      factors (determinants explored from stage 1) will be collected according to CRF, and inputted
      into an on-line electronic questionnaire data capture (EDC) system by site investigator(s),
      and valid data will be taken into statistical analyses.

      Target subject population Stage 1: Asthmatic patients with in adequate asthma control
      (defined by GINA partly or un-control due to inhaled treatment compliance (physician
      judgement) Stage 2: Asthmatic patient who visit the outpatient clinic will be interviewed by
      investigator.

      Objectives

      Stage 1:

      Primary Objective: Outcome Measure:

      Non- Assumptive Deep Dive Qualitative Scoping to investigate determinants of poor adherence
      to ICS treatment through structured interview & taskforce workshop Decide key measures for
      phase2 survey through steering committee group review. Categorized "risk factors" (patient
      behavior/belief, social status, medical care availability etc.) which very likely led to poor
      patient adherence on inhaled treatment adherence in partly or uncontrolled asthma patients

        1. Therapy related factors

        2. Patient related factors

        3. Provider related factors

        4. Disease related factors

        5. Practice and system related factors

      Questionnaire with measures for asthma patient adherence determinants in survey on stage 2

      Stage 2:

      Primary Objective: Outcome Measure:

      To investigate the relationship different risk factors (determinants explored from stage 1)
      and treatment adherence to further identify top 5 determinants most closely relative to
      inhalation treatment adherence

      Decide key measures for phase2 survey through steering committee group review. Asthma patient
      compliance level on Inhaled treatment (ICS or ICS/LABA) by using validated MARS-A scale
      questionnaire below.

      Risk factors (determinants explored from stage 1) measurements response from asthma patients

      Secondary Objective: Outcome Measure :

      Similar objectives on deferent life-stage group of asthma patients. Similar analysis by
      different life-stage group of patients (18- 30, 31-45,45-60, 60+)

      Statistical methods

        -  All results will be described. In general, the descriptive statistics (number, mean, and
           median, standard deviation, minimum and maximum) will be presented for continuous
           variables. The frequency and percentage of subjects at each level or category will be
           presented for categorical variables. Where appropriate, 95% confidence intervals will be
           constructed.

        -  Risk factor analysis will be performed using univariate and multivariate regression
           model to explore the relationship between risk factors and the compliance level. In
           addition to multivariate analysis using all variables, a step-wise variable selection
           can be used. The level of both variable inclusion and exclusion will be set as 0.15. The
           important variable (s) can be forced in the model if applicable.
    
  