
    
      The development of pneumonia and other infections from intubation in the intraoperative
      setting has not been well-studied. An understanding of the content of the fluid that
      accumulates above the cuff in this setting will further strengthen the relationship between
      intubation and infection. The purpose of this study is to characterize the content of fluid
      extracted from the endotracheal tube cuff during surgery. This study will also evaluate the
      content of the fluid across various intervals of suctioning.

      Suctioning Schemes -

        -  Continuous Suctioning Anesthesia staff will suction secretions continuously at 20 mmHg
           with a safety stop of 5 seconds every 30 minutes. Staff will be responsible for
           monitoring the interval between each safety stop.

        -  Intermittent Suctioning Anesthesia staff will suction secretions intermittently using an
           intermittent suction regulator. The regulator will be set to suction at 100-150 mmHg.
           The regulator has a preset cycle of intermittent suctioning for 15 seconds with an 8
           second pause.

      This is a prospective randomized clinical study of 48 subjects at a single site in the United
      States. Those placing the tube and performing the suctioning schemes will be experienced
      study staff and have met all training requirements to ensure consistency. Subjects will be
      patients undergoing surgery requiring intubation using the TaperGuard Evac Endotracheal Tube
      for a minimum of two hours, but no longer than twelve hours. They must also be 18 years of
      age or older, able to provide consent and have no presence of tracheostomy. Pregnant subjects
      will also be excluded.

      Suctioning will begin as soon as the tube is in place and will continue until extubation or
      until the patient is moved from the operating room, whichever comes earlier. Secretions will
      be collected in a Lukens Trap. Anesthesia staff will collect the accumulated secretions every
      30 minutes for the duration of the surgery, and secretions will be processed according to the
      instructions provided in the sample collection kit.

      To address the first objective of the study, the first and last sample obtained from each
      subject will be analyzed individually for pH, volume, and microorganisms; all other samples
      will be evaluated for volume. The amount of colony forming units (CFUs) will be determined
      semi-quantitatively across all organisms, and presented separately for individual genera and
      species. The samples will be characterized with descriptive statistics including frequencies,
      percentages, means, medians, standard deviations, and 95% CIs. To address the second
      objective of the study, comparisons of pH, volume, microorganisms, and CFUs by suctioning
      scheme and patient-level characteristics will be conducted using chi-squared tests of
      independence and analysis of variance (ANOVA). Graphical methods will be developed to aid
      interpretation, both as a function of time and cumulatively over time.
    
  