
    
      Specific Aim 1. Develop a training protocol and certification program for lay health workers
      (LHWs)

      People of Asian backgrounds are likely to exhibit cultural relativism leaning toward
      collectivism compared to individualism. The personal interactions within their
      self-identified cultural communities may closely relate to development of their perceived
      beliefs and subjective norms, which influence to act upon identified health behaviors (Ajzen,
      Albarracin & Hornik 2007). The investigators will develop a lay health worker (LHW) model
      that highlights the effects of culturally competent human and educational interactions on
      facilitating the Chinese-, Korean- and Vietnamese-American (CKV-A) community's active
      behaviors in hepatitis B screening, vaccination, and treatments. To develop an efficacious
      and effective LHW intervention that will contribute for creating a critical mass toward
      sustainable Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese (CKV) changes, our strategic approaches include as
      follows:

        1. Review the liver cancer education program guidebook in English, (developed by previous
           project R25).

        2. Refine/revise the approaches through work group reviews: Through a series of bi-monthly
           meetings with participants from community advisory board (CAB), CKV-A communities,
           health practitioners and outreach workers, and experts in hepatitis B virus (HBV) and
           liver cancer education (Juon and Lee), and education and evaluation (Park), the
           investigators will confirm/specify the approaches of the available materials and develop
           additional assessment approaches and forms in English.

        3. Test the validities of subgroup language versions with pilot CKV groups: Through
           assessments with each group (n=10) of CKV-As, the investigators will produce the refined
           validated LHW protocol (after translation and back-translation). It will include common
           and unique approaches across/within subgroup(s) to be congruent with cultural values.

        4. Test the pilot LHW implementation

        5. Establish the LHW model to certify satisfactory practicum experience in Patient
           Navigation training module: Through ongoing assessments with the study participants and
           participating health care systems, the investigators will monitor the LHW experiential
           learning module to provide patient navigation function. The approach will identify
           barriers to hinder access to timely screening, follow-up, and treatment upon diagnosis.

      Recruitment: Earp et al. (1997) suggest effective LHWs would have some or all of the
      following characteristics and skills: (1) the ability to comfortably and effectively access
      the health care system; (2) the ability to balance the demands of lay helping with other life
      responsibilities; (3) an interest in AA's health and social issues; (4) maintain close,
      supportive, and reciprocal connections with others; and (5) leadership skills. LHW models
      depend on genuine natural helpers to function. To increase recruitment potential for CKVs
      having desired characteristics: First, the investigators will reach a broad pool of adult
      volunteers, regardless of gender, income level, or health care experience, who have these
      characteristics and also have the ability to speak, read and write Chinese, Korean, or
      Vietnamese languages at or above 2nd grade level. Second, adopting a referral recruitment
      strategy in social market theory (Lefebvre et al. 1988) as it may be more effective for
      people who may be more responsive to their sense of collective cultural group's interactions,
      the investigators will recruit the first 10 LHW candidates per each ethnic group referred by
      word of mouth, faith-based organization leaders, community advisory groups, and health and
      social service agencies. Finally, the investigators will expand our recruitment continuously
      in the community. In Year 1, the investigators plan to train a total of 60 certified LHWs (20
      from each ethnic group). The investigators estimate retention of 40 (67%) certified LHWs at
      the end of the Year 1, based upon literature reviews (Anderson 2000; Caulfield et al. 1998;
      Han et al. 2009). To replace drop-out LHWs in subsequent years, the investigators plan to
      recruit and train a total of 30 additional LHWs (10 for each ethnic group) from Years 2 to 3.

      Process Evaluation: Using evaluation model of Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation
      and Maintenance (RE-AIM) (Glasgow et al. 2001), a framework that emphasized on Reach,
      Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation and Maintenance, the investigators will examine the
      extent to which the LHW program is carried out through processes as intended. At individual
      level, the investigators will focus on Reach (R) of the LHW certification program and
      hepatitis B free events and on the Efficacy/Effectiveness (E) of the LHW certification
      program. For the group level of aggregated individuals, the investigators will assess on
      Adoption (A), Implementation (I), and Maintenance (M). The investigators will assess general
      administrative processes of LHW program during the study period in the selected perspectives
      of fidelity (e.g. logistic reviews, completion rates), dose (e.g. satisfaction survey), and
      method on translated forms and tools (Saunders, Evans, & Joshi 2005).

      Specific Aim 2. To assess the prevalence of HBV infection by providing screening test

      A total of 600 Asian American adults (200 Chinese, Koreans, and Vietnamese each), 18 years of
      age and older will be drawn from the community.

      Recruitment strategy. The investigators have two major channels to recruit participants with
      the help of certified LHWs including hepatitis B initiative of Washington DC (HBI-DC)
      screening events and Asian American Health Center (AAHC). First, in the past 10 years, the
      HBI-DC has screened over 3000 individuals in the Baltimore-Washington Metropolitan Area and
      approximately 8 to 11% are positive for the surface antigen of the hepatitis B virus (HBsAg).
      Thus, many individuals are availing themselves of the free testing services. LHWs will
      announce upcoming screening events in their community by advertising in Korean churches or
      Chinese language schools or by word-of-mouth. Our research team and LHWs will attend these
      events to recruit potential participants. Based on previous experiences, each screening event
      attracted about 100 to 150 Asian Americans. Second, the investigators will go to AAHC
      volunteer clinics to recruit participants every Saturday. About 10 to 12 Chinese or Korean
      patients visit the clinic. Patients usually come with family members. So, the investigators
      estimate to recruit about 15 to 20 participants at the clinics every Saturday. Finally, the
      investigators will identify potential participants by advertising in ethnic media and ethnic
      groceries.

      Sample size estimate: Based on our previous studies (Juon et al. 2008; Hsu et al. 2007), the
      investigators estimate that about 10% of all the participants will test hepatitis B virus
      (HBV) positive, 40 to 50% will be HBV negative but protected, and about 50% will be
      unprotected. In the preliminary analysis of R25, there were significant mean differences of
      knowledge of HBV transmission (score ranged 0-10) in intervention (7.21±1.83SD) and control
      group (5.54±2.07SD) in post-test. The investigators estimated our sample size to be 50 in
      each intervention and control group among those unprotected. Assuming a conservative rate of
      attrition about 20%, the investigators calculated the study power based on sample size at
      follow-up. The sample size of 50 at pre-test is to detect mean difference in knowledge
      outcome at 96% power (1-β) and type I error of 0.05.Thus, our proposed sample size (n=50) for
      each group among those unprotected has sufficient power. Our total sample size is 600
      (50/group x 2 groups x 2 (infected and protected-50% of study population) x 3 ethnic groups).

      Specific Aim 3. To implement LHW intervention among those unprotected Procedures

        1. Pre-test/Education program: After obtaining the informed consent for pre-test, screening
           test, and blood banking, all the participants will be asked to complete a
           self-administered questionnaire in English, Chinese, Korean, or Vietnamese, with the
           assistance of a bilingual interviewer when necessary. Then, LHW will provide a liver
           cancer education session to all participants in a small group setting.

        2. HBV screening test/initial biospecimen banking: All participants will receive hepatitis
           B testing. For blood sampling procedure, the investigators will have a part-time
           phlebotomist working in the field with a bilingual staff and LHW. The phlebotomist will
           draw two tubes of blood from study participants at the study site. He/she will then
           transport one tube of the blood in red-top tube to certified clinical labs (i.e., Johns
           Hopkins Medical Institute (JHMI), Quest, LabCorp) for hepatitis B tests (e.g., HBsAg,
           HBsAb (surface antibody of HBV), HBcAb (core antibody of HBV)). The other tube will be
           processed for research sample banking.

        3. Informing the results of screening test: All the participants will receive the results
           one week after their screening. Based on the screening results, all participants will be
           categorized into three groups: (1) infected (HbsAg+), (2) unprotected (HbsAg-/HbsAb-),
           and (3) protected (HbsAg-/HbsAb+). The investigators will order all screening tests and
           review all test results from the certified clinical labs. The investigators will mail
           the results to participants who are unprotected and protected. The investigators will
           not follow up healthy participants who are protected. The investigators will be
           responsible for informing the results by calling those infected individuals. The
           participants will provide counseling on what the results mean and treatment options.

        4. Follow up for those infected: Those infected can either be referred through their
           primary care physicians to a hepatologist or directly to a hepatologist. If participants
           do not have a hepatologist, participants will be referred to hepatologists in the study
           team. This will be based on their language preference and geographic location.

        5. LHW Intervention/follow up for those unprotected: Those unprotected will be randomly
           assigned to either the intervention or the control groups by computer-automated random
           assignment. Randomization will be used to assure equivalence between groups on key
           factors that may potentially influence the primary outcome of HBV vaccinations (e.g.,
           gender, age, education, length of stay in the U.S.).

      LHWs will conduct telephone interventions by reminding participants of a series of
      vaccinations at Months 1, 2, and 6 among those assigned to the intervention group. Those who
      have health insurance will be encouraged to complete vaccinations through their providers. If
      participants do not have health insurance, LHWs will provide resources to help those in the
      intervention access vaccinations by referring them to the AAHC, or County Health Departments
      who provide vaccinations to at risk populations. Those in the control group will receive a
      list of resources by mail that offers free vaccinations, such as local health departments
      along with their results. Upon completing follow-up, the investigators will provide the
      delayed LHW intervention for those who do not have vaccinations in the control group.

      Seven months after mailing the results, those unprotected will be followed by phone to ask
      about their status of the series of vaccinations and promoters or barriers to vaccinations.
      Their self-reported vaccination will be verified with medical records. Participants will be
      asked to provide information about the date of vaccinations, as well as the location of the
      clinic or doctor's office where participants received vaccinations. Participants will also be
      asked to sign a medical release form giving project staff permission to request medical
      records for their vaccinations. The bilingual interviewers are blinded about participants
      being in the intervention or control group at post-test.
    
  