
    
      This randomized controlled trial will compare strategies to reduce the risk of
      methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection and re-hospitalization in MRSA
      carriers. This trial will provide critical answers about the role of decolonization versus
      standard-of-care education in preventing MRSA infections in the large group of high risk
      MRSA+ patients being discharged from hospitals. Findings could potentially impact best
      practice for the 1.8 million MRSA carriers who are discharged from US hospitals each year.

      Specific Aims:

      Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is arguably the most important single
      pathogen in healthcare-associated infection when accounting for virulence, prevalence,
      diversity of disease spectrum, and propensity for widespread transmission. MRSA infection
      causes or complicates 300,000 hospitalizations each year [Klein, Smith, Laxminarayan], a
      number which has doubled in the past five years. An additional 1.5 million hospitalized
      patients either acquire or already harbor the pathogen without current infection. Altogether,
      these 1.8 million MRSA inpatient carriers experience a high amount of MRSA invasive disease
      in the year following discharge. Due to increased delivery of complex medical care at home or
      other post-hospital settings, more and more patients experience serious healthcare-associated
      morbidity after hospital discharge.[Huang, Platt; Huang, Hinrichsen, Stulgis et al.] In fact,
      over 80% of patients admitted for MRSA infection have had prior healthcare exposures and are
      at high risk for repeated MRSA infection.[Huang, Platt; Huang, Hinrichsen, Stulgis et al.;
      Klevens, Morrison, Nadle, et al.]

      Project CLEAR compares two strategies to reduce infection and re-hospitalization due to MRSA
      among patients being discharged from hospitals. Our trial will compare a long-term regimen
      aimed at eradicating MRSA body reservoirs with patient education on general hygiene and self
      care, which is the current standard of care. Our specific aims are:

        -  To conduct a randomized controlled trial of serial decolonization versus
           standard-of-care patient education among MRSA carriers upon hospital discharge to reduce
           post-discharge MRSA infection and re-hospitalization for one year

        -  To identify predictors of a) infection or re-hospitalization due to MRSA, and b)
           successful MRSA decolonization, including patient demographics, comorbidities, medical
           devices, risk behaviors, socioeconomic status, and colonizing MRSA genotype

        -  To estimate medical and non-medical costs of MRSA infection among MRSA carriers and
           evaluate the potential for cost savings associated with decolonization
    
  