
    
      Individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) present with a variety of motor symptoms including
      resting tremor, difficulty initiating movement/slowed movements, and rigidity. While these
      motor signs and symptoms are the hallmark features, individuals with PD also often
      demonstrate changes in communication ability, with an estimated prevalence of 89 percent of
      all individuals with PD being affected. These disorders of communication have been reported
      by individuals with PD and their caregivers to be one of the most difficult aspects of living
      with this disorder.

      The most commonly diagnosed communicative disorder in PD is hypokinetic dysarthria which can
      result in changes in prosody, respiratory control, voice quality, and articulation. Of these,
      the disorders in prosody have been judged to be the most prominent deficit. Prosody includes
      the pitch, loudness, and rate with which speech utterances are produced and is used to
      communicate emotional connotation (e.g. angry versus sad). Impairments in speech prosody
      reduce the ability to communicate emotional feelings or intentions as well as reducing the
      intelligibility of the spoken message. While pharmacological treatments have been shown to be
      effective in improving motor function, these medications have not been shown to greatly
      mitigate speech production disorders including prosody, suggesting that therapies other than
      dopaminergic agents are needed to address prosody deficits in PD. Despite a negative impact
      on quality of life and reduced independence of individuals affected by emotional prosodic
      disorders, no published studies are available testing therapies to improve production of
      emotional prosody in PD.

      The primary goal of this proposal is to compare a treatment protocol shown to be effective in
      treating emotional prosodic deficit in stroke and TBI (Leon et al., 2005; Rosenbek et al.,
      2006) to a standard clinical treatment for prosody deficit that does not target the emotional
      aspect of the disorder in individuals with PD. The experimental treatment targets increased
      pitch and loudness variability, and control of speech rate, the core characteristics of
      prosodic insufficiency in PD, but with an emphasis on the emotional component of the
      disorder. The primary aims of the study are to determine treatment effect size by measuring
      the difference of the experimental protocol versus standard clinical care on prosodic deficit
      in individuals with PD via changes in acoustic and perceptual measures, as well as provide
      psychometric validation of test-retest reliability of the outcome measures.
    
  