
    
      Social isolation is a major problem for the Canadian society because of its: (1) high
      prevalence in the older population (30% in individuals aged 65 and over, which represents 1.5
      million individuals), (2) association with a wide range of mental and physical health
      problems and (3) increased use of health and social services. Museum art-based activities
      have demonstrated benefits on an individual's sense of social inclusion, their well-being,
      their quality of life and physical frailty. Few studies have examined the effects of the
      participation in museum art-based activities in older community members experiencing social
      isolation. In 2019, the team conducted an experimental pilot study comprised of pre-post
      intervention, single arm, prospective and a longitudinal follow-up. This experiment indicated
      that a 3-month cycle of weekly visits to the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts (MMFA) in the form
      of a guided tour may improve the social inclusion of socially isolated older adults. We
      hypothesize that it is possible to reproduce these previous positive results using a mixed
      methods approach that combines: (1) a qualitative phase comprised of observation of the
      guided tours; semi-structured interviews, focus groups and an analysis of relevant
      organizational documents; (2) a quantitative phase based on a randomized clinical trial
      (RCT). Over a two-year period, we will examine whether and how a 3-month cycle of weekly MMFA
      tours may (1) improve social inclusion, well-being and quality of life, and (2) reduce
      frailty in older community members, living in Montreal, who are experiencing social
      isolation. The study includes the participation of community workers who work with socially
      isolated older Montrealers, members of this community, as well as museum works and
      administrators. Our research will not only include information on how the museum experience
      has affected older adults. It will incorporate feedback from all of these participants
      leading to an evaluation of the program offered by the museum to better serve the future
      needs and desires of this population. It will also benefit the participating organizations.
    
  