
    
      Residents of rural counties experience significant disparities in health care access and
      outcomes when compared to their urban counterparts. These disparities are structural; based
      in our market-based medical care delivery system. For rural residents with multiple chronic
      conditions, transitioning along the continuum of care, between systems of treatment and
      support, and between dispersed locations both expose and produce disparities. The transition
      home from hospitalization for treatment exposes the current urban bias. Indeed, discharge
      planning is fragmented and uncoordinated, and contributes to poor the disparities. The
      specific aims of this research is to ascertain rural patients' actual experience of
      discharge; then to involve patients and rural providers in using those data to design a
      contextually appropriate rural options at discharge model of active planning (ROADMAP) that
      improves patient outcomes and reduces disparities. Objectives include:

        1. Ascertain actual patient experience in the rural discharge process.

        2. Design the ROADMAP model to fit the emerging health services context.

        3. Test the ROADMAP's efficacy in enhancing patient defined outcomes.

        4. Design the components for rapid diffusion.

      Researchers will work in four counties of the Missoula Hospital Referral Region with a total
      population of 53,116 living on 12,342 square miles (4.3 persons per square mile). Researchers
      will recruit patients seeking treatment from St. Patrick Hospital. Patients and patient
      advocates will serve on an Innovations Design Team (IDT) to create the ROADMAP. Researchers
      will first interview patients (n = 40) who have been discharged to one of the rural counties.
      Researchers will compare their experiences to guidelines. Next, they will conduct a Design
      Survey (n=600) to verify goals important to patients. The IDT will use these findings to
      develop design requirements for ROADMAP. Finally, we will use a quasi-experimental research
      design to compare the patient designed rural ROADMAP to standard practice. The primary
      outcome measures are measures that reflect the patient's values for health-related quality of
      life and functional status, as well as hospital re-admissions. An independent statistician
      will use Hierarchical Linear Modeling to examine the complex relationships. This approach
      accounts for patients nested in four counties and the correlated errors inherent in within
      subject analysis. Health care reform sets the occasion for rapid diffusion of ROADMAP. This
      can provide an incremental reduction in rural disparities. Incorporating patient and provider
      input increases the likelihood it will fit within the emerging reimbursement model.
      Researchers expect that ROADMAP will reduce re-hospitalizations by as much as 30%, and
      improve patient recovery and return to participation in daily life.
    
  