
    
      Patients submitted to general anesthesia and mechanical ventilation commonly develop
      pulmonary atelectasis, which can cause adverse consequences either intraoperatively or
      postoperatively. The use of lower, more physiological tidal volumes (6-8 mL/Kg of ideal body
      weight) during the intraoperative period can minimize the risk of lung injury but may be
      associated with increased atelectasis. The application of PEEP can prevent the formation of
      atelectasis and minimize the resulting complications, but at the present time, there is no
      consensus on how to tailor the level of PEEP to best suit each patient.

      Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) is a portable non-invasive monitor that enables the
      analysis of lung function in a continuous mode.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the use of Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT), in the
      intraoperative period, as a tool for selecting "optimal PEEP" using a PEEP titration
      procedure, as well as assessing the evolution of pulmonary function during this period.

      The investigators will prospectively study a total of 40 adult patients (> 18 years) divided
      into two subgroups: 20 laparoscopic surgery patients and 20 open surgery patients. After
      induction of anesthesia and neuromuscular blockade, all patients will be submitted to a
      recruitment maneuver in pressure-controlled ventilation (PCV) mode (PEEP = 20cmH2O, driving
      pressure = 20cmH2O, respiratory rate (RR) of 15 ipm and I:E ratio of 1:1) for 2 minutes
      followed by a decremental PEEP titration. The first step of the titration will start at a
      PEEP of 20 cmH2O and every 40 seconds PEEP will be decreased by 2 cmH2O, until a final PEEP
      of 4 cmH2O. A sub-sample of patients will have each step of the PEEP titration procedure
      recorded with an ultrasound and later evaluated by two different investigators. Optimal PEEP
      will be defined as that with the best compromise of atelectasis and overdistension as
      measured by EIT.

      Patients in each subgroup will be randomized to one of two ventilatory strategies: (1) PEEP
      chosen by the PEEP titration procedure; (2) PEEP set at 4 cmH2O. After a new recruitment
      maneuver PEEP will be set at the designated value and the patient will be ventilated with an
      inspired oxygen fraction of 50% or greater in order to maintain peripheral oxygen saturation
      (SpO2) > 96%, a tidal volume of 6 mL/Kg and a respiratory rate to maintain an end tidal
      carbon dioxide (ETCO2) between 35-45.

      All patients will have their global and regional pulmonary mechanics monitored by EIT
      throughout the anesthetic procedure to assess the degree of pulmonary atelectasis. After
      extubation, patients will be referred to the Radiology Department for a chest CT.
    
  