
    
      Patients suffering from vestibulodynia often experience psychological distress. Acceptance
      and commitment therapy (ACT) has been shown to be effective in treating psychological
      distress and pain. However delivering relevant treatment can be difficult due to logistics,
      cost and lack of personnel with required competence. Delivering ACT though the internet
      (iACT) is a novel approach, sidestepping logistical issues while lowering costs. There is
      however, a need to research this kind of treatment for persons with vestibulodynia.

      This study will primarily investigate whether an ACT-treatment administered through the
      internet can be beneficial for patients suffering from provoked vestibulodynia. The treatment
      will be 10 weeks long. Participants will be randomized to the treatment program or a
      waiting-list control group. Analysis of possible mediating variables will be able to give
      insight into the internal workings of the treatment itself, further elucidating efficacy of
      specific interventions, data which will be useful in future developments of treatment design.

      The treatment will consist of a 10-week period where participants would get access to a
      series of treatment modules, each addressing a separate problem area using ACT techniques.
      The treatment includes modules focuses on acceptance and exposure techniques. The
      participants will receive every week different exposure assignments. The platform used is an
      existing platform employed by the Pain Center at Uppsala university hospital for delivering
      internet based treatments.

      The study will be conducted using a randomized controlled trial with a between-group design.
      Participants will be randomized to two groups, were one group will gain access to iACT
      treatment while the second group will be a wait-list control, and will gain access to the
      program once treatment of the active group is finished. A licensed psychologist will assess
      participants. In addition to online ACT modules, consisting of information, exercises and
      homework assignments, all participants will have regular contact by secure email-channel with
      a licensed psychologists or last-year psychology student under supervision. This contact will
      guide treatment, providing support, feedback on homework, and if necessary clarify treatment
      content and help with IT-related problems interfering with treatment adherence. After a year,
      participants will be invited to take part in a follow-up module, consisting of limited
      treatment recapitulation and evaluation.
    
  