
    
      Worldwide the number of patients requiring treatment for osteoarthritis is increasing.
      Especially the young population will increase within the group of patients for arthroplasty.
      Learmonth describes hip arthroplasty as the "operation of the century" because patients are
      highly satisfied with pain relief and function after the procedure. Knee arthroplasties have
      in recent years also shown promising results and have surpassed hip arthroplasty in frequency
      in western countries. However, patient satisfaction is not as high . Reported problems are
      insufficient function and persistent pain on the other hand, knee arthroplasties are
      increasingly implanted in younger and more active patients who require high function and
      quality of life. Improvement of knee implants is an urgent issue in the field of orthopedic
      research.

      Small alterations in implant design can influence the survival of implants, but also the
      function of the implants in vivo. The final design of the GMK Sphere has been introduced in
      2012.

      Knee kinematics and implant designs

      A possible cause of lower function of replaced knees is the unnatural postoperative knee
      kinematics. Kinematics of replaced knees is closely related to their function. For example,
      replaced knees with excellent flexion angles have kinematic similarities to normal knees and
      malalignments of implants can cause postoperative pain.

      Compared to hip joints which are simple ball-and socket joints, the kinematics of knee joints
      is more complex. It is a combination of rolling and gliding motion of femoral condyles and
      rotation of tibia. Based on the kinematics of the normal knee joint, various attempts have
      been made on the design of knee implants to reconstruct normal kinematics after replacement
      surgery. The contributing anatomical structures for knee kinematics are two cruciate
      ligaments, the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), and the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL)
      inside the joint. However, in knees with osteoarthritis, these ligaments may be damaged by
      inflammation and may not deserve retaining. Therefore, there are three concepts regarding the
      retaining of these ligaments in knee replacement surgery. 1: Sacrifice both ACL and PCL, 2:
      Retain PCL , socalled Cruciate Retaining (CR) knee designs, 3: Retain both ACL and PCL.

      When sacrificing the ACL and PCL one possibility to mimic the function of these ligaments is
      by different designs of the tibial insert. The CR design has been widely used in the northern
      countries and stability data for the Nexgen implant with high precision measurements
      available in the literature.

      The tibial insert of the GMK Sphere has a medial ball in socket joint and allows lateral
      anterioposterior movement. This intends to resemble the physiologic movement of the knee
      joint and allow femoral rollback. This new design has been developed by a group of dedicated
      researchers. This design intention is to resemble the function of the cruciate ligaments.
      Theoretically, knee implant designs, which retain the function of cruciate ligaments are
      predicted to have the closest kinematics to normal knees compared to other designs and to
      have a potential to achieve the highest patient's satisfaction.

      Analytical Method

      Radiostereometric Analysis (RSA) has been used in orthopedic research fields since 1970s. The
      original application of this method was for the evaluation of implant migration (i.e.
      fixation) and polyethylene wear of artificial joints using static X-ray pictures. When
      combining RSA with fluoroscopy, we get Roentgen Fluoroscopic Stereophotogrammetric Analysis
      (RSFA), a Method with high accuracy and precision. Only in a few implant designs one has been
      analyzing the actual kinematics in postoperative patients. We plan to investigate the knees
      during in vivo motion and weightbearing using RSFA.

      Purpose of the study

      The aim of this study is to analyse the in vivo kinematics of a medially stabilized knee
      arthroplasty implant (GMK Sphere) and to compare it with a well known design (Nexgen CR) by
      using RSFA.

      By using flat panel fluoroscopy, we will document and compare the kinematics of the two
      implants in all 6 degrees of freedom (DOF).

      26 patients will be randomized into two groups, one will receive a NexGen CR prosthesis, the
      other group GMK Sphere.
    
  