
    
      It will be a Phase IV surveillance study of adverse effects, particularly symptomatic
      hyponatraemia associated with routine use of hypo-osmolar ORS solution in the treatment of
      diarrhoea patients of all ages and of any aetiology in a hospital that admits a large number
      of diarrhoea patients.

      Objectives: To monitor symptomatic hyponatraemia over a completed year in a hospital treating
      a large number of patients with diarrhoea including cholera where all patients will be
      treated with low osmolarity ORS

      Study Design: It will be a phase IV surveillance study of adverse effects, particularly
      symptomatic hyponatraemia associated with routine use of hypo-osmolar ORS solution in the
      treatment of diarrhoea patients of all ages and of any aetiology in a hospital that admits a
      large number of diarrhoea patients. Hypo-osmolar ORS as recommended by WHO is now being
      routinely used for all patients admitted to a hospital which admits a large number of
      diarrhoea patients including cholera. The hospital serves a metropolitan city and it's
      suburbs known to be endemic for cholera.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesise that routine use of the recommended hypo-osmolar ORS will not be
      associated with a significantly incidence rate of symptomatic hyponatraemia.

      Study Site and Population: The study will be conducted in the Infectious Diseases Hospital,
      Beliaghata, Kolkata. This hospital admits diarrhoea patients of all ages including cholera.
      The hospital has 3 diarrhoea wards, one for adult men, one for adult women and one for
      children. It is the designated hospital for admitting all clinically suspected cholera
      patients from greater Calcutta. Of the total diarrhoea admissions during 1995 to 2002, a
      little over 25% were children under five,

      Duration: Total duration of the study will be 18 months.

      Study subjects: The ID Hospital admitted approximately 23,000 patients with diarrhoea each
      year for the years 2001 and 2002. We expect that similar number of patients with diarrhoea
      will be admitted during the study period. We expect about 25 percent of them will be under
      five children. Based on many clinical trials with hypo-osmolar ORS formulations, we expect
      that symptomatic hypotraemia will be a rare event.

      Inclusion Criteria: All patients admitted with diarrhoea over the study period of 12 months
      will be eligible for the study, which include men, women and children.

      Surveillances for the adverse events: Medical Officers on duty at the Diarrhoea Ward of I.D.
      Hospital, under the supervision of a clinician scientist will look for the development of
      symptoms like seizure, lethargy or altered consciousness, or marked irritability (i.e.,
      irritable to touch). The investigations for these patients will include the determination of
      blood glucose at bedside, serum electrolytes, and presence of fever. The decision to do a
      spinal tap will be left to the clinician in-charge of the patients in the hospital. CSF and
      blood culture will be done as and when indicated. Serum electrolyte measurements will be made
      available round the clock.

      Data analysis: Adverse events with particular reference to seizures, marked lethargy and
      altered consciousness will be recorded. Their relation with hyponatraemia will be assessed
      and the rates of such events associated with hyponatraemia will be compared (and 95%
      confidence intervals will be calculated) with records from the preceding 12 months when the
      patients received only standard WHO ORS with 90 mmol/L sodium.

      Primary outcome measures: Symptomatic hyponatraemia. It is defined as biochemical
      hyponatraemia associated with clinical features like convulsion or drowsiness or coma. A
      serum sodium of less than 130 mmol/L will be considered as hyponatraemia and a serum level
      less than 125 mmol/L will be considered as severe hyponatraemia.

      Ethical Issues: The study will be conducted according to good clinical practice and the
      Declaration of Helsinki and Indian Council of Medical Research Guidelines.
    
  