
    
      As reported by the guidelines of the Italian Society of Colorectal Surgery, in case of
      failure of conservative therapies the most common outpatient treatments for first- and
      second-degree Hemorrhoidal Disease (HD) are rubber band ligation and sclerotherapy.

      Sclerotherapy causes an inflammatory reaction with local sclerosis of the submucosal tissue
      and a consequent fixation of the haemorrhoidal tissue to the underlying tissue. Moreover, the
      effect of sclerosing solutions is that of making vascular damage via producing endothelial
      injury.

      A 100% improvement in bleeding was reported in patients with II and grade III hemorrhoids,
      and a complete resolution of the condition was described in 69% of non-selected patients, 52%
      in grade III and 88% in grade I. Resolution of prolapse was reported in 90-100% of patients
      affected by grade II hemorrhoids. Complications are rare but serious, and include impotence,
      irreversible necrotizing fasciitis and abdominal compartment syndrome [31-33]. In Germany,
      sclerotherapy with liquid agents is considered the first choice in treating grade I
      hemorrhoids. The only approved medical product by German authorities is polidocanol
      (Lauromacrogol 400 (INN), H3C-(CH2)11-(O-CH2-CH2)n∼9-OH), produced by Chemische Fabrik
      Kreussler & Co. GmbH.

      In Italy, this drug is known as Atossisclerol 3%. The polidocanol is a non-ionic detergent
      made up of a chain of hydrophilic polyethylene oxide mixed with aliphatic hydrophobic dodecyl
      alcohol and it is recommended for first- and second-degree HD. The effects of polidocanol are
      similar to those of phenol oil but less number of side effects.

      Based on these experiences, Karl-Heinz Moser introduced the use of polidocanol foam in the
      treatment of grade I hemorrhoids. In 2013, the same author published the results of a
      randomized, controlled, single blind, multicentre trial on the efficacy and safety of
      sclerotherapy with polidocanol foam in comparison with liquid sclerosant agents in treating
      grade I hemorrhoids [28]. In the foam group success rate after one sclerotherapy session was
      88%, while success rate among patients treated with liquid polidocanol was 69%. Furthermore,
      patients treated with foam were more satisfied than those treated with liquid polidocanol
      (99% vs. 84% p=0.009). Finally, the quantity of polidocanol injected in the foam group was
      significantly lower (p<0.001), as well as the number of sessions requested (p<0.001).

      In summary, according to the authors, these results suggest that polidocanol foam can be used
      as the treatment of choice in grade I HD.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sclerotherapy with 3%
      polidocanol foam (PF) on patients affected by second-degree HD.
    
  