
    
      People with diabetes are at risk for life-altering complications and comorbidities. One of
      the most serious complications is a diabetic foot ulcer, which significantly increases risk
      for limb amputation. To heal a diabetic foot ulcer, patients are often instructed to refrain
      from bearing weight on the affected limb. This non-weight bearing protocol results in
      extended periods of inactivity that can lead to severe physical deconditioning, including
      diminished strength, endurance, and flexibility. EnhanceFitness, a community exercise program
      designed for older adults, holds classes that can be adapted for people who are non-weight
      bearing due to a healing foot ulcer. These exercise classes focus specifically on strength
      training, aerobic fitness, and stretching - activities that can counteract progressive
      deconditioning in people with diabetic foot ulcer. Health benefits associated with exercise
      in people with diabetes are well-established. However, for those experiencing declines in
      health and physical function because of healing protocols for a diabetic foot ulcer, the
      potential benefits of exercise are not yet known. The proposed project aims to address this
      gap in diabetes research.

      The long-term goal of this research is to improve the health and quality of life of people
      with complications from diabetes. The specific goal of this project is to evaluate the effect
      of a seated community exercise program, EnhanceFitness, on clinically-meaningful outcomes in
      people with diabetic foot ulcers. Study investigators will recruit people with diabetic foot
      ulcers from local wound care clinics and randomly assign them to two groups. The first group
      will engage in EnhanceFitness, an existing community fitness program appropriate for people
      with weight-bearing restrictions due to wound-healing protocols. The second group will
      receive the standard of care, which does not include exercise recommendations. To assess the
      effectiveness of the seated exercise program, the investigators will compare important health
      outcomes between people with diabetic foot ulcers participating in EnhanceFitness and a
      control group with diabetic foot ulcers. Specifically, the investigators will assess physical
      and physiological outcomes, including glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), lower-extremity strength,
      and wound healing. The investigators will also measure psychosocial outcomes, such as
      depression, perceived physical function, overall health, and self-reported ability to
      continue with exercise. Further, the investigators will evaluate the feasibility of
      conducting research assessing the effects of seated exercise in people with foot ulcers. The
      data collected in this pilot research will be used to apply for large, extramural funding
      that aims to mitigate physical deconditioning in people with diabetic foot ulcers.
    
  