
    
      Haemorrhagic stroke is a devastating disease with a high rate of disability and mortality. In
      addition to the direct effects of the haemorrhagic event and to the secondary neurological
      complications, patients with haemorrhagic strokes are predisposed to medical complications
      that can have a direct impact on both clinical outcome and treatment costs. It has been
      estimated that between 79% and 100% of patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage (ES) and
      cerebral haemorrhage (EC) have at least one of these complications. Among them, the most
      common are infections, seizures, hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia and venous
      thromboembolism.

      A possible reason that can be responsible for such a high frequency of complications,
      especially infectious, can be identified in a pathophysiological alteration of the
      circulatory and renal haemodynamics of this population. Specifically, these patients
      frequently have a hyperdynamic state which results in a high renal clearance (CrCl)
      (augmented renal clearance - ARC, defined as a measured CrCl ≥ 130 ml/min/1.73m2). In this
      regard, a recent prospective observational clinical study conducted in an intensive care unit
      of a third level US university hospital showed that 94% of patients with ES and 50% of those
      with EC had an ARC for a duration of at least one day during the hospital stay.

      In consideration of the fact that the ARC has been historically underestimated and that an
      accurate assessment of renal function through the measured CrCl is not regularly carried out
      on all patients even if they are critical, the main risk from the point of view of
      therapeutic appropriateness is that of not adjust the dosing regimen of drugs eliminated
      through the kidney in relation to the presence and extent of the ARC. Moreover, the clinician
      often ignores the time course of the ARC as well as the modalities with which to carry out
      the dosage adjustment. This could lead to sub-therapeutic concentrations for renally excreted
      drugs, as typically are water-soluble antibiotics such as beta-lactams, aminoglycosides,
      daptomycin, linezolid, antifungal fluconazole and antivirals ganciclovir and aciclovir,
      resulting in an increase in the risk of therapeutic failure.

      Although there is currently a great deal of evidence describing ARC in various subgroups of
      critically ill patients, on the other hand there is little documentation regarding the effect
      that ARC can have on exposure to renally eliminated drugs.

      Therefore, the aim of this study is to prospectively evaluate the proportion of plasma
      under-exposure to hydrophilic antimicrobials in patients with ES or EC and with ARC, in order
      to verify whether the recommended dosage regimens for these drugs are adequate for reaching
      the pharmacodynamic targets of therapeutic efficacy.
    
  