
    
      Type of study Randomized cluster trial

      Study objectives:

      Main objective : To test the effectiveness of the serial plotting of SFH and EFW measures on
      customised percentile charts supported by provider training, versus standard antenatal care,
      to improve the detection of FGR. Our aim is to double rates of antenatal detection from 20 to
      40% among SGA infants, defined as a birthweight under the 10th percentile for GA.

      Secondary objectives: To measure the impact of screening program on:

        1. Perinatal outcomes: stillbirths and neonatal morbidity and mortality including the risk
           of severe growth restriction (less than the 3rd percentile).

        2. Rate of false positives and likelihood ratios of screening policies

        3. Modes of onset of labor and of delivery

        4. Resource use and costs : the number of antenatal visits and referrals for ultrasound
           examinations and their indications will be evaluated

      Primary endpoint

      Detection of FGR during pregnancy, defined as:

        -  The mention of suspected growth restriction in medical charts

        -  And either at least one referral for additional US for growth monitoring

        -  And/Or a provider indicated delivery for FGR among SGA births, defined as infants with a
           birthweight below the 10th centile of French CFWR.

      Secondary endpoints

        1. Perinatal outcomes: late fetal death, Apgar score<7 at 5 min, pH<7, resuscitation,
           severe growth restriction (less than the 3rd percentile), admission to a neonatal unit,
           neonatal convulsions, intra-ventricular hemorrhage, hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy,
           death during hospital stay

        2. Rate of false positives (equal to 1-specificity), and likelihood ratios of screening
           policies and their 95% confidence interval. The rate of FP will be defined as suspected
           FGR among non-SGA births according to the CFWR.

        3. Modes of onset of labor and of delivery: labor induction and indications, caesarean
           section and indications (including pre-labor caesarean and caesarean section after onset
           of labor), provider indicated delivery before 37 and before 39 weeks GA

        4. Resource use and costs : number of antenatal visits, number of referrals for ultrasound
           examinations and mean number of US per woman, number of umbilical artery Doppler
           examinations

      Inclusion criteria : Singleton pregnancy, Booking before or at 30 weeks GA in the maternity
      units , Delivery in the participating units Exclusion criteria : Terminations of pregnancy,
      Known fibroid uterus or uterine congenital malformations, Refusal to participate, Minor
      patient

      HPAG is a cluster randomized trial involving 16 geographically dispersed French maternity
      units. In the maternity units randomized to the intervention group, a protocol of growth
      monitoring supported by prior training of healthcare professionals will be implemented for
      all pregnant women receiving antenatal care in the unit, whatever the GA or medical or
      obstetrical risk.

      The intervention consists only in the standardization of current practices. Clinicians in the
      intervention maternity units will follow a standardized protocol, and will be asked to
      measure SFH at each antenatal appointment, collect EFW from the 3rd trimester US, report
      these values on the chart, and monitor fetal growth according to the protocol guidelines.
      Practices will remain unchanged in the control group.

      After delivery, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be assessed by independent clinical
      research investigators, probably midwives. All SGA births and non-SGA births according to the
      French CFWR will be included to answer the main and secondary objectives.

      Data collection will be carried out by the referent midwife. Recorded information will
      include the antenatal care provided, suspicion of FGR, labor and delivery modes, and neonatal
      outcomes until discharge home. The use of the intervention will also be assessed in the
      intervention maternity units by recording information on the presence and completeness of
      customised charts in the medical records.

      Sites : 16 French maternity units

      Duration : 24 months, including 6 months of inclusions

      Number of participants : 10 000 births (625 per maternity unit)
    
  