
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the undetectable prostate-specific antigen (PSA) rate (PSA < 0.2 ng/mL) after
      seven cycles (28 weeks) of protocol treatment between those randomized to a luteinizing
      hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist and bicalutamide and those randomized to a LHRH
      agonist, bicalutamide and IMC-A12 (cixutumumab).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of IMC-A12 with a LHRH agonist
      and bicalutamide.

      II. To compare the proportion of men who do not achieve a PSA of < 4 ng/mL between the two
      groups.

      III. To assess the accuracy of the prognostic model of undetectable PSA that was developed
      from Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG)-9346 using current trial data from each arm.

      IV. To assess serum samples and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC) for
      pharmacodynamic activity with potential biomarkers for IMC-A12 (including, but not limited
      to: insulin-like growth factor [IGF]-I, free IGF-I, IGF-II, IGF binding protein [IGFBP]2,
      IGFBP3, growth hormone, insulin and C-peptide) obtained from optional blood specimens both
      before initiation of androgen deprivation therapy and twelve weeks after initiation of
      combined therapy.

      V. To determine baseline pre-treatment circulating tumor cell (CTC) quantities and response
      to therapy (for those patients with detectable CTC levels >= 1) twelve weeks later.

      VI. In the same subset of patients where CTC levels are obtained, determine baseline serum
      levels of micro-ribonucleic acids (RNAs) to include but not limited to microRNA (mi)-141 both
      before initiation of androgen deprivation therapy and twelve weeks after combined therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive androgen deprivation therapy comprising bicalutamide orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) on days 1-28 and either goserelin acetate subcutaneously (SC) or leuprolide
      acetate intramuscularly (IM) every 1, 3, 4, 6, or 12 months. Patients also receive
      cixutumumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for 7 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive androgen deprivation therapy comprising bicalutamide and either
      goserelin acetate or leuprolide acetate as in arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually for 3 years.
    
  