
    
      Background:

      Natural killer (NK) cells are an important component of an anti-tumor immune response.

      PD-L1 CAR-NK (PD-L1 t-haNKs) is an off the shelf, irradiated human, allogeneic, NK cell line
      that is frozen, shipped, thawed and then infused.

      PD-L1 CAR-NK cells have been engineered to have 3 adaptive modifications:

      Expression of a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting the tumor-associated antigen PD-L1

      Expression of the high-affinity variant (158V) of the human Fc >= receptor (Fc >=RIIIa/CD16a)

      An endoplasmic reticulum-retained version of the human interleukin-2 (ERIL-2) cytokine.

      To improve the safety profile, PD-L1 CAR-NK cells are irradiated, thus inhibiting
      proliferation while maintaining cytotoxicity.

      Irradiated PD-L1 CAR-NK cells are highly effective at lysing PD-L1 expressing tumor cells as
      well as PD-L1 null tumor cells (via expression of native NK cell receptors).

      Preliminary clinical data from 10 participants treated with PD-L1 CAR-NK cells (NCT04050709)
      suggest PD-L1 CAR-NK are well tolerated at a dose of 2x109 cells intravenous (IV) twice per
      week. An additional 8 participants have received irradiated PD-L1 CAR-NK under single patient
      INDs. PD-L1 CAR-NK cell treatment combined with PD-1 blockade and cytokine therapy may
      synergistically activate the T-cell and NK cell arms of the immune system and enhance
      anti-tumor activity.

      The combination of N-803 + PD-1/PD-L1 interaction blockade has a manageable safety profile

      Objectives:

      Determine the clinical response rate (CR+PR) with irradiated PD-L1 CAR-NK cells in
      combination with N-803 plus pembrolizumab in participants with Head and neck squamous cell
      carcinoma and gastric/GEJ cancer.

      Eligibility:

      Gastric/GEJ Cancer Cohort

      Participants must have metastatic or unresectable locally advanced Gastric/GEJ cancer.

      Participants must have measurable disease by RECISTv1.1

      Participants must have completed, had disease progression on, or been ineligible to receive
      first-line systemic chemotherapy for advanced/metastatic disease.

      Participants with HER2 positive disease must have received HER2-targeted systemic therapy.

      Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma Cohort

      Participants must have metastatic or unresectable locally advanced HNSCC.

      Participants must have measurable disease by RECISTv1.1

      Participants must have received or been ineligible to receive first-line systemic
      chemotherapy and must have received systemic anti-PD-1 therapy (in the first-line or
      subsequent-line setting).

      Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 to 2.

      Men or women, Age >= 18 years

      Design:

      This is an open-label, single-center, phase II trial using a safety lead-in to assess the
      safety and tolerability of irradiated PD-L1 CAR-NK cells in combination with N-803 plus
      pembrolizumab in participants with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and/or gastric/GEJ
      cancer

      The phase II objective of this study is to determine the clinical response rate (CR+PR) with
      irradiated PD-L1 CAR-NK cells in combination with N-803 plus pembrolizumab in participants
      with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and gastric/GEJ cancer.

      Cohorts 1 and 2 enroll simultaneously.

      Initially, up to 12 participants from Cohort 1 and/or Cohort 2 will enroll and receive 1 dose
      of PD-L1 CAR-NK cell monotherapy (week -1) for PK/PD studies before starting the combined
      treatment of Pembrolizumab and N-803 one week later (week 0). PD-L1 CAR-NK cells (2x109) will
      be given intravenously every week until week 6 and then every two weeks from 6 weeks onward.

      Administration of pembrolizumab will be at the fixed dose of 400 mg intravenous every 6 weeks
      starting at week 0.

      Administration of N-803 will be at 15mcg/kg subcutaneously every 4 weeks starting at week 0.

      Participants will receive treatments in cycles (1 week=1 cycle) consisting of 7 (+/- 2) days
      with a minimum of 5 days between treatments.

      It is expected that 1-2 participants per month may be enrolled on this trial; thus, an
      accrual of 50 evaluable participants is expected to be completed within 3-4 years. To allow
      for a small number of inevaluable participants, the accrual ceiling will be set at 55
      participants.
    
  