
    
      Urethral stricture disease is a common urological condition in men. Although rigorous
      epidemiologic data is sparse, the existing papers report an incidence varying between 0.6 and
      1.4 percent1. Urethral strictures can occur throughout the entire length of the urethra, but
      mainly involve the anterior urethra and, in particular, the bulbar segment2.

      The International Consultation on Urologic Diseases (ICUD) recommends anastomotic repair (AR)
      urethroplasty for isolated, short, bulbar urethral strictures3. However, AR urethroplasty is
      only possible up to a certain point of stricture length. The elasticity of the bulbar urethra
      is estimated to be about 25% and given the average bulbar urethral length of 10 cm, one could
      simply calculate that strictures up to 2.5 cm can be treated with AR urethroplasty. However,
      this border of 2.5 cm is rather arbitrary as additional length may be gained through the
      different maneuvers of Webster et al., enabling the option of AR for even longer strictures4.
      Furthermore, the location of the stricture within the bulbar segment plays an important role
      as well: a proximal bulbar stricture location allows AR for longer strictured segments (> 2.5
      cm) than a more distal stricture location which nears the penoscrotal angle. Anyhow, the key
      for a successful AR procedure is to perform a well-vascularized and tension-free
      anastomosis5. Whenever this is impossible to achieve, even after performing the
      length-gaining maneuvers of Webster et al., it is recommended to perform a so-called
      'substitution urethroplasty' in which the strictured area of the urethra is opened and
      augmented with a free graft or a pedicled flap5.

      Within the option of substitution urethroplasty, free graft urethroplasty (FGU) definitely
      represents the easiest and most straightforward treatment option. Herein, urethral surgeons
      initially started by placing grafts ventrally 'on' the urethra: 'ventral onlay FGU'. Later,
      Barbagli et al. started placing grafts dorsally: 'dorsal onlay FGU'6. They advocated that
      this dorsal graft position would lead to better graft anchorage, less graft mobility and less
      graft sacculation. However, to date, there is no indisputable data to support the choice of
      one technique over another, not from a surgical point of view, nor from a functional point of
      view7. Furthermore, studies investigating this issue are mostly retrospective and thus only
      entail a low level of evidence7.

      Against this background, the aim of the DoVe trial is to directly compare dorsal onlay and
      ventral onlay FGU for both surgical and functional outcome.
    
  