
    
      Cardiogenic shock (CS) represents a high risk population that is at risk for both in-hospital
      mortality and readmission following discharge. CS can be either left ventricular (LV) or
      right ventricular (RV) or of biventricular (BiV) origin. Even in patients with CS treated
      with an invasive approach (cardiac catheterization, angioplasty, and coronary bypass
      surgery), in-hospital mortality approaches 50%. Other causes of CS mainly include severe
      decline in underlying systolic function (from non-ischemic causes such as sepsis, stress, and
      progression of systolic left ventricular dysfunction among others), arrhythmias, and
      mechanical cardiac complications. Cardiogenic shock in the absence of acute myocardial
      infarction (AMI) (non-AMI CS) is excluded from most studies including randomized trials and
      remains largely understudied. For many years, the intra-aortic balloon pump was thought to be
      helpful in improving outcomes in cardiogenic shock. However, the landmark randomized,
      controlled IABP-SHOCK II trial, published in 2012, and concluded that the use of intra-aortic
      balloon counter pulsation did not significantly reduce mortality in patients with cardiogenic
      shock complicating acute myocardial infarction. This led investigators to search for
      alternate temporary mechanical circulatory support systems that might prove effective in
      reducing mortality in cardiogenic shock. One such system is the Impella 5.0 and Impella RP
      devices. The Impella 5.0 pump in a temporary continuous flow pump approved for hemodynamic
      support for left ventricular shock CS patient and the Impella RP for right ventricular shock.
      The other system is the Tandem heart pump. The investigators utilize the Impella and the
      tandem pump for AMI CS and non-ischemic CS. The device is implanted for bridge to recovery,
      bridge to transplant and as a bridge to durable device. The investigators have discovered
      that recovery rates following AMI shock are significantly improved with the Impellaand tandem
      heart pumps however; identifying which patient recovers remains a mystery. Adequate
      parameters do not exist.

      Patients who we are unable to recover are transitioned to a durable continuous flow left
      ventricular assist devices (CF-LVAD) which are an effective alternative to heart transplant,
      but are not risk-free: among the other effects, right ventricle (RV) hemodynamics are
      significantly altered by the LVAD implantation. In fact, RV failure occurs in 5% of patients
      with implanted CF-LVADs, and leads to a 6-fold increase in the risk of death. Moreover, RV
      failure is a major contributing factor in prolonged hospitalizations, and is associated with
      a higher risk of bleeding, renal failure, and hypotension. Currently, predictors of RV
      failure in patients undergoing LVAD implantation are based entirely on retrospective case
      series, often evaluating cohorts of patients with outdated classes of pulsatile-flow
      LVADs.Furthermore, right ventricular failure (RVF) still results as the major cause of
      morbidity and mortality after LVAD implantation. Despite overall improved outcomes and lower
      rates of RVF with the use of the newer, LVAD over pulsatile-flow devices, and development of
      clinical prediction scores to facilitate preoperative identification of patients at risk for
      RVF after implantation remains elusive. RVF occurs in 13% to 40% of continuous-flow device.
      The ability to predict the development of RV failure post LVAD implantation would
      significantly improve outcomes as these patients would either have planned RVAD implantation
      or receive a total artificial heart implantation.
    
  