
    
      WHAT IS SPECTRAL IMAGING?

      This is a way of studying in detail an area that is being imaged. This can be done because
      each picture of the same area is taken using different colours of light (wavelength).
      Different materials in the picture will absorb and reflect the different wavelengths of light
      from a hyperspectral camera differently. It is then possible to look at each point in the
      picture and work out what is in the picture. This has been used in satellites and aeroplanes
      to identify what is on the ground. For example, it can distinguish the different types of
      trees on the ground based on the different way they absorb and reflect different wavelengths
      of light.

      USING SPECTRAL IMAGING IN MEDICINE. Spectral imaging was found to have uses in medicine
      because of its ability to distinguish one thing from another. A lot of Spectral imaging
      research has been done to measure the amount of oxygen in the blood. This is because oxygen
      is important to all living cells in the human body - without it cells would die or stop
      working. Oxygen is carried to living cells by blood in blood vessels known as arteries and
      the left over is carried away by veins. Most of the oxygen in the blood is transported by
      cells in the blood containing a chemical called haemoglobin. There are two main forms of
      haemoglobin called oxyhaemoglobin (haemoglobin binds to oxygen) and deoxyhaemoglobin
      (haemoglobin that is not bound to oxygen). The proportion of oxyhaemoglobin to the total
      amount of haemoglobin (both oxyhaemoglobin and deoxyhaemoglobin) is called the oxygen
      saturation and is presented as a percentage. The normal saturation in the artery is about 97%
      because it contains more oxyhaemoglobin and in the vein it is about 75% because it contains
      less oxyhaemoglobin. Importantly oxyhaemoglobin (HbO2) and deoxyhaemoglobin (Hb) have
      different spectral characteristics - i.e they absorb light differently at various wavelengths
      of light. This has been extensively documented in various publications using samples of
      blood. This property is the basis of pulse oximetry which is the measurement of the oxygen
      saturation (OS) in the finger tip using a saturation probe which is commonly used in the
      hospital.

      The different spectral characteristics of Hb and HbO2 can also be used in spectral imaging to
      calculate the amount of each in the blood to perform oxygen saturation measurements in
      certain parts of the body. This has previously been used to study the oxygen supply in the
      skin and also to look at the oxygen supply in patients with diabetes which is a condition
      that is caused by a lack of a hormone called insulin causing high amount of sugar in the
      blood resulting in damage to the blood vessels.

      Spectral imaging has only recently started to be used in imaging the eye. The main emphasis
      of Spectral imaging in ophthalmology has been on measuring the oxygen saturations in the
      retina (the layer at the back of the eye that allows us to see). This is called retinal
      oximetry. In essence, the principles of retinal oximetry are similar to that of pulse
      oximetry, i.e using the different spectral characteristics of Hb and HbO2 to calculate the
      oxygen saturation.

      In diabetic retinopathy, the only way the investigators can study the blood supply is by
      performing a Fundus Fluorescein Angiogram (FFA). This is an invasive test which involves the
      injection of a dye into the arm, this dye is transported by blood to the eye and pictures of
      the blood vessels are taken with the dye in it. Also, importantly, there are side effects
      (sometimes life-threatening) to injecting this dye into the arm. If there is a problem with
      the blood supply in the retina then the dye will not fill up in the blood vessel and is seen
      in the pictures as a black area. The FFA provides information on the blood supply but not
      directly on the amount of oxygen in it. Loss of sight from diabetic retinopathy and
      age-related macular degeneration is believed to be caused by a reduction in the amount oxygen
      being supplied to the retina by the blood vessels.

      The investigators believe that oxygen saturation measurements in the retina using spectral
      imaging could be a more useful test for an ophthalmologist because it may provide more
      information on how well the retina is working and may detect problems in the retina earlier
      than the FFA. This may be useful to an ophthalmologist so that they may identify abnormal
      areas of the retina and commence or change the treatment so that they may prevent
      irreversible blindness.
    
  