
    
      The design of this study will be a randomized, controlled trial of Interactive Metronome (IM)
      treatment compared with treatment as usual in patients with moderate to mild Traumatic Brain
      Injury (TBI) due to blast. The study will be conducted at the Evans Army Community Hospital
      at Fort Carson, Colorado . Patients will be randomized to IM training, or to a treatment as
      usual/wait-list control condition. Patients randomized to receive IM training will complete
      15 sessions consisting of approximately 2000 repetitions each. Patients randomized to
      treatment as usual will be offered the opportunity to receive IM training following the
      conclusion of the six month study period. Outcome assessment will focus on phase lag and
      coherence of electroencephalogram (EEG) activity, which are electrophysiological measures of
      cortical connectivity. Primary outcomes will also include attention and memory functioning,
      which are measured prior to the start of treatment, one week following the end of treatment
      and 6 months after treatment ends.

      Interactive Metronome (IM) technology is a behavioral feedback operant conditioning system.15
      In biofeedback, physiological information is displayed to the patient but with IM information
      about the patient's behavioral responses is provided to them. Below the investigators provide
      a detailed description of the behavioral tasks and give some idea as to the program's
      complexity and operation. IM technology takes advantage of each of the above discussed
      factors related to neuroplastic processes and integrates them into a single set of tasks that
      are designed to encourage integrated neuroplastic activity under cognitively demanding
      circumstances. The computerized feedback is reliable, consistent, timely, and directly
      correlated with motor output. The feedback is also presented in a rich cognitive and sensory
      environment that combines instantaneous delivery of simultaneous auditory and visual feedback
      following the motor response. This information aids the preparation of the upcoming
      behavioral response. All of this feedback processing and adjustment of behavioral responses
      must occur in just over a second (1.111 seconds) because the default tempo for IM training is
      54 beats per minute. This places a considerable temporal demand upon the attentional,
      integration, decision making, inhibitory, and motor output operators of the cortex, thereby
      increasing processing speed and efficiency over the course of training.
    
  