
    
      Patients are enrolled in the department of Geriatria, Azienda Ospedaliera di Perugia. The
      group of this pilot project will include 50 subjects. All the volunteers who, in compliance
      with the inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be available for follow-up at twelve months
      and are able to give informed written consent guaranteeing adherence to the treatment will be
      enrolled in the study.

      The study involves the collection of clinical data acquired as part of routine assessments
      for the type of subject included in this research project.

      Visit 1 baseline: day 1 (time 0) Upon enrollment, all subjects, for whom informed consent
      will be obtained, will undergo a medical examination for an overall assessment of the state
      of health. In all subjects, a careful family, pathological and pharmacological anamnesis will
      be collected, data on the habits of life (nutrition, smoking, exercise) will be collected
      through a specific questionnaire and the main anthropometric parameters will be evaluated
      (weight, height,body mass index, waist / hip ratio) and the risk of development of cognitive
      impairment through the Brief Late-life Dementia Risk Index (Barnes et al., 2014).

      The clinical examination will be completed by a standard assessment for the hematobiochemical
      and urinalysis examinations.

      The results of the tests and of the tests carried out for the diagnosis of MCI, according to
      the clinical practice of the center, will be collected and used as baseline values, up to one
      month before entry into the study.

      In addition, some physical performance tests will be performed (hand grip evaluation, timed
      up and go, SPPB, frailty index, bioimedenzometry (BIA)). The results of the following tests
      and examinations carried out for the diagnosis of MCI will be collected, in the month before
      entry into the study: ECG, physical performance test (through evaluation of ADL, IADL),
      cognitive performance test (FCSRT, MMSE, ACE -R, Digit Span forward, Digit Span back, Trail
      Making A and B, Babcock story, Rey test, Raven test, Token test, verbal fluency test, prose
      memory, copy of drawings, verbal reviews), tests for the presence of behavioral disorders
      (Neuropsychiatric Inventory scale, NPI) and mood (Geriatric Depression Scale, GDS), Cognitive
      Reserve Index (CRI) (Nucci et al., 2012) in order to verify if the cognitive reserve could
      somehow to explain the variability found.

      At this visit the patient will be randomized to receive one of the following products daily
      for 6 months:

      A) Memormax, 2 vials / day B) Placebo, 2 vials / day. Each patient will receive a supply of
      30 packs of 12 vials each of Memormax or Placebo. Finally, the material for stool collection
      will be delivered to the patients. Patients will then be instructed to not start treatment in
      the study before collecting the faecal sample. This sample must be returned to the center in
      the days immediately following the visit 1.

      Visit 2 - time 6 months (± 5 days) After 6 months all subjects will be subjected to medical
      evaluation (functional and cognitive), venous blood sampling, urine test and ECG control. Any
      changes in concomitant therapies and any adverse events will be recorded. Unused and used
      vials will be collected for accounting and verification of treatment compliance. All the
      subjects in the study (n = 50) will receive for the next 6 months only Memormax, according to
      an open study design. Each patient will receive a supply of 30 packs of 12 vials each of
      Memormax.

      Visit 3 - time 12 months (end of study / premature termination of the study) At twelve
      months, all subjects will be subjected to medical evaluation (functional and cognitive),
      peripheral venous blood sampling, urine test and ECG control. Any changes in concomitant
      therapies and any adverse events will be recorded. Unused and used vials will be collected
      for accounting and verification of treatment compliance. In the event of premature
      termination of the study by a patient, at any time after the start of treatment, all
      assessments scheduled for Visit 3 should be made, considering the visit itself as the
      conclusion of the study for that patient. It is specified that in the follow-up evaluations
      (6 and 12 months) the parallel versions of the instruments used at the baseline will be used
      to avoid learning effects.
    
  