
    
      The number of people infected by HIV-1 worldwide continues to increase. However,
      antiretroviral therapy is largely unavailable in low- and middle- income countries where risk
      of infection is very high. The development of a safe and effective vaccine to prevent HIV
      infection is urgently needed. This study will evaluate the effectiveness, safety, and
      immunogenicity of an experimental multiclade HIV vaccine, VRC-HIVDNA016-00-VP, followed by an
      adenovirus-vectored vaccine boost, VRC-HIVADV014-00-VP, in HIV uninfected adults. Both
      vaccines code for proteins from HIV subtypes A, B, and C, which together represent 75% to 85%
      of new HIV infections in the world. Adenoviral type 5-based vaccines have improved induction
      of HIV-specific CD8 cytotoxic T-lymphocyte cell responses, which correlate with lower HIV
      burden (viral load) and slower disease progression in primates and in HIV-1 infected people
      whose disease does not progress over the long term. The purpose of this study is to determine
      the safety and effectiveness of and immune response to a series of multiclade DNA vaccine
      injections followed by a booster injection of a multiclade adenovirus vaccine against HIV-1
      infection in healthy adults at risk for HIV infection in North and South America, the
      Caribbean, and Africa.

      This study will last from about 3 years to 5 years, because the length of the study depends
      on how quickly people enroll and how quickly during the study new HIV-1 infections occur.
      Study participants will be randomly assigned to receive a total of three injections of the
      DNA vaccine VRC-HIVDNA016-00-VP followed by one injection of the adenovirus vaccine
      VRC-HIVADV014-00-VP, for a total of four injections of vaccine or four injections of placebo.
      Injections will occur at study entry and Weeks 4, 8, and 24. Prior to the study injections,
      participants will have their vital signs and weight measured, and blood collection will
      occur. Participants will be observed in the clinic for at least 30 minutes after each
      injection for immediate reactions to the vaccines. At all injection visits, HIV
      risk-reduction counseling, HIV risk assessment, pregnancy prevention counseling, and training
      on how to use memory cards will also occur. For 3 to 7 days after each injection,
      participants will be asked to record information about injection site pain, redness, size,
      swelling, temperature, general well-being, and headaches on their memory cards. Additional
      study visits will occur on Weeks 1, 12, 28, 48, 72, 96, 120, and 144. At these visits,
      physical examinations, blood collection, and social impact questionnaires may also be done.
      Any study participants who become infected with HIV while on the study will be monitored for
      at least 72 weeks after diagnosis or at least 12 weeks after the study reaches its primary
      evaluation time point (whichever is longer). The study investigators are committed to
      providing access to local standard of care and treatment to those study participants who are
      found to be HIV-1 infected.
    
  