
    
      The approach and avoidance task (AAT) has turned out as both a promising diagnostic tool as
      well as treatment add-on in psychological science. The AAT constitutes one form of cognitive
      bias modification (CBM), which has been shown to be particularly effective in the field of
      behavioral addictions, such as alcohol addiction (Eberl et al., 2013; Wiers et al., 2011).
      The general logic underlying the AAT is to carry out actions that are either compatible or
      incompatible with an individual's action tendencies. For instance, alcohol addicted patients
      tend to approach alcohol related stimuli faster than control pictures (i.e. soft drink
      stimuli), when they are instructed to react upon the format of a picture and not to its'
      content. This tendency of comparatively faster approaching and slower avoiding
      alcohol-related stimuli than soft drink content has been termed an approach bias for alcohol.
      The AAT as a therapeutic tool tries to counteract or at least to attenuate approach or
      avoidance biases by instructing patients to carry out approach and avoidance gestures that
      are in conflict with an individual's acquired action tendencies.

      Whereas the general effectiveness of the AAT as a clinical intervention has been demonstrated
      several times, little is known about possible mechanisms that might subserve these effects.
      Therefore, the current study is dedicated to shed some light on one such potential mechanism,
      i.e. the role of the avoidance gesture within the alcohol-AAT.

      As already suggested by the name of the AAT, the avoidance gesture seems to be a key
      ingredient in bringing about therapeutic effects. However, recent empirical evidence has
      brought about some interesting findings, giving rise to an alternative explanation.

      A study by Kühn et al. (2017), contrary to common-held beliefs, indicated that inhibition
      capacity can be trained. Inhibition, in turn, consistently has been linked to psychopathology
      and all kinds of behavioural addictions (Smith, Mattick, Jamadar, & Iredale, 2014). The game
      by Kühn et al. (2017) used to train inhibition resembled the AAT in several ways, e.g.
      certain stimuli appearing on a treadmill had to be collected by swiping towards oneself and
      others had to be ignored and the objects slowly disappeared. The latter element contrasts
      with the AAT, since the ignored objects don't have to be pushed away. However, it resembles
      the AAT in the sense that in both cases stimuli slowly fade out of the screen and eventually
      disappear. These parallel let to the assumption that a new form of the alcohol AAT training
      might be equally effective in lowering relapse rates among alcoholic patients. More
      precisely, within the newly conceptualized AAT training patients are instructed to inhibit
      the urge to respond in response to alcohol-related content and to observe the stimuli fading
      out of the screen. In contrast, to the classical AAT training this zooming out of alcoholic
      stimuli is not conditional on an avoidance gesture, i.e. swiping/pushing away the stimulus.

      It is hypothesized that compared to a control group, in which alcohol and soft drink stimuli
      have to be swiped to the left and right, both the classical AAT-and the inhibition group will
      show lower relapse rates and approach biases after the intervention, i.e. a training period
      of three weeks. No intergroup differences in terms of relapse rates and alcohol-related
      approach bias are expected for the classical AAT group and the inhibition group.
    
  