
    
      In this proposal, the investigators aim to test a school-based intervention to promote
      resilience and prevent obesity related co-morbidities for impoverished racial/ethnic minority
      Bronx youth who are at increased risk for diabetes. B'N Fit POWER is a wellness program that
      integrates existing school wellness promotion activities, the Montefiore School Health
      Program (MSHP) - a network of school-based health clinics, and the Mosholu Montefiore
      Community Center (MMCC) - a network of afterschool programming, to promote health and build
      on the resilience of the adolescents. It offers culturally-relevant guidance related to the
      attainment of 7 Target Behaviors, namely to increase fruit, vegetable and sugar-free beverage
      intake, obtain adequate sleep, daily physical activity, eating breakfast and lunch daily, and
      limiting fast food and unhealthy snacks. Although B'N Fit POWER targets youth with overweight
      and obesity and at high risk for diabetes, it is open to all middle school students at the
      school, via community-led recruitment efforts to reduce obesity-related stigma by promoting
      wellness and fitness. Grounded in Youth Development (YD) Theory and using the principles of
      Community Based Participatory Research (CBPR) the program integrates patient, family,
      clinical, and community linkages, and targets individual behaviors as well as the school
      environment to address environmental and structural barriers to behavioral change. YD program
      elements are incorporated to build positive identity, youth resilience, and foster youth
      leadership by having youth contribute to planning community activities with incentives to
      promote attendance and retention. The investigators will conduct a quasi-experimental trial
      of B'N Fit POWER and will compare participants receiving B'N Fit POWER (Group 1) to two
      comparison groups: one from the same school receiving standard of care (Group 2) and, to
      assess the external validity of Group 2 in terms of characteristics and outcomes, an
      additional group from another school also receiving standard of care (Group 3) to address the
      following specific aims: 1) Determine whether B' N Fit POWER is effective in improving
      fitness, healthy weight attainment, and 7 target behaviors; 2) To assess the impact of moving
      the B'N Fit program into a school setting on participant engagement; and 3) To assess the
      mediating pathways associated with program effects. Following an initial health screening,
      participants enrolling in B'N Fit POWER (Group 1) will receive comprehensive medical
      assessments at the MSHP integrated with MMCC afterschool programming that incorporates a
      curriculum focusing on 7 Target Behaviors during weekly leadership sessions and daily
      physical activity. The comparison groups receive the standard of care (standard MSHP and MMCC
      afterschool program). Effects of the program will be evaluated using data routinely collected
      at the schools (e.g. anthropometrics and labs from clinic and the school fitnessgram,
      attendance, grades) and surveys. Multivariate logistic regressions and mixed-effects linear
      models will assess program effects for categorical or continuous outcomes and the Reach,
      Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance (RE-AIM) approach will identify
      barriers and solutions to implementation.
    
  