
    
      Over 340,000 people have incurred a mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) as a result of the
      military conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. mTBI leads to a host of poor rehabilitation
      outcomes including impairments in cognition, physical health, and psychological health. These
      impairments among people with TBI lead to poor quality of life (QOL). Worsening this clinical
      picture, the prevalence of chronic pain is estimated to be 51.5% among civilians with TBI and
      43.1-70% among Veterans with TBI. Opioids are used for treating chronic pain including among
      people with TBI. Thus, given the ongoing opioid epidemic in the United States, it is very
      timely to develop alter-native, non-pharmacologic treatments for chronic pain among Veterans
      with mTBI. Yoga is a promising activity-based intervention for TBI and chronic pain. Yoga is
      an activity generally comprised of breathing exercises, gentle stretching, and meditation.
      Neuromodulation through transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a prom-ising non-invasive,
      non-pharmacological treatment for TBI and chronic pain. Intermittent theta burst stimulation
      (iTBS) is a type of patterned, excitatory TMS. iTBS can induce a window of neuroplasticity,
      making it ideally suited to boost the effects of treatments provided after it. Thus, iTBS
      shows promise to prime the brain for combined interventions and may magnify the impacts that
      these interventions would have when used alone, in order to boost outcomes. The purpose of
      this SPiRE project is to develop a novel, combined neuromodulation and yoga
      neurorehabilitation intervention for Veterans with mTBI and chronic pain, and to examine the
      intervention's feasibility and acceptability. Using an existing, evidence-based, yoga program
      created specifically for people with TBI (LoveYourBrain Yoga), the investigators will first
      develop a neurorehabilitation intervention that combines iTBS with yoga (iTBS+yoga), and then
      collect pilot data about its feasibility and acceptability. Aim 1 will develop a novel,
      combined iTBS+yoga neurorehabilitation intervention for Veterans with mTBI and chronic pain.
      Aim 2 will examine the feasibility and acceptability of the iTBS+yoga intervention for
      Veterans with mTBI and chronic pain. Aim 3 will gather preliminary data to provide the
      foundation for sample size and power considerations for a future clinical trial to examine
      the effectiveness of iTBS+yoga on Veterans' quality of life, function and pain out-comes. The
      combined intervention will be provided in small group settings once a week for 6 weeks. iTBS
      will be administered immediately prior to the LoveYourBrain Yoga session. Emphasizing
      National Institute of Neuro-logical Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) Traumatic Brain Injury
      Common Data Elements (TBI CDEs), the investigators will collect preliminary outcome data
      related to quality of life, function and pain to inform a future Merit application, should
      the intervention prove feasible. This SPiRE project will directly benefit Veterans and VA
      Services by developing a new, non-pharmacological neurorehabilitation treatment for Veterans
      with mTBI and chronic pain in need of non-opioid treatment options. TMS is now offered at 30
      VA hospitals nationwide for treatment-resistant depression, and yoga is among the
      complementary and integrative health programs being rolled out as a part of VAs nation-wide
      Whole Health implementation efforts, with classes offered through VA service lines such as
      recreational therapy. Therefore, should iTBS+yoga ultimately prove to be efficacious and
      effective, VA facilities will be well-poised to offer this treatment. A novel,
      activity-based, non-pharmacological treatment for Veterans with mTBI and chronic pain is of
      great need given the high prevalence of chronic pain, increased risk of opioid therapy, and
      increased risk of developing opioid use disorders.
    
  