
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a single stranded positive RNA virus belonging to the Flaviviridae
      family. HCV is a major cause of chronic hepatitis and progressive liver fibrosis leading to
      cirrhosis. Currently, the mechanisms responsible for hepatocellular injury are not fully
      understood. Oxidative damage has been hypothesized to play a role in HCV-induced liver
      disease, with reactive oxygen species (ROS), generated from HCV-infected hepatocytes and
      infiltrating immune cells. Persistence of recurrent hepatocellular injury leads to
      wound-healing process in which oxidative stress, inflammatory response mediated by immune
      cells and/or cytokines, and activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) contribute to cascade
      of fibrogenesis. HCV can infect peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of patients with
      chronic HCV infection . PBMC play key roles both in innate and adaptive antigen-specific
      immunity and they constitute critical components of the immune response.Heme oxygenase (HO)
      is the rate-limiting enzyme in the heme catabolic pathway. It cleaves pro-oxidant heme into
      equimolar amounts of carbon monoxide (CO), free iron, and biliverdin, which is rapidly
      metabolized to bilirubin by biliverdin reductase.The human HO-1 gene is located at chromosome
      22q12 and a variable number of tandem repeat polymorphism (VNTR) was identified in the
      proximal promoter region. It is suggested that these highly polymorphic (GT)n repeats could
      alter the transcriptional activity. In recent years, enhanced HO enzymatic activity has been
      reported - probably through its formation of bioactive products - to possess antioxidant,
      cytoprotective, and neurotransmitter activity and to play a role in anti-inflammatory
      functions . AIMS: AIM 1.To characterize HO expression in liver biopsies in patients with
      chronic hepatitis C comparing to expression in patients with other types of hepatitis (esp.
      autoimmune) and to normal liver tissue. To investigate the relationship between HO expression
      and hepatitis C virus concentration, duration of infection, level of fibrosis and
      inflammation, ALT, AST activities, bilirubin levels, response to the standard treatment and a
      level of apoptosis. AIM 2. To characterize HO expression in PBMC in patients with chronic
      hepatitis C before, in the week 12 and after the standard treatment (PEG-IFN+RBV). To
      correlate HO expression in PBMC with viral concentration in sera and a response to the
      standard treatment.AIM 3. To investigate HO polymorphisms in patients with chronic hepatitis
      C. AIM 4. To investigate UGT1A1 28 polymorphism which is responsible for benign
      hyperbilirubinemia. Expected results: 1. This study could elucidate a relationship between
      development of liver fibrosis and inflammation and HO expression. 2. This project may, for
      the first time, show the relationship between chronic HCV infection and regulation of HO
      expression in PBMC. 3.This project will answer the question whether genetic predisposition,
      length polymorphism in HO promoter responsible for its lower transcriptional activity, could
      be a risk factor for fibrosis/cirrhosis development in patients infected with hepatitis C
      virus. UGT1A1 28 polymorphism is connected with low prevalence of diseases in which the
      oxidative stress is increased. We suggest that HCV infected persons might have low prevalence
      of this polymorphism or this polymorphism might be connected to low efficacy of antiviral
      treatment in these persons.
    
  