
    
      IIndividuals facing, or who have faced, a life-threatening illness contend with more than
      just the physical symptoms of their condition. Research suggests that diagnosis of, and
      living with a life-threatening illness can result in symptoms similar to those seen in
      Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).

      3,-4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a monoamine releaser with a unique
      pharmacological profile that include decreased feelings of fear, increased positive mood and
      increased interpersonal trust. Findings from clinical trials in people with PTSD and
      anecdotal reports suggest that MDMA-assisted psychotherapy may assist people who are anxious
      as a result of facing a life-threatening illness.

      This randomized, placebo-controlled pilot study of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in 18 people
      with anxiety stemming from a life-threatening illness examines the safety and efficacy of
      this treatment. This study will allow comparison between the impact of placebo and an active
      dose of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy on anxiety, depression, sleep quality, global
      functioning, attitudes toward death, posttraumatic growth, mindfulness, self-compassion, and
      overall quality of life.

      Participants must be people of either gender aged 18 years or older diagnosed with a
      life-threatening cancer or non-dementing neurological illness and anxiety resulting from
      confronting this illness. Eighteen participants will be enrolled in the study. Five of 18
      participants will receive placebo and 13 will receive MDMA.

      Therapy will be conducted by male/female teams, some of whom will be experienced therapists,
      and the others will be intern therapists under supervision of the Principal Investigator.

      In the first study segment, Stage 1, all participants will have two blinded experimental
      sessions of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy scheduled at a two to four week interval, within a
      moderate course of non-drug psychotherapy (preparatory and integrative sessions), after which
      they will complete the primary endpoint assessment. After the primary endpoint assessment,
      the subject and therapists will be unblinded and fully debriefed. Participants assigned to
      receive active dose MDMA will then receive a third open-label experimental session with the
      same active dose of MDMA, which will complete Stage 1. Participants assigned to receive
      placebo will crossover, without completing Stage 1, to an open-label study segment following
      similar procedures, referred to as Stage 2. Participants enrolled in this group will receive
      the same dose of MDMA as the active dose in Stage 1, with an optional supplemental half dose,
      at each of three experimental sessions at time points equivalent to those in Stage 1.

      Anxiety, depression, sleep quality, attitudes toward death, posttraumatic growth,
      mindfulness, self-compassion, and overall quality of life will be assessed by participants'
      self-report at baseline, the primary endpoint, and one month after the third experimental
      session in Stage 1, and at equivalent points in Stage 2. Additional assessments of depression
      and overall psychological functioning will be made by a blinded Independent Rater at these
      time points. A caregiver and individuals in close relationship to the study subject will also
      provide ratings of the subject's posttraumatic growth and mood. Symptoms, long-term benefits,
      and harms will be assessed again at 6 months and 12 months after the final experimental
      session. This study will provide an estimate of effect size based on response of
      psychological symptoms to MDMA-assisted psychotherapy.
    
  