
    
      Systemic vasculitides are inflammatory diseases of blood vessels, among which anti-neutrophil
      cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitides (AAV) are often severe with
      life-threatening manifestations or complications. AAV include granulomatosis with
      polyangiitis (GPA), microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) and eosinophilic granulomatosis with
      polyangiitis (EGPA, formerly Churg-Strauss syndrome).

      Cytotoxic drugs and glucocorticoids have been the standard of care for remission induction
      for nearly five decades. This regimen improved the outcome of severe AAV from death to a
      strong likelihood of disease control and temporary remission. However, a remission is not
      obtained in all patients with this combination of drugs, and most patients experience disease
      flares requiring repeated treatment with associated significant morbidity and mortality.

      In 2 prospective controlled trials, rituximab, an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, was shown to
      be non inferior to cyclophosphamide to induce remission with an acceptable safety profile in
      patients with systemic GPA and MPA. However, patients with EGPA were not included in these
      trials and rituximab has not been evaluated prospectively to induce remission in this disease
      which pathogenesis is complex and not only restricted to ANCA responsibility.

      In patients with EGPA, overall survival is good when treatment is stratified according to
      prognostic factors (Five Factor Score) but long-term outcome is not so good since relapses
      occur in more than 40% of patients, leading to high cumulative morbidity and damage. In small
      retrospective studies, rituximab seems promising as a remission-induction agent in patients
      with EGPA, independently from the ANCA status.

      The trial detailed here is the first prospective trial evaluating rituximab as
      induction-remission treatment for EGPA.
    
  