
    
      In patients with spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD), many continue to have ongoing
      signs and symptoms of ischemia after the dissection has healed. Further, 1 in 5 women will
      experience recurrent SCAD in long-term follow-up. To date, no study has investigated the
      pathophysiologic mechanism behind ongoing symptoms or recurrence of SCAD, but microvascular
      coronary dysfunction (MCD) has been suggested. Coronary reactivity testing (CRT) is an
      invasive procedure currently being done in MCD patients as the gold standard technique. In
      particular, a coronary flow reserve (CFR) < 2.5 has been shown to be both diagnostic of the
      condition and prognostic of a 2 fold increased risk of cardiac events. Please see below for a
      detailed description of CRT. In brief, a dual temperature and pressure sensor tipped wire by
      Radi Medical Systems (St Jude Medical, St Paul, MN) will be placed into the dissected and
      non-dissected coronary arteries of the patient. This will measure CFR by thermodilution and
      will also allow the measurement of the index of microcirculatory resistance (IMR). IMR has
      been found to correlate well with true microvascular resistance.

      In addition to a lack of diagnostic strategies, there is a paucity of research into
      therapeutic strategies. Most women are conservatively managed with medications, however,
      there is no consensus as to which pharmacologic therapies should be used. Case reports have
      suggested benefit with antiplatelet agents (e.g. aspirin) and beta-blockers (reduction of
      arterial wall shear stress). To date no study has investigated the effects of statins or
      Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitors (ACEIs) in SCAD patients. Both agents have been
      studied in the MCD population and been found to reduce angina frequency and improve CFR after
      16 weeks.

      Purpose:

      To measuring the CFR and IMR in 40 SCAD patients with ongoing chest pain who are at least 3
      months from their dissection to determine the proportion with microvascular dysfunction and
      to investigate prospectively whether the addition of an ACEI or a statin to usual care in
      patients with ongoing chest pain and a CFR <3.0 improves chest pain frequency by Seattle
      Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) at 16 weeks compared to placebo.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that the average CFR in patients at least 3 months out from their SCAD will be
      <2.5 and that their IMR will be abnormal. Further, we hypothesize that the addition of either
      an ACEI and/or statin will improve chest pain frequency by at least 20 points on the SAQ at
      16 weeks compared to placebo.
    
  