
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of flavopiridol in combination with radiotherapy
      followed by gemcitabine in patients with locally advanced, unresectable pancreatic cancer.

      II. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the pharmacokinetics of flavopiridol in these patients. II. Determine,
      preliminarily, the therapeutic activity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of flavopiridol.

      Patients receive flavopiridol IV over 1 hour twice weekly (on days 1 and 4 or days 2 and 5)
      for 6 weeks. Concurrently, patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 5.5
      weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Four weeks after the completion of radiotherapy, patients are re-evaluated*. Beginning within
      4-7 weeks after the completion of chemotherapy and radiotherapy, patients receive gemcitabine
      hydrochloride alone or in combination with another cytotoxic agent or gemcitabine
      hydrochloride combined with a targeted drug (e.g., erlotinib or bevacizumab) at the
      discretion of the oncologist. NOTE: *Patients whose imaging studies suggest potential
      curative resection are referred for a surgical evaluation before initiating gemcitabine
      hydrochloride therapy. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of flavopiridol until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is
      determined, 10 additional patients are treated at the recommended phase II dose.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 8 weeks thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 3-46 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  