
    
      This study aims to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of individual
      connectome-targeted repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (ICT-rTMS) treatment to
      enhance the rehabilitation of service members with symptoms of depression and history of
      concussive traumatic brain injury (TBI).

      This will be a multi-site, double-blinded, sham-controlled, prospective, randomized
      interventional trial. Up to ninety participants will be block randomized to active (ICT-rTMS)
      or sham treatment. Participants will receive 20 sessions of ICT-rTMS over approximately 5
      weeks.

      Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) and structural MRI will be
      obtained at baseline to allow for the calculation of connectome-targeted treatment
      coordinates and ensure the absence of structural abnormalities. The rsfMRI scan at baseline
      will also be used to establish the baseline for the secondary imaging outcome measures.

      Treatment sessions will consist of high-frequency left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)
      stimulation for 4,000 pulses followed by low-frequency right DLPFC stimulation for 1,000
      pulses for a total stimulation time of approximately one hour per session. This protocol was
      chosen based on a recent meta-analysis (Brunoni et al., 2017) indicating that amongst the
      various treatment protocols, priming the low frequency right hemisphere stimulation with a
      high frequency left hemisphere stimulation led to the greatest efficacy for treatment of
      Major Depressive Episodes. Additionally, the overwhelming majority of the literature in TMS
      for depression targets the stimulation to DLPFC and the FDA has approved repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to DLPFC for the treatment of medication-resistant
      major depressive disorder (MDD).

      The primary outcome will be change in depression severity from baseline to post-treatment.
      The primary analysis will be a comparison between the ICT-rTMS and sham groups. Secondary
      outcome measures utilized will include cognitive, quality of life, and emotional regulation
      measures, as well as imaging changes. Additional analyses will include durability of effects
      during the 6 months following treatment.
    
  