
    
      Obesity is a complex health issue that results from various causes and contributing factors.
      Individual factors like genetics and behavior may contribute to overweight and obesity.
      Genetics played an important role in increasing hunger and food intake of individuals. A few
      examples of common diseases that are related to obesity are type-2 diabetes, stroke, coronary
      heart disease and some types of cancer. All these obesity related diseases may not be fully
      reversible even after weight loss . Body mass index (BMI) is used widely as a screening tool
      to assess overweight and obesity. Based on the World Health Organization (WHO) international
      classification of BMI, individuals are considered as obese if their BMI value is equal to 30
      kg/m2 or higher and overweight if BMI is 25-29.9 kg/m2. A study was conducted in USA to find
      the prevalence of obesity among children and adults. Researchers attempted to predict the
      childhood obesity and analyse the obesity trend among adults in United States. The results of
      the study showed that the prevalence of obesity among children were 16.9% and adults were
      34.9%. There were no obvious changes in prevalence of obesity among children and adults in
      between 2003-2012 in United States (1). It cannot be denied that there is a link between
      increasing rate of obesity and increasing medical spending. Medical spending for obese
      individuals was 42% higher compared to those with normal body weight (2). The researchers
      reported in their study that obesity was one of the factors that became an economic burden
      for both public and private payers. South East Asia and Western Pacific countries suffer from
      diseases associated with obesity such as cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. Malaysia is
      the country the highest rate of obesity in South East Asia (3). Studies have showed that
      autonomic nervous system is associated with obesity. In 2001, a study was conducted to
      identify the effect of weight loss on autonomic nervous system. The findings showed that the
      activity of parasympathetic nervous system increased with weight loss and cardiac vagal tone
      improved significantly after weight loss (4). Cardiac vagal tone is controlled mainly by
      parasympathetic nervous system and this helps to improve the heart rate recovery (HRR). There
      are two phase of heart rate recovery, fast and slow phase. The fast phase is due to cardiac
      parasympathetic reactivation while the slow phase is because of cardiac sympathetic
      withdrawal. If there is any disturbance of the autonomic nervous system then the HRR will
      slow down (5). Therefore, HRR can be used to assess the cardiac autonomic function and as a
      marker of cardiac vagal tone. Abnormal heart rate recovery after exercise stress can be
      considered as dysfunction of autonomic nervous system. It has been suggested in several
      studies that heart rate recovery after exercise stress is slower among obese individuals
      compared to BMI individuals. A study was conducted to identify the relationship between heart
      rate recovery and body mass index. The finding showed that there was a negative association
      between heart rate recovery and body mass index. 3.5% of 2443 individuals presented with
      delayed decrease heart rate recovery. The prevalence of decreased heart rate recovery was
      higher among overweight and obese groups (6). In another study similar findings were
      observed. Researchers concluded that obese individuals are more likely to have an impaired
      heart rate recovery during the recovery phase after exercise (7). Aerobic training improves
      the autonomic cardiovascular control. A study on 4 weeks of aerobic training was done to
      identify its effects on cardiac vagal tone. Authors reported that 4 weeks of treadmill
      aerobic training was able to improve the autonomic nervous system among pre-hypertension
      individuals (8). The aerobic training consisted of 30 minutes treadmill exercise at 65% of
      maximum oxygen consumption. Another study showed the similar results in which the autonomic
      nervous system was improved after 6 months of moderate intensity aerobic training (9). The
      aerobic training was carried out 1 hour each session with 2 sessions in one week for 6
      months. The present systematic review shows that aerobic training has been proven to be
      effective in increasing the heart rate recovery among subjects with established heart disease
      (10). The effects of 4 weeks of aerobic training in improving the cardiac vagal tone among
      sedentary healthy adults are still unclear. Therefore, we aim to study the effects of 4 weeks
      of aerobic training on vagal modulation.
    
  