
    
      BACKGROUND:

      - Patients with recurrent gliomas have very limited treatment options. Epidermal growth
      factor receptor (EGFR).

      (EGFRvIII) is the most common mutant variant of EGFR and is present in 24-67% of patients
      with glioblastoma.

        -  EGFRvIII expression promotes oncogenesis and is associated with poor prognosis.

        -  EGFRvIII is not expressed in normal tissue and is an attractive target for
           immunotherapy.

        -  We have constructed a retroviral vector that contains a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)
           that recognizes the EGFRvIII tumor antigen, which can be used to mediate genetic
           transfer of this CAR with high efficiency without the need to perform any selection.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objectives

        -  To evaluate the safety of the administration of anti-EGFRvIII CAR engineered peripheral
           blood lymphocytes in patients receiving the non-myeloablative, lymphodepleting
           preparative regimen and aldesleukin.

        -  Determine the six month progression free survival of patients receiving anti-EGFRvIII
           CAR-engineered peripheral blood lymphocytes and aldesleukin following a
           nonmyeloablative, lymphodepleting preparative regimen.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Histologically proven glioblastoma or gliosarcoma expressing EGFRvIII as determined by
           immunohistochemistry (IHC) or Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)

        -  Failed prior standard treatment with radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy

        -  Karnofsky performance score (KPS) greater than or equal to 60

        -  Cardiac, pulmonary and laboratory parameters within acceptable limits

      DESIGN:

        -  The study will be conducted using a Phase I/II design.

        -  Patients will receive a non-myeloablative, lymphodepleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous infusion of ex
           vivo tumorreactive, CAR gene-transduced peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), plus
           intravenous (IV) aldesleukin.

        -  Once the maximum tolerated cell dose (MTD) has been determined, the study will proceed
           to the phase II portion.

        -  In the phase II portion of the trial, patients will be accrued to two cohorts:

             -  Patients with recurrent malignant glioma receiving steroids at the time of
                treatment.

             -  Patients with recurrent malignant glioma not receiving steroids at the time of
                treatment.

        -  A total of 107 patients may be enrolled over a period of 7 years.
    
  