
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of daunorubicin in combination with cytarabine and
      oblimersen in older patients with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia.

      II. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of this regimen in these
      patients.

      III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of oblimersen in this regimen in these patients.

      IV. Determine the disease-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with this
      regimen.

      V. Assess the spontaneous rate of apoptosis in leukemic blasts in patients before and after
      initiation of treatment with oblimersen.

      VI. Determine therapeutic response (complete remission) in patients treated with this
      regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of daunorubicin. Patients are stratified according
      to disease status (primary vs secondary).

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive oblimersen (G3139) IV continuously on days 1-10 and
      cytarabine IV continuously on days 4-10. Patients also receive daunorubicin IV daily on days
      4-6.

      Patients with bone marrow cellularity of at least 20% and at least 5% leukemic blasts at day
      17 or evidence of refractory disease receive a second induction comprising G3139 IV
      continuously on days 1-8, cytarabine IV continuously on days 4-8, and daunorubicin IV on days
      4-5.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning no sooner than 14 days after hematologic recovery from
      induction therapy, patients receive G3139 IV continuously on days 1-8 and cytarabine IV over
      4 hours on days 4-8. Patients receive a second course of consolidation therapy no sooner than
      14 days after hematologic recovery from the first course.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of daunorubicin until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years.
    
  