
    
      Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the United
      States. Over 45,000 patients are diagnosed each year in the United States, and the majority
      of these patients succumb to their disease. Eighty percentages of patients are diagnosed with
      advanced, unrespectable disease. According to the latest statistics, only 7 % of patients
      survive 5 years after diagnosis. While the 5-year survival rate improves to 25 % in patients
      presenting with stage 1or localized disease, only 9 % of patients are identified at this
      early stage. The majority of patients (53%) presents with distant metastatic disease, and
      have a 5-year survival of 2%.

      Improving the prognosis of patients with pancreatic cancer is a challenge. Overall,
      pancreatic cancer has one of the worst prognoses among all cancers; however, the prognosis is
      better if cancer is detected at an early stage. For example, patients with pancreatic cancers
      ≤1 cm in size at the time of diagnosis have a 5-year survival rate of 80.4% . Because such
      small cancers now account for 0.8% of all pancreatic cancer, detection of more small cancers
      would contribute to improving mortality rates.

      The diagnostic approach to a possible pancreatic mass lesion relies first upon various
      non-invasive imaging modalities, including computed tomography, ultrasound, and magnetic
      resonance imaging techniques. Once a suspect lesion has been identified, tissue acquisition
      for characterization of the lesion is often paramount in developing an individualized
      therapeutic approach. Tools , in addition to radiologic imaging , currently employed in the
      initial evaluation of a patient with a pancreatic mass lesion include serum tumor markers ,
      endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, Ultrasound-guided (USG) fine needle
      aspiration cytology (FNAC) and endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA)
      .

      Advancements in radiologic and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) imaging have improved our ability
      to detect and stage pancreatic masses allowing for more selective surgical intervention for
      patients with resectable disease. Owing to the low sensitivity of cross-sectional imaging to
      detect small tumors in the pancreas.

      Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), in which the tip of the endoscope contains a high-frequency
      transducer , provides high resolution images of the pancreas. Indeed , its high resolution in
      experienced hands enables detection of focal lesions as small as 2-5 mm .

      Ultrasound-guided (USG) fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) has emerged as a primary
      diagnostic modality in investigation in patients with pancreatic lesions. This technique was
      introduced into clinical practice nearly 3 decades ago and has proved to be a simple,
      cost-effective and minimally invasive technique that can yield material for tissue diagnosis
      .
    
  