
    
      The study is composed of two phases:

      Phase one involves collection of baseline information for two weeks. Phase two is the
      intervention phase of the study. In this phase of the study, each subject will be randomly
      assigned (like flipping a coin) to use either "the product" of interest or a different dry
      mouth product for two weeks.

      Phase 1

      This first phase will involve having you report to the research coordinator through email the
      presence or absence of several symptoms associated with GERD that can occur during sleep.
      Phase 1 will occur over 14 days (and nights). You will also be asked to rate the relative
      severity of some of the symptoms. The information collected during this initial phase of the
      study will then be used to establish baseline values for the symptoms of interest and
      determine your eligibility for the intervention phase (phase 2) of the study.

      Phase 2

      In the second phase of the study, you will be given either enough gel or enough discs to use
      for 14 days (the duration of the second phase of the study). If you are given the gel, a
      small amount (specified in the directions) is to be applied to the mouth lining just before
      bed. If you are given the discs, one will be placed on the gums beside a molar in each cheek
      each night just before bed (specified in the directions). You will be asked to continue to
      provide daily email communication with the research coordinator detailing symptoms suggesting
      reflux experienced the prior night during product use as you did during phase 1 of the study.

      During phases 1 and 2 of the study, you will be asked to continue taking any previously
      prescribed medication or over-the-counter preparations that you normally take for reflux and
      to maintain your regular dietary habits. However, you should not take any dry mouth remedy
      other than those supplied by the research coordinator just before bed.
    
  