
    
      This is a randomized control trial of the impact of mindfulness meditation in patients with
      known diagnosis of epilepsy over the course of 2 years.

      Participating physicians will recruit patients meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      who have been diagnosed and treated in the epilepsy clinic at the Miami Veteran hospital.
      Upon completion of screening and enrolment procedures study participants will be randomly
      assigned to one of the two groups using a randomized call-in system: Treatment with weekly
      sessions of mindfulness meditation for 8 weeks or placement in the waiting list.

      Demographics will be obtained for both groups during the initial clinic visit. The epilepsy
      variable questionnaire will also be completed during the initial appointment in the epilepsy
      clinic (this will assess seizure frequency, number of ER visits 3 months prior, adherence to
      antiepileptic medications reviewing the electronic pharmacy log with dates of medication
      being dispensed at the Veteran Medical Center.

      All patients will be scheduled to have an initial appointment with the clinical psychologist
      to fill out the complete a battery of questionnaires including: Quality of life inventory in
      epilepsy (QOLIE-31), alcohol use disorder identification test (AUDIT), Beck depression
      inventory (BDI-II), Beck anxiety inventory (BAI), drug abuse screening test (dast-10),
      Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Insomnia severity, patient health questionnaires (PHQ), Post
      traumatic

      The patients who do not initially receive mindfulness meditation will continue to receive
      standard of care and will be placed in a second phase of randomization where they will have a
      chance to once again be randomized to one of the groups.

      This process will continue until a total of at least 40 patients has been recruited. After
      the recruitment has been completed, the remainder of the patients will be given the
      opportunity to participate in mindfulness medication if they so desire.

      The hypothesis is that mindfulness meditation group will have more favorable outcomes than
      patients in the waitlist group in terms of the primary outcome of reduction in seizure
      frequency and secondary outcomes including number of ER visits, improvement in quality of
      life, decreasing symptoms of depression, anxiety, and/or PTSD, improvement in sleep quality,
      and decreased alcohol use.

      Physicians will be blinded to which group patients are assigned during data collection. All
      of the participants will have a weekly clinic note titled Psychology Note in the clinic MIA
      MH PSYCHOL MINDFUL GRP. The notes will document the session if patient is in the mindfulness
      meditation group or will document that the patient remains on the waiting list. The
      physicians will not access these notes and will remain blinded to the patient assignment and
      upon completion of the study the data will be de-identified and analyzed by the statistician.
    
  