
    
      The 5 year survival of oral cancer in Sweden is 55 % and only 3-4% in advanced cases, with
      poor quality of life. The etiology is hrHPV, exposure to tobacco and alcohol in 65% and poor
      dental status. All are lifestyle factors so there are many opportunities for prevention and
      intervention. In 2016, 352 individuals in Sweden died in oral cancer compared with 135
      individuals who died of cervical cancer. Leukoplakia (LP), erythroplakia (EP) and oral lichen
      planus (OLP) are the dominating oral premalignant entities. The diagnosis are clinical and
      often by biopsies. There are two types of leukoplakia, homogeneous and non-homogeneous. The
      nonhomogeneous have a risk of malignant transformation of 3.6-8.9% in Scandinavia. OLP is a
      chronic inflammatory lesion where the atrophic and erosive types have a risk of cancer
      development of 0.5-2%. The potential for prevention is high, as the risk factors are well
      known. The Clinical examination discloses any potentially malignant lesions. Screening for
      cervical cancer using brush sampling is a well-established method but for the early detection
      of oral premalignant and malignant lesions, this is not yet an accepted standard procedure.
      However, there are studies that clearly show that brush sampling is a reliable and safe
      method to identify oral cancer and their potentially malignant precursor. In subjects with
      suspected pre-malignant tissue changes, measures should be taken to organize to establish a
      diagnosis. The brush sampling technique are shown to be a faster less costly, and for the
      patient less troublesome technique than traditional incisional biopsies but both methods
      require today, referral to specialist care. Dental hygienists and dentists can most probably
      be trained to perform brush biopsies of oral premalignant lesions, and when diagnosed, the
      patient can be referred to a specialist to have the lesion excised, and required controls can
      possibly be carried out in the primary care. Dental health professionals have a
      responsibility to perform routine intra- and extraoral examination on their patients for
      detecting abnormalities. As dental hygienists and dentists often see their patients on a
      regular basis, they have the opportunity to provide this screening, and at an early stage
      detect abnormalities. In Sweden, education and training in examination of the oral mucosa is
      a part of the curriculum in dental hygienist education, so there is an expectation that the
      dental hygienist routinely perform tactile and visual examinations in practice. However,
      dental hygienists are not allowed to diagnose an oral mucosal lesion, but are trained to
      identify abnormalities and determine whether the patient needs referral to a dentist. It is
      also to expect that the dental hygienist and dentist are capable to identify risk behaviors,
      and recommend, and offer smoking cessation or refer the patient to a certified profession for
      smoking cessation. Being aware of the increasing number of head, neck, and oral tumors we
      need to focus on establishing easy, fast and affordable methods for diagnosis, managed at the
      general dental health clinics, preferably by dental hygienists and dentists.
    
  