
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you take part in this study, you will take ibrutinib by mouth 1 time each day for up to 3
      years. You must swallow the capsules whole with a glass (about 8 ounces) of water. Do not
      open, break, or chew the capsules. You should take ibrutinib at the same time every day.

      If you miss a dose of ibrutinib, take it as soon as you remember on the same day. Take your
      next dose of ibrutinib at your regular time on the next day. Do not take 2 doses of ibrutinib
      on the same day to make up for a missed dose.

      You will be given a study drug diary to write down what time you take each dose of ibrutinib.
      You need to bring the study drug diary, any leftover study drug, and any empty study drug
      containers with you to each visit.

      The dose of ibrutinib you receive may be lowered, if the doctor thinks it is needed.

      Study Visits:

      One (1) time during Weeks 1-4, 6, and 8 and then 1 time each month after that for up to 3
      years after your first dose of ibrutinib, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests and to check your kidney and liver function. The blood draws may be performed
      at MD Anderson or at a lab closer to your home.

      If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you may need to have these blood draws more often.

      Around 1 month after your first dose of ibrutinib, you will have a bone marrow
      biopsy/aspirate to check the status of the disease, if the study doctor thinks it is needed.
      To collect a bone marrow biopsy/aspirate, an area of the hip or other site is numbed with
      anesthetic, and a small amount of bone and bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle.

      Around 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, then every 6 months for 3 years after your first dose of
      ibrutinib:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have computed tomography (CT) scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy/aspirate to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for up to 3 years. You will no longer be able to take
      the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are
      unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on this study will be over after about 3 years.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      You will continue to have the CT scans and blood draws described in the study visits section
      1 time a year for up to 3 years.

      If you had a positron emission tomography (PET) scan that was performed at the time of your
      transplant and the scan showed that the disease was still in your body, you will have a PET
      scan 1 time each year while taking ibrutinib. The PET scan will not be repeated if the
      results show that there is no disease in the body.

      This is an investigational study. Ibrutinib is FDA-approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of many types of cancers, including mantle cell lymphoma with 1 prior therapy.
      The use of ibrutinib to treat double hit lymphoma after an autologous stem cell transplant is
      considered investigational. The study doctor can explain how the study drug is designed to
      work.

      Up to 30 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  