
    
      Periodontal disease is a chronic inflammatory process accompanied by destruction of
      Periodontium, and sometimes loss of teeth. Periodontal disease is highly prevalent especially
      in developing and underdeveloped countries affecting more than 80% population.
      Epidemiological studies have shown that about 10% of the adult population suffer from severe
      periodontitis (Brown et al. 1990, Gjermo 1998). Studies indicate that the periodontal lesion
      is not strictly a localized process but may lead to systemic alterations in immune system.
      Various studies confirm the microbial etiology of periodontal disease. The bacteria that
      cause periodontitis include mainly diversity of anerobic bacteria; Porphyromonas Gingivalis,
      Fusobacterium Nucleatum, Peptostreptococcus, Prevotella species being the most significant.

      Various therapeutic approaches are available for treatment of this disease utilizing non
      surgical and surgical methods, but the treatment is still challenging for the clinician and
      cumbersome for the patients. In many cases of moderate to severe chronic periodontitis anti-
      inflammatory and antibiotics are used as an adjunct. Systemic antibiotic agents may reduce or
      eliminate microbes that cannot be removed by Scaling and Root Planing. This includes microbes
      that have penetrated tissues or root surfaces which may act as reservoir for recolonization.
      However synthetic antibiotics and anti-inflammatory agents result in complications like drug
      resistance, gastrointestinal complications, congestive heart failures and renal failures and
      other complications.

      Especially in India Mustard Oil and Salt is long being used for gum massage and for
      maintenance and improvement of Oral Hygiene. As this practice of using homemade formulation
      is beneficial for Gingival and Periodontal health, economic and free from any major side
      effects it should be studied to document its efficacy as an adjunct to Scaling and Root
      Planing. Mustard oil is considered to have low saturated fat. The monounsaturated fatty acids
      and proper ratio of polyunsaturated fatty acids improve heart health, lowers triglyceride,
      prevents obesity. Massage with mustard oil relieves rheumatism and arthritis, sprains and
      aches. The selenium present in the oil reduces effects of asthma and joint pain. High level
      of Vit. E improves skin health and impart protection against UV rays. Mustard seeds are
      effective in gastrointestinal and colorectal cancer, as mustard is rich in glucosinolate and
      phytonutrients. It is effective in curing cold, cough, body pains & aches. Salt in topical
      formulation is found to have anti inflammatory action.Hence this study aims to evaluate this
      versatile formulation in treatment of Chronic Periodontitis. As the use of Mustard Oil and
      Salt is practiced by a strata of population in our country thus it is advisable and necessary
      to assess scientifically the efficacy of mustard oil and salt massage in improving Gingival
      and Periodontal Health.
    
  