
    
      The study was a double-blind randomized controlled trial to assess the role of glutamine as a
      myocardial protection during coronary artery bypass grafting under cardiopulmonary bypass in
      patients with left ventricle ejection fraction of 31-50%. This study was approved by
      Institutional Review Board of National Cardiovascular Center Harapan Kita and informed
      consent was obtained before randomization for patient eligible for this study. Allocation of
      participant to the treatment group was done by block randomization by staff who was not
      involved in the study. The intervention drug was prepared by pharmacist who also was not
      involved in the study. Glutamine solution was supplied as L-alanyl-L-glutamine dipeptide
      (Dipeptiven, 200 mg/mL, Fresenius Kabi, Bad Homburg, Germany) and was prepared to contain
      0.5gr/kgbw glutamine diluted in NaCl 0.9% to a final volume of 500 mL. Placebo was supplied
      as 500 ml of NaCl 0.9%, prepared in similar fashion and packaging as glutamine solution.
      Principal investigator, care provider, outcome assessor, and participant were blinded to the
      assigned group until after the end of the study.

      Baseline participant characteristics were collected before the intervention included age,
      sex, body weight, body height, body mass index, and documented pre-operative left ventricle
      ejection fraction. Coronary artery bypass grafting and cardiopulmonary bypass was done in
      concordance to standard operating procedure in National Cardiovascular Center Harapan Kita,
      followed by transit time flow meter measurement to ensure quality of the graft. Modifying
      factor of the study, the investigators measured duration of surgery, duration of
      cardiopulmonary bypass, and duration of aortic cross clamp.

      The primary outcome of the study was plasma troponin I level. The investigators anticipated
      plasma troponin I level difference of 20% with standard deviation of 0.04 ng/mL, and for
      statistical power of 80% and level of significance of 0.05, the required sample size was 24.5
      participants per group. As anticipation for participant drop out, the investigators planned
      to recruit a total of 60 participants.
    
  