
    
      The study is a randomized, multicentric, double-blind, controlled with active comparator,
      parallel groups trial, to demonstrate the non-inferiority in efficacy and therapeutic safety
      of the postoperative diet with oligomeric-hyperprotéic-normocaloric supplement (group 1)
      versus a supplement with imunonutrients (group 2), in a multimodal rehabilitation regimen
      (ERAS) of colorectal surgery for colon cancer and that arrive at surgery in a normal
      nutritional state or without any intervention on their nutritional status, according to the
      scale Malnutrition Screening Tool (MST). The study will be carried out in the General Surgery
      and Digestive Diseases Services of the following hospitals:

        -  Reina Sofía University General Hospital (HGURS) of Murcia.

        -  Sagunto Hospital, Valencia.

        -  University Hospital of Fuenlabrada, Madrid.

      Primary objective: to demonstrate the non-inferiority in the therapeutic efficacy of a
      postoperative diet with an oligomeric-hyperprotéic-normocaloric supplement versus a
      supplement with imunonutrients, in patients under the multimodal rehabilitation regimen
      (fast-track) of colorectal surgery of colon cancer and who arrive at the Surgery in normal
      nutritional status or without any intervention on their nutritional status, according to the
      Malnutrition Screening Tool (MST) scale. The proportion of subjects in each research group
      without postoperative complications after 1 month (30 days) of surgery will be considered the
      main parameter of effectiveness.

      Secondary Objectives: to demonstrate the non-inferiority in therapeutic safety of a
      postoperative diet with oligomeric-hyperprotéic-normocaloric supplement versus a supplement
      with imunonutrients, in a multimodal rehabilitation regimen (ERAS) of colon cancer colorectal
      surgery, through:

        1. The evaluation in each treatment group of the oral tolerance to the supplements,
           considering as a total adherence if the indicated daily volume (400ml) is consumed,
           partial adhesion if it is half of the indicated volume (200ml) and non-adherence if it
           is less than 200 ml / day.

        2. Comparison of the percentage of patients in each treatment group of postoperative
           complications according to the Clavien-Dindo classification, up to 30 days from the date
           of surgery.

        3. Comparison of the percentage of patients in each treatment group of surgical site
           infection according to the classification of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
           -CDC- , up to 30 days from the date of surgery.

        4. The comparison in each treatment group of the percentage of patients who have required
           hospital readmission or have died attributed to the surgical act, up to 30 days from the
           date of surgery.

        5. The comparison in each treatment group of the average postoperative hospital stay.

        6. The evaluation in each group of treatment of analytical parameters: before nutritional
           supplementation prescribed by its responsible surgeon or the unit of nutrition, the day
           before surgery and the fifth postoperative day or the day of discharge: hemoglobin,
           leukocytes, lymphocytes, procalcitonin, C-reactive protein, total proteins, albumin,
           prealbumin, transferrin and creatinine.
    
  