
    
      Patients presenting with a suspected acute CORONARY syndrome is based on the interrogation,
      the realization of an electrocardiogram (ECG) and 2 dosages of the cardiac troponin at some
      hours of interval. However, the ECG and the troponin are frequently normal and this does not
      absolutely eliminate the diagnosis. In that case, it is at present recommended to practise an
      effort ECG or a stress imaging, such as echocardiography. Several studies estimated the
      diagnostic exactness of stress echography for patients presenting a recent chest pain without
      modification of the ECG nor a rise of the troponin with a sensibility from 71 to 86% and a
      specificity from 91 to 98%. Recently, several teams estimated the interest of multislice
      computed tomography (MSCT) in the same population. The MSCT sensibility reported by 2 teams
      is promising because was found between 91 and 100%. On the other hand, the specificity was
      appreciably less good : between 76 and 82%. The negative predictive value to MSCT was
      excellent : between 97 and 100%.The aim of this work is to compare the diagnostic exactness
      between stress echography and MSCT for patients presenting with a suspected acute coronary
      syndrome without modification of the ECG nor rise of the troponin. It is about a prospective
      monocentric diagnostic study concerning 400 patients. The primary end point is the proportion
      report of true positives in MSCT with regard to stress echocardiography (the main diagnosis
      is the coronarography). The secondary end points include the proportion of false positives,
      the non interpretable or non contributory examination rate and especially the proportion of
      unwanted events in 6 months for the negative patients in both examinations according to a
      combined criteria including death, myocardial infraction (MI), percutaneous CORONARY
      intervention (PCI), coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) or readmission for chest pain with
      coronarography visualizing a stenosis greater than 50 %.
    
  