
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant morbidity and mortality throughout the
      world. As of March 16, 2021 there were over 119 million confirmed COVID-19 cases and 2.6
      million deaths globally. The majority of COVID-19 cases are mild to moderate, resulting in
      symptom resolution within 6 weeks of symptom onset.

      Following moderate to severe COVID-19 infections, functional impairments are likely to be
      dominated by peripheral muscle dysfunction (due to deconditioning and decreased lean body
      mass, ICU neuropathy, fatigue and the effects of hypoxemia), respiratory muscle dysfunction
      (dysfunctional breathing pattern, DBP, and exercise-induced laryngeal obstruction), cardiac
      impairment and deconditioning, and psychosocial factors (anxiety, depression, guilt, sleep
      disturbance and dependency).

      Physical exercise has proven to be an effective therapy for most chronic diseases and
      microbial infections with preventive or therapeutic benefits involving the primary
      immunological mediators and/or anti-inflammatory properties. Another mechanism is that it can
      counteract the effect of prolonged bedrest by preventing the decline in muscle strength,
      muscle mass loss , reduce exaggerated cardiac response to exercise, reduce thromboembolism,
      and improve lung function. Prior research in COPD patients have shown that early pulmonary
      rehabilitation showed reductions in mortality, length of stay and readmission.

      There has been some concern among physicians about allowing patients with COVID-19 to
      exercise. This is also of concern to all practitioners of Rehabilitation Medicine and the
      investigators seek to understand the risks better. This research group is currently
      concluding another retrospective study of 988 COVID-19 patients that suggest that not only is
      exercise safe, but increasing the number of exercise interventions improves the functional
      status of the patients and may reduce mortality.

      As the next step, the investigators propose a 12-month, single blind feasibility study to
      determine if adding a self-guided exercise to a patient population already receiving two
      30-minutes/week therapy can improve the patient's overall functional and cognitive outcomes.
      The overall hypothesis is that COVID-19 patients admitted to the hospital with mild to
      moderate disease can safely perform these exercises and improve their physical and cognitive
      functioning. The objective in performing this study is to examine feasibility as well as
      obtain preliminary data to design future RCT studies in this or other similar diseases. The
      self-guided exercise program was developed by the Department of Rehabilitation at Montefiore
      during the initial COVID-19 surge. The manual has been published in the Journal for the
      International Society of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine and has been distributed
      through many medical society websites. COVID-19 patients admitted to the Montefiore Hospital
      have been receiving the exercise manual upon discharge for the past 9 months. The exercises
      in the program are divided into 3 levels. The initial level focuses on prevention of lung
      complication associated with COVID-19, and prevention of contracture in the large joints
      associated with bedrest. The next level focuses on improving sitting tolerance, strengthening
      limb and accessory muscles of breathing. The final level works on standing balance, large
      muscle strengthening, and building cardiopulmonary endurance The investigators will test 2
      modes of delivery, one using the printed exercise manual and the other using Pt PAL, a mobile
      health technology application. Pt PAL can facilitate communication between the care team and
      patients, and allows the team to send from their web-portal, exercise routines, surveys and
      educational material to the patient's mobile device. The Pt PAL app then captures the patient
      activity adherence, and reports those results back to the team including a graphical summary
      about patients' condition and activity. The investigators have successfully applied Pt PAL
      exercise program to other patient populations (e.g., heart failure patients) in Montefiore
      Medical Center, and the app has received regulatory approval at Montefiore.

      The research team composed of Rehabilitation Medicine physician, Internal Medicine
      specialist, rehabilitation therapists, nursing, medical students and research staff are very
      well positioned to carry out a study of this nature effectively and safely to its conclusion.

      The investigators will assess the changes in the following measures

        1. Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care (AM-PAC)12 which was developed to examine basic
           mobility and daily activity functional activities important to adults.

        2. St George's Respiratory function questionnaire to assess pulmonary function. It is
           scored for symptoms, physical activity, and impact domains

        3. Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB ) is a series of physical performance tests
           used in older persons to assess lower extremity function, balance and mobility and is
           predictive of a broad range of adverse outcomes, including mortality, incident
           disability, falls, hospitalization and healthcare utilization.

        4. The Picture Memory Impairment Screen is a brief, 4-item free and cued recall test of
           memory that uses pictures to overcome many of the educational, cultural, and logistical
           barriers to cognitive screening in clinical settings and is nondiscriminatory with
           regard to culture and literacy.

        5. The Paper Match Stimuli, a rapid paper test that can be administered under 3 minutes
           correlate predominantly with brain regions mediating information processing speed (i.e.,
           basal ganglia) and executive functions (i.e., dorsolateral prefrontal and parietal
           cortex

        6. The Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) is a 21-item, self-report rating inventory that
           measures characteristic attitudes and symptoms of depression, which can help identify
           patients whose motivation for exercise may be impacted by depression
    
  