
    
      Cocaine and alcohol addiction are serious health problems with no available medical treatment
      for preventing relapse. Past research has shown that individuals who are addicted to both
      cocaine and alcohol typically respond poorly to conventional substance abuse treatment.
      Little attention has been directed towards how best to treat these individuals. Naltrexone is
      a medication that is currently used to treat drug and alcohol addiction. It acts by blocking
      the "high" feeling produced by drugs and alcohol. Modafinil, another medication, enhances
      mood, increases energy, and improves concentration in people with narcolepsy. Preliminary
      research has shown that it may produce similar effects to cocaine, thereby potentially
      countering the symptoms of cocaine withdrawal. Cognitive Behavioral Coping Skills Therapy
      (CBT), a form of therapy that aims to alter an individual's patterns of behavior and drug
      use, is also an important component of substance abuse treatment. The purpose of this study
      is to compare the effectiveness of CBT plus placebo, CBT plus modafinil, CBT plus naltrexone,
      and CBT plus a combination of modafinil and naltrexone at reducing cocaine and alcohol use in
      individuals addicted to both substances.

      This 14-week study will enroll individuals addicted to both cocaine and alcohol. During a
      1-week screening period, potential participants will be required to complete a detoxification
      program, including stopping all cocaine and alcohol use. Participants will also undergo a
      physical exam and an electrocardiogram. Blood will be drawn for laboratory tests, and urine
      tests will be used to screen for the presence of drugs and alcohol. Individuals who complete
      the screening and meet all study requirements will be permitted to participate in the
      treatment phase of the study. During the 13-week treatment phase, participants will be
      randomly assigned to receive modafinil, naltrexone, a combination of modafinil and
      naltrexone, or placebo. All participants will attend a CBT session once a week. Study visits
      will take place twice a week. At each visit, a urine test and breathalyzer will be used to
      screen for the presence of alcohol and drugs. Participants will also complete standardized
      psychological questionnaires to measure drug and alcohol craving, treatment services
      received, severity of illness, and withdrawal symptoms. In addition, participants will meet
      weekly with a nurse practitioner, who will dispense study medications, monitor adverse
      events, and evaluate the participant's clinical status. A follow-up evaluation will occur 6
      months following the end of treatment.
    
  