
    
      Surgeons within the University of North Carolina Department of Surgery will be recruited via
      an email list-serve. This recruitment email will describe the study and have the consent
      attached. If the surgeons are interested in participating they will respond to the email and
      sign the consent form.

      The project personnel will arrange to attend their clinic that has new patients scheduled. A
      random group generator will be used to randomize the patients. The surgeons will be provided
      either a transparent mask that demonstrates their full facial features or their typical mask
      that covers their mouth, for each new patient visit. Following each visit, the surgeon will
      tell the project personnel that they are complete and the project personnel will enter the
      room, introduce the project, obtain verbal consent (enroll the patient) and if agreeable,
      provide a brief verbal survey to the patient. The survey will entail confidential questions
      regarding basic demographics, surgeon communication and trust, as well as an impression of
      the masks. Survey answers will be Likert scale and open ended. Patients will also be given a
      debriefing form at the completion of their participation. Surgeons will be asked their
      impression of the mask at the completion of their participation. All data will be kept
      confidential on password protected devices.

      If patients do not agree to the study they will not be included. If surgeons feel
      uncomfortable at any point they may withdraw from the study. Any patient demonstrating
      concerning symptoms of an infection will not be included in the study.

      The investigators expect to recruit 10 surgeons, with 10 patients each, totally 100 patients
      (50 in each arm, clear vs. covered mask). Using Mann-Whitney U test, data will be analyzed
      for differences in responses between the two groups. Demographic data for both the patient
      and surgeon will also be analyzed. Patient comments will be qualitatively analyzed for themes
      by trained researchers.
    
  