
    
      Singapore is a fast-aging Nation. A national survey of senior citizens in 2005 projected that
      the prevalence of persons >65 yrs. in Singapore will increase from 7.3% in 2000 to 18.7% in
      2030. Moreover, 7.1% of adults from 65 to 74 years were at least dependent on walking aids
      for mobility and this prevalence increased to 22.3% (17.5% for Males & 26% for females) for
      adults aged 75 and above.

      The Prevalence of Diabetes Mellitus is very high among the Elderly in Singapore. The National
      Health Survey in 2010 showed that almost 1 out of 3 (29.1%) of our elderly aged 60-69 have
      Diabetes mellitus.

      In Marine Parade Polyclinic in 2007, 36.3% (i.e. more than 1/3) of our patients were aged 65
      yrs. or older. Moreover, a recent (2011) study by the Ministry of Health (MOH) on 2,600
      community-dwelling elderly people in Marine Parade showed that 78.4% suffer at least 1
      chronic disease and 15% had fallen in the 12 months leading to the MOH Survey.

      A prospective cohort study of 63,257 Singapore local Chinese showed "a very strong
      dose-dependent relationship between duration of diabetes and risk of hip fracture (P for
      trend < 0.0001" and that "prevention of falls should be part of the management of diabetes".

      A study profile of 2847 Acute Presentations at the Tan Tock Seng Hospital A & E Dept. by the
      geriatric population showed that "Falls" was the most common presenting complaint (13.9%).

      A general-practice-register & UK-based study showed the prevalence of B12 deficiency to be
      approximately 10% for the ages of 65-74 yrs. and rising to 20% for those > 75 yrs. of age.

      A cross-sectional study on 203 Type 2 diabetic outpatients of an American Primary Care Clinic
      showed the prevalence of B12 deficiency to be 22%, with patients taking Metformin having a
      statistically lower level of serum B12 (314.4 pmol/l vs 389.3pmol/l; P=0.012).

      A causal link between vitamin B12 deficiency and falls is hypothesised. B12 deficiency can
      cause neuropathy which can in turn lead to impaired balance & proprioception, amyotrophy &
      subsequent sarcopenia that can all contribute to falls. Vitamin B12 deficiency can also lead
      to depression, consequent psychomotor retardation and subsequent falls. Low vitamin B12 can
      lead to raised serum homocysteine and this could in turn lead to neuro-cardiovascular
      complications (e.g. cognitive decline, stroke) that predispose to falls. At a molecular
      level, homocysteine is also known to permanently degrade and impair structural integrity of
      collagen, elastin and proteoglycans, thus predisposing to muscular-skeletal mechanical
      instability, osteoporosis, falls and fractures.

      However, other than a few case reports, there are no published studies to date linking
      Vitamin B12 deficiency to falls.

      The actual degree /severity of Vitamin B12 deficiency that could put a patient at risk of
      falls is not known.

      The precise mechanism with which B12 deficiency could increase the risk of falls is also not
      known. Knowledge of such a mechanism could enable better Measurement and subsequent risk
      stratification of fall risk. This, in turn, could help guide in screening and pre-emptive
      treatment for falls prevention especially in elderly diabetics. The investigators I postulate
      that vitamin B12 deficiency exerts its fall risk through muscle weakness (sarcopenia) and
      through gait, balance & mobility impairment that can be objectively measured using
      dynamometry and POMA scoring.

      As referenced, diabetes mellitus is associated with both vitamin B12 deficiencies and
      increased risk of falls. The investigators postulate that vitamin B12 deficiency is not only
      associated with but also has a causative role in increasing the risk of falls due to its
      biological plausibility outlined above.

      This study aims to investigate if there is an association between muscle strength and gait &
      balance assessments (using the POMA Scores) with serum vitamin B12 levels in elderly
      diabetics of Marine Parade Polyclinic. Once a correlation can be shown, an effect size can be
      obtained for a clinical trial to see if vitamin B12 replacement could prevent, or better
      still, improve muscle strength, gait and balance, thus ultimately reducing risk of falls.

      The secondary aim is to investigate the magnitude of any gender disparity in such an
      association.

      An exploratory aim of this study is to identify potential predictor variables of vitamin B12
      and folate levels that could help form the basis of future clinical predictive tools for
      vitamin B12 and folate deficiencies respectively that could help case-find vitamin
      deficiencies in primary care. Vitamin D and homocysteine levels will also be similarly
      explored.

      If the hypothesis is correct, this would be of public health importance and could change
      diabetic clinical practice. Healthcare providers could then better identify, risk-stratify,
      screen & treat for vitamin B12 deficiencies especially among elderly diabetics and in doing
      so, reduce the heavy socio-economic burden of falls cost-effectively.

      Methodology

      This was done in 2 phases. In Jan 2012 11 patients were recruited using a scholarship
      stipend. This provided provisional data to enable calculation of the sample size for the
      second phase (an additional 45 patients, see below) and to obtain a bigger grant to do so.
      The recruitment criteria and study methodology being the same for both except for the change
      in knee extension strength measuring equipment and the addition of a swaymeter to quantify
      balance in addition to the POMA score. Serum albumin and total protein were also measured in
      the 45 patients of the second phase.

      Patients' details & data were be rendered anonymous & identified by alpha-numeric codes.

      Data was cross-tabulated and analysed using version 13 of STATA, a statistical software.

      Serum vitamin B12, folate, homocysteine and 25-OH-vitamin D levels were tested and analysed
      as continuous and as categorical variables (e.g. as tertiles & quartiles) with the physical
      measurements (i.e. muscle strength measures and POMA scores) as dependent variables. Physical
      measurements were also be studied as continuous (egg Torque or Kg Force, total sway in mm
      distance) or categorical (e.g. tertiles of muscle strength, High-Medium-Low-risk ordinal
      scores) variables. Correlation was looked for using scatterplots, ANOVA and multivariable
      regression methods. As the investigators anticipated a wide range of Vitamin B12 levels from
      normal to the very low in the diabetic elderly population, it would then also be possible to
      compare between participants with and without vitamin B12 deficiency, and patients with
      normal B12 levels could serve as "internal controls".

      Potential confounders & effect modifiers (e.g. additive or multiplicative Interactions) were
      be studied via stratification and linear regression analyses.

      Folate was also tested and studied because it shares many of the Biochemical Pathways of
      Vitamin B12 and could serve as a confounder. Excesses of Folate can also mask B12 deficiency.

      Homocysteine was used as a marker for biochemically-significant vitamin B12 deficiency
      because B12 deficiency is known to exert a significant part of its deleterious effects
      directly through homocysteine mechanisms.

      Many factors that predispose to vitamin B12 deficiency also predispose to vitamin D
      deficiency (e.g. meat-deficient diets, malabsorption and old age). In addition, vitamin D
      deficiency is a known cause of falls in the elderly through sarcopenia & muscle weakness.
      Serum 25-OH vitamin D is thus measured to study its potential as a confounder or effect
      modifier in Muscle weakness and poor Gait-Balance.

      Reduced lower limb strength and grip strength are associated with frailty, falls and
      disability. The Lafayette hand-held dynamometer using a supine positioning offers a validated
      feasible, inexpensive, and portable test of quadriceps muscle strength for use in healthy
      older people in the clinical setting. This was used in my pilot on 11 patients. However, the
      Lafayette Hand-held Dynamometer for leg strength, which is a cheaper and reliable measure for
      knee extension strength, is limited by the strength of the tester. This could affect the
      reliability of the results of leg strength especially when a female nurse uses the hand to
      test leg strength of stronger male participants. The Knee Strength Device and Lord Sway Meter
      Setup has been shown to provide valid and reliable measurements that can be used for
      assessing falls risk and evaluation of effectiveness of interventions and a range of health
      care settings. These are also easy, cheap and reliable to use and have the additional
      potential to be used for geriatric health care provision in the local primary health care
      setting in the future.

      The Jamar Grip Strength Dynamometer has been used reliably and extensively in studies of Grip
      strength & increased fall risk.

      The Tinetti Performance Oriented Mobility Assessment (POMA) scoring system has also been used
      extensively and shown to accurately assess impairments in Gait and Balance that lead to
      increased fall risk. The Timed-Up-and-Go (TUG) test is incorporated as a component of the
      POMA test.

      For this study, the abovementioned tools of measurement are chosen over other methods because
      of their portability, validation, reliability, simplicity of use and potential for practical
      future clinical application in the primary health care setting, where daily high-patient
      loads are the norm and quick-and-reliable risk-stratification and assessment tools are
      required.

      Sample Size Calculation

      As there was hitherto no similar study associating levels of vitamin B12 and folate with
      muscle strength, gait and balance measures in older people with diabetes mellitus in
      Singapore. Thus, to ascertain an effect size, provisional analysis of the first 11 patients
      showed a lower vitamin B12 level to be associated with a longer time to complete the TUG test
      with a Pearson correlation of 0.34. With a type I error of 0.05 and power of 0.8, a total of
      66 patients should have been recruited to validate this level of correlation. However, a
      sample size of 56 patients was chosen, as a reasonable number for a pilot study. This number
      of patients would still yield significant results at a Pearson correlation of 0.37 or better.

      As in any normal physical examination that involves walking, there was a small theoretical
      risk of falls during the POMA assessment procedure. This was be minimized by stopping the
      study if the patient was deemed unsafe in walking or the patient refused to proceed further
      with the study. Risk of falls was minimized further with adequate prompting and briefing for
      anticipation of manoeuvres, and adequate rehearsals and demonstration. A safety gait belt was
      used for increased protective grip-hold of a patient in the event of an impending fall or
      instability.

      The muscle strength testing especially of the lower limbs could cause straining if patient
      overexerted. In addition to proper briefing, warm-ups, trial runs and demonstration,
      additional care was taken by adopting an isometric "Make" test (as opposed to a "Break" test)
      to test patients' strength with, as it was less likely to cause muscle straining. A "Make"
      test is where the patient exerts a maximal force isometrically limited by his/ her own
      comfort & pain thresholds. A "break" test involves full extension & locking of a limb (e.g.
      the knee in full extension) and forcibly overcoming and flexing the limb by the assessor.

      Patients were encouraged not to be in a fasted state at recruitment. If they are in a fasted
      state, they would be advised to have a meal and then return 1 hour post-meal.
    
  