
    
      Study Design: This is a Phase I study to evaluate safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of
      a recombinant DNA vaccine against the influenza virus H5 hemagglutinin by intradermal (ID)
      delivery. The hypothesis is that this vaccine will be safe for human administration by ID
      delivery by either needle/syringe or Biojector and will elicit antibody and T cell responses
      against the H5 protein. Primary objectives are to evaluate safety and tolerability of the
      vaccine at 500 micrograms ID administered by needle and syringe or by Biojector and at 1 mg
      ID administered by Biojector as two injections in the same or in different arms in healthy
      adults. Secondary and exploratory objectives are related to immunogenicity.

      Product Description: The vaccine is composed of a single closed-circular DNA plasmid that
      encodes the H5 protein with a CMV/R promoter. Vaccine vials will be supplied at 4 mg/mL. Each
      injection will be 125 microliters (500 micrograms) administered ID over the deltoid muscle
      using the Biojector® (Registered Trademark) 2000 Needle-Free Injection Management System
      (Biojector) or needle and syringe.

      Subjects: A total of 40 healthy adults, ages 18-60 years will be enrolled.

      Study Plan: Subjects will be simultaneously randomized at a ratio of 1:1:1:1 into one of four
      groups as shown in the schema. The protocol requires ten clinic visits and three telephone
      follow-up contacts.

      Study Duration: Each participant will complete 32 weeks of clinical follow up.

      Study Endpoints: The primary endpoint is safety and tolerability of the regimen. The
      secondary immunogenicity endpoint is H5-specific antibody as measured by hemagglutination
      inhibition (HAI) assay and H5 neutralizing antibody assay at Study Week 12. Other
      immunogenicity assays at timepoints throughout the study may also be completed as exploratory
      evaluations.
    
  