
    
      A significant amount of preclinical and correlative clinical data suggest that HER2-positive
      breast cancer could be amenable to immune¬therapeutic approaches. The presence of
      HER2-overexpression in breast cancers is associated with higher levels of proliferation, high
      histologic grade and higher levels of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) compared with
      HER2-negative tumors. The investigators therefore hypothesize that for HER2-positive tumors,
      avoidance of destruction by the host immune system must be an important mechanism
      contributing to tumor growth and progression.

      The term "immune evasion" refers to the ability of the tumor to suppress and change host
      anti-tumor immune reactions. The programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) pathway represents a major
      immune control switch which may be engaged by tumor cells to overcome active T-cell immune
      surveillance. The ligands for PD-1 (PD-L1 and PD-L2) are constitutively expressed or can be
      induced in various tumors. High expression of PD-L1 on tumor cells (and to a lesser extent of
      PD-L2) has been found to correlate with poor prognosis and survival in various other solid
      tumor types. Furthermore, PD-1 has been suggested to regulate tumor-specific T-cell expansion
      in patients with malignant melanoma. These observations suggest that the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway
      plays a critical role in the tumor immune evasion and could be considered an attractive
      target for therapeutic intervention in several solid organ types.

      MK-3475 (previously known as SCH 900475) is a potent and highly-selective humanized mAb of
      the IgG4/kappa isotype designed to directly block the interaction between PD-1 and its
      ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2. MK-3475 strongly enhances T lymphocyte immune responses in cultured
      blood cells from healthy human donors, cancer patients, and primatesMK-3475 also modulates
      the level of interleukin-2 (IL-2), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), interferon gamma
      (IFNγ), and other cytokines.

      The investigators therefore propose to evaluate if the addition of an immunotherapy can
      reverse trastuzumab resistance and improve clinical outcomes in HER2-positive disease. In
      this study the investigators will determine if a monoclonal antibody targeted against PD-1, a
      T cell negative regulator, can reverse trastuzumab resistance in patients previously
      progressing on trastuzumab.
    
  