
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the main effects of varenicline 2 mg (VAR) and nicotine patch + lozenge (NPL)
      on smokers who remain on these medications throughout the trial.

      II. To estimate the probability that abstinence at twelve weeks as a function of treatment
      assignment at six weeks (augmentation) is moderated by initial treatment assignment (i.e. at
      baseline).

      III. To estimate the probability that abstinence at twelve weeks as a function of treatment
      assignment at six weeks (switching) is moderated by initial treatment assignment (i.e. at
      baseline).

      IV. To estimate the probability that treatment continuation, switching, or augmentation
      confers benefit conditional upon failing to quit after the initial treatment with nicotine
      patch + lozenge (NPL) for six weeks.

      V. To estimate the probability that treatment continuation, switching, or augmentation
      confers benefit conditional upon failing to quit after initial treatment with VAR for six
      weeks.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive varenicline orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID),
      placebo patches QD, and placebo lozenges PO QD beginning on day 9 and continue for 6 weeks.
      Patients that are abstinent at week 6 may continue treatment for an additional 6 weeks.
      Patients also receive behavioral smoking cessation counseling consisting of 4 in-person
      visits, 4 phone visits, and 4 brief supportive phone calls lasting 10-15 minutes each over
      the 12 weeks of treatment.

      GROUP II: Patients receive placebo tablets PO QD or BID, nicotine patches QD, and nicotine
      lozenges PO QD beginning on day 9 and continue for 6 weeks. Patients that are abstinent at
      week 6 may continue treatment for an additional 6 weeks. Patients also receive behavioral
      smoking cessation counseling consisting of 4 in-person visits, 4 phone visits, and 4 brief
      supportive phone calls lasting 10-15 minutes each over the 12 weeks of treatment.

      Patients who fail to achieve abstinence at week 6 are re-randomized to receive 6 additional
      weeks of therapy consisting of either a continuation of the same treatment; switching to the
      untried intervention (either NPL or varenicline); or receive NPL treatment with an additional
      patch (high-dose NPL) or high-dose varenicline.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.
    
  