
    
      This study is an eight-week, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group, fixed dose trial
      comparing two doses of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)
      receptor positive modulator, Org 24448, added to a stable dose of atypical antipsychotic
      medication in 135 patients with schizophrenia studied at seven sites. The primary endpoint
      for this trial is a composite score derived from the MATRICS cognitive battery. Measures of
      psychiatric symptoms and functioning are secondary endpoints. Because previous trials in
      animals and humans with this and other AMPA modulators detected persistence of cognitive
      benefits, this trial will also repeat clinical assessments at follow-up, four weeks after
      completion of the study medication.

      Primary Objective:

        1. Compare the effects of an eight-week trial of Org 24448 250 mg BID, 500 mg BID and
           placebo upon cognitive function as assessed by the MATRICS cognitive battery.

           Secondary Objectives:

        2. Compare the effects of an eight-week trial of Org 24448 250 mg BID, 500 mg BID and
           placebo upon level of functioning as measured by the SCoRS and UPSA.

        3. Compare effects of Org 24448 250 mg BID, 500 mg BID and placebo on overall symptoms
           measured by the BPRS total, psychotic symptoms measured by the BPRS positive symptom
           items, and negative symptoms measured by the SANS total.

        4. Evaluate tolerability of Org 24448 250 mg BID and 500 mg BID compared to placebo
           measured by the Side Effect Checklist, AIMS, SAS, study completion rates, and frequency
           of abnormal laboratory values.

           Tertiary Objective:

        5. Evaluate persistence of effects on clinical ratings 4 weeks after completion of the
           8-week trial.

      Methods:

      Study Locations: This study will be coordinated by the study PI, Dr. Goff, and the TURNS
      Treatment Management Unit under the direction of Dr. Buchanan. Patients will be recruited
      from the Massachusetts General Hospital and Massachusetts Mental Health Center in Boston (Dr.
      Goff), the Lemuel Shattuck Hospital and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (Dr. Seidman),
      the Nathan Kline Institute (Drs. Javitt and Nolan), Washington University Medical Center
      (Drs. Csernansky and Barch), the Maryland Psychiatric Research Center (Drs. Buchanan and
      Gold), Duke School of Medicine (Drs. McEvoy and Keefe), the University of California at Los
      Angeles (Drs. Marder and Green) and Columbia University (Drs. Lieberman and Kimhy). The TURNS
      is a NIMH-funded contract for the evaluation of new compounds for the treatment of cognitive
      impairments in schizophrenia (HHSN 27820044 1003C; P.I.: Steve Marder, M.D.). Data management
      will be performed by the Clinical Trials Data Management Unit of the Nathan Kline Institute
      under the direction of Jim Robinson, M.S., and statistical analysis will be performed by Dr.
      Robert McMahon of the Maryland Psychiatric Research Center. Org 24448 and matching placebo
      capsules will be provided by Organon Pharmaceuticals. Laboratory assays will be performed by
      Quest Diagnostics.

      Subjects: Subjects will include 135 inpatients or outpatients with schizophrenia treated for
      at least 8 weeks with a stable dose of an atypical antipsychotic other than clozapine. Prior
      to enrollment, it will be determined that the clinician has optimized the dose of the
      antipsychotic and maintained the medication at a constant dose for at least 4 weeks.
      Diagnoses will be confirmed using the SCID. Patients will be excluded for significant medical
      illness, seizure disorder, substance abuse, or inability to provide informed consent. Because
      our primary hypothesis is that Org 24448 will improve measures of attention and memory,
      patients must be capable of completing the neuropsychological battery, but no minimum
      threshold of cognitive impairment is required for inclusion.

      Screening: The diagnosis of schizophrenia will be confirmed by a research psychiatrist using
      a modified version of the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM IV (SCID). The BPRS, SANS,
      CDRS and SAS will be administered to verify that inclusionary criteria are met. A physical
      examination, including neurological exam, will be performed and medical history, vital signs
      (weight, heart rate, oral temperature, sitting and standing blood pressure), and demographic
      information will be obtained. Laboratory assessments will include standard screening blood
      tests: electrolytes, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), fasting glucose, liver enzymes,
      T4, calcium, phosphate, magnesium, albumin and complete blood count (CBC) with differential
      and platelet count. A pregnancy test will be done in all premenopausal women. A routine
      urinalysis, drug screen, EKG and EEG with hyperventilation and photic stimulation will also
      be performed. The screening visits will collect all data required to complete inclusionary
      and exclusionary criteria except for performance on the MATRICS battery and WTAR, which will
      be administered as a baseline measurement at week 1 of the stabilization phase to minimize
      practice effects. In addition, subjects must continue to meet inclusionary and exclusionary
      criteria on baseline symptom ratings which will be performed at the completion of the
      stabilization phase (stabilization week 2).

      Stabilization Phase: After informed consent is obtained and screening completed, subjects
      will enter a two-week, single-blind placebo lead-in stabilization phase. Placebo will be
      administered as two capsules twice daily dispensed in blister packs identical to those that
      will be used during the randomized, double-blind treatment phase. Baseline assessments will
      be completed during the stabilization phase and compliance with study medication will be
      assessed. Plasma will be obtained for assay of antipsychotic concentrations at week 2 of the
      stabilization phase. The plasma sample will be drawn as a trough level. This phase is
      intended to reduce placebo-response during the double-blind treatment phase, allow completion
      of baseline assessments, and provide an opportunity for investigators to identify and resolve
      potential problems with compliance.

      The MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB), the Wechsler Test of Adult Reading (WTAR),
      the Schizophrenia Cognitive Rating Scale (SCoRS), and the University of California San Diego
      (UCSD) Performance-Based Skills Assessment (UPSA) will be completed at stabilization week 1;
      the clinical scales (described under "Assessments") will be completed at stabilization week
      2.

      Double-Blind Phase: Patients will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to placebo, Org 24448 250 mg
      BID or Org 24448 500 mg BID administered in identical-appearing capsules for eight weeks.
      Study drug will be dispensed weekly in blister packs containing placebo or Org 24448 250 mg
      capsules after completing the stabilization phase (stabilization week 2 and baseline
      assessments). Subjects will be given three extra days of medication in case of a missed
      appointment. All subjects will take two capsules twice daily. The antipsychotic dose will be
      unchanged during the trial. Patients will be asked to bring their previous blister pack to
      each visit; a count of remaining capsules will be performed and recorded. Patients will
      return for follow-up at week 12, four weeks after completing the double-blind trial.
      Investigators may reduce the morning (AM) dose of study drug by one capsule (250 mg) if
      necessary due to poor tolerance. Subjects may continue at the reduced dose or, after one
      week, the investigator may attempt to resume the full dose (two capsules BID). If the reduced
      dose (three capsules daily) is not tolerated, subjects will be discontinued from the study.
      Patients who miss 7 consecutive days of study drug or who are found to have taken 75% or
      fewer study doses at two or more pill counts will be dropped from study.

      Assessments: The following scales will be completed at stabilization week 2 (baseline) and at
      weeks 2, 4, 6, 8 & 12 and will comprise the clinical assessment battery: Brief Psychiatric
      Rating Scale (BPRS), Scale for Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), Calgary Depression
      Rating Scale (CDRS) and Clinical Global Impression (CGI). In addition, the Abnormal
      Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) and the Simpson Angus Scale for Extrapyramidal Symptoms
      (SAS) will be performed at baseline and weeks 4, 8 & 12. Assessment of functioning will be
      performed at baseline, weeks 4 & 8 (or end of study) using the Schizophrenia Cognitive Rating
      Scale (SCoRS) and UCSD Performance-based Skills Assessment (UPSA). The SCoRS will be repeated
      at week 12. Cognitive functioning will be assessed at baseline, week 4 and week 8 (or end of
      study) using the MATRICS battery plus the NAB Daily Living Memory and a Delayed Recall Trial
      of the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test. A one-week window (up to 3 days before or 4 days after
      the scheduled visit) will be allowed for the completion of assessments to accommodate unusual
      or unavoidable circumstances only. All sites will be certified in the administration of the
      MATRICS, SCoRS and UPSA assessments prior to initiation of study. Inter-rater reliability
      will be established for the BPRS and SANS before the start of the study and will be
      reassessed every three months by the circulation of videotaped interviews.

      Safety Assessments: Vital signs and the Side Effects Checklist will be performed and adverse
      events recorded weekly during the two-week stabilization phase and the 8 week trial and
      weekly for 4 weeks following completion of the trial . Laboratory assessments, including
      urinalysis, will be repeated at weeks 4, 6 and 8 (or end of study). An EKG will be repeated
      at weeks 2, 4 and 8. A white blood count (WBC) and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) will be
      repeated weekly during the 8 week trial and weekly for 4 weeks following completion of the
      trial. A physical examination, including neurological examination, will be repeated at week 8
      (or end of study).Drug Plasma Concentrations: Plasma will be obtained at baseline and weeks 4
      and 8 for assay of antipsychotic concentrations. Plasma samples will be drawn as trough
      levels.
    
  