
    
      • Study Design Single-center, standardized, case-control study designed to assess the
      prevalence and significance of novel and traditional risk factors of premature coronary
      artery disease in women. Phase I (April 30th 2005- January 1st 2008) enrolled women with
      onset of symptomatic coronary artery disease before 55 years of age. The control group of 347
      clinically healthy, age matched women was selected from the National Health Survey WOBASZ
      study (Polish Multicenter Population Study designed by Epidemiology and Cardiovascular
      Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Department of Institute of Cardiology) according to
      specifically designed questionnaire for WOBASZ study, and only subjects with negative history
      of CVD or negative exertional chest pain were included (Rywik S, Kupść W, Piotrowski W, et
      al. Wieloośrodkowe ogólnopolskie badanie stanu zdrowia ludności - projekt WOBASZ Założenia
      metodyczne oraz logistyka. Kardiol Pol 2005;63(supl.IV) 605:613).

      Definition of premature CAD in women contained onset of coronary artery disease (myocardial
      infarction or coronary revascularization) before 55 years of age. Study participants are
      enrolled after coronary angiography and after identification and screening the age of
      admitted patients for acute coronary syndrome, stable angina or revascularization procedure.
      At the time of enrollment, participants give written informed consent for the study.

      Information on demographic factors, social characterization, life style, education,
      anthropometric measurements, symptom characteristics and anamnesis, gynecologic history,
      family history on CVD and cancer, physical examination data, personal or family history of
      CVD, socioeconomic status, cardiovascular assessments and medication used was obtained
      through the use of a structured case report form questionnaire (CRF).

      Additional fasting blood samples (15ml) are drawn from every individual (patients and
      controls) and frozen immediately at -70 for genetic study and in patients only half blood
      samples are centrifuged, separated, and frozen immediately at -70o after processing.

      Baseline evaluation consisted of CRF data, and collection of coronary angiography, carotid
      ultrasonography and laboratory data.

      The study protocol is approved by the Institutional Review Boards and Local Bioethics
      Committee.

        -  Follow-up All patients are contacted at 6 months after discharge from the hospital, and
           then every 6 months, for at least 4 years, to assess symptom status, menstrual status
           and occurrence of cardiovascular events (MACE) including death, nonfatal myocardial
           infarction, coronary revascularization, cardiac surgery and hospitalization for unstable
           angina.

        -  Study Endpoints

      Primary Outcome Measures:

        1. To evaluate the prevalence of atherosclerosis risk factors in women with premature CAD,
           including family history, social, environmental, clinical, traditional and novel risk
           factors, menopausal status and its association with early onset of the disease as
           compared to matched controls.

        2. To evaluate the association of clinical factors to extent and advance of atherosclerosis

        3. To evaluate predictive role of clinical factors and in particular: impaired fasting
           glucose, abdominal obesity, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, inflammatory markers,
           coexisting inflammatory and immunologic diseases on prognosis at 1 year and long-term
           follow-up in terms of MACE (cardiovascular death, nonfatal MI, revascularization,
           hospitalization due to heart failure III/IV or acute coronary syndrome)

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

        1. To evaluate predictive role of clinical factors and in particular: impaired fasting
           glucose, abdominal obesity, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, inflammatory markers,
           coexisting inflammatory and immunologic diseases on prognosis in terms of Vascular
           Events (MACE, hospitalization due to CAD progression, major arrhythmia, with ICD
           implantation, and stroke)

        2. To evaluate predictive role of clinical factors and in particular: impaired fasting
           glucose, abdominal obesity, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, inflammatory markers,
           coexisting inflammatory and immunologic diseases on prognosis in terms of components of
           Vascular Events and total mortality

      Endpoints assessment:

      Independent endpoint classification committee comprising of 2 not involved into study
      procedures cardiologists will review documentation of the event and classify it.

      The study may have significant implications for improvement, identification and management of
      female patients at risk of premature atherosclerosis providing more gender-specific data for
      efficacy and safety of cardiovascular medication. Better scientific recognition will result
      in better awareness of risk and effective prevention of coronary artery disease in young
      females, in optimizing the delivery of heart care to population of young women and rationale
      for guidelines specific for women.
    
  