
    
      Exparel is liposomal form of bupivacaine, a local anesthetic. Secondary to its liposomal
      nature, Exparel slowly releases bupivacaine into the area injected (ultrasound guided field
      block) so that it may provide relief from pain for up to 48-72 hours time.

      Exparel in TAP blocks may be performed on patients undergoing open or laparoscopic hand
      assisted abdomen/pelvic procedures, who are NOT candidates for an epidural (anticoagulation
      medication use, history of spine surgery with metal hardware of the mid-lower back) or as a
      rescue block for patients who undergo laparoscopic surgery but converted to open abdominal
      surgery in the operating room.

      This block is usually performed intraoperatively (before patient wakes up from anesthesia) or
      in the immediate postop recovery unit (PACU) area.

      Anesthesia personnel who have been well trained to perform ultrasound guided bilateral TAP
      blocks will combine Exparel 20 cc's with 0.25% Bupivicaine 20 ccs and 20 ccs of normal saline
      into a 60 cc syringe. With ultrasound machine, they will locate the TAP block on each side of
      abdomen with a Stimuplex needle. Once the TAP area is found, hydrodissection with normal
      saline is used to confirm TAP area, and then 30 ccs of the Exparel/0.25% Bupivacaine/normal
      saline solution administered to each side.

      Patients are seen in the PACU area, where pain scores and oral morphine equivalents (OME) are
      calculated. Patient seen in postoperative day (POD) 1 to discuss expectations of pain control
      and goals for pain management (i.e. use of multimodal pain regimen and goals to decrease
      opioid use). A flyer (approved by the Patient Education Committee) is provided to patient on
      POD 1 for further patient education. Pain scores and OMEs calculated for POD 0-5. Progress
      notes in patient's chart and patient interview also discloses if patient had episodes of N/V,
      another data point we will collect. We will finally review patient charts for length of
      admission (date of admission to date of discharge) Our control group: patients that had open
      abdominal or hand assisted laparoscopic surgery and who did not receive a TAP block, and
      received mainly opioids for postop pain control. For the comparison (control) group, we will
      calculate OME requirements while in PACU, and from POD 1-POD 5. We will see patients during
      POD 1 to discuss expectations of pain control and goals for pain management. Progress notes
      in patient's chart and patient interview also discloses if patient had episodes of N/V,
      another data point we will collect. We will finally review patient's chart for length of
      admission (date of admission to date of discharge) We are looking for an N=20 for the Exparel
      TAP block (experimental) group and N=20 for no TAP block (control) group
    
  