
    
      All the volunteers have a visit of inclusion in the Centre de Recherche en Nutrition Humaine.
      During this visit, the volunteers are informed of the methods of the protocol, the taking of
      samples, the disadvantages and constraints, on the basis of information letter. They have a
      medical interrogation and a complete clinical examination by an investigatory doctor or
      Co-investigator. The biological assessment is requiring 10 ml of blood and including: the
      analysis of the TSH, a blood count, a sedimentation test. Moreover, for the women in age to
      procreate, the analysis of the beta - HCG is made. To take another blood sample (10 ml) is
      necessary for the realization of serology HIV/HCV in the volunteers of the group of doubly
      labeled water, who provide samples of urine and saliva. The results are communicated to the
      volunteers confidentially.

      Following the visit of inclusion and the signature of the consent form, a food consumption
      survey is performed to evaluate the energy intakes of the volunteers. Moreover, the body
      composition and the level of physical-activity of the volunteers are evaluated by biphotonic
      absorptiometry (DEXA) and using questionnaire MAQ (Modifiable Activity Questionnaire,
      translated and adapted by Vuillemin and Al, 1999), respectively.

      The volunteers of the first group (60) performed a maximal aerobic power test on ergocycle to
      evaluate their maximum aerobic physical capacity (VO2max), in a hospital laboratory. A
      measurement of the body composition by biphotonic absorptiometry is also carried out to
      determine their lean and fat mass. Then, the volunteers stay 26 hours in calorimetric rooms
      (one evening, one night and a day). The data of indirect calorimetry (O2 consumption and
      production of CO2), heart rate , actimetry and other parameters are taken into account as
      from midnight. After one night of sleep, the individuals have to carry out series of state or
      exercises simulating the daily physical-activities (sleeping, writing 15 min,
      standing-sitting 5 min, standing 15 min, strolling 15 min, rest 20 min, eating 20 min,
      household 20 min, stepper 20 min, walking on treadmill at increasing speed 3 km/h, 4 km/h, 5
      km/h and 6 km/h during 20 minutes). The volunteers have also to answer questionnaires on
      their perception of hunger, their emotional state and their visual appreciation of 6 food
      products at 5 times of the day (before and after the breakfast, before and after the lunch
      and about 16:30 pm). The rest of the time, their activities are free (watching TV, reading,
      listening radio …). Measurements finish towards 18:00 and volunteers go home. The meals are
      balanced in proteins/glucides/lipids and cover energy needs. The menus are established by the
      dieticians. The meals in calorimetric room are prepared in double weighing to make it
      possible to calculate the actual quantities.

      The second group of volunteers (60) follow the protocol of doubly labeled water to evaluate
      their energy expenditure during 10 days in free living conditions. For this period, their
      heart rate, parameters of actimetry and other parameters are recorded . The participants of
      this second group also answer the questionnaires of perception of hunger, emotional state and
      visual appreciation of 6 food products, over one day at home. The physical data recorded on
      this second group will be introduced into the predictive equations. The estimated energy
      expenditure will be compared with the energy expenditure measured by the technique of doubly
      labeled water. The answers to the questionnaires filled out by the volunteers of the two
      groups will be also compared.
    
  