
    
      Background:

        -  The PARP family of enzymes is characterized by the ability to poly (ADP-ribosyl)ate
           protein substrates. PARP-1 and PARP-2 play a critical role in the maintenance of genomic
           stability by regulating a variety of DNA repair mechanisms.

        -  Poly (ADP-ribosylated) PARP-1 has been shown to block the formation of topo 1-DNA
           cleavage and accelerate the removal of camptothecin-stabilized topo 1-DNA complexes.
           PARP-1 inhibition may therefore prevent efficient repair of DNA damage induced by
           topoisomerase 1 inhibitors. ABT-888 is an oral PARP inhibitor and topotecan is a
           topoisomerase I inhibitor.

      Objectives:

        -  Establish the safety and tolerability of the combination of ABT-888 with topotecan
           hydrochloride in patients with refractory solid tumors and lymphomas.

        -  Establish the maximum tolerated dose of the combination of ABT-888 with topotecan
           hydrochloride.

        -  Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of each agent alone and in combination.

        -  Determine the effects of the study treatment on the level of PARP inhibition and DNA
           damage in PBMCs and tumor samples.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically documented solid tumors and lymphoid malignancies (lymphoma
           and CLL) whose disease has progressed following standard therapy or who have no
           acceptable standard treatment options.

        -  No major surgery, radiation or chemotherapy within four weeks prior to study enrollment,
           and recovered from toxicities of prior therapies to at least eligibility levels.

      Study Design:

        -  Cycle 1, dose levels -1 to 7 and 1B: Topotecan (TPT) will be administered intravenously
           over 30 minutes as a single dose on days 1-5. Starting on day 2, ABT-888 will be
           administered orally twice a day on a q12 hour schedule for 4 days (D2-5). Following the
           completion of study drug administration on day 5, no further treatment will be
           administered for the rest of this 21-day cycle. Growth factors will be administered
           prophylactically starting Cycle 1 to patients on dose level 1B only.

        -  Cycle 2 and beyond, dose levels -1 to 7 and 1B: ABT-888 will be administered twice a day
           on a q12 hour schedule orally on days 1-5. TPT will be given IV daily from days 1-5, in
           a 21-day cycle. Growth factors will be administered prophylactically to patients on dose
           level 1B only.

        -  All cycles, dose levels -2 and 1A to 5A: ABT-888 will be administered on day 1 only for
           dose levels -2 and 1A, 2A, 3A, and 4A. For dose level 5A, ABT-888 will be administered
           on days 1 and 2 of each cycle. TPT will be given IV daily from days 1-5, in a 21-day
           cycle.

        -  Dose escalation will proceed as outlined below. Once maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
           established, 6 additional patients will be enrolled at the MTD to further define the
           dose and evaluate PD studies at this dose level.
    
  