
    
      Pain, in its various manifestations, is the symptom most often associated to SCD, being
      responsible for over 90% of hospital admissions. Oftenly pain has a major impact on the
      patient's life and is associated with some degree of disability. Chronic pain may reflect the
      continuity of tissue injury and central nervous system maladaptive plasticity. They start
      with tissue injuries such as leg ulcers, avascular osteonecrosis, chronic osteomyelitis,
      arthropathy, or even continue after the repair process, by central nervous sensitization and
      / or peripheral. The lack of diagnosis in cases of chronic and neuropathic pain in patients
      with SCD is common, implying inappropriate use of therapeutic resources by the health
      services, resulting in increased suffering to the patient. The release of inflammatory
      mediators is related to the perception of pain, and may cause nociceptor sensitization.

      The tDCS has the potential to change the neuronal membrane resting potential, this effect is
      dependent on the polarity, being that cathode produces hyperpolarization, whereas anode
      produces depolarization, in this way can induce an effect of inhibition and facilitation of
      neuronal firing, respectively. This effects can induces changes in cortical excitability.
      Although tDCS may modulate areas related to endogenous pain control, its effects seem to be
      diffuse, and focality would probably enhance its effects. The peripheral electrical
      stimulation (PES), in another way, may also modulate cortical excitability, depending mainly
      on its amplitude and frequency. PES modulation of cortical excitability is very focal,
      occurring only in the stimulated region. The combination of these two neuromodulatory
      techniques has showed additive effects in some studies with individuals suffering from
      chronic pain,which promoting a general effect (tDCS), and the other a more focal effect
      (TENS). Although this additive effect has been demonstrated, to date, no study evaluate its
      safety and efficacy in individuals with DF.

      As a secondary outcome, the investigators are going to access the influence of the
      intervention on quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG). Growing evidence points out to
      different brain characteristics between individuals with chronic pain and healthy. qEEG has
      high temporal resolution and evaluates primary electrical effects of neural excitation,
      allowing identify possible patterns of brain functioning in individuals with chronic pain.
      qEEG allowed the identification of the thalamocortical dysrhythmia (TCD) in patients with
      chronic pain characterized by an increased low frequency band power density theta (4 - 7Hz)
      and a decrease in high frequency bands alpha (8 -12Hz) and beta (13 - 30Hz). This dysrhythmic
      mechanism may occur from the periphery to the thalamus (bottom-up) or cortical dysregulation
      (top-down), disinhibition of the thalamus. This process results in hyperpolarization of
      thalamic neurons, leading to a preponderance of low frequency oscillations in qEEG. The
      persistence thalamic firing at low frequencies can lead to a collateral inhibition in
      cortical regions around, which could theoretically lead to a decrease in the higher
      frequencies. This increase occurs at low frequency regions involved in neuro matrix of pain.

      The investigators will alse avaluate the influence of the chronic pain sencondary to
      avascular necrosis of hip joint about cortical motor reorganization using transcranial
      magnetic stimuation (TMS). Recent data point to a gluteus maximus muscle weakness during
      maximal voluntary contraction in pronation position in individuals with joint pain in the
      hip. Similarly, individuals with legg calve perthes who suffer from femoral head necrosis,
      weakness of the abductor hip musculature was related to poor clinical outcomes. A possible
      explanation for these findings is cortical motor reorganization, which is associated with
      motor control impairment, and this has been demonstrated in individuals with chronic lateral
      epicondylalgia and knee osteoarthritis, where cortical organization is altered and correlated
      positively with the time of Pain and is associated with the perpetuation of pain. This
      cortical reorganization can occur in the somatotopic areas corresponding to the motor or
      sensorial homunculus, having as characteristic an overlap, retraction and "blurring" in the
      somatotopic representation of a certain region.

      The mediators released by cells of the immune and inflammatory system can act directly on
      neurons sensitizing and enabling them (usually peripheral nociceptors or neurons in the
      dorsal horn of the spinal cord). There are several mediators in a long and growing list that
      includes cytokines and neurotrophins.The major cytokines in an acute inflammation are the
      Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) and the interleukins (IL-1), IL-6 and IL-8, which are important
      mediators of acute and chronic inflammatory reactions, as well as processes of repair and
      resolution. High serum levels of IL-8 have been observed in patients in vase-occlusive
      crisis, important clinical aspect of the pathogenesis of SCD. The presence of the mutant
      allele A appears to influence the expression of the TNF-alpha, being the AA genotype
      considered a high producer.

      Neurotrophins are dimeric proteins that are essential for the normal development of the
      nervous system in vertebrates. This family includes the nerve growth factor (NGF),
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and other neurotrophins (NT). Currently, it is
      recognized that certain neurotrophins, particularly the NGF and the brain-derived
      neurotrophic factor BDNF play a significant role in nociception, so that the NGF sensitizes
      nociceptors at the periphery, while the BDNF enhances the response ability of the dorsal horn
      neurons of the spinal cord. The BDNF gene, which encodes the BDNF protein, located on
      chromosome 11 at the boundary of regions 11p13 and 11p14 of the human genome has been
      investigated in a wide range of areas related to neuroplasticity, including differences in
      brain morphology, learning and memory, interactions with brain stimulation protocols of
      plasticity induction and recovery after brain injury and has been associated with a wide
      variety of neurological disorders, including, for example, depression, schizophrenia and
      attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
    
  