
    
      At present, LISA and INSURE are both used for surfactant therapy in infants as comparable
      methods. However, a clear policy of using analgesics during surfactant therapy is still
      lacking: some neonatologists use analgesics to reduce stress and pain scores, whereas others
      do not approve their use due to interference with spontaneous breathing.

      In this open-label, randomized, phase 4 clinical trial, infants admitted to our neonatal
      intensive unit care (NICU) will be evaluated according to the selection criteria and then
      randomized to receive or not remifentanil as an analgesic drug during the administration of
      porcine surfactant (poractant alfa, Curosurf®) via the INSURE or LISA method: Group-1)
      LISA-analgesic; Group 2) LISA-no analgesic; Group-3) INSURE-analgesic; Group-4) INSURE-no
      analgesic. Study patients will be stratified by gestational age at birth: Block A) 23.0-27.6
      weeks of gestation; Block B) 28.0-31.6 weeks of gestation.

      Early caffeine administration will be provided according to our NICU guidelines shortly after
      birth. Infants with adequate respiratory drive will be stabilized on nasal continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP; 4-8 cm of water) right after birth. Oxygen saturation targets
      will be 90-94%; moderate degrees of hypercarbia (PaCO2 < 60 mmHg, provided arterial pH >7.22)
      will be tolerated. Conditions mimicking respiratory distress syndrome (RDS; i.e. sepsis, air
      leaks, aspiration pneumonia, congenital heart disease) will be ruled out. RDS diagnosis will
      be clinical according to the European Guidelines. Nasal CPAP, bi-level CPAP or nasal
      intermittent positive pressure ventilation (synchronized or not) will be used at the
      discretion of the attending physician to stabilize the patients. Intubation criteria
      according to our NICU guidelines will be:

        1. severe acidosis (defined as arterial pH<7.20 with a partial pressure of carbon dioxide
           (PaCO2) > 55 mmHg and partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) < 50 mmHg) with a fraction of
           inspired oxygen (FiO2) > 0.50;

        2. severe apnoea.

      Enrolled infants will be evaluated from birth to day 7 of the hospital stay.
    
  