
    
      HYPOTHESIS:

      Adequate vitamin C or vitamin D provision to mentally competent acutely hospitalized patients
      for 7 to 10 days will correct their biochemical deficiency, improve their mood, and (in the
      vitamin C-treated patients) reduce blood histamine concentrations.

      PROTOCOL:

        1. Mentally competent patients fluent in English or French admitted to the surgical or
           medical units of the hospital will be offered participation.

        2. Plasma vitamin C and 25-hydroxyvitamin D, serum C-reactive protein, parathyroid hormone
           level (a measure of vitamin D adequacy) and blood histamine will be measured in
           participating patients prior to starting the treatment and after 7 to 10 days of
           treatment.

        3. Within 24 h prior to and within 24 after the 5-10 d treatment course the patient will
           complete the POMS-B, a validated one-page 30-item questionnaire that assesses mood and
           energy, and the Distress Thermometer. Patients followed only for the 5-10 d duration of
           the clinical trial.

        4. The chart will be reviewed for age, sex, diagnosis, and pertinent lab results.

        5. After the initial blood sample has been drawn and the questionnaire completed the
           patient will begin treatment either with vitamin C 500 mg twice daily or vitamin D 5000
           IU daily; both vitamins will be prescribed by one of the collaborating physicians
           without knowledge of the person who recruits, assesses and follows the patient.
           Treatment assignment will be by coin toss.

      7. The questionnaire and blood sampling will be repeated after 7 to 10 days of treatment (as
      determined by feasibility and the situation on the ward) or prior to discharge if discharge
      is going to occur before the full course of treatment.

      8. Neither the patient nor the person who administers the questionnaires will know which
      patient receives vitamin C or D. The vitamin D and C tablets are distinguishable, so patients
      motivated to do so could figure out which vitamin they are being prescribed. Since both
      treatments are being used to correct deficiency diseases which are strongly suspected to
      affect mood, neither patients, nurses, nor the students following the patients have no basis
      to anticipate that one treatment will improve their mood more than the other one.
    
  