
    
      The primary aim of this study is to investigate the clinical effectiveness of TARA in
      treating depression in adolescents and young adults by using a Randomized Controlled Trial
      (RCT)-design, with an active control group based on standard treatment (ST) for depression in
      Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (CAP) and Youth Clinics (YC). Secondary aims are: 1. to
      identify potential mediating effects of improved emotion regulation, sleep and psychological
      flexibility on the treatment effect of TARA, 2. Investigate the effects the two
      treatment-arms on bioindicators for depression, 3. Increase the understanding of the
      subjective experience of depression onset and to what extent the treatments addressed what is
      perceived to drive the onset and maintenance of depression.

      The study is designed as a partially nested multicenter parallel-group RCT with two treatment
      arms: 1) TARA and 2) ST, including but not limited to anti-depressive medication such as
      selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and cognitive behavioral therapy.
      Participants are randomized to one of the two treatment arms, both delivered via the local
      CAP and YC unit where the participants are being either referred to, are wait-listed or
      treated. The study is planned in accordance with the Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations
      for Interventional Trials (SPIRIT) and will be analyzed and reported in accordance with the
      recommendations in consolidated standards of reporting trials (CONSORT).

      Participants and procedures

      Recruitment, treatment and data collection will be conducted in three cities in Northern
      Sweden, each with 1-2 centers. Several centers will be included step-wise in the RCT, until a
      sufficient recruitment capacity has been reached. Before including a new center the
      implementation of Good Clinical Practice-guide-lines, a clinical research infrastructure and
      the training of study-staff must be satisfactory and a pilot trial will have been conducted
      at each site to show feasibility. The investigators intend to recruit participants from the
      Child- and adolescent psychiatry (CAP) specialized outpatient academic unit and the youth
      outpatient community clinic (YC) in the university city Umeå (population 89 000), CAP and YC
      in Skellefteå (population 36 000) and CAP in Örnsköldsvik (population 33 000). The CAP unit
      in Sundsvall (population 55 000) is also prepared for participation, this center will be
      activated only if needed to maintain recruitment pace. Depending on the general recruitment
      rate and the feasibility of implementation of the study protocol at the different sites, one
      or several of the sites may be omitted.

      Adolescents and young adults (15-22 years of age) with depression will be recruited to the
      RCT. In this study depression is defined as having a diagnosis of major depressive disorder
      (MDD) or persistent depressive disorder (PDD) according to DSM 5 (dysthymia in DSM-IV) or a
      clinician depression rating >40 using Children's Depression Rating Scale - Revised (CDRS-R).
      The recruitment is done through three possible pathways: 1) at the time of an incoming
      referral, 2) by clinical staff who recruit potential participants at their first clinical
      visit, from those wait-listed for treatment, or during ongoing standard treatment and 3) by
      participants responding to flyers posted in the local waiting-rooms and at the student health
      clinic at the University of Umeå.

      Those who show interest in participating in the study after having received introductory
      information, will be provided more detailed information over the phone. At that time initial
      assessment for eligibility will also be performed. Further eligibility-screening is then
      performed online and in person (see inclusion and exclusion criteria). The decision to
      include a participant in the study will be made by a study-clinician on the basis of the
      eligibility criteria and the final decision in case of uncertainty will be made by the PI.

      Before final inclusion, participants will provide written informed consent. In addition,
      parents/legal guardians will provide written informed consent for participants that are <18
      years old. Study participation is voluntary and can be cancelled by the participant at any
      time.

      Participants randomized to TARA who are taking antidepressant medication with maintained
      depressive symptoms will be offered support from a child psychiatrist to discontinue their
      medication over a period of 2-4 weeks and start TARA as a stand-alone treatment. Those who
      prefer to continue their antidepressant medication and those who require more extensive
      tapering regimens will still be included in the study, enter treatment as allocated and be
      analyzed according to the intention to treat design.

      All ST will take place at the local CAP and YC units and/or be delivered online. Any
      worsening of symptoms during the ST will be handled by the clinic according to their standard
      procedures. TARA will be delivered as an online group-intervention and routines for handling
      potential increase of depression symptoms during TARA are explained in detail in the study
      protocol.

      Assessment procedure

      At baseline, before inclusion, self-report of sociodemographic background, social support,
      dissociative symptoms and adverse childhood events is completed.

      After inclusion and before randomization (T0), at 3 months (T1), at 6 months (T2) and at 2
      years (T3) from T0 additional self-report questionnaires are completed, for details see
      outcome measures. Clinician rating of depression symptom severity and global level of
      functioning is conducted at T0 and T1. Blood and hair samples are collected and heart rate
      variability (HRV) is measured at T0 and T1.

      For a subgroup of randomly selected participants from both study arms in the Umeå
      YC/CAP-populations a 2-3 weeks of accelerometry will also be carried out at T0, 6 weeks into
      the study (T0,5) and at T1. MRI data acquisition will be performed at T0 and T1 in
      approximately n=22 randomly selected participants from each study arm from the Umeå
      YC/CAP-populations. MRI data acquisition will not start at the beginning of the study but
      will be initiated at a later time.

      The TARA-participants will provide brief self-assessment and session-evaluation at the
      beginning and end of each session. Additionally, to evaluate mediation effects of emotion
      regulation, sleep and psychological flexibility three self-report scales will be administered
      halfway through the TARA-treatment.

      Participants who do not show up for data collection will be reminded by the research team
      through email and/or telephone contact.

      Randomization

      When 6 eligible participants have been recruited at a study-site, these participants will all
      undergo T0 assessments within a period of 2 weeks. Next, the participants will be randomized
      as a group to one of the two study arms in a 1:1 allocation ratio, by a computer-generated
      allocation sequence using permuted blocks and stratification for center. Block sizes will
      vary randomly between 2 and 4 and the first value on the randomization list at each center
      will be discarded at random with 50% probability to reduce the risk of breaking the
      allocation concealment. Randomization will continue until n=67 has been reached in each arm.
      Codes will be used to increase information confidentiality and participant anonymity.
      Treatment allocation will be performed on the basis of these codes, by a different team at
      the Umeå University clinical research center (CRC). The CRC will not release the
      randomization results until the participants have been recruited into the trial and all
      baseline and T0 assessments have been completed. The process will thus be separate from the
      patient enrolment process at the clinics. Participants, TARA-facilitators and standard
      treatment personnel cannot be blind to treatment allocation, but clinical outcome-assessors
      and statistical analysts will be blinded.

      Analysis

      Data from the pilot-groups at each site will be analyzed and presented separately.

      For the RCT, the analyses will be performed after the last participant is out and data
      collection at T2 is complete. No interim analyses will be conducted. Descriptive statistics
      will be reported using standard measures and the baseline characteristics of the included
      participants will be reported per randomization group in a baseline table.

      All randomized participants will be included in the main analysis that will be performed
      according to intention to treat. The primary outcome RADS-2 total raw-score at 3 months
      follow up (T1) aims to investigate the differences between the two treatment arms in
      reduction of depressive symptoms and will be analyzed using mixed effects modelling to
      account for the clustering caused by partial nesting. The main mixed effects model will
      include fixed effects for treatment allocation, RADS-2-score at T0, age-group (dichotomous,
      15-17 and 18-22 years old), study site and sex. The clustering effect will be modelled using
      a random intercept for each intervention group.

      Superiority will be concluded if 95% confidence intervals are not overlapping between the two
      study-arms. Additionally, a non-inferiority margin is defined as a RADS-2 total raw-score
      difference of 8 points. The investigators consider this to be the maximal clinically
      acceptable difference in light of the other potential benefits of TARA. If superiority is not
      demonstrated, additional specific equivalence- and non-inferiority analyses will be
      performed. Since participants who withdraw or drop out may tend to have a lack of response,
      using the full analysis set is likely to be biased toward demonstrating non-inferiority.
      Therefore, a per-protocol population (defined in the study protocol) will be used in this
      analysis. Additionally, to avoid making biased conclusions based on the per-protocol
      population the analysis will also be performed on the intention to treat population and
      non-inferiority will be concluded if the analyses reach similar results.

      Participants who do not show up for T0 assessment will not be randomized and will be
      considered external dropouts. Participants who complete T0-assessment and drop out before
      randomization will also be considered external dropouts. Participants who are randomized but
      do not show up for treatment or show up but do not complete the allocated treatment will be
      considered internal dropouts and will be included in the analysis. All participants lost to
      follow-up will be contacted and asked about the reason for the drop-out. This will enable a
      comparison between the study arms regarding the reasons for drop-out and an examination of
      potential sources of bias in attrition.

      Additional sensitivity analyses will be performed on the primary outcome to test the
      robustness of findings.

      Secondary outcome variables will be analyzed by using similar mixed effects models as for the
      primary outcome, and adjusting for the T0-value for each respective outcome. Time-point (T0,
      T1, T2) and the allocation by time interaction will be included as fixed effects in these
      models.

      Time plan

      The investigators are currently piloting TARA at some of the study sites and expect to begin
      recruitment for the RCT in February 2021. The final data collection at T2 is estimated to be
      completed in 2025.
    
  