
    
      Post-operative analgesia after anorectal surgery still poses a significant problem. Technical
      or operator dependent factors have been proposed for causing severe pain post operatively.
      Many factors such as height of anastomosis, incorporation of smooth muscle, size of doughnut,
      and inclusion of squamous epithelium were considered to cause pain specially after
      hemorrhoidectomy. However, in spite of standardizing the techniques, patients still
      experience moderate to severe pain after anorectal surgery. Effective post-surgical pain
      control is critical to patient recovery, and can contribute to improved healing, faster
      patient mobilization, reduced hospital stays and health care costs. Effective multimodal
      techniques have been devised to maximize pain relief, lower the risk of adverse events, and
      improve patient outcomes. These techniques (wound infiltration with local anesthetic being
      most common) is short lived, maximum up to 12 hours. Post-operative pain usually lasts for 72
      hours and thus the systemic opioids remain the mainstay pain control post-operatively.
      Although effective analgesics, they are associated with unwanted and potentially adverse
      events, such as nausea, vomiting, pruritus, sedation, cognitive impairment, urinary
      retention, sleep disturbances, and respiratory depression. Also, narcotic addiction remains a
      concern for surgical patients. Some patients would like to have effective analgesia and thus
      also avoid narcotics.Multi-drug analgesic combinations are used in orthopedic surgery
      (Ropivacaine, Ketorolac, and Morphine, with adrenaline) and during hemorrhoidectomy
      (extended-release liposome Bupivacaine) which showed decrease in post-operative analgesia
      requirement. However, no studies that used multi-drug analgesia show any effect on the pain
      medication consumption after discharge for ambulatory surgery. The investigators have
      designed a novel multi-drug anesthetic formulation to achieve long-acting postoperative
      analgesia with single-dose administration intra-operative via perianal block and wound
      infiltration.
    
  