
    
      1703: Graft-versus-Host Disease (GVHD) is a complication that affects many hematopoietic stem
      cell transplant (HSCT) patients; it occurs when the new cells from a transplant attack the
      recipient's body. The current standard GVHD prophylaxis regimen for patients with hematologic
      malignancies undergoing HSCT involves a combination of immunosuppressive agents given for the
      first 6 months after transplant.

      The standard strategy of Tacrolimus/Methotrexate will be used as a control arm in comparison
      to one other treatment plan utilizing Tacrolimus/Mycophenolate Mofetil/Post-Transplant
      Cyclophosphamide. Study participants will receive an infusion of mobilized peripheral blood
      stem cell grafts on both arms. Study participants will be randomized to one of these two
      treatment arms.

      1801: A relationship between the intestinal microbiota and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)
      has long been appreciated but is still not well understood. Mice transplanted in germ-free
      conditions or treated with gut-decontaminating antibiotics developed less severe GVHD.
      Clinical studies initially suggested a benefit from near-total bacterial decontamination, but
      later showed no clear benefit and this approach was discontinued in the early 1990s. Partial
      gut decontamination continues to be practiced at many centers. More recently, the advent of
      next-generation sequencing (NGS) has resulted in cheaper and easier characterization of
      complex microbial mixtures. This has led to a renewed interest in evaluating the relationship
      between the microbiota and human health and disease, including recipients of hematopoietic
      cell transplantation (HCT). Similarly, NGS has also contributed to significant advancements
      in the investigator's understanding of immune reconstitution in HCT patients and how this may
      impact clinica outcomes.

      The goal of this protocol is to test the primary hypothesis that the engraftment stool
      microbiome diversity predicts one-year non-relapse mortality in patients undergoing reduced
      intensity allogeneic HCT.
    
  