
    
      Scientific background, significance and impact value of the project:

      Homocysteine is a thiol-containing amino acid formed as an intermediate product during the
      methionine metabolism. Re-methylation pathway recycles Homocysteine back to methionine and
      requires vitamin B12 and folic acid as cofactors. [1] The concentration of circulating total
      homocysteine is a sensitive marker of inadequate folate and vitamin B12 status. Elevated
      homocysteine concentrations are associated with an increased risk for cardiovascular (CV)
      disease. [2] The total homocysteine level is the lowest in children and an increase with age
      is higher in male sex. [2] The cutoffs for homocysteine level in adolescent range from 4.3 to
      9.9 µmol/l, and hyperhomocysteinemia is defined as homocysteine >10.9 µmol/l. [3] Lower
      folate and higher homocysteine concentrations may put adolescent on AEDs at special risk for
      atherosclerosis in their adulthood. [4] This demands early intervention as Asian Indian
      adolescents are genetically more exposed to cadiovascular disease(CVD) risks, AED therapy is
      an additional risk for developing future CVDs. Adolescent epileptics on AED have to take it
      for long time, and homocysteine elevation itself has got epileptogenic potential and can
      cause the risk developing refractory epilepsy. [5] Literature search reveals several studies
      depicting role of vitamin B12 in regulation of blood homocysteine levels. [6, 7] However, the
      studies confirming role of folic acid supplementation in hyperhomocysteinemia and related CV
      diseases are fewer and scarce in AEDs induced hyperhomocysteinemia. Few studies have reported
      negative correlation between hyperhomocysteinemia and low folic acid levels in patients on
      AEDs. [8] At the same time few studies have reported effectiveness of folic acid
      supplementation to normalize the homocysteine levels. [9] Considering the results of various
      studies many doctors are now prescribing folic acid along with AEDs, although there is a
      scarcity of data from India. In this context, the present study is planned to study effect of
      folic acid supplementation on homocysteine levels and CV risk factors such as BP and lipids
      in adolescent epileptics taking AEDs.
    
  