
    
      This open-label study will examine the disintegration/disappearance time, safety, and
      acceptability of placebo vaginal inserts. Participants will use a placebo vaginal insert
      twice: first for an in-clinic disintegration/safety assessment, and a second time for an
      at-home acceptability assessment, with safety assessed at the following clinic visit.

      Participants will be assigned to test their insert during either the follicular or luteal
      phase of their menstrual cycle, such that the number of women who test it in the follicular
      phase is approximately equal to the number who test it in the luteal phase.

      Once eligibility has been confirmed, the participant will complete an in-clinic
      disintegration test to estimate the amount of time required for disintegration and complete
      disappearance of the vaginal insert. Prior to and following the disintegration test, the
      participant will have a pelvic exam and vaginal swab(s) will be collected for development of
      adherence measures. Safety will be assessed by naked eye exam and report of adverse events
      (AEs).

      24 to 72 hours following the in-clinic disintegration test, the participant will use the
      vaginal insert at home and complete a standardized acceptability questionnaire 4 hours and 24
      hours after placement. The acceptability questionnaire will be returned to the clinic at the
      participant's next visit. The final clinic visit will be scheduled 24-72 hours after
      placement of the vaginal insert used at home.

      The final study visit will include a pelvic exam to assess safety and vaginal swab(s) will be
      collected for development of adherence measures. The participant will exit the study
      following the final study visit.

      This study is designed to test a single placebo vaginal insert, but it is possible additional
      inserts may become available for testing. Participants may re-enroll in the study for the
      testing of additional vaginal inserts as they become available.
    
  