
    
      The dyspnoea support program will include 4 steps:

      Step 1: Initial interview Before the initial interview, the responsible physician will review
      or examine the medical records via the request sheet sent by the referring physician or
      pneumologist containing the patient's diagnoses, history and medications. These files will
      then be sent to the team coordinator.

      The team coordinator will meet the patient to obtain complete informations about his or her
      experiences with dyspnoea. Validated written questionnaires in French will be completed to
      complete the evaluation:

        -  Edmonton Symptom Assessment scale (ESAS):

        -  London Chest Activity of Daily Living (LCADL):

        -  Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (HADS):

        -  Chronic Respiratory disease questionnaire (CRQ):

      Blood oxygen saturation (Sp02) without O2 will be measured for each patient. If deemed
      necessary by the responsible physician (Dr. Clark) to complete the evaluation, a spirometry
      and an Incremental Shuttle Walk Test (ISWT) test will be performed by a physiotherapist.

      Step 2: Specialized appointment:

      The coordinator will review the patient to present the measures and strategies that will be
      proposed according to his/her needs and with reference to the evaluation carried out. An
      anti-dyspnoea checklist providing advice, useful information and exercises to better manage
      dyspnoea in daily living will be provided, as well as a self-observation logbook to optimize
      self-energy and fatigue management.

      Step 3: Services:

      The measures proposed by the coordinator and accepted by the patient will be implemented, for
      example: work on positions, ventilatory education, use of a fan, pulmonary rehabilitation,
      stress management, mindfulness meditation, psychosocial services, possible support from the
      mobile palliative care team, etc. As the measures proposed depend on the evaluation carried
      out, this is an individualised program. Different measures can be combined in various ways
      and successions to meet the needs of the patient.

      Step 4: Assessment of progress:

      Once the program is completed, evolution of dyspnoea perception following the program will be
      evaluated. CRQ and HADS questionnaires will be completed and patient's satisfaction will be
      evaluated (look "statistical consideration").

      After the program, a follow-up is planned: patients will be seen again at 3 and 6 months
      after the program. It will then be a matter of completing the CRQ and HADS questionnaires and
      monitoring the patients' progress.
    
  