
    
      Rationale: Pain control is the most pressing problem in patients with chronic pancreatitis.
      Many methods have been advocated to control this pain. Unfortunately, these methods fail to
      control the pain in 20-50% of patients. Management of patients with intractable pain is
      difficult, often resulting in narcotic addiction. Percutaneous alcoholic block of the celiac
      plexus is, because of the risks of paralysis and catastrophic haemorrhage resulting from
      injury to major abdominal vasculature, restricted to patients with intractable, severe pain
      due to terminal pancreatic cancer. Splanchnic nerve lesioning is a useful alternative to
      celiac plexus block in the management of patients with chronic upper abdominal pain. The
      predictable relationship of the splanchnic nerves to other structures allows for accurate
      needle placement and hence a low risk of damage. Radiofrequent lesioning uses a high
      frequency alternating current to heat tissues leading to thermal coagulation. It produces
      predictable and accurate lesions.

      Objective: To evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of percutaneous radiofrequent lesioning
      of splanchnic nerves (PRFLSN) in patients with pain caused by chronic pancreatitis. The
      primary goal is to determine if a 50% reduction in pain can be achieved for at least 3
      months. Secondary objectives are reduction of medication use and improvement of quality of
      life.

      Design: Single blind, prerandomized intervention study. Study population: Patients with pain
      (NRS>5) caused by chronic pancreatitis, despite optimal medical treatment.

      Intervention: One group receives PRFLSN after a positive trial block with bupivacaine, the
      other group receives no extra treatment besides optimal medical treatment.

      Main study endpoints: The percentage of reduction of pain after PRFLSN for a period of at
      least 3 months and preferably one year.
    
  