
    
      Background:

      A major research finding in the field of Biological Psychiatry is that symptom-based
      categories of mental disorders map poorly onto dysfunctions in brain circuits or
      neurobiological pathways. Many of the identified (neuro)biological dysfunctions are
      "transdiagnostic", meaning that they do not reflect diagnostic boundaries but are shared by
      different ICD/DSM diagnoses. The compromised biological validity of the current
      classification system for mental disorders impedes rather than supports the development of
      treatments that not only target symptoms but also the underlying pathophysiological
      mechanisms. The Biological Classification of Mental Disorders (BeCOME) study aims to identify
      biology-based classes of mental disorders that improve the translation of novel biomedical
      findings into tailored clinical applications.

      Methods:

      BeCOME intends to include at least 1000 affected individuals (recruited through
      advertisements/self-referral or visits in the institute's outpatient clinic or in
      collaborating practices) with a broad spectrum of affective, anxiety and stress-related
      mental disorders as well as 500 individuals unaffected by mental disorders
      (advertisements/self-referral). After a screening visit, all participants undergo in-depth
      phenotyping procedures and omics assessments on two consecutive days. Several validated
      paradigms (e.g., fear conditioning, reward anticipation, imaging stress test) are applied to
      stimulate a response in a basic system of human functioning (e.g., acute threat response,
      reward processing, stress response) that plays a key role in the development of affective,
      anxiety and stress-related mental disorders. The response to this stimulation is then read
      out across multiple levels. Assessments comprise omics, physiological, neuroimaging,
      neurocognitive, psychophysiological and psychometric measurements. The multilevel information
      collected in BeCOME will be used to identify data-driven biologically-informed categories of
      mental disorders using cluster analytical techniques. Moreover, the subgroup of patients from
      the outpatient clinic of the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry is followed-up at study days
      14, 28 and 56 as well as 4 and 12 months after baseline for changes in a subset of parameters
      (omics, vital parameters and selected psychometric measures).

      Discussion:

      The novelty of BeCOME lies in the dynamic in-depth phenotyping and omics characterization of
      individuals with mental disorders from the depression and anxiety spectrum of varying
      severity. The investigators believe that such biology-based subclasses of mental disorders
      will serve as better treatment targets than purely symptom-based disease entities, and help
      in tailoring the right treatment to the individual patient suffering from a mental disorder.
      BeCOME has the potential to contribute to a novel taxonomy of mental disorders that
      integrates the underlying pathomechanisms into diagnoses.
    
  