
    
      Objective: Central serous chorioretinopathy (CSC) is a choroidal disorder characterized by an
      accumulation of serous fluid under the retina. Although acute CSC tends to spontaneously
      resolve on its own with minimal sequelae, chronic CSC tends to persist and lead to
      irreversible visual loss. The pathogenesis of CSC is complex; however, systemic androgens may
      be involved. A recent study NCT00837252 (NIH protocol 09-EI-0075), "Pilot Study for the
      Evaluation of Finasteride in the Treatment of Chronic Central Serous Chorioretinopathy,"
      suggested that finasteride, an androgen modulating medication that is widely used in the
      treatment of various other conditions, may be efficacious as a treatment for chronic CSC. The
      objective of this study is to continue evaluation of participants in the completed
      NCT00837252 (NIH protocol 09-EI-0075) who clinically responded to treatment with finasteride.

      Study Population: Up to five participants previously enrolled in NCT00837252 (NIH protocol
      09-EI-0075) who demonstrated clinical improvement on finasteride treatment.

      Design: This is a 5-year pilot extension study to allow participants who demonstrated
      clinical improvement with finasteride for chronic CSC to continue receiving finasteride as an
      off-label treatment. Study visits will occur every six months over the 5-year duration.
      Participants will receive finasteride when they have serous fluid present, unless deemed
      chronic non-responders (defined as serous fluid unchanged as compared to baseline or serous
      fluid stabilized with no further improvement while on finasteride treatment).

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome will be the change in best-corrected visual acuity
      (BCVA) at two years compared to baseline. Secondary outcome measures include the annual
      changes in BCVA, changes in subretinal fluid volume as measured on optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) (a 30% reduction in subretinal fluid from baseline is considered a
      "treatment success" by NEI standards), changes in leakage as observed on fluorescein
      angiography (FA), changes in plaque size as observed on indocyanine green angiography (ICG),
      changes in fundus autofluorescence patterns as observed on fundus autofluorescence (FAF)
      imaging, changes in microperimetry patterns, changes in serum levels of testosterone and
      dihydrotestosterone (DHT), as well as changes in urine levels of cortisol.
    
  