
    
      This will be a prospective, randomized, double blinded placebo-controlled study at Erlanger
      hospital. Eligible patients who provide consent will be randomized into one of two arms
      receiving continuous intra-peritoneal local anesthetic with 0.2% Ropivacaine or saline. After
      inclusion criteria are met and consents are obtained all patients will be sent home with a
      pain measurement, a pill diary to record the quantity of narcotic tablets taken, and a
      questionnaire nausea and vomiting symptoms.

      After placement of the ON-Q pain pump the select-a-flow rate will be set to 6 mL/hr for all
      study participants. . All study participants will be provided with rescue pain medications as
      needed. If possible non-narcotic medications such as Tylenol and non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory's will be utilized first. If pain persists narcotic medications will be
      provided. Oxycodone 5 mg will be utilized unless a patient reported allergy exists. All
      rescue narcotics utilized will be converted into morphine equivalents and documented. All
      patients will be discharged with Oxycodone 5 mg with 35 tablets which provides pain coverage
      for 7 days after surgery. In addition to Oxycodone all patients will be discharged with
      Sprix, a nasal non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication, as well as Zofran and movantik, a
      medication for narcotic induced constipation. All patients will be instructed to administer
      Sprix by placing one puff into each nostril every 6 hours for a total of 5 days after
      surgery. They will further be instructed to take oral Tylenol 1000 mg every 6 hours for a
      total of 4 days after surgery. Assigned research personnel will contact all patients to
      obtain the results of their survey and pill dairy at 48 hours and one week after surgery.
      Patients will then present for a two-week post-operative visit where study personnel will
      complete data collection. All study participants who request a narcotic refill within 6 weeks
      of surgery will be documented.
    
  