
    
      Triangular Fibrocartilage Complex (TFCC) is the main stable structure of the distal ulnar
      joint (DRUJ), and the damage of the triangular fibrocartilage complex is the most common
      cause of pain in the ulnar side of the wrist in the young athlete population. Once TFCC is
      injured, arthroscopic surgery is a common repair method. The postoperative analgesic method
      is generally oral or injection analgesic. In recent years, electroacupuncture(EA) has been
      widely used to relieve pain after surgery, and many studies have confirmed that it is
      effective. However, there is no evaluation of analgesic efficacy after arthroscopic repair of
      the TFCC. Therefore, it is hoped that the efficacy of electroacupuncture for analgesia after
      arthroscopic repair of the TFCC is demonstrated by this study. And, the investigators also
      hope the investigators can reduce the use of painkillers through electroacupuncture.

      Methods:

      It is expected that 30 patients will be randomly assigned to the following groups:
      electroacupuncture group(EAG), EA at points; non-point group (NPG), EA at non-points, control
      group (CG) without EA

        1. electroacupuncture group(EAG): EA at points after surgery

        2. non-point group (NPG): EA at non-points after surgery

      Mode of operation: After the patient has returned to the recovery room, take the needle after
      30 minutes, and then statistics.

      Acupoint selection:

        1. true acupoints: needles were inserted to Kunlun(BL60) and Sanyinjiao(SP6) contralateral
           to the operated leg and deqi sensation elicited at acupoints

        2. false point: the needles were inserted to Zusanli(ST36) and Shangjuxu(ST37)
           contralateral to the operated leg and deqi sensation elicited at acupoints

        3. Control group:only injection and oral painkiller were used before surgery

      Data collection:

        1. Record the time required for the first injection of analgesics

        2. The number of doses of injection painkiller used in 36 hours after surgery (count)
    
  