
    
      BACKGROUND:

      MARS was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, angiographic trial comparing the
      effects of lipid lowering by lovastatin and diet with diet plus placebo in 270 subjects. The
      target study population consisted of males and females under 70 years of age with cholesterol
      levels from 200 to 295 mg/dL and coronary artery disease in two or more coronary artery
      segments. Follow-up coronary angiograms were performed two and four years post-randomization
      in 247 and 68 subjects, respectively; providing information on atherosclerosis
      regression/progression of coronary artery intrusive lesions. Carotid ultrasound images have
      been recorded at four month intervals for periods up to four years in 215 subjects providing
      information on atherosclerosis regression/progression of pre-intrusive (intima-media
      thickness) lesions in parallel with coronary artery intrusive lesions. Unique features of
      MARS included: 1) Simultaneous coronary angiography (evaluated both by quantitative coronary
      angiography (QCA) and panel-reading) and carotid ultrasonography in a cohort of over 200
      subjects; 2) The opportunity to evaluate the largest lipoprotein and apolipoprotein data
      collected in an angiographic trial to date. This included extensive VLDL, LDL, IDL, and HDL
      subclasses as well as LDL type pattern, lipoprotein particles and apolipoprotein (including
      AI, B, CIII, and E); and, 3) The opportunity to evaluate dietary effects on atherosclerosis
      regression/progression only in one other angiographic trail, CLAS.

      The Cholesterol Lowering Atherosclerosis Study (CLAS) was a randomized angiographic trial
      comparing combined colestipol/niacin therapy with placebo in 162 subjects. A unique feature
      of MARS and CLAS has shown a similar effect in CLAS-like men (non-smoking men with CABG) and
      women. Since carotid intima-media thickness, QCA, and global change score have been shown to
      be predictive of clinical coronary events, understanding the relationship between these
      atherosclerotic measures may be important in establishing carotid intima-media thickness
      measurements as a proxy measure for coronary atherosclerosis.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Collected data for both trials were analyzed and compared to evaluate effects of treatment on
      carotid and coronary artery atherosclerotic lesions. Coronary angiograms and carotid
      ultrasound imaging were performed under identical conditions in both trials. Five major
      databases were available for analysis, including: the coronary artery database (QCA
      processed); the carotid artery database (ultrasound evaluation); the coronary artery database
      (panel evaluation); the nutrient content database, and the clinical and biochemical database.
      Major comparisons included measurements of atherosclerotic lesions in both arteries, the
      effects of lipid, lipoprotein, and apolipoprotein levels on vascular lesions, and the effect
      of nutrient intake (in particular total fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol) on rates of
      measured lesion change. Additional associations were sought between preintrusive carotid
      lesions and intrusive coronary lesions between males and females, smokers and nonsmokers,
      differences in age, and differential drug effect on HDL-cholesterol.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  