
    
      The Prevalence of cannabis use disorder (CUD) has been steadily increasing within the Veteran
      Health Administration (VHA), along with the related significant physical, cognitive, and
      psychological sequelae. Even in patients with a strong motivation to quit and the presence of
      empirically-supported interventions, Veterans who receive treatment for CUD have high rates
      of lapse (63% by 6-months post-treatment) and relapse (71% within 6-months post-treatment).
      Thus, identifying strategies to improve response to CUD treatment is in the interest of all
      VHA stakeholders.

      Disturbed sleep is common among individuals with CUD and has been shown to result in
      increased rates of lapse/relapse to cannabis. Providing a behavioral sleep intervention
      within the context of CUD treatment, and prior to a cessation attempt, has the potential to
      improve these cessation outcomes.

      Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is a well-established first-line treatment
      for insomnia. While CBT-I is being disseminated throughout VHA, it is rarely received by
      Veterans with substance use disorders (SUDs) and, among those that do receive it, it is
      almost always delivered following a cessation attempt. While CBT-I has been shown to be an
      effective treatment for improving sleep among individuals with insomnia and co-occurring
      conditions, including SUDs, there has yet to be an investigation of the impact of providing
      CBT-I prior to CUD treatment with the goal of improving cessation outcomes. In addition, the
      development of an adjunct behavioral intervention delivered via mobile app technology within
      VA holds great promise to bolster outcomes.

      The current study seeks to fill this gap by conducting a randomized prospective study
      designed to evaluate the efficacy of CBT-I, as well as the incremental benefit of including
      an adjunct sleep mobile app (CBT-I-MA), on both cannabis and sleep outcomes among Veterans
      with CUD.
    
  