
    
      Primary Objective: The primary endpoint is to evaluate the change in the marginal bone level
      from definitive prosthetic placement (baseline) to the 5-year follow-up visit.

      Secondary Objective:The secondary objectives of this clinical investigation are:

        -  To evaluate the change in the marginal bone level from definitive prosthetic placement
           (baseline) to 1-year and 3-years follow-up visits

        -  To demonstrate cumulative implant survival and success rates from definitive prosthetic
           placement to 5 years follow-up visit

        -  To demonstrate cumulative prosthetic survival and success rates to 5 years follow-up
           visit

        -  To evaluate soft tissue outcome (as measured by bleeding index, plaque index and
           gingival index) to 5 years from definitive prosthetic placement.

        -  To evaluate SADE, USADE, ADE and DD from implant insertion until 5 years follow-up
           visit.

      Study design: This is a multicenter, prospective, non-interventional study in which a total
      of 1000 subjects in need of a single, multiple or full arch restoration in any region of the
      mouth (healed or extracted) will be treated in up to 30 study centers. The study devices are
      divided into four groups:

        -  Group 1 (G1): NobelActive TiUltra implants (3.0, NP, RP, WP)

        -  Group 2 (G2): NobelParallel CC TiUltra implants (NP, RP; WP)

        -  Group 3 (G3): NobelReplace CC TiUltra implants (NP, RP)

        -  Group 4 (G4): Nobel Biocare N1 TiUltra TCC implants (NP, RP)

      Subjects will be consecutively included provided they meet all of the inclusion criteria and
      none of the exclusion criteria. Eligible subjects who provide their informed consent for
      participation will be enrolled into one of four groups, each sized to 250 individuals. They
      will be treated with the corresponding implant system assigned to the group. The allocation
      into a certain group is only driven by the subject's clinical and restorative requirement and
      standard of care at the enrolling study clinic. Each subject will be followed for 5 years
      after definitive prosthetic placement . Possible dropouts and withdrawals, as well as
      possible serious adverse (device) events, will be carefully monitored during the entire study
      period

      Sequence of treatment: As part of the screening process each subject will undergo a
      pre-treatment standard of care examination to record demographic characteristics and medical
      history. The subjects will be informed of the treatment possibilities according to clinic
      standard of care and about the study. Depending on the clinical indication, clinician
      preferences and desired esthetic solution the subject will be enrolled into one of the four
      previously described groups (G1 to G4). Implant surgery-, bone and tissue regenerative- and
      prosthodontic procedures shall be performed according to IFU and standard of care. Implants
      may be placed in either healed or extraction sites utilizing one-stage or two-stage surgical
      protocol with immediate, early or delayed loading to restore single missing tooth, partial or
      fully edentulous jaws. The treating clinician should decide individually when definitive
      prosthesis installation is suitable for each subject. Standard of care follow-up visits
      should be scheduled as close as possible to 1-, 3- and 5- years after definitive prosthetic
      placement, to ascertain a homogenous data set. Deidentified periapical radiographs from each
      subject visit shall be uploaded to the study eCRF. All images will be forwarded to the core
      lab for independent analysis. As part of the screening process each subject will undergo a
      pre-treatment standard of care examination to record demographic characteristics and medical
      history. The subjects will be informed of the treatment possibilities according to clinic
      standard of care and about the study.

      Depending on the clinical indication, clinician preferences and desired esthetic solution the
      subject will be enrolled into one of the four previously described groups (G1 to G4). Implant
      surgery-, bone and tissue regenerative- and prosthodontic procedures shall be performed
      according to IFU and standard of care. Implants may be placed in either healed or extraction
      sites utilizing one-stage or two-stage surgical protocol with immediate, early or delayed
      loading to restore single missing tooth, partial or fully edentulous jaws. The treating
      clinician should decide individually when definitive prosthesis installation is suitable for
      each subject.

      Study duration: Once the subject has provided written informed consent and fulfilled all
      inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria, he/she is considered enrolled. Subject
      enrolment period is expected to take 7 months from time of initiation at each site. Enrolment
      in each group will stop once the total group size of 250 subjects has been met. The clinical
      investigation will continue until each subject has been followed for 5-years after final
      prosthetic delivery.
    
  