
    
      Environmental disinfection has been proved to be efficient when controlling epidemics caused
      by C. difficile. In recent years its epidemiology has changed leading to increased morbidity
      and mortality in many countries. C. difficile infections are often difficult to treat and
      reinfections frequently occur. The major concern is a new strain of C. difficile, O27, which
      produce many times more spores than other types and spreads easily in institutions. Patients
      who have a C. difficile infection should be kept in contact isolation in hospitals and other
      institutions.

      C. difficile is a spore forming bacteria which is resistant to some normally used
      disinfectants like alcohol and quats. Spores may remain viable for months in environment.
      Disinfectants currently in use, like chloramines and glutaralde-hyde, are risk both for
      workers and to environment because of their corrosive and irritating nature.

      Polyhexamethyleneguanidine(PHMG) is a new disinfectant which is effective against microbes
      including bacteria and bacterial spores, viruses and fungi, safe to people handling it and
      friendly to environment and surfaces. It has been tested in the laboratory of Helsinki
      University according to many EN-standards to disinfectants. It can be used as a hand
      disinfectant, instrument disinfectant and surface disinfectant.

      PHMG was introduced in three wards for hand hygiene and environmental disinfection in CDAD
      patients' rooms. The rooms for showers and toilets were coated with biocide coating (PHMG) as
      well as bed frames in investigational wards. Three wards were control wards and continued
      using alcohol based hand disinfectants and routine environmental cleaning and disinfection
      with quats/chloramines. After 6 month's intervention period, the incidence of CDAD cases were
      compared to that during the preceeding 10 months. Surveillance for environmental and HCWs´
      hand contamination by C. difficile were performed by taking microbiological samples both from
      environmental sites and hands twice before intervention and then twice in month within
      intervention period.
    
  