
    
      Working in three geographically separate Mozambican provinces and in rural (N=24), peri-urban
      (i.e., rural urban transition zone; N=6), and urban (N=6) clinics, the scale-up study first
      will conduct a two-year (12 months implementation, 12 months sustainability),
      cluster-randomized, three-arm hybrid effectiveness-implementation type 1 trial, guided by
      Proctor's implementation framework. The delivery pathway showing the highest overall
      effectiveness after this two-year trial in 36 clinics will then be implemented in clinics
      from the other two arms for two additional "cross-over" years. Throughout the trial and the
      "cross-over" years, qualitative and other process data will complement structured assessments
      to examine implementation, sustainability, and scale-up.

      Scale-up PRIDES Mozambique has the following Specific Aims:

      Aim 1. To determine the most effective delivery pathway in terms of 1) implementation
      outcomes (reach, retention, pathway fidelity, cost-effectiveness); 2) service-level outcomes
      (efficiency); and 3) patient-level outcomes (function/disability, comprehensive MH screener,
      patient satisfaction). As an Exploratory Sub-Aim: To assess the impact of: pre-implementation
      stage factors (acceptability, adoption); mediators (work self-efficacy, MH literacy); and
      moderators (clinic characteristics: rural, peri-urban, urban, epilepsy program
      implementation) on implementation, services, and patient outcomes.

      Aim 2. To evaluate implementation, sustainability, and scale-up requirements of the most
      effective pathway (determined in Aim 1) in order to inform regional policies. A rigorous
      process evaluation mixed-methods approach will identify barriers and facilitators to
      implementing, sustaining, and scaling-up the most effective pathway in all clinics during the
      "cross-over" two years using purposive sampling for mixed-methods evaluation in a subset of
      18 clinics (6 per Province).

      Aim 3. To develop an implementation tool-kit for low-cost, feasible, and sustainable
      system-wide implementation of the most effective WHO Mental Health Gap Action Programme
      (mhGAP) delivery pathway in Sub-Saharan Africa (sSA) with collaboration of Members of the
      PRIDES sSA Five-Country Council, External Advisory Board and the WHO.
    
  