
    
      This clinical study will involve 26 human subjects pre-screened at Columbia University. The
      patient will have at least one implant presenting with early to moderate peri-implantitis.
      Peri-implantitis has been defined as an implant restoration with inflamed bleeding gingiva,
      probing depths around the implant of 5-8mm, bone loss and exposure of threads around the
      implant (limited to one-third of the threads exposed). The purpose of this study is to
      determine the benefits of treating peri-implantitis with a closed laser approach known as the
      "Repair Protocol" using an Er,Cr:YSGG laser compared with traditional non-surgical therapy.
      Each subject, when determined to fall under the parameters of the study for peri-implantitis,
      will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: the test Er,Cr:YSGG laser group or the
      control group.

      The study will constitute a human double-blind randomized clinical trial in which both
      examiners and patients will be blinded to the treatment. In order to ensure the blinding of
      the patients, the laser will be applied to all implants, although the it will not be
      activated in the control group. The therapist will be the same person throughout the study
      while the examiners will be calibrated.

      The two groups that will constitute the study and the procedures that will be applied are:

      Experimental: Scaling and root planning with an ultrasonic or piezoelectric instrument and
      hand instrumentation with hand instruments. No prosthetic components will be removed .
      Application of laser therapy following the specifics of the company.

      Control: Scaling and root planning with an ultrasonic or piezoelectric instrument and hand
      instrumentation with hand instruments. A sham, inactivated laser, treatment will be
      delivered.

      After the treatment, the patients will be followed-up after 1 week, 3, 6 and 9 months.
      Periapical X-rays will be taken at baseline and 9 months follow-up appointments.

      Data to be collected include: Primary outcome measures will include: presence of bleeding on
      probing, probing depth, and the progression of bone loss around the implant, as measured with
      bone sounding under local anesthesia and radiographically with the aid of a stent. Secondary
      outcome measures will include: Gingival index (GI), Plaque Index, mobility, and suppuration.
    
  