
    
      Humans have co-evolved with populations of colonising microbes and their genomes to establish
      a mutually beneficial relationship. The gut microbiome represents the largest population of
      resident microbes in humans and is highly diverse and plays essential roles in digestion and
      pathogen protection. Perturbations in populations of gut bacteria (dysbiosis or
      dysbacteriosis) in response to, for example, infections or drugs, have been associated with
      an increased risk of various chronic diseases including obesity, cancer and inflammatory
      bowel disease (IBD).

      In older individuals an array of complex and characteristic clinical changes that includes a
      basal proinflammatory state (so called "inflammaging"), can directly interface with gut
      microbes of older adults that can enhance susceptibility to diseases accompanying aging, and
      reduce healthy lifespan. Studies in older adults demonstrate that the makeup and functional
      attributes of the intestinal microbiota correlates with lifestyle (e.g. diet and location of
      residence) and behaviour (e.g. medications), and basal level of inflammation. Links exist
      between the intestinal microbiota and a variety of clinical problems plaguing older adults,
      including physical frailty, Clostridium difficile colitis, vulvovaginal atrophy, colorectal
      carcinoma, and atherosclerotic disease. These links are however, principally associative with
      very little evidence of causality.

      The gut microbiome establishes a mutualistic relationship with its host and contributes to
      maintaining homeostasis. Its composition can be influenced and changed by numerous host (e.g.
      genome, age), environmental (e.g. diet, medicines, infections), and lifestyle and behavioural
      factors (e.g. travel, habitat). Changes in the structure and/or function of the microbiome
      (dysbiosis) can result in damage to, or infection of, barrier epithelial cells enabling
      microbes and microbial products to cross the compromised barrier and gain access to
      underlying tissues and immune cells, leading to immune activation and (chronic) inflammation.

      Age is a major risk factor for the development of cognitive dysfunction with dementia being
      one of the most common disorders linked to ageing. Dementia affects an estimated 47 million
      people worldwide and is projected to affect over 131 million people by 2050. Cognitive
      function declines with age, ranging from relatively minor everyday slips of action, through
      subjective cognitive decline, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), then to major or mild
      neurocognitive disorder/dementia in some instances. Up to 50% of those with MCI are predicted
      to develop dementia within 5 years.

      The development of new treatments to prevent dementia is hindered by a lack of predictive
      biomarkers. The gut microbiome is a potential marker for progressive declining intrinsic
      capacity, which is a composite of all the physical and mental attributes on which an
      individual can draw, not only in older age but across their lives. Evidence of age-associated
      changes in the gut microbiome comes from population-based studies, one of the largest and
      most comprehensive was ELDERMET, a study that examined the faecal microbiome of elderly
      individuals living in the community or in care homes in Ireland. The results identified
      differences in the composition of the gut microbiome of elderly individuals compared with
      younger individuals, and that these differences were associated with poorer health status in
      the elderly (e.g. poor dentition, dysphagia, loss of salivation, decreased physical activity
      and constipation).

      However, in relying on data from samples taken at a single timepoint, this study provides
      only a 'snapshot' of what is happening but little insight into the dynamics or stability of
      any changes in the gut microbiome over time in different individuals or groups of
      participants. It is also impossible to determine whether the changes noted are drivers or
      consequences of unhealthy ageing. In addition, this study did not include assessments of
      mental health and cognitive function, which are major comorbidities associated with ageing.
      The fact that structural changes within the gut microbiome occur during ageing is a
      consistent finding across different studies. However, the scale and nature of the changes
      noted vary considerably between studies, and amongst individuals within the same study.
      Larger longitudinal studies with sequential (serial) sampling of the gut microbiome during
      ageing would provide a clearer picture of how the gut microbiome changes during ageing, and
      whether it is a contributing factor to declining health in old age and/or in the development
      of neurodegenerative disorders and dementia.

      The link between potentially pathogenic changes in the gut microbiome (dysbiosis) in
      individuals with neurodegenerative disorders comes mainly from observational studies in
      patients with Alzheimer's (AD) or Parkinson's disease (PD), and from animal (rodent) models.
      Analysis of the faecal microbiome of dementia patients has identified an increased prevalence
      of Prevotellaceae and Enterobacteriaceae species in PD, and an increased prevalence of
      Clostridia, Bacteroides and Verrucomicrobia species in AD patients. compared with healthy
      individuals. In addition, many PD and AD patients reported gut symptoms including irritable
      bowel syndrome prior to neurological symptoms developing. Furthermore, antibiotic treatment
      to eradicate gut pathogens (e.g. H. pylori) can improve L-dopa action and reduce clinical
      symptoms in PD patients. Perhaps the most compelling evidence for a causal link between gut
      microbes and neurodegenerative disease comes from the finding that, when faecal microbiomes
      from PD patients are transferred into PD-susceptible mice, symptom development accelerates
      and the mice suffer greater motor dysfunction than control mice receiving faecal microbiomes
      of healthy individuals. Although collectively these findings implicate the gut microbiome in
      the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, the studies carried out to date have failed
      to identify which species of bacteria (or any other member of the gut microbiome; viruses,
      archaea, fungi, protozoa) are critically important for mental health and in the development
      of dementia, when during ageing do changes in the population size and/or function of critical
      species occur, and once established how do these critical species influence brain signalling,
      neuroinflammation and pathology?

      Subgroup 1 - Colon tissue biopsy (n= at least 90). Microbe populations that are specifically
      and intimately associated with the lining of the gut wall are ideally situated to influence
      the host and intestinal cells, but they can be underrepresented or absent in stool samples.
      For this reason, colon tissue samples are important to: 1) fully identify the microbes that
      are in most intimate contact with the host 2) identify and analyse how the cells within the
      tissue respond and react to these microbes and their products.

      6-8 pinch biopsies each measuring 3mm cubed will be taken for research biopsies from the
      large bowel during the routine care colonoscopy (these will taken in addition to routine care
      biopsies). The research biopsies are taken to examine the microbiome that is adhering
      directly to the mucosal lining of the colon.

      Subgroup 2 - Brain MRI scans (n=30 from cohort 3). Scans will be performed to allow for the
      cognitive and behavioural data collected at the previous visits to be related to
      neuroanatomical changes. The 60-minute scan will capture both structural and functional
      sequences. Structural sequences will allow measurement of grey and white matter integrity in
      participants, whereas functional sequences will allow measurement of brain connectivity and
      perfusion changes. We hypothesize that medial temporal structures will be intact in low risk
      participants but those in the medium risk group might already show subtle structural and
      functional changes.

      Another screening test with potential as a biomarker for ageing and dementia development is
      retinal morphometry. The retina is the only part of the central retinal nervous system that
      can be directly visualized. Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is a rapid, non-invasive
      imaging tool that can produce 3- dimensional cross-sectional images of the retina, and
      permits precise and accurate measurement of the thickness of individual retinal components.
      The retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) is the innermost layer of the retina and is comprised of
      the retinal ganglion cell axons, which link the outer neuroretina to the dorsal lateral
      geniculate nucleus, where synaptic connections lead to the visual cortex. In a very recent
      multi-centre study of individuals aged between 40 and 69 years of age, OCT imaging revealed
      that a thinner RNFL was associated with worse cognitive function in individuals with no
      neurodegenerative disease; it was also associated with a greater likelihood of subsequent
      cognitive decline. This makes a strong case for regarding retinal anatomical measures as a
      potentially useful screening marker to identify those at risk of developing dementia.

      The studies carried out to date highlight the need to develop a more holistic and integrated
      understanding of human ageing: There is a need to understand how (or whether) changes in one
      organ system (e.g. the gut) are related to changes occurring elsewhere in the body (e.g. in
      the brain). In order to begin to answer these fundamentally important questions, the
      investigators have designed the MOTION study to obtain a clearer picture of how the gut
      microbiome changes during ageing in a cohort over the age of 60 years without existing
      serious medical conditions at the point of study consent, and how these changes relate to
      declining intrinsic capacity and increasing cognitive impairment.
    
  