
    
      Anti-platelet medicines are the cornerstone of therapy in patients who present with acute
      coronary syndromes, including unstable angina, non-ST elevation myocardial infarction
      (NSTEMI), and ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Multiple clinical trials have
      demonstrated the efficacy of dual anti-platelet therapy (DAPT) for the prevention of
      thrombotic events in patients who present with unstable coronary symptoms; in particular,
      patients who are to receive percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Dual anti-platelet
      therapy consists of a combination of aspirin and a thienopyridine (such as clopidogrel or
      ticlopidine). While premature discontinuation (within the first 6 months) of such therapy is
      associated with an increased risk of stent thrombosis, the optimal duration of DAPT has not
      yet been precisely determined.

      Although studies suggest an increased risk of stent thrombosis and adverse events within days
      after thienopyridine discontinuation, no study has collected detailed data as to the exact
      dates and reasons that anti-platelet agents were discontinued - thus, the true risks of
      premature early or even scheduled late discontinuation are unknown.

      Furthermore, there are multiple modes that impact subject adherence to DAPT. These include
      non-compliance and cost issues.

      We have determined three modes why subjects may not adhere to DAPT. These include:

        -  Discontinuation - These subjects have discontinued the use of DAPT (aspirin or
           thienopyridines) as per recommendation of their physician who has felt that the subject
           no longer needs this therapy.

        -  Interruption - These subjects have interrupted their DAPT use on a voluntary basis and
           under the guidance and recommendation of their physician due to the need for a surgical
           procedure, and will reinstitute the use of DAPT within 14 days of stopping the therapy.
           Interruptions must be guided by the physician/cardiologist taking care of the subject
           and not by other health care professionals.

        -  Disruption - These subjects have disrupted their DAPT use, either because of a bleeding
           episode (minor or major) or non-compliance. Non-compliance will include continued use of
           DAPT at lower dose levels than prescribed either through smaller daily doses or less
           frequent than daily use.

      These modes have not previously been systematically collected and correlated with adverse
      clinical events such as stent thrombosis. Furthermore, the relation of events to subsequent
      disruption of DAPT has not been studied prospectively. Subjects enrolled in this registry
      will be followed for approximately 24 months to determine the incidence of adherence
      according to the above classification. All patients will have their events and DAPT use
      monitored during the follow-up period. The assumption is that most subjects will discontinue
      their therapy voluntarily (usually according to their physician's advice) and that it is only
      those with disrupted therapy who are at risk for major adverse cardiac events (MACE). This
      registry will examine the predictors of DAPT disruption based on subject's demographics and
      determine the relationship of bleeding versus MI in these subjects using a time-dependent
      covariate adjusted analysis. Finally, since there are two completely different categories
      within the disrupted group, (non-compliance vs. event driven disruption), we will examine
      these patients separately as well, as a secondary endpoint.
    
  