
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the feasibility, as defined by completion of three specific marker assays and
      generation of clinically meaningful endpoints, of selecting treatment regimen components
      based on biologic tumor characteristics in chemotherapy-naïve patients with metastatic
      colorectal cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the response rate associated with genotype/phenotype guided therapy using
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1.

      II. To investigate the time to failure of treatment strategy associated with
      genotype/phenotype guided therapy, defined as the time from initiation of investigational
      treatment strategy until death, disease progression, initiation of a new therapeutic agent,
      or disease progression while on a partial or complete treatment holiday.

      III. To investigate the progression-free survival associated with genotype/phenotype guided
      therapy, defined as the time from enrollment to time of progression of disease or death.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to treatment groups based on marker assay results.

      ARM A: TP-/uncertain, KRAS and BRAF wild-type, ERCC1 high ARM B: TP-/uncertain, KRAS and BRAF
      wild-type, ERCC1 low/uncertain ARM C: TP-/uncertain, KRAS or BRAF mutant/uncertain, ERCC1
      high ARM D: TP-/uncertain, KRAS or BRAF mutant/uncertain, ERCC1 low/uncertain ARM E: TP+,
      KRAS and BRAF wild-type, ERCC1 high ARM F: TP+, KRAS and BRAF wild-type, ERCC1 low/uncertain
      ARM G: TP+, KRAS or BRAF mutant/uncertain, ERCC1 high ARM H: TP+, KRAS or BRAF
      mutant/uncertain, ERCC1 low/uncertain ARM I: TP uninterpretable, KRAS or BRAF
      uninterpretable, ERCC1 uninterpretable

      KRAS testing is standard of care in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer; tymidine
      phosphorylase, ERCC1 and BRAF testing assays are still experimental.

      Courses in arms A-D and arm I repeat every 28 days and courses in arms E-H repeat every 21
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 18 months.
    
  