
    
      This is an observational disease registry database for recently-diagnosed adult patients with
      primary ITP that aims to understand the natural history of this rare disease and disease
      management. Participating investigators will prospectively enter real-world patient data on
      their enrolled patients with a minimum of 2 years follow up.

      Data from this registry will be used to generate descriptive statistics on demographics,
      clinical characteristics including prevalence and incidence of co-morbidities, treatment
      patterns, and adverse outcomes (resulting from treatment or disease) on ITP patients on an
      annual basis. The information will be generated at the national or combined-country level.
      Furthermore, each institution will have an access to its data and may choose to generate
      descriptive statistics for its specific institution on a more frequent, ad-hoc basis. New
      research questions or questions addressing a subset of registry patients to take advantage of
      combined registry data will require a separate protocol and review by independent committees

      The focus of this protocol is on adults with primary ITP, however, in future there may be
      interest to expand the population to explore secondary ITP patients as well. Hence, this
      registry is built to allow for some optional preliminary information related to secondary ITP
      to be captured.

      Multi-site participation of this registry project will be rolled out in stages, and will be
      offered to centres with appropriate expertise. Pilot countries included Australia, Korea,
      Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, Thailand and Turkey and sites will be selected based on
      their potential research (interest, resources, and expected patient volume). Additional sites
      may be added in the future from countries in Asia Pacific, Middle East and Latin America.
      Japan has an independent national ITP registry run by the government, however voluntary
      participation of interested Japanese investigators in this database will be welcomed,
      therefore allowing comparison of data between Japanese and non-Japanese patients.
    
  