
    
      Methods Inclusions: Consecutive patients admitted via the emergency department to The Alfred
      hospital Melbourne, for surgical fixation of an acute fracture of the hip (by a compression
      screw and plate or a hemiarthroplasty).

      Exclusions:fracture was pathological, postoperative orders were for non-weight bearing on the
      operated hip, the patient was admitted from a nursing home or the patient was non-ambulant
      pre-morbidly.

      Sixty eligible patients were randomly allocated, using a computer generated program, into one
      of two groups.

      Management All patients received routine, standard post-operative medical and nursing
      clinical care, as currently practiced at The Alfred. All patients were transferred to sit out
      of bed as early as possible after surgery.

      Ambulation The physiotherapy ambulation re-education program was implemented once per day
      over 7 days for all participants. The time to first walk differed between the groups.

      Data collection On admission: gender, age, preoperative mobility, social supports, mental
      ability and medical comorbidity,pre-existing medical comorbidity (cardiac, respiratory,
      neurological, diabetes) and mental ability.

      Additional data from each patients medical record including: type of surgical fixation
      (nail/screw and plate, hemi-arthroplasty), wait time to surgery, time surgery completed, and
      time to first sit out of bed and time to first walk.

      Outcome measures The primary outcome measure was the patient's functional level, represented
      by the distance they walked and the level of assistance required to transfer from supine to
      sit and sit to stand and to negotiate one step, on day-7 post surgery.

      Secondary outcome measures included discharge destination and length of stay in the acute
      care (days from admission to discharge from The Alfred).

      Data analysis Statistical analysis was performed using SAS version 8.2. (SAS Institute
      Inc.,Carv, NC, USA). Continuous variables were compared using student t-tests and validated
      using Wilcoxon rank sum tests. Categorical variables were compared using chi-square tests for
      equal proportion. A two-sided p-value of 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant.

      Sample size A difference between groups equivalent to one standard deviation was perceived to
      be of clinical importance. With 30 subjects per group, this study had a 97% power to detect a
      difference equal to one standard deviation with a two-sided p-value of 0.05. A minimum of 16
      subjects per subgroup was required for this study to have an 80% power to detect a difference
      equal to one standard deviation with a two-sided p-value of 0.05.
    
  