
    
      The global pandemic of novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) began in Wuhan, China, in
      December 2019, and has since spread worldwide. The novel coronavirus is now referred to as
      severe and critical acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). The disease is
      mild in 85% of cases but the remaining 15% requires hospitalization and/or intensive care.

      Recent publications show that a variable number of COVID-19 patients are co-infected with one
      or more pathogens. Most co-infections occurred within 1-4 days of onset of COVID-19 disease
      and in a retrospective study, secondary infection was observed in 50% of non-survivor
      patients.

      In COVID-19 patients the elevated inflammatory cytokines and other inflammatory mediators
      present suggest that a cytokine storm, also known as cytokine release syndrome (CRS), may
      play a major role in the pathology of this disease. The elevated cytokine levels,
      specifically IL-6, may also be responsible for the lethal complications of COVID-19.
      Therefore, the interleukin-6 (IL-6) blockade has been proposed as one of the strategies to
      manage COVID-19-induced CRS.

      A considerable number of COVID-19 patients arrive to the Emergency rooms with mild-moderate
      respiratory symptoms compatible with pneumonia of presumed bacterial origin not severe enough
      for requiring hospitalization. It therefore seems reasonable to adopt therapeutic strategies
      for these patients that are effective and easy to follow in the outpatient setting to avoid
      overloading the Health System.

      Cefditoren (CDN) is a third-generation cephalosporin for oral administration. CDN has a broad
      spectrum of activity and is particularly active against the bacterial pathogens involved in
      community respiratory tract infections. The results of clinical trials with CDN on
      community-acquired pneumonia showed percentages of clinical and microbiological efficacy
      around 85%. On the other hand, the use of CDN has been associated with a marked decrease in
      circulating levels of IL-6 and other pro-inflammatory cytokines and mediators of epithelial
      damage such as Krebs von den Lungen-6 (KL-6).

      Considering the above and the current estate of knowledge against SARS-CoV-2, we have
      considered of relevance to study the efficacy of CDN in a series of patients with
      mild-moderate COVID-19 and with symptoms compatible with pneumonia of presumed bacterial
      origin, seen at the Emergency room of a public hospital and followed on outpatient basis.
    
  