
    
      Approximately one hour prior to induction of anesthesia in preoperative holding area all
      enrolled subjects will receive PO Acetaminophen 650 mg, the Gabapentin group will receive PO
      Gabapentin 1200 mg, while the Control group will receive PO Placebo, with a small amount of
      water.

      Upon arrival in the operating room, standard ASA monitors will be applied. Intraoperative,
      patients will receive a standardized anesthetic care. This care consists of induction with IV
      propofol 2mg/kg, IV fentanyl 2 mcg/kg (adjusted body weight), and IV rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg for
      tracheal intubation or IV succinylcholine 1mg/kg if rapid sequence induction is needed.

      For maintenance of general anesthesia, investigators will use Sevoflurane, with the goal to
      maintain BP within 20% of preoperative baseline and BIS 40-60.

      If HR > 100/min and BIS 40-60 may use IV esmolol 0.5 mg/kg. If BP and/or HR >20% preoperative
      baseline, and BIS 40- 60 despite above management, may titrate IV antihypertensive agents.

      For PONV prophylaxis, 30 min before end of surgery investigatorswill administer IV
      ondansetron 8mg.

      The time from end of surgery to extubation in OR will be documented with a free text note in
      the EMR.

      After extubation all patients will be transported to PACU on 2-liter Oxygen by nasal cannula,
      which will be weaned off in the PACU.

      The postoperative analgesics during Phase I of recovery in PACU will consist of IV
      Hydromorphone 0.2-0.4 mg prn pain to maintain adequate pain control (NPRS<4). During Phase II
      of recovery patients will receive PO Hydromorphone 2mg tablets every 4-6 hours as needed for
      pain (NPRS ≥ 4) and acetaminophen: 650mg PO every 6 hours

      The following data will be collected every hour during phase I and phase II recovery:

        -  pain (NPRS)

        -  sedation (Ramsey sedation scale)

        -  dizziness (1- mild, 2- moderate, 3- severe)

        -  headache YES/No If yes: NPRS score HA

        -  respiratory depression (hypoventilation/ apnea: RR < 10 bpm., desaturation: (SpO2 < 90%)

        -  Sedated but still in pain (Yes/No)

        -  PONV YES/NO

        -  PONV receiving antiemetic treatment

        -  time to first opioid administration (IV hydromorphone)

        -  total amount of IV hydromorphone in PACU Phase I

        -  total amount of oral analgesic (hydromorphone) in PACU Phase II

        -  time to meet discharge criteria from PACU Phase I

        -  time to meet discharge criteria from Phase II

      Study research personnel will contact participants by phone or in the hospital at 24 hours
      and 48 hours postoperative and at approximately one week in the Urology clinic. The study
      research personnel will ask questions regarding pain (NPRS) and analgesic consumption. The
      IPSS and QOR-40 questionnaires will be administered and data will be recorded.
    
  