
    
      I. Background

      The SARS-CoV-2 virus has a positive-sense RNA, with a genome of approximately 27-32 kb in
      length. COVID-2019 infection causes severe pneumonia that turns into a pulmonary alveolar
      collapse within a few hours and leads to the cessation of oxygen exchange. The incubation
      period for the virus is 2 to 10 days, and the clinical spectrum of the disease ranges from
      asymptomatic infection to severe respiratory failure. There is elevated lymphopenia, lactate,
      creatinine, and kinase dehydrogenase, and higher concentrations of interleukins such as
      IL-1β, IL-5, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-15, IL-12p70, FGF, GCSF, GMCSF, IFNγ, IP10, MCP1,
      MIP1A, MIP1B, PDGF, TNF-α and VEGF.

      There is no treatment for the definitive cure of COVID-19, and there is no vaccine that
      allows prevention. Considering that the best management choice is to reestablish hemodynamic
      status, stop organ failure, improve anti-inflammatory conditions, and improve redox status,
      management strategies could not be randomized since individual conditions change, and
      patients may have comorbidities at first. The studies that support antioxidant therapy in
      septic management range from those carried out in vitro, in vivo in an animal model and
      humans, so the evidence makes it necessary that patients treated with specific antiviral
      drugs, or antibiotics, receive at the same time nutritional supplement and antioxidants.

      The data that support each of the antioxidants as therapy in septic shock are mentioned
      below.

        1. N-ACETYL CYSTEINE.

           The administration of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a glutathione (GSH) precursor, as a
           strategy to limit oxidative lung injury has been proposed since it increases the
           intracellular content of GSH. Alterations in GSH metabolism, in alveoli and lung tissue,
           are a central feature in many lung diseases. NAC increases the synthesis of GSH,
           increases glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity, and has a direct action on free
           radicals (ROS). The application of NAC reduces levels of IL-8, IL-6, ICAM. NAC in
           patients with septic shock is associated with a shorter time on mechanical ventilation
           and fewer days of stay in the ICU.

           The application of NAC reduces levels of IL-8, IL-6, ICAM. NAC in patients with septic
           shock is associated with a shorter time on mechanical ventilation and fewer days of stay
           in the ICU. NAC uptake and intracellular concentration can be increased through the use
           of liposomes (L-NAC). NAC supplementation in animals exposed to lipopolysaccharides
           (LPS) reduced lung edema, lipoperoxidation (OLP), ACE damage, chloramine concentration,
           and concentrations of the eicosanoids thromboxane and leukotrienes (LTB2 and LTB4) in
           the lung. In clinical trials, supplementation with a bolus of 150 mg/kg NAC followed by
           50 mg/kg/day of NAC for four days in patients with acute lung injury ALI or ARDS
           improved the oxygenation rate from day 1 to 4 and reduced mortality.

        2. MELATONIN

           Melatonin (MT) has been shown to possess ROS-sequestering properties, protects lipids in
           cell membranes, cytosol proteins, and nuclear and mitochondrial DNA.

           Furthermore, in another study, MT demonstrated anti-apoptotic, antioxidant, and
           pleiotropic anti-inflammatory effects in vitro and in vivo as direct elimination
           activity against ROS and stimulation of antioxidant enzymes, such as CAT, SOD, GPx, GR,
           and gamma-glutamylcysteine synthase, MT can accumulate within the mitochondria and thus
           reduce the local excess production of ROS, which is typical in dysfunctional
           mitochondria during sepsis. Based on these favorable preliminary data, randomized
           control trials are warranted to assess TM's efficacy and safety as an add-on treatment
           in COVID-19 sepsis. The previously mentioned studies have recommended its use in sepsis,
           which should be considered in COVID-19 since it is also accessible, and its cost is low,
           making it possible to weigh the risk/benefit in the event of a pandemic.

        3. VITAMIN C

           Ascorbic acid, or vitamin C, is a water-soluble antioxidant that functions as a cofactor
           for multiple enzymes. It is absorbed at the intestinal level through the
           sodium-dependent transporter of vitamin C, filtered freely in the glomerulus, and
           reabsorbed at the proximal tubule level through the same transporter. Ascorbic acid
           inhibits the production of superoxide (O2-) and peroxynitrite (OONO-) by inhibiting
           superoxide-producing NADPH oxidase (O2-) and inducible nitric oxide (iNOS) mRNA
           expression, which prevents the abundant production of nitric oxide (NO) that generates
           peroxynitrite (OONO-) in the presence of O2-.

        4. PENTOXIFILINA.

      Pentoxifylline is a xanthine drug indicated in some severe alcoholic hepatitis; it also acts
      on the plasma membrane of red blood cells and makes it more malleable, thus improving blood
      perfusion. Pentoxifylline exerts several antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, such
      as reducing the restoration of GSH levels, maintaining mitochondrial viability, inhibiting
      the production of TNF-α, preserving vascular endothelial functions, and also supplementation
      with antioxidants has been reported better oxygenation rates, higher GSH, and more robust
      immune response. Also, there was a reduction in hospital stay length, the time of mechanical
      ventilation, the length of the ICU stays, the multiple organ dysfunction rate, and the
      mortality rate in patients with ALI / ARDS.

      II. Research question

      Will the administration of adjuvant therapy with specific antioxidant and pentoxifylline in
      patients with or without septic shock secondary to severe pneumonia due to COVID-19, will it
      avoid the use of mechanical ventilation, reduce the time of use of a mechanical ventilator,
      days of hospital stay, decrease the lipoperoxidation and will it increase the antioxidant
      capacity in patients admitted to intensive care?

      III. Justification

      In this COVID-19 pandemic, severe pneumonia and septic shock are the leading cause of
      morbidity and mortality in intensive care units worldwide. In this sense, and based on the
      discoveries of recent years in the field of oxidative stress, including those recently found
      in our group, it is necessary to report results on new treatments capable of reducing the
      deleterious inflammatory response and the redox state. In patients with pneumonia and septic
      shock. The situation that currently occurs in patients who progress to severity due to
      infection with COVID-19.

      Septic shock has been presented in other viral diseases such as Middle East Respiratory
      Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) detected for the first time in Saudi Arabia, in which it
      exhibited a wide range of presentations at the time of diagnosis, similar to SARS-COv2 from
      patients without symptoms, subtle signs of pneumonia or multiorgan failure, with the capacity
      to cause the death of which the possible therapeutic interventions with antioxidants have
      been proposed since then that have been proposed for the new virus through the conclusions
      based on systematic reviews.

      Many viral diseases such as SARS-CoV, although clinical data are limited, can develop
      moderate and severe septic shock and increase ROS and RNS production, which is associated
      with overexpression of iNOS, NADP oxidases, cyclooxygenase two, and xanthine oxidase, which
      activates transcription factors such as NF-B resulting in an exacerbated pro-inflammatory
      host response. Also, O2 and ONOO participate as an essential mediator of pro-inflammatory
      interleukin production. These will continue to stimulate the production and release of more
      ROS and RNS that can interfere with mitochondrial respiration since mitochondrial dysfunction
      is commonly induced in an environment of septic shock. Therefore, antioxidant treatment may
      be a way to avoid excessive inflammation associated with a history of high oxidation in
      COVID-19 patients.

      With this study, we intend to evaluate the effect of the use of antioxidants on outcomes in
      storm regulation due to dysregulation of oxidative stress, shortening of ventilator use, days
      of stay, and clinical repercussion through the measurement of organ dysfunction in six
      different systems, using the SOFA score before and after the intervention, in critically ill
      patients due to SARS-Cov2 infection.

      IV. Hypothesis

      It is hypothesized that adjuvant therapy with antioxidants and pentoxifylline reduces
      ventilator use in patients with or without septic shock secondary to severe COVID-19
      pneumonia and decreases lipoperoxidation and corrects dysregulation of oxidative stress
      through the increase of antioxidant capacity.

      V. Primary objective

      Provide combined antioxidant therapy as an adjunct to standard therapy for patients with or
      without septic shock secondary to severe SARS-COV2 pneumonia to evaluate whether it is
      possible to avoid intubation, reduce days of assisted mechanical ventilation, and improve
      stress dysregulation oxidant leading to multiple organ failure.

      VI. Secondary objective

        1. Evaluate the prevalence of comorbidity in patients with or without septic shock and
           severe SARS-CoV2 pneumonia in the ICU.

        2. To evaluate the effect of adjuvant antioxidant therapy in reducing days with the
           ventilator and days of hospital stay in patients

        3. Analyze the effect on organ failure in five devices and systems (neurological,
           respiratory, hemodynamic, hepatic, hematological) of each of the therapies implemented
           in the different systems evaluated with the SOFA score.

        4. Measure lipoperoxidation in basal and post-therapy samples

        5. Measure the antioxidant capacity in basal and post-therapy samples.

        6. Measure IL-6 in basal and post-therapy samples.

        7. Measure procalcitonin, CRP, troponin, pro-BNP, ferritin, and D-dimer.

        8. Determine the status of outcomes by comorbidity strata.

        9. Document the use of ARA, ACE, SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with COVID-19.

       10. Analyze the previous use of steroids and those who did not have it in a stratified way

      VII. Methodology

      Study design

      It is a quasi-experimental, open analytical, prospective, and longitudinal (before-after)
      study.

      Sample size

      The sample size calculation was based on studies that currently have mortality using Vitamin
      C because there is no history of antioxidants in the clinical context. The sample size was
      calculated using X2 to compare two independent proportions.

      Therefore, it will be necessary to include 11 patients in each group if desired to obtain 80%
      possibility (80% power) or 32 if the power is 99% to detect a mean difference of ≥3 in SOFA
      between the groups. On the other hand, treatment will be possible in these patients, it will
      be possible to measure the basal state of oxidative stress, and state three after the therapy
      allows the use of small samples, as the patient is his control.

      Statistic analysis

      Continuous variables will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation or median with minimum
      and maximum, depending on their distribution. Categorical variables will be expressed as
      frequencies and percentages. The normality of the variables will be evaluated using the
      Shapiro-Wilk or Shapiro-France test, depending on the sample size. Variables with normal
      distribution will be analyzed with parametric tests (Student's t-test for independent
      measurements or paired t-test for before-after measurements). While various non-parametric
      tests were used (Mann-Whitney test, Kruskal-Wallis or Wilcoxon signed rank test, depending on
      the particular case) to contrast variables without Gaussian distribution. Analysis of paired
      samples (before-after) will be performed with Friedman or Wilcoxon and paired t-test,
      depending on the distribution of the data. For multivariate analysis, a binary logistic
      regression analysis will be performed. Also an analysis of repeated samples and panel data
      testing different models (grouped model, model for longitudinal data, marginal approximation
      model and multilevel model).
    
  