
    
      Postoperative pain control in total knee arthroplasty is generally managed by a multimodal
      approach of premedication, epidural and/or peripheral nerve blocks, narcotic medications, and
      anti-inflammatories. Multiple studies have evaluated the efficacy of anesthetic "cocktails"
      of various medications for local tissue infiltration to aide in controlling postoperative
      pain. A recent systematic review supported the use of local anesthetic infiltration in a
      single intraoperative dose as an adjunct to femoral nerve block in the relief of pain; with
      combinations of ropivacaine, ketorolac, and adrenaline providing the best results. Several
      studies noted decreases in opioid consumption and overall pain scores in the perioperative
      period.

      A novel compound, liposomal bupivacaine (EXPAREL®, Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Parsippany,
      NJ, USA), has been proposed for use in total knee arthroplasty. To our knowledge, only one
      randomized controlled trial involving use of this compound in total knee arthroplasty has
      been published and was performed as a phase two dose ranging trial comparing liposomal
      bupivacaine to bupivacaine HCl. No statistically significant difference between the two
      compounds was shown, but a trend towards benefit in short term pain control was shown with
      EXPAREL 532mg.

      Our current pain management regimen utilizes the multimodal approach of neuraxial anesthesia,
      indwelling femoral nerve catheter, opioids, and anti-inflammatory medications. The regional
      anesthesia service manages postoperative pain while the indwelling femoral nerve catheter is
      in place. The epidural is utilized for early postoperative analgesia and thromboprophylaxis.
      The epidural is discontinued on post-operative day 1 and the femoral nerve catheter is
      removed by the morning of postoperative day 3. Although femoral nerve catheters provide
      excellent pain control following TKA, there are associated disadvantages. Most notably there
      is inherent quadriceps weakness which places the patient at increased fall risk. To reduce
      the risk of falling, patients must wear a knee immobilizer with ambulation until the catheter
      is removed and quadriceps function has returned. This may delay the ability to actively
      participate in physical therapy.

      The purpose of our present study is to evaluate the efficacy of local infiltration of
      liposomal bupivacaine versus use of an indwelling femoral peripheral nerve block in
      controlling early postoperative pain. The investigators aim to show equivalency between the
      two treatment modalities. Our hypothesis is that a systematic local infiltration of liposomal
      bupivacaine provided intraoperatively is equally efficacious as femoral indwelling peripheral
      nerve blockade in immediate postoperative pain control with more rapid progression with
      physical therapy.
    
  