
    
      Women who have been successfully treated for endometrial cancer will be invited to
      participate in the study. After you agree to participate you will be asked questions about
      your physical activity to make sure you are eligible. You will only be allowed to participate
      in this study if your physician feels it is safe for you to engage in moderate physical
      activity, so you will be asked to have him or her complete a form about your health
      conditions. Information about you cancer and treatment history will be collected from your
      medical records as part of the study.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will come to M. D. Anderson for study visits
      twice at the beginning of the study. If needed, the activities for these first 2 visits can
      be combined into 1 visit, though it will mean that the single visit will take a little longer
      than each of the 2 visits. After the first visit, you will be asked to return after 2, 4, and
      6 months. Each visit will take about 2 hours. Three (3) months and 6 months after the last
      visit, you will be called to answer questions about your physical activity. It will take
      about 10 minutes to answer the questions. In case you cannot be reached by phone, the
      questionnaires will be mailed to you. You will be asked to mail the questionnaire back in
      with a pre-paid addressed envelope.

      At the first visit you will complete questionnaires about your quality of life, medical
      conditions, and how physically active you are currently and have been in the past. The
      questionnaires will take about 45 minutes to complete. A baseline electrocardiogram (ECG-a
      test to measure the electrical activity of the heart) will be performed. If your ECG test is
      not normal you will be informed. You will practice using the exercise bicycle that will be
      used in the fitness testing at the later visits. You will be asked to provide a saliva sample
      by placing a cotton roll in your mouth until it is saturated and then placing it back in a
      plastic vial without using your hands. This sample will be for practice and will be
      discarded.

      You will also be given an ActiGraph to wear for 5 days. This is a small light device that you
      wear on your waist during the day. It records how active you are. You will also be given a
      handheld computer that you will use for 5 days to answer questions about physical activity.
      The computers are small (about 4-1/2 by 3 inches) and light (about 4 1/2 ounces). The
      computer will prompt you to enter information up to 8 times a day. Answering these questions
      will take up to 5 minutes. You will be asked to return the Actigraph and the computer on your
      second visit.

      After 5 days, you will come back to M. D. Anderson for your second study visit. During this
      visit, you will be asked to complete questionnaires about physical activity that will take
      about 1 hour. You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG--a test to measure the electrical
      activity of the heart) performed. You will perform a fitness test, in which you will ride a
      stationary bicycle while your heart rate, blood pressure, and respiration (breathing) are
      monitored. You will also be asked to complete two tasks on a computer. After the second
      visit, you will again use the handheld computer and wear an Actigraph for 5 days. You will
      also be given 10 vials with a container bag and instructions on collecting saliva samples.
      You will be asked to provide saliva samples 5 times per day for 2 consecutive days.

      During your second visit, you will meet with an exercise physiologist, a specially-trained
      health care professional who will design a personalized exercise program for you, that will
      involve walking (up to 30 minutes) on most days of the week. If walking is difficult or
      painful for you, another form of exercise will be substituted. In addition to receiving a
      personalized exercise program, you will also receive telephone counseling between your visits
      to M. D. Anderson and printed materials. Both will provide information and support for your
      exercise program. The telephone counseling calls will take place once a week during the first
      2 months, every other week during Months 3 and 4, and once a month during Months 5 and 6. The
      phone counselor will talk to you about your exercise program and how it is working for you.
      The telephone calls will take place at a time that is convenient to you, and will take about
      15-20 minutes each time. Some of these telephone counseling calls may be audiotaped, so that
      the counselors' supervisors can make sure the counseling is done correctly.

      During each of the 2-month, 4-month, and 6-month clinic visits (Visits 3, 4, and 5), you will
      do another fitness test, and any necessary adjustments to your exercise program will be made.
      This means that if the goals for exercise were set too high or too low, how often the
      exercise occurs or how long each exercise session lasts will be changed. For example, if the
      exercise physiologist first recommended that you walk for 15 minutes a day 5 days a week, but
      you report that you can't walk for 15 minutes, the length of the walk may be reduced. You
      will also fill out the questionnaires and do the tasks on the computer at these visits. You
      will complete a brief (5 minutes) program evaluation. You will also be asked to answer
      questions on the handheld computer for 5 days before and after each these visits. You will
      also be asked to wear the Actigraph for 5 days before and after each of these visits. At the
      last visit, you will also be given 10 vials with a container bag and instructions on
      collecting saliva samples. You will be asked to provide saliva samples 5 times per day for 2
      consecutive days. The study staff will give you a prepaid mailing envelopes so you can return
      the computer, the Actigraph, and the package of vials to them by mail, after the last 5-day
      period.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 326 participants will be enrolled for this study. For
      the pilot phase, which has been completed, 22 endometrial cancer survivors and 37 comparison
      participants with no history of cancer were enrolled. For the main phase of the study, for
      which you are enrolling, up to 267 endometrial cancer survivors will be enrolled. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  