
    
      Surgery Implant placement will be performed according to a standardized, well-documented
      surgical protocol considered internationally as state-of-the art therapy for titanium
      implants since decades (Buser & von Arx 2000, Buser et al. 2004). In summary, an osteotomy
      will be performed in the edentulous bone under local anaesthesia and after the elevation of a
      full-thickness mucoperiosteal flap. The screw-shaped implant will then be inserted into the
      osteotomy. Particular emphasis will be set on risk minimization for adjacent anatomical
      structures (e.g. nerves, adjacent teeth), on sufficient primary implant stability, on
      circular embedding in > 1 mm thick bone walls and on correct three-dimensional implant
      positioning. In cases with insufficient bone volume, guided bone regeneration (GBR) will be
      performed using autogenous bone chips from the adjacent area, well-documented bovine bone
      mineral and resorbable porcine collagen membranes. The flaps will then be sutured around the
      implant healing cap (non-submerged healing). Primary flap closure will be preferred in cases
      with GBR (submerged healing). 12 ± 2 weeks after placement, submerged implants will be
      uncovered under local anaesthesia, then the osseointegration of the implants will be verified
      clinically and radiographically, and impressions will be taken.

      Restoration Restoration in group A (tooth replacement in FDI positions 14 - 24): fixed
      implant-supported provisional for 3 months, then final restoration with all-ceramic
      screw-retained single implant-supported crown (abutment made of zirconium dioxide and crown
      finalized with hand-build up ceramic veneering material) Restoration in group B (tooth
      replacement in all other positions): all-ceramic screw-retained single implant-supported
      crown (abutment made of zirconium dioxide and monolithic lithium disilicate ceramic crown.
    
  