
    
      Addition of statins to peripheral blood circulating mononuclear cells (PBMNCs) and to their
      CD 34+ subset cultures promotes endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) proliferation, migration
      and survival according to a time and concentration-dependent effect. Data suggested that in
      patients with stable coronary artery disease atorvastatin 40 mg/day induced a 2 fold increase
      in the number of CD34+VEGFR2+ cells after 1 week of treatment and a 3 fold increase after 4
      weeks; likewise, the number of EPCs colonies increased 1.5 times after 1 week and 3 times
      after 4 weeks. Data also suggested that the short term mobilizing effect of statins on EPCs
      may be transient and that medium-high doses long term statin treatment (> 1 month) may lead
      to a reduction in EPCs. Rather, a depletion of EPCs may not only be explained by exhausted
      mobilization but also by improved incorporation at sites of tissue hypoperfusion with
      potentially beneficial effects in therapeutic angiogenesis.In an interventional contest high
      concentrations of circulating EPCs may contribute to accelerate the reendothelialization
      process after stents implantation in coronary arteries. Considering the use of recent stents
      coated with anti-CD34 murine antibodies, the presence of high levels of PBMNCs expressing
      CD34 surface antigen may define the safety and efficacy levels of the procedure. Both the
      angiographic outcome and the clinical outcome seems to be better in patients with normal
      levels of EPCs than in patients with low levels. No data are available about the effects of
      different doses of statins on the biology of the PBMNCs and in particular about the timing of
      mobilization, duration of mobilization, the CD 34+ cell subset subpopulation mobilized and
      their gene expression balance in humans. No data are available about the effect of statins on
      clinical evolution in patients treated with PCI after the implantation of the stents coated
      by anti-CD34 murine antibodies.no specific data describing the effects of different doses of
      statins on the biology of the PBMNCs and in particular about the timing of mobilization, the
      duration of mobilization, the CD 34+ cell subset subpopulation mobilized and their gene
      expression balance in humans. No study has evaluated the effect of statins on clinical
      evolution in patients treated with PCI after the implantation of the new stents, coated by
      anti-CD34 murine antibodies. These data can contribute to better define the process of
      mobilization of endothelial progenitors induced by statins and to set up the best
      pharmacological strategy anti-CD34 coated stents deployment.
    
  