
    
      Patient safety is a critical issue in healthcare1. Medications are the most commonly used
      form of medical therapy and the single most frequent cause of adverse events2. The medication
      use process has several stages: ordering, transcribing, dispensing, administering and
      monitoring. Medication errors have been shown to be common3,4, and a large proportion (61%)
      of them occur in the dispensing, transcribing and administering stages5. Barcode technology
      in conjunction with an electronic medication administration record (eMAR) system has been
      proposed as a promising way to reduce medication errors at the transcribing, dispensing, and
      administering stages6. However, its efficacy for reducing medication error rates, its
      acceptance by staff, and its cost-benefit ratio remain unknown. Without evidence to clarify
      these issues, it is difficult for health care organizations to prioritize this technology
      among many other potential safety interventions7. We therefore propose to answer 3 related
      questions in this study: i) What is the impact of barcode and electronic medication
      administration record (barcode/eMAR) technology on reducing medication errors in hospitalized
      patients? ii) What is the impact of barcode/eMAR technology on nursing and pharmacy
      efficiency and satisfaction? iii) Can the cost of barcode/eMAR technology be justified by its
      benefits? We propose to address these questions at the Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH),
      which has a long-standing tradition of innovation in healthcare and research in medication
      safety. In particular, it was one of the first hospitals to assess the impact of computerized
      physician order entry (CPOE) on medication safety8,9. While CPOE is important for improving
      medication safety, it addresses errors primarily in the ordering stage of the medication use
      process, leaving patients vulnerable to errors that occur at the dispensing, transcribing and
      administering stages. Therefore, as part of a multi-disciplinary patient safety initiative,
      BWH has committed 3 million dollars to build a state-of-the-art barcode/eMAR system. This
      system will include sophisticated decision support to reduce medication errors made beyond
      the physician ordering stage. Design work is near completion and the hospital plans to
      implement the system in phases over 9 months beginning in the 4th quarter of 2003. This
      offers us a window of opportunity to formally study the broad impact of barcode/eMAR
      technology. We propose to perform a prospective, controlled, multidisciplinary randomized
      controlled trial of barcode/eMAR's impact on medication errors, as well as evaluations of
      impact on hospital efficiency, staff satisfaction, and hospital finances.

      Specific Aims:

      We plan to address the following 3 specific aims over the proposed 24 months of the study:

        1. To evaluate the impact of barcode/eMAR technology on the rate of serious medication
           transcribing and administration errors.

        2. To evaluate the impact of barcode/eMAR technology on nursing workflow and satisfaction
           in an acute care hospital.
    
  