
    
      In this two-group cluster randomized, longitudinal, controlled design, the KIM-CHI and
      control activities were delivered immediately after baseline data collection at 50 KA
      religious organizations. Participants in the attention control group followed the same study
      procedures as participants in the KIM-CHI group, except for the content of the educational
      films. The baseline and longitudinal data were collected from August 2008 to September 2010
      in Cook County, Illinois.

      The KIM-CHI group slogan was "Healthy Family, Healthy Wife," and the control group slogan was
      "Healthy Family, Healthy Diet," emphasizing the importance of the husband's support in
      promoting family health by improving breast cancer screening or diet in the KIM-CHI and
      attention control groups, respectively.

      The KIM-CHI program consisted of (1) showing a project team-designed 30-minute Korean
      language film (in DVD format) on breast cancer screening to change health beliefs; (2)
      holding a brief group discussion session immediately after the film showing; and (3)
      requiring each couple to complete a discussion activity together at home to enhance spousal
      support for the women.

      A total of 516 women were assessed for eligibility for this study from August 2008 to June
      2009. 428 KA women were recruited at baseline. The response rates for returning homework
      activity in intervention and control groups were 98.1% (207/211) and 98.6% (214/217),
      respectively.

      All the variables reported are from KA women, but socio-demographic variables are from both
      KA women and their husbands. Mammography uptake was measured by self-report at 6- months and
      15-months post-baseline, based on the ACS guideline recommending that women 40 and older
      receive a mammogram every year. Predictor variables measured were age, education, employment,
      and level of acculturation. Level of acculturation was measured by the Suinn-Lew Asian
      Self-Identity Acculturation Scale (SL-ASIA). The SL-ASIA was modified slightly by deleting
      one item about generation because it was not relevant for first-generation KAs. The words
      "Asian" and "Oriental" in the original instrument were also changed to "Korean." Scoring for
      the revised SL-ASIA was the same as the original SL-ASIA, using a 5-point Likert scale with a
      final score ranging from 1.00 (low acculturation) to 5.00 (high acculturation). Questions on
      health care resources and utilization, health insurance status, usual source of care (a
      regular place or doctor to visit), and physical examinations in the past 2 years without
      sickness or for health problems were measured. Family history of breast cancer and history of
      mammography (when the last mammogram was, if they ever had one) were also measured.

      After Human Subjects Review Approval was obtained, invitation letters were mailed to all 210
      religious organizations listed in the Korean language Chicago Korean Business Directory 2006.
      One hundred KA organizations were contacted to request participation in the study and 110 KA
      religious organizations were treated as "unable to reach." Of those 100 contacted
      organizations, 32 were ineligible (e.g., they were younger KAs, students, multi-ethnics, or
      disabled persons). Eighteen of the remaining 68 eligible organizations (26.5%) refused to
      participate. The 50 organizations were randomly assigned to either the KIM-CHI or attention
      control group. After random assignment, the characteristics of religious organizations
      (location and size) were not statistically significantly different between the two groups.

      A total of 428 couples participated in this study at baseline; 211 wife-husband dyads from 26
      KIM-CHI organizations and 217 wife-husband dyads from 24 attention control organizations. KA
      women and their husbands who were interested in participating in our study signed two copies
      of an informed consent form. Next, each completed a self-administered baseline questionnaire
      which took 30-45 minutes. Then they received the KIM-CHI or control education.

      Six- and 15-month post-baseline data were collected via phone by telephone surveyors who were
      blind to the study group assignment. At 6-months, 414 women participated in the telephone
      survey in Korean, with 3.3% lost to follow-up. At 15-months post-baseline, 395 women
      participated in the telephone survey, with 7.7% lost to follow-up, for the entire study
      period. The reasons for lost to follow-up were death, refused to participate, or unable to
      contract. KA women included at the 15 months' data collection (n = 395) and those who dropped
      out (n = 33) did not differ in demographic or other major variables in this study.
    
  