
    
      Note: We have resumed face to face enrollment for non-COVID patients as of 8/17/20. COVID+
      patients are being approached by phone.

      Overview and Specific Aims Polypharmacy, defined as five or more medications, is common in
      older patients discharged to skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) and is associated with adverse
      health outcomes. As part of a recent VA project, the investigators prospectively collected
      medication data for 134 hospitalized, older Veterans. These data showed that, on average,
      14.2 medications were ordered for Veterans discharged to SNF, which included 2.5 medications
      newly prescribed in the hospital that met criteria for being potentially inappropriate
      medications (PIMs). Moreover, 75% of these Veterans had two or more geriatric syndromes.
      Geriatric syndromes are clinical conditions common in older adults such as cognitive
      impairment, unintentional weight loss and falls. The co-occurrence of multiple syndromes is
      associated with loss of independence and higher healthcare utilization.8 All Veterans with
      polypharmacy also had one or more medications associated with geriatric syndromes. The
      prevalence of polypharmacy and multiple geriatric syndromes may partially explain why these
      patients often have poor health outcomes after SNF discharge. Recent data suggests that only
      28% of patients discharged from SNF are living at home 100 days later, and 35% experience an
      adverse drug event.

      There is a dearth of evidence related to the management of multiple co-existing geriatric
      syndromes, and few interventions have been implemented to reduce medications while also
      monitoring health outcomes. The relationship between polypharmacy, adverse drug events and
      geriatric syndromes in the VA population supports the rationale for an intervention focused
      on deprescribing medications before hospital discharge. The investigators have pilot-tested a
      multifaceted intervention (Drug Reduction in Older Patients, DROP) to engage patients and
      providers to reduce the number and/or dose of medications prior to hospital discharge. The
      proposed randomized, controlled trial is powered to evaluate the effect of this intervention
      on a reduction in medications as defined by the total number of prescribed medications, the
      number of PIMs, anticholinergic and sedative drug burden and the number of medications
      associated with geriatric syndromes. In addition, the investigators will collect relevant
      data on the prevalence and severity of geriatric syndromes and other clinical outcomes. The
      investigators also will use a hybrid research design to evaluate both effectiveness and
      implementation issues to better inform future adoption and sustainability. Our overarching
      hypothesis is that a hospital-based intervention to safely reduce the total number of
      medications represents the most feasible way to impact multiple health-related outcomes among
      older Veterans. Our Specific Aims reflect the primary outcomes that are the focus of the
      analyses, although the investigators also will measure secondary outcomes related to VA
      healthcare utilization and patient safety:

      Specific Aim 1: Implement a patient-centered deprescribing intervention (DROP) in the
      hospital to reduce the total number of medications Veterans are prescribed at hospital
      discharge.

      Hypothesis 1a: DROP will result in a significant reduction in total medication exposure due
      to discontinuations and dose reductions at hospital discharge, SNF discharge and 90-days
      after SNF discharge.

      Hypothesis 1b: DROP will result in a significant reduction in the number of potentially
      inappropriate medications (PIMs) at hospital discharge, SNF discharge and 90-days after SNF
      discharge.

      Hypothesis 1c: DROP will result in a significant reduction in the anticholinergic and
      sedative drug burden at hospital discharge, SNF discharge and 90-days after SNF discharge.

      Hypothesis 1d: DROP will result in significantly fewer medications associated with geriatric
      syndromes at hospital discharge, SNF discharge and 90-days after SNF discharge.

      Specific Aim 2: Document the effects of a Veteran-centered deprescribing intervention (DROP)
      on medication adherence, health status, and geriatric syndromes.

      Hypothesis 2a: DROP will result in a significant improvement in medication adherence and
      self-rated health status at 7 and 90 days after SNF discharge.

      Hypothesis 2b: DROP will result in a lower prevalence and severity of geriatric syndromes at
      7 and 90 days after SNF discharge.

      Specific Aim 3: Evaluate intervention implementation to inform future adoption and
      sustainability.

      Aim 3a: Identify patient-level barriers and facilitators of DROP. Aim 3b: Identify VA and
      Non-VA provider-level barriers and facilitators of DROP.

      Aim 3c: Identify system-level factors that influence sustainability after hospital discharge.

      Potential for Impact: The DROP intervention has significant potential to impact the health of
      older hospitalized Veterans vulnerable to poor health outcomes. During hospitalization and
      SNF care, older Veterans often acquire new geriatric syndromes and medications, exactly when
      deprescribing actions should be initiated by care providers in the context of clinical
      oversight. Lastly, the application of an innovative hybrid research design will allow us to
      collect critical data related to both intervention effectiveness and implementation to better
      inform future adoption and sustainability across the VA.

      Innovation: Our study is advancing science in multiple ways:

        1. The proposed study reflects one of the first controlled intervention trials designed to
           improve post discharge outcomes for the high-risk population of older Veterans
           transitioning from hospital to SNF to home. Healthcare costs are increasing for this
           patient population, and they are at high risk for medication-associated complications
           and newly acquired geriatric syndromes.

        2. Although the number of medications is strongly associated with increases in geriatric
           syndromes, it is unknown whether reducing medications will improve geriatric syndromes.
           This trial will generate data to evaluate the impact of medication reduction on Veteran
           health outcomes.

        3. To date, there have been no controlled intervention trials focused on reducing the
           number of medications prescribed for hospitalized patients discharged to SNF, and the
           proposed intervention is one of the first to explicitly incorporate Veteran preferences
           into deprescribing efforts, which is consistent with Veteran-centered care initiatives.
           Moreover, our preliminary data show that incorporating patient preferences in the
           intervention protocol significantly changes these clinical decisions.

        4. The proposed trial will evaluate both clinical effectiveness and implementation to
           inform the potential for DROP to be adopted into VA clinical practice.

      Rationale for VA Study: Dr. Simmons was recently awarded an National Institute on Aging (NIA)
      R01 focused on polypharmacy in hospitalized non-Veterans. The investigators summarize below
      the primary differences between the two studies and our rationale for the importance of the
      proposed VA study:

      The Need for More Evidence: Our NIA study focuses on non-Veterans hospitalized at Vanderbilt
      University Medical Center (VUMC) and discharged to a select group of SNFs that have partnered
      with VUMC for post-acute care services. Unfortunately, the scope of the NIA study does not
      allow us to evaluate the intervention in two separate healthcare systems with two unique
      patient populations and a larger number of SNFs, to include VA Community Living Centers and
      VA contract community nursing homes.

      Uniqueness of the Veteran population: Our preliminary data demonstrates important differences
      in older hospitalized Veterans and non-Veterans discharged to SNF. Beyond being predominately
      male, older Veterans in the investigators' prior study had a higher overall prevalence of
      geriatrics syndromes and were prescribed more medications at hospital discharge than
      non-Veterans, particularly antidepressants and antipsychotics. Data also suggests that
      Veterans may be more willing to reduce their medicines; thus, the magnitude of the
      intervention effects may differ in the VA. Finally, hospitalized Veterans are discharged to a
      diverse group of SNFs, many of which are located in rural communities. Unlike the
      investigators' NIA study, which only includes a select group of partner SNFs predominately
      located in an urban area close to Vanderbilt, the proposed study will follow Veterans from
      hospital to SNF to home, irrespective of which SNF they utilize. The VA study, therefore,
      will more closely mimic real-world practice. The innovative application of an
      effectiveness-implementation hybrid design will further inform unique aspects of the VA
      healthcare system critical to adoption.

      Uniqueness of VA healthcare system: The VA healthcare system differs significantly from other
      hospital systems, to include medication prescribing practices and how patients access and pay
      for medications. Thus, the investigators do not expect the results of the NIA study at VUMC
      to be directly translatable into the VA healthcare system. The proposed study also will yield
      an understanding of Veteran and VA provider attitudes toward deprescribing and other system
      factors unique to the VA that may influence intervention implementation.
    
  