
    
      This implementation research study used a quasi-experimental, mixed method design with two
      arms. Two districts in Arsi Zone in Ethiopia's Oromia Region (Hitosa and Lode Hitosa) were
      selected for the study. In each district, one primary health care unit (PHCU) - a public
      health center and its satellite health posts - was randomly assigned to the intervention arm
      and one to the comparison arm.

      PPFP counseling, services, and documentation were strengthened through training and
      supervision at health centers in both intervention and comparison PHCUs, consistent with
      Government of Ethiopia policies and guidelines. Only the intervention arm received the
      community-based intervention. The community-based intervention involved training Health
      Extension Workers (HEWs) who staff health posts, make outreach home visits, and support
      volunteers under the government's Development Army. HEWs were trained on PPFP with a
      refresher on implant insertion. The community invention also involved giving tools to HEWs
      and volunteers to help them track women's PPFP preferences and pregnancy risk.

      The study objectives are to:

        1. Assess the effect of systematically integrating PPFP messages into contacts with the
           health system on uptake of PPFP through 12 months postpartum using a 'dose-response'
           analysis based on the number of contacts

        2. Estimate the added effect of the community-based intervention by comparing uptake of
           PPFP through 12 months postpartum in intervention and comparison sites

        3. Explore the acceptability and feasibility of tracking PPFP and reviewing data at health
           centers and HEWs and volunteers using record keeping and review processes to track
           women's decision-making and contraceptive use from pregnancy through 12 months
           postpartum

        4. Explore factors influencing women's/couples' adoption of PPFP during the first 12 months
           postpartum.
    
  