
    
      Obesity disproportionately affects low-income children. Already by age 5, 20% of low-income
      children in the US are obese, a prevalence three times higher than among high-income
      children. Obesity that emerges by this young age is persistent and contributes to sustained
      obesity and obesity-related chronic disease in adulthood. Identifying effective approaches to
      prevent obesity among young, low-income children is a national priority.

      Family-style dining, in which children serve themselves food and drinks from communal dishes,
      is advocated as a strategy to prevent childhood obesity. It is theorized that family-style
      dining allows children to attend to their hunger and satiety, and consume only the amount of
      food they need to meet their energy needs. The alternative, where adults direct children's
      intake, is theorized to interfere with children's ability to self-regulate their eating and
      cause excess weight gain. Based on this theoretical model, the USDA's Child and Adult Care
      Food Program (CACFP), which provides meals to 4.2 million low-income children annually, and
      Head Start, the federally-funded preschool program that serves 42% of all preschool-aged
      children in poverty nationally, strongly encourage family-style dining.

      Contrary to current beliefs however, the investigators posit that many low-income children
      are not able to self-regulate their eating and overeat when allowed to self-serve, leading to
      excess weight gain. Thus, family-style dining may increase, rather than decrease, obesity
      among low-income children. Basic behavioral and epidemiologic research suggests that chronic
      stress, which many low-income children experience, contributes to obesity-promoting appetite
      characteristics among children. Laboratory-based experiments have demonstrated that appetite
      characteristics such as these lead to excessive consumption when children are allowed to
      self-serve. Among low-income preschoolers, one-third to one-half of children consume calories
      in excess of Institute of Medicine recommendations during family-style meals. This excessive
      energy intake is driven by intake of meat and grains, while intake of nutrient-dense, lower
      calorie fruits and vegetables is far below recommendations. Children's excessive and
      unbalanced eating during family-style dining is often noted by teachers, who are uncertain
      how limit these behaviors.

      Changing environmental supports for eating may be particularly important for modifying the
      dietary intake of young children who, unlike adolescents and adults, do not yet have the
      cognitive capacity to inhibit intake of highly palatable foods in favor of selecting food
      based on healthfulness. Therefore, the objective of this Collaborative Research pilot study
      is to conduct T2 translational research among low-income preschool children by developing an
      easily-implemented curriculum to support family-style dining in Head Start called Mealtime
      Matters, where teachers receive focused training on preschooler nutrition, appropriate
      portion sizes for preschool children, responsive feeding strategies, and improvements to the
      classroom environment that promote children's self-regulation of eating. The feasibility and
      potential impact of Mealtime Matters will be examined with 72 children from up to 7 Head
      Start classrooms in Adrian, Michigan. The investigators hypothesize that Mealtime Matters
      will be feasible and acceptable to teachers. Further, by reducing prompts to over-consume and
      empowering teachers to direct children to serve appropriate portion sizes while using
      responsive feeding approaches, the investigators will: 1. Increase the proportion of children
      consuming within an acceptable range of the recommended kilocalories (kcal) during meals at
      Head Start and 2. Increase the servings of fruits and vegetables children consume during
      meals at Head Start. Sustained engagement in these dietary behaviors can prevent excessive
      weight gain and obesity.

      The specific aims of this trial are:

      Aim 1: Examine the effect of Mealtime Matters on children's dietary intake during meals at
      Head Start.

      Aim 2: Examine the effect of Mealtime Matters on teacher/child mealtime interactions at Head
      Start.

      Aim 3: Determine the feasibility and acceptability of Mealtime Matters among Head Start
      teachers.
    
  