
    
      The primary objective of the study is to assess the safety and the anti-dyskinetic properties
      of sarizotan at various dosages for neuroleptic-induced TD.

      The secondary objective of the study is to assess the effects of sarizotan on cognitive
      function in patients with neuroleptic-induced TD.

      The diagnosis of neuroleptic-induced TD will be confirmed by history and physical
      examination. Patients will be evaluated at baseline, 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks. Safety will be
      assessed by vital signs, ECG, routine blood tests, the ACTH stimulation test, and the
      clinician's and patient's global impression of tolerability.

      Procedures:

      For efficacy, the primary outcome variable will be changes in the Abnormal Involuntary
      Movement Scale (AIMS), and a baseline score of >3 ('moderate') will be required for item 8
      (Severity of Abnormal Movements). Quantitative evaluation of movements will be carried out in
      two ways. The first involves a series of instrumental and clinical measures that were
      developed as a battery for the assessment of antipsychotic-induced parkinsonism and TD. The
      second means of quantifying the movements involves the use of video recording, with
      independent evaluation by several raters (Appendix I). Such approaches have gained popularity
      in the quantification of movement disorders as a means of improving reliability.

      Secondary measures will include the positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS) and other
      movement disorder scales (Simpson-Angus Rating Scales) for acute extrapyramidal symptoms
      (EPS), and the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale (BARS). Global impressions of efficacy and
      tolerability by the clinician (CGI) and by the patients (PGI) will be recorded at all study
      visits after the commencement of treatment. To assess potential cognitive changes that may
      occur in conjunction with TD changes, a battery of neuropsychological tests will be carried
      out at baseline and endpoint (see Appendix II). To assess the relationship with primary
      negative symptoms such as the deficit syndrome, the total and sub-scales of the Positive and
      Negative Syndrome Scale will be evaluated.
    
  