
    
      When it comes to weight problems, no one today disputes with anorexia nervosa that thinness
      is only a symptom. Thinness is the consequence of a multifactorial food restriction, in other
      words the consequence of an Eating Behavior Disorder (ED). The diagnosis of anorexia nervosa
      is made relative to the presence of diagnostic criteria listed in the DSM-V (Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual V). Everyone recognizes the need for multidisciplinary care that is not
      limited to the prescription of re-nutrition. Imposing an increase in energy intake has never
      been enough to cure patients with anorexia. The multidisciplinary support offered to these
      subjects also seeks to understand and treat the biopsychosocial determinants that perpetuate
      the mechanisms of food restriction and most of the therapeutic support is based on a
      psychotherapeutic, individual and / or family approach. The excess weight of subjects with
      severe obesity (Body Mass Index> 35) suffers from a lower etiopathogenic consideration. In
      obese people, excess weight is, too often, considered more as the problem to be treated than
      as the consequence of a more complex problem. Thus, the main therapeutic means still
      currently used are based on simplistic thermodynamic fundamentals and are based on an imposed
      food restriction (diet) or even undergone (bariatric surgery procedures).

      The main objective of this study is to assess the prevalence rate of unspecified ED (EDNOS or
      "non-BED ED") in subjects with severe obesity (BMI> 35) consulting for medical or surgical
      management in a General Hospital Center CSO (Specialized Obesity Center) using an adapted
      version of the QEWP-R, called the QEWP-RA (questionnaire on eating and weight pattern-revised
      and modified).

      The primary endpoint will be the prevalence rate of ED not specified in the QEWP-RA.

      Prospective, single-center, non-interventional study involving the human person (Category 3
      of the Jardé law).
    
  