
    
      Background: Chronically transfused medical outpatients comprise a significant proportion of
      transfusion recipients annually. At this time, the impact of red cell transfusion on patient
      outcomes in this patient population is unknown.

      Objective: Our goal is to prospectively evaluate impact of red cell age on product
      utilization in a cohort of chronically transfused medical outpatients randomized to receive
      red blood cells that are fresh (≤ 7 days from collection) or aged (>21-42 days from
      collection). To our knowledge, no other studies with a similar design or objective have been
      published.

      Patient population and study design: Patients meeting eligibility criteria will be invited to
      participate in our study. Our chronically transfused outpatient population is defined as
      adults who are receiving 2 or more red cell units per month for at least 3 consecutive months
      in an ambulatory clinic setting within the Calgary Zone.

      We plan to incorporate both prospective and retrospective data collection and analysis in our
      study design. All eligible, consenting participants will be randomized into one of the two
      study arms. Investigators and participants will be blinded to participant group assignment.

      Laboratory parameters and red cell transfusion: Parameters of usual pre-transfusion bloodwork
      will be followed, including complete blood count (CBC) and ferritin levels. Red cell
      transfusion volumes for chronic transfusion throughout the study will be determined according
      to a locally established protocol to achieve a post-transfusion hemoglobin (Hb) of 95-105
      g/dL. Given that 1 adult unit of red cells raises the baseline Hb by approximately 10 g/L,
      the following volumes will be given to patients during a single visit based on their
      pre-transfusion CBC: Hb <75 = 3 units, Hb 75-84 = 2 units, Hb 85-94 = 1 unit, Hb ≥95 = no
      transfusion. A routine post-transfusion CBC will not be performed. According to usual care,
      participants will have a standing order to perform a CBC at least weekly, or if they have
      subjective symptoms of anemia to help guide subsequent transfusions.

      Study participants will receive blood transfusion in usual locations designated within the
      Calgary Zone for administration of chronic blood transfusions. These include medical daycare
      units at the Foothills Medical Center, Tom Baker Cancer Center, Peter Lougheed Center, and
      South Health Campus. Nurses will administer blood transfusions according to standard
      practice, without change in transfusion protocol despite patient study participation.

      Duration of participation will be 1 year from the time of enrollment. Participant health
      record access will be required for collection of demographic information and retrospective
      data involving any transfusions received within 1 year prior to enrollment to establish
      transfusion chronicity and health patterns. Outcomes will be based on a comparison of results
      between the study groups. Prospectively collected data based on red cell age will
      additionally be compared to retrospective transfusion related information (including red cell
      transfusion frequency and blood age) from within 1 year from the time of enrollment, if
      available. We plan to enroll a maximum total of 60 participants, with assignment of 30
      patients into each group.
    
  