
    
      Primary Null Hypothesis A combination sufentanil and buprenorphine based pain control regimen
      will not result in lower morphine equivalent requirements for pain control when compared to a
      classic fentanyl and hydromorphone based regimen.

      Secondary Working Hypothesis Patient satisfaction survey mean satisfaction scores will be
      higher in the buprenorphine and sufentanil treated group when compared to the classic
      fentanyl and hydropmorphone treated group.

      Secondary Null Hypothesis Patient satisfaction surveys mean scores will not be significantly
      different in the buprenorphine and sufentanil treated group when compared to the classic
      fentanyl and hydropmorphone treated group.

      Tertiary Working Hypothesis Patients will have significantly lower rates of relapse as
      defined by follow up with their home suboxone clinic at 2 and 4 weeks.

      Tertiary Null Hypothesis Patients have equivalent rates of relapse as defined by follow up
      with their home suboxone cliic at 2 and 4 weeks.

      Trauma Protocol Arm Inclusion Criteria

        1. Orthopaedic trauma patient with history of suboxone use for greater than 30 days. Trauma
           must involve major long bone fracture(s) (femur, tibia, fibula, humerus, radius, ulna)

        2. Must have taken suboxone in the last 24 hours and have participated in addiction
           treatment for greater than one month.

        3. Age 18-65

        4. ASA I-III

        5. Willing to participate in post-operative psychiatric care

        6. Glascow Coma Scale 15 Exclusion Criteria

      1. Severe renal disease (Creatinine clearance < 30) 2. Severe liver disease (AST/ALT greater
      than 3 times normal, bilirubin and INR WNL) 3. Acute Ethanol Intoxication (serum ethanol >
      0.080) 4. Severe distracting injury that is close to pain levels expected from the orthopedic
      trauma (Ex surgical abdominal process, neurosurgical process, massive soft tissue trauma) 5.
      Pregnancy Design- After determining the patient qualifies for the study using the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria outlined above, the patient would then be taken through the informed
      consent process by one of the co-investigators. The orthopedics group at West Virginia
      University will be responsible for the informed consent process. The co-investigator would
      then use a block randomization table to assign the patient to standard (control) treatment
      versus IV buprenorphine plus IV sufentanil treatment group. The appropriate order set would
      then be selected in EPIC by the anesthesia department depending on the results of the
      randomization. Induction of anesthesia, anxiolysis and hypnosis would be at the discretion of
      the assigned anesthesiologist. Ketamine would be excluded as an option for maintenance of
      general anesthesia due to its profound analgesic properties. The control group would receive
      fentanyl 0.5mcg/kg q10 minute PRN, ketorolac 0.5mg/kg up to 30mg max IV, and acetaminophen
      1000mg IV for pain control intraoperatively. The patient would then be treated with
      hydromorphone 0.005mg/kg q10 minutes (max single dose 1mg) in the post-anesthesia recovery
      unit (PACU) until their pain was described as manageable or the patient reported they were
      comfortable. The patient would then receive hydromorphone 0.005 mg/kg (max single dose 1mg)
      q1hr PRN, 1 gram acetaminophen IV scheduled q6hr, and methocarbamol 750mg QID following
      discharge from the PACU and transfer to the hospital floor. The patient would then be
      converted to oxymorphone 10mg (Roxicodone) q4hr PRN and 975 mg PO APAP scheduled for pain
      control on hospital day number 2. The patients would receive their home dose of suboxone on
      hospital day number 2. On hospital day number 3, patients would be transitioned to an
      increased dose of their Suboxone for pain control in preparation for discharge. At any time
      during admission the patient feels as if their pain is uncontrolled and comfort could not be
      achieved, the anesthesia pain service would evaluate the patient and order sufentanil PCA
      while discontinuing other opioid therapy. This treatment would be considered a rescue therapy
      and the patient would be removed from the study arm. The buprenorphine-sufentanil group would
      receive sufentanil 0.01 mcg/kg q10 min PRN, IV ketorolac 0.5mg/kg up to 30mg max and IV
      acetaminophen 15mg/kg up to 1000mg for pain control intraoperatively. In the PACU, IV
      buprenorphine 0.3mg IV q30 minutes would be given as the first line choice for pain control
      for 3 doses. IV PCA sufentanil would be used as a second line therapy if patient comfort is
      not achieved by IV buprenorphine alone. The patient would then receive 0.3 mg buprenorphine
      IV Q6hr PRN, scheduled IV acetaminophen 1 gram for 24 hours and methocarbamol 750mg QID after
      discharge from the PACU and transfer to the hospital floor on hospital day 1. The patient
      would then be converted to buprenorphine 2mg q6hr PRN and 975 gram PO APAP scheduled for pain
      control on hospital day number 2. The patient would receive their home dose of suboxone
      starting on hospital day number 2. On hospital day number 3, patients would be transitioned
      to an increased dose of their suboxone for pain control as determined by psychiatry in
      preparation for discharge.

      Post-operatively both groups would receive psychiatric consult and PT/OT consult. Data on
      opioid consumption for the intra-operative period and post-operative period as well as
      post-operative pain scores will be recorded and analyzed for comparison. Morphine equivalents
      used per hour and per 24 hours would be analyzed as a primary endpoint. A patient pain
      satisfaction survey would be distributed and collected from both groups on hospital day #3. A
      copy of the survey is attached. Data on length of stay, pain scores, and ED readmission for
      pain control would also be recorded and analyzed. Patients would be discharged on increased
      dose suboxone for 2 weeks for post-operative pain control. The patients would then transition
      back to their normal suboxone maintenance dose. A follow up phone call would be made at 2 and
      4 weeks to the home clinic to assess patient follow up and potential relapse.

      Statistical Plan This is a randomized controlled trial. Patients will be randomly assigned to
      either the control or treatment group, with equal allocation using block randomization.

      We will use univariate statistics (e.g. mean, median, standard deviation, interquartile
      range) to summarize the collected data. Balance between the two groups for key patient
      variables will be assessed using a two-sided two-sample t-test using unequal variances and
      the Welch modification to the degrees of freedom. For categorical variables, the Chi-square
      test will be used. If non-parametric tests or exact methods are required, we will use the
      Mann-Whitney U test and the Fisher exact test as appropriate.

      The primary comparison of total opioid consumption between the two groups will be assessed
      using Student's t-test. Statistical significance will be assessed using a two-sided test with
      an alpha-level of 0.05. All statistical analysis will be performed using the R software
      environment for statistical computing and graphics.(1).

      Sample Size:

      We are planning a study of a continuous response variable from independent control and
      experimental subjects with 1 control per experimental subject. In a previous study the
      response within each subject group was normally distributed with standard deviation 135.5.
      (2) If the true difference in the experimental and control means is 90.3, we will need to
      study 48 experimental subjects and 48 control subjects (total = 96) to be able to reject the
      null hypothesis that the population means of the experimental and control groups are equal
      with probability (power) 0.9.
    
  