
    
      The prevalence of obesity in the Western world is continuously increasing and the amount of
      obese persons among the adult population in the United States is now 35%. As a result of this
      growing problem, it is important and necessary to find an efficient way to prevent further
      weight gain in the population.Physical activity is one of the key strategies used by public
      health agencies to combat the growing burden of non-communicable diseases. As a result adults
      around the world are recommended to engage in at least 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes
      of vigorous intensity activity per week, or a combination of moderate or vigorous activity
      that results in approximately the same total energy expenditure. However, majority of the
      population does not meet the physical activity recommendation. As barriers to physical
      activity, people mostly cite lack of time, self-motivation and confidence in the ability to
      be physically active.

      Recently, using the HUNT study data, the Cardiac Exercise Research Group devised a simple
      metric termed Personal Activity Intelligence (PAI) which, using individual heart rate
      patterns of the body, estimates the optimal threshold of physical activity required for a
      specific objective: to decrease risk of premature death in an individual from the general
      population. The idea is to keep the weekly PAI score above 100. Since PAI is a personalized
      reflection of the body's response to physical activity based on heart rate, PAI score of 100
      is specific to an individual. For example, a 100 PAI for a fit person is not the same as 100
      PAI for an unfit person. PAI can be accumulated over a course of one week using physical
      activity of personal preference (i.e. walking, swimming, dancing, playing with grandchildren
      etc.) and allows for days with no activity as long as they are followed up by days of higher
      activity. However, the optimal amount and intensity (i.e. the number of PAI) of physical
      activity that would help for weight gain prevention still remains to be determined.
    
  