
    
      Study Arm(s):

      Enrollment There are totally 150 cases, 50 cases in each group. At least 120 cases complete
      the test.

      Randomized grouping Under the guidance of a drug administrator, the different drug and
      control groups are randomly encoded. Each code has a corresponding emergency envelope. Blind
      codes are saved by the drug administrator.

      Interventions :

      Experimental Drugs Dexmedetomidine (SFDA Approval No. H20090248), 200 ug/2 ml, provided by
      the Central Pharmacy of the First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical University and
      produced by Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co., Ltd., China.

      Normal saline, 100 ml per bag, provided by the the Central Pharmacy of the First Affiliated
      Hospital of China Medical University.

      Experimental Procedures:

      Background Information: Dexmedetomidine is an α-adrenoceptor agonist, and its chemical name
      is (+)-4-(S)-[1-(2,3-dimethylphenyl ) ethyl]-1H-imidazole hydrochloride. Its structure and
      pharmacological activity are similar to clonidine. Dexmedetomidine was developed by the Orion
      Pharma (Finland) Corporation and Abott (USA), and introduced to China in 2009 (trade name: Ai
      Beining). Preclinical studies have shown that, like clonidine, dexmedetomidine is an agonist
      of α2-adrenergic receptors, and exhibits effectiveness about 10 times more than clonidine.
      Originally developed as an antihypertensive drug, dexmedetomidine functions in lowering blood
      pressure and HR, and is found to have a powerful anesthetic effect. Up to now,
      dexmedetomidine has been widely used in general anesthesia, monitored anesthesia care (MAC),
      ICU sedation. Dexmedetomidine is a sedative, hypnotic, analgesic, anti-sympathetic
      medication, and uniquely characterized as "cooperative sedation" and "no respiratory
      depression".

      In the present study, we compare the hemodynamic effects of different doses of
      dexmedetomidine via intraoperative infusion, and explore the effects of dexmedetomidine on
      recovery profiles from general anesthesia and postoperative pain.

      Experimental Protocol:

      This study is a randomized double-blinded trial. All the subjects are supratentorial brain
      tumors patients with ASA I & II. Within 24 hours before surgery, preoperative visits are
      conducted to obtain signed informed consents. The patient's height, weight, blood pressure
      (including SBP, DBP and mean arterial pressure (MAP)), HR, oxygen saturation (SpO2) are
      recorded as the baseline value (BV).

      Patients are subjected to electrocardiograph monitoring, including non-invasive blood
      pressure, ECG, and SpO2.

      Anesthesia is orderly induced by a combined infusion of propofol 2-2.5 mg/kg, sufentanil
      0.3-0.5 ug/kg, and cis-atracurium 0.15-0.2 mg/kg, and the tracheal intubation is completed
      until the maximal muscle relaxant effect.

      Before surgery, arterial and central venous catheterization is completed for continuous
      monitoring of the patient's arterial pressure and central venous pressure (CVP).
      Intraoperative CVP is maintained at 4-6 cmH2O.

      Anesthesia is maintained at a manner of inhalation anesthesia with 0.8-1.5% sevoflurane and
      continuous intravenous infusion of propofol and remifentanil respectively at a speed of 3-5
      mg/kg/h and 0.01-0.02 mg /kg/h. The drug dose is adjusted hemodynamically to maintain MAP
      values at a range of 60-90 mmHg.

      After craniectomy, additional cis-atracurium 0.05-0.08 mg/kg is added every 45-60 minutes by
      the end of dural suturing. Sufentanil (0.15-0.2 ug/kg) is given intravenously instead of
      inhalation anesthesia, and meanwhile, 20% -30% dose of intravenous anesthesia is added. After
      skin closure (approximately 30 minutes before the end of surgery), continuous infusion of
      propofol is terminated, and remifentanil infusion is stopped after surgery. Intraoperative
      dexamethasone (20 mg) is routinely used for prevention of cerebral edema, 10 mg is
      administered intravenously before surgery (10 mg), and then an additional 10 mg injected
      after 2 hours or by the end of surgery.

      Infusion principles: before anesthesia, crystalloid solution is dropped at a speed of 8-10
      ml/kg/h. After the start of anesthesia, the infusion speed is adjusted to 5ml/kg/h. The dose
      of artificial colloids is less than 20 ml/kg. The infusion volume is adjusted based on the
      amount of fluid input and output.

      Experimental drugs are infused via the syringe pump approximately 1 hour before the end of
      surgery, i.e., at the end of dural suturing, at a speed of 2 ml/min, i.e., 120 ml/h.

      Criteria for extubation: a. recovery of spontaneous breathing; b. over 95% SpO2; c. patients
      can complete the instructions (eye opening to voice).

      Criteria for discharge from the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU): a. 1<= RASS score> = -2; b.
      in the case of oxygen inhalation via a nasal catheter at a flow rate of 3-5 L/min, SpO2 can
      maintain above 95%; c. the observation time after extubation is > = 30 minutes.

      Medical equipments used in surgery: GE healthcare SolarTM8000M/i Patient Monitor; GE
      healthcare Smart Anesthesia Multi-gas SAMTM/SAM-80 Module (multi-gas analyzer); Drager Fabius
      GS; JMS syringe pump (SP-500).

      Medical equipments used in PACU: GE healthcare B30 Patient Monitor; NHI ventilator (Newport
      Medical Instruments, Inc., USA).

      Medical equipments used in Neurosurgical intensive care unit (NICU): GE Dash 2500 Monitor;
      GEM Premier 3000 blood gas analyzer.

      Adverse Events:

      All the adverse events occur after drug administration, which may be unrelated to drug
      treatment.

      Observation and recording of adverse effects Careful inquiry and tracing is necessary for all
      the adverse events during the experiment, including laboratory abnormalities. All adverse
      events must be judged by their nature, severity and correlation with drug treatment, which
      should be strictly recorded in the case report form.

      Correlation assessment Correlations between adverse events and experimental medication are as
      follows: definitely related, probably related, possibly related, possibly unrelated,
      certainly unrelated. The incidence of adverse reactions is calculated based on three
      conditions described as definitely related, probably related, and possibly related. Specific
      criteria are seen in Appendix 1.

      Severity assessment

      Severity of adverse events is divided into three levels:

      Mild: Treatment is usually not necessary for a transient increase in blood pressure and
      decrease in HR, because the subject is under anesthesia.

      Moderate: The bolus injection of atropine 0.3-1 mg is given for sinus bradycardia and escape
      rhythm. If combination with hypotension, the bolus injection of ephedrine 10-15 mg can be
      applied.

      Severe: For sinus standstill, cardiopulmonary resuscitation is applied if necessary.

      Treatment for adverse events during and after the experiment Outcomes of all adverse events
      should be followed and recorded. The subject who withdraws from the experiment due to adverse
      events should be traced till the adverse events completed removed. Researchers must determine
      whether an adverse event is related to experimental drugs, and provide a basis to support
      this judgment.

      Serious adverse events Definition: Adverse events occur during clinical trials that result in
      a series of serious consequences, including hospitalization, prolonging hospitalization,
      disability, affecting the ability to work, endangering the life or death, and congenital
      malformations.

      Reporting of the serious adverse events: Serious adverse reactions should be reported to the
      team leader and sponsor within 24 hours, and the serious adverse event table should be
      filled.

      Contacts: Yue Yun, +86 13889168717, Second Department of Anesthesiology First Affiliated
      Hospital of China Medical University, China Urgent Unblinding Method When serious adverse
      reactions appear during the experiment, if necessary, the study director can open the
      emergency envelope to carry out urgent unblinding strategy and record the relevant causes and
      date in the case report form. Whether the unblinded subjects withdraw from the experiment is
      decided by investigators and responsible party.

      Data management and Statistical Analyses:

      Statistical Description: Completed case report forms are collected by the clinical inspector
      and submitted to the responsible party for data processing.

      After confirmation, the data from case report forms are locked into the database.

      There are 3 groups when unblinding for the first time. Information description Count data are
      described using percentages, and measurement data expressed as mean ± standard deviation. Not
      normally distributed data are expressed as median and percentiles (25th-75th percentiles).

      Comparison of baseline data Intergroup count data are compared using chi-square test or
      Fisher's exact test. If measurement data normally distributed exhibit homogeneity of
      variance, single-factor or multi-factor analysis of variance is applied. If heterogeneity of
      variance is shown, non-parametric test or approximate test (e.g., Tamhnnes T2 test) is
      employed. For measurement data not normally distributed, non-parametric Mann-Whitney U test
      or Kruskall-Wallis rank sum test is used. Baseline balance and comparability in each group is
      examined.

      Comparison of Efficacy: Analgesic and sedative effects between groups are compared using
      Kruskall-Wallis rank sum test. For markedly effective, pairwise comparison in data
      differences between are analyzed using Mann-Whitney U non-parametric test. Considering the
      center or other factors, CMH X2 test is employed for comparison of two-classification index
      and level indicators.

      Data Processing: All statistical data are analyzed using SAS software for data processing.
      Two-sided test is employed for statistical analysis, and the corresponding P values are
      given. For the Fisher's exact test, P value is calculated directly. A value of P <0.05 is
      considered significant, and P <0.01 considered highly significant.

      Unblinding for the second time is carried out by the end of statistical analysis, and there
      are two experimental groups and one control group.

      Quality Assurance and Quality Control:

      Investigators In this clinical study, there are two responsible parties and five principal
      investigators. The clinical scheme is implemented strictly. An inspector is appointed to
      monitor the clinical trial at any time.

      Quality Control of the measurement indexes The observation indexes are observed according to
      standard operating procedures and quality control procedures. National legal units of
      measurements are employed for various test items. The test report form must complete the
      Assay report card must have complete items, including the date, test items, test results and
      their normal range.

      Ethical standards The study protocol, case report forms, informed consent should be approved
      by the Ethics Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical University.

      Investigators or investigator-authorized officers will be responsible to explain the benefits
      and risks of participating in the clinical trial for each patient, the patient's legal
      representative or notary witnesses. The written informed consent should be obtained prior to
      study entry (before screening test and drug administration).

      All the patients or their legal representatives and personnel chairing the informed consent
      process sign their names and date to the informed consent. The original file is saved by the
      investigators.

      Data retention The investigators should be responsible for the intact data intact, have a
      fixed place to store the data which are locked for future viewing. In accordance with the
      principles of GCP in China, the data should be kept for at least 5 years.
    
  