
    
      After approval of local ethics committee (KSU Bioethics Committee, for the study with
      protocol number 179; dated June 19, 2019; session no. 2019/11; and decision no.: 4), the
      investigator's study was organized as a 1-year prospective randomized study. As a criterion
      for terminating the study, the expiration of 1 year or reaching the total number of patients
      obtained through power analysis. In the primary study endpoint, to detect a 20% difference
      with α = 5% and ß = 20%, a total sample size of 64 patients was reported to be necessary for
      achieving statistical significance.

      Patients with the diagnosis of acute appendicitis over the age of 18 and treated by the same
      surgical team were prospectively registered to Kahramanmaraş Sütçü Imam University General
      Surgery Clinic between July 2019 and April 2020. Acute appendicitis was diagnosed with
      history, physical examination results, laboratory results, and imaging methods
      (Ultrasonography or Computed Tomography (CT)). As per these results, patients with Alvarado
      Score 7 and above were diagnosed with acute appendicitis. Patients diagnosed with complicated
      acute appendicitis based on imaging methods (such as perforation, periappendicular abscess
      formation, and plastron formation), patients who are pregnant, patients who did not want to
      be included were excluded from the study. Patients were informed that there were medical
      treatment and surgical treatment options in uncomplicated acute appendicitis and written
      consent was obtained from patients. For randomization purposes, patients were given balls to
      draw. Using this ball drawing, patients were divided into two groups as those that would
      receive random medical treatment (Group M) and those that would undergo direct appendectomy
      (Group A) (Open appendectomy or laparoscopic appendectomy). Group M was divided into two
      subgroups as those who responded to medical treatment within 24 h of follow-up and those who
      failed medical treatment. The study was terminated as the total number of 64 patients was
      reached because of power analysis.

      In Group A, after examining the patient in the emergency, the patient was urgently taken to
      operation to perform appendectomy (open or laparoscopic). A complete blood count and CRP were
      studied on patients within the first 24 h of the postoperative course. In Group M, oral
      intake was discontinued on admission of patients to the clinic and intravenous ciprofloxacin
      (200 mg; twice a day) and metronidazole (500 mg; three times a day), which were effective for
      both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria and anaerobes, were started with fluid
      replacement. When the duration of nonsurgical follow-up is between 12 and 24 h, there is no
      increase in the perforation risk. Considerable complications can be encountered after 48 h
      (wound site infections, wound decomposition, and other complications). Therefore, because of
      increased risk of perforation and the likelihood of complications as a result, the response
      protocol for medical treatment was restricted to 24 h. During follow-up, vital signs of
      patients were verified every 6 h. At the 24th h of follow-up, the patients were asked for
      their complaints and physical examinations were performed. Control of complete blood count,
      CRP, and abdominal US were performed. At the 24th hour of the follow-up, Alvarado score was
      repeated to patients. Patients who had no regression in the clinic and laboratory results
      (with an Alvarado score ≥ 7 and who had an appendix unresponsive to medical treatment
      according to imaging methods (with no change in diameter or increased or developed
      complications) were considered to be unresponsive to conservative treatment and rescue
      appendectomy was performed. Patients with a regression in physical examination and laboratory
      results (with calculating Alvarado score <7) and those with an appendix that responded to
      medical treatment as per imaging methods (with reduced diameter or not monitored with US)
      were considered to have responded to conservative treatment; and oral intake was initiated
      without surgery. . They were discharged from the hospital with a prescription of 1-week oral
      antibiotic regimen (a combination of oral ciprofloxacin 500 mg and oral metronidazole 500 mg
      two times daily (morning and evening)). At the end of antibiotic therapy, patients were
      called for control.

      WBC count, neutrophil count, lymphocyte count, IG count and IG% were measured using an
      automated hematological analyzer (XN 3000; Sysmex Corp., Kobe, Japan) and CRP levels were
      measured using an automated biochemical analyzer (Cobas C-702 module, Roche Diagnostics,
      Basel, Sweden) from blood samples obtained at the initial admission to the emergency
      department and the 24th hour of the follow-up. Neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) levels
      were manually calculated. The IG fraction includes promyelocytes, myelocytes, and
      metamyelocytes but not band neutrophils or myeloblasts. Moreover, DNI (IG percentage-%) is
      the IG count to white blood cell ratio.

      Statistical Evaluation: IBM Statistical Package for Social Sciences for windows, Version 20.0
      software package (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA) was used to evaluate statistical data.
      Therefore, 64 patients were required to achieve 80% power to detect a difference of 10% among
      IG count and percentage, the means using student t-test and repeated measures ANOVA at the 0.
      05 significance level.

      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was performed for the suitability of patients for normal
      distribution. Based on their suitability for normal distribution, paired sample t test was
      used to evaluate intra-group measurements in numerical data, while student t-test and
      Mann-Whitney U test were used in inter-group evaluation. Repeated measurement ANOVA and
      Scheffe's post-hoc test were used to evaluate the relationship between subgroups and
      appendectomy group. Note that Chi square test and Fischer's exact test were used to evaluate
      the categorical data. Numerical data were given as median (minimum - maximum), and
      categorical data were indicated in numbers (n) and percentages (%). Statistically, p<0.05
      values were considered to be significant.
    
  