
    
      This is a descriptive pilot study, non-interventional, before / after, mono-centric,
      evaluative, prospective cohort with type score description. The tool used is the grid "mini
      Zarit", she evaluates the caregiver burden. This grid is enabled in the French version and
      commonly used in these pathologies.

      The evaluation of the quality of life of the caregiver will be performed with the scale
      "EQ-5D". This tool is easy to use phone, it contains few items. Also there is very little
      evidence referring to the suffering or negative feelings. It therefore avoids inducing to
      helping unknown team consultation memory an emotionally negative discourse.

      There is no validated tool measuring the service delivered to a nurse hotline. The
      investigators offer a nurse questionnaire 7 items grouping expectations for the first
      consultation memory (consultation period, diagnosis, course of the consultation, organization
      of monitoring). It also provides an update on the daily experiences of the caregiver relative
      to the organization of care and helped the organization of domestic life of helped.

      Nursing questionnaire will assess whether the responses of the nurse in relation to questions
      about the memory request for consultation were understood in relation to the items. Also, if
      the caregiver is in support of application in everyday life, the questionnaire will determine
      if the nursing accompaniment allows the caregiver to acquire knowledge or skills, or better
      organization of everyday life. The question of the entourage of the caregiver assesses the
      isolation level of the caregiver and whether the environment is not mobilized or after an
      update with the nurse.

      If help is hospitalized, the pattern will be recovered. The Scientific Council will assess
      whether the information collected and the information provided would have prevented it.
    
  