
    
      Rationale: The standard treatment of RCC is (partial-) nephrectomy. Alternatives to this
      treatment are less invasive techniques like radio frequency ablation (RFA) and cryoablation
      (CA). Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is an alternative curative treatment
      modality, which has shown promising results in several North-American phase I-II studies over
      the last years. In this study, we aim to evaluate the safety and feasibility of SBRT for
      patients with inoperable RCC on a conventional cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) linear
      accelerator.

      Objective: To evaluate safety and feasibility of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT)
      with fiducial markers in inoperable patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

      Study design: Single arm prospective study. Study population: Inoperable patients ≥ 18 years,
      with a pathology proven RCC fulfilling the inclusion criteria.

      Intervention: Prior to treatment, patients will undergo fiducial marker placement (in
      combination with a biopsy, if RCC has not been pathology proven), followed by a contrast
      enhanced planning computed tomography (CT)-scan and a contrast enhanced MRI-scan. Fiducial
      markers will be used as this increases visibility of the tumor and therefore the accuracy of
      radiotherapy, particularly the irradiated healthy kidney tissue will be diminished by using
      this approach. Baseline toxicity and quality of life will be assessed.

      SBRT using a VMAT technique will be delivered in five fractions of 7 Gy every other day. The
      target volume for treatment is defined on a 4D planningCT and MRI and the tumor is treated in
      the midposition of the breathing cycle. After treatment, follow-up will be at 1, 3, 6 and 12
      months at the Radiotherapy department, followed by standard follow-up by the urologist. An
      additional contrast enhanced MRI scan will be performed after the 2nd treatment fraction, and
      after 6 and 12 months to assess treatment response to prepare for future MR-guided (MR-linac)
      radiotherapy. Toxicity and quality of life will be assessed during follow-up.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Newly developed acute toxicity grade 3 or more according to
      the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTC-AE) version 4.0.

      The treatment is considered successful if all 5 treatments are completed and if in total <15%
      of the patients (=5 patients) report a toxicity ≤ grade 3.

      Secondary endpoints will be treatment response, (late) toxicity assessment, local control
      rate and quality of life assessment.
    
  