
    
      The first two aims of the present proposal are to adapt a validated self-help,
      smoking-cessation intervention to meet the needs of current dual users, and to test this new
      intervention in a randomized controlled trial (RCT). A third primary aim is to calculate the
      cost-effectiveness of the intervention. A secondary aim is to gather longitudinal data
      regarding the patterns of tobacco and e-cigarette use and the course of cessation of either
      product among dual users.

      Specific Aim 1. To create a minimal smoking-cessation intervention for current dual users of
      tobacco cigarettes and e-cigarettes (Study I). The intervention will comprise a series of
      booklets and pamphlets modeled after the Forever Free booklets found to be successful at
      producing long-term abstinence among the general population of smokers, but adapted to the
      special needs, circumstances, and risk factors of dual users.

      Validated methodologies used for adapting the intervention mirror those used in our prior
      smoking cessation studies, and reflect systematic approaches across two-phases informed by
      individual interviews and learner verification methodologies. The intervention will provide
      assistance for smoking cessation, and also encourage users to taper and eventually terminate
      their e-cigarette use as per traditional nicotine replacement therapy (NRT). The end product
      of Study I will be a series of booklets tentatively titled, "If You Vape: Guide to Quitting
      Smoking," available both in printed and electronic formats.

      Specific Aim 2. To evaluate the efficacy of the intervention via a randomized, controlled
      clinical trial of current dual users (Study II). We will compare the intervention developed
      under Specific Aim 1 with both an assessment-only condition and a generic self-help condition
      comprising existing smoking cessation booklets. We hypothesize that recipients of our
      targeted If You Vape booklets will show higher rates of tobacco abstinence at 6, 12, 18, and
      24 months after enrollment, as compared to both comparison conditions. A secondary hypothesis
      is that the new intervention will produce higher rates of abstinence from e-cigarettes
      themselves. To identify mechanism of change, we will also test several a priori moderator and
      mediator variables, including gender, socio-economic status, motivation to quit, nicotine
      dependence, e-cigarette expectancies, and magnitude of e-cigarette use (frequency, dosage).

      Specific Aim 3. To calculate and compare the cost-effectiveness of the interventions. Cost-
      effectiveness data are vital for evaluating the real-world feasibility of an intervention.
      Small improvements in treatment efficacy may not be justified if they require substantially
      greater cost. We will compare the interventions not only on outcome efficacy, but on
      cost-effectiveness with respect to cost per incremental cessation and expected life-years
      saved.
    
  