
    
      From February 2018 to February 2020, the investigators enroll consecutive patients with
      drug-refractory persistent atrial fibrillation who were scheduled for an initial catheter
      ablation.Patients are divided in to two group: persistent AF in radiofrequency ablation
      group, cryoballoon ablation group.

        1. Radiofrequency ablation group: Each patient randomly allocated into the radiofrequency
           ablation group receives circumferential pulmonary vein isolation(CPVI), if atrial
           flutter is diagnosed before and during operation,then a radiofrequency is used to ablate
           cavo-tricuspid isthmus. Under the 3D electro-anatomical mapping system (Carto 3,
           Biosense Webster), after passing through the transseptal sheath, the ablation catheter
           is infused under pressure to enter into the left atrium to carry out radiofrequency
           ablation.The default strategy is to create a circle surrounding the two ipsilateral
           pulmonary veins. The cardioversion is performed if spontaneous conversion is not
           observed after CPVI. Observation is carried out for 20-30 minutes after the entrance and
           exit block of pulmonary vein potentials,in the meantime investigators will mapping the
           left atrial substrate. If mapping system detect a poor substrate,the investigators
           should continue to ablate for left atrial roof and posterior line.The situation of
           pulmonary vein potential conduction will be detected again. If there is a recovery,
           ablation will be continuously carried out.

        2. Cryoballoon ablation group: Cryoablation is performed using a single cryoballoon. The
           diameter of the cryoballoon (Arctic Front Advance™ Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter;
           Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN) is determined as 28 mm or 23 mm according to pulmonary
           venography results. After passing through the transseptal sheath, the cryoballoon
           catheter enters into the left atrium and is continuously infused with heparin saline
           through a 15F oriented sheath. The balloon is inflated at the entrance of the pulmonary
           vein. The mapping confirms that the balloon blocks the entrance of the pulmonary vein.
           After blocking of the entrance of the pulmonary vein is enhanced, liquid nitrogen is
           injected for cryoablation. Before performing right pulmonary vein ablation, a secondary
           catheter is placed into the superior vena cava during the cryoablation. A cycle length
           of 999 ms is taken to continuously make the right phrenic nerve pulsate. If diaphragm
           movement is weakened or disappears, the cryoablation will be immediately stopped. In
           general, the cryoablation of each pulmonary vein is carried out twice. According to the
           objective condition, the operator determine whether or not to carry out an additional
           cryoablation. The cardioversion is performed if spontaneous conversion is not observed
           after CPVI. Then investigators will applicate electrophysiological substrate mapping for
           guiding ablation of atrial fibrillation,If mapping system detect a poor substrate,
           investigators should continue to ablate for left atrial roof and posterior line. By
           testing the entrance and exit block of pulmonary vein potentials，the investigators
           observe the duration of potentials.

        3. All patients fill the follow-up form before operation. After catheter ablation therapy,
           all patients invited to come back to the outpatient clinic every week in the first
           month, and then at 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 month to follow up. Patients received
           electrocardiogram and Holter monitor examination if with symptoms of palpitations. Those
           patients with no symptoms received electrocardiogram every month and Holter monitor
           examination every 6 months. Recurrence of atrial fibrillation was defined as atrial
           fibrillation/flutter or atrial tachycardia lasting ≥ 30 seconds 3 months after ablation
           therapy. Atrial electrical activity including atrial effective refractory period, atrial
           conduction time, electromechanical conduction time, P wave dispersion and spatial
           dispersion of atrial refractory will be measured before and after the operation.Blood
           samples (routine blood, high sensitivity c-reactive protein,B-type natriuretic peptide
           (BNP), cystatin C,homocysteine,β2-microglobulin) and transthoracic echocardiography
           indexes (left atrial anterior to posterior diameter, left atrial length-diameter,left
           atrial transverse-diameter,left atrial volume index, mitral e', E peak, A peak,
           E/A,velocity time integral (VTI), left atrial ejection fraction, left atrial strain,
           strain rate and atrial electrical - mechanical conduction time) are recorded in all
           patients at each follow-up. Patients with AF recurrence must have an electrocardiogram
           or a 24 hour holter monitor evidence.
    
  