
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a chronic condition which may occur when an individual is
      sleeping. OSA incidence rates ranges from 4 to 16% of the adult population. The prevalence of
      OSA is even higher in populations with cardiovascular and metabolic disorders (e.g. stroke or
      diabetes mellitus).

      OSA is characterized by five or more pauses in breathing per hour or partial obstruction of
      airway during sleep.

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is currently being treated using two methods: oral appliance
      (OA) therapy and continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Although the American Academy of
      Sleep Medicine (AASM) has approved both methods as a first line treatment for mild and
      moderate OSA, oral appliances have been underutilized despite their non-invasive, quietness,
      the fact they are non-surgical and, cost effectiveness. OAs can also be an alternative for
      severe OSA patients who find CPAP treatment intolerable. There are two major groups of OAs
      available, one that acts on repositioning the mandible and tongue; this includes mandibular
      advancement splints (MAS) and Mandibular advancement devices (MAD). The other group of OAs,
      tongue retaining devices (TRD) focus on holding the tongue forward. It is because of the
      positioning of the tongue and mandible that OAs is effective in decreasing sleep apnea. OA
      therapy is a long-term treatment and therefore it is important that the appliance be
      comfortable to encourage patient use.

      Despite the benefits to patients using OAs, previous studies have not looked at the
      relationship between OAs and OSA in long term studies or in a large number of patients. This
      lack of research and knowledge has led to an absence in training and education for dentists
      who are able to provide OA therapy to their patients. OAs have been shown to not be as
      effective as CPAP in helping with OSA, however, it has similar effects on blood pressure,
      quality of life, sleepiness and endothelial function. Previous studies have shown that the
      effects of OA therapy on patients' OSA are associated with more acceptance and adherence.
      Previous longitudinal studies that followed patients using CPAP showed great benefits in
      terms of cardiovascular health. It is therefore necessary for large sample size, long term
      prospective cohort studies to be done to determine how effective OA therapy is for patients
      with OSA, while also looking at potential effects on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
      It is for this reason that 15 centres from 9 counties around the world have formed a network
      called ORANGE (Oral Appliance Network on Global Effectiveness) dedicated on the long-term
      outcomes of OAs.

      These centers included: University of Sidney (Australia), Stanford University (USA). Kaiser
      Permanente (USA), Cambridge University (UK), Paris Hospital (France), University of Antwerp
      (Belgium), Japan Somnology Center (Japan), Kyushu University (Japan), University of British
      Columbia (Canada), University of Montreal (Canada), Laval University (Canada), University of
      Gronigen (Netherlands), and Umea University (Sweden).
    
  