
    
      Extensive evidence exists that neurodegeneration begins many years before HD can be diagnosed
      clinically. Therefore, it is most desirable to begin a neuroprotective therapy before or
      during this premanifest period with the aim of delaying onset, as well as slowing functional
      decline. Cellular energy depletion is present early in HD and can be ameliorated by creatine,
      which helps regenerate cellular ATP. Preclinical evidence for creatine's potential
      neuroprotective effects in animal models of HD has been well-documented. Before the clinical
      efficacy of creatine can be tested in premanifest HD, its long-term safety and tolerability
      must be assessed in these individuals and its ability to favorably modify biomarkers of HD
      should also be confirmed. A two phase protocol is proposed in which 60 premanifest and
      at-risk subjects will randomized into a double blind placebo controlled dose titration study
      bringing them to 30 grams daily or their highest tolerated dose. The placebo-controlled phase
      will permit the detection of toxicity and intolerability due to the active compound
      (creatine), and enable a dose response assessment of biomarkers. In the second phase, all
      subjects will enter a year long open-label treatment on 30 grams daily of creatine. This
      phase will maximize the subjects on active compound to promote recruitment and retention, to
      expand assessment of safety data on all subjects, and increase the power to detect and
      measure potential biological markers and any response to the active compound. The clinical
      impact of creatine will be assessed using the United Huntington's Disease Rating Scale.
      Safety and tolerability will be assessed by analyzing clinical and laboratory adverse events.
      Serum levels of creatine will be used to assess compliance and whether there is a
      relationship between bioavailability and response. 8OH2'dG and related markers will be
      assessed to determine whether creatine treatment can chronically suppress markers of energy
      depletion and oxidative injury and whether suppression correlates with slowing the
      progression of HD. Morphometric MRI will be used to determine whether creatine can slow brain
      atrophy in premanifest HD. This study will provide the pilot data needed to plan a future
      study to determine whether creatine can delay the onset or slow the progress of HD in
      premanifest individuals.
    
  