
    
      Pompe disease (glycogen storage disease type II) is a lysosomal storage disorder resulting
      from the deficiency of the enzyme acid alpha-glucosidase. Similar to many lysosomal storage
      diseases, the phenotypic spectrum in Pompe disease is varied, existing in infantile, and
      late-onset forms. In the classic infantile form, patients develop cardiomyopathy, resulting
      in premature death. In the later-onset forms, there is proximal muscle weakness similar to
      that of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, which is associated with progressive weakness of
      different muscle groups. The primary morbidity in Pompe disease is associated with
      progressive respiratory insufficiency.

      Events that act as metabolic stressors, in general, such as pregnancy may act as modifiers in
      lysosomal storage disorders. In much studied Gaucher disease, pregnancy increased the risk of
      acute bone crises, even in otherwise asymptomatic patients. However, similar studies lack for
      Pompe disease. Most data that is used to counsel patients with Pompe disease are derived from
      other muscular dystrophies, because obstetric risk and complications.

      This is a retrospective case review study in female subjects age 18years and above. This
      study investigates the effects of acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency on pregnancy, pregnancy
      and disease outcomes in patients with adult-onset Pompe disease. The study will define the
      immediate effect of enzyme replacement therapy with Lumizyme/Myozyme on the outcomes of
      pregnancy and the fetus.

      Subjects will be invited to participate through an initial mail or phone contact. If patient
      is interested, and agrees to participate in the study the study questionnaire will be
      provided to them. The patients then, need to complete the questionnaire, sign and date it and
      mail it back along with a release of any medical information forms. The returned signed and
      dated questionnaire from the patient serves as an indication of their consent to participate
      in the study. Alternatively, study PI or coordinator may review the questionnaire with the
      subject during a phone interview. However, the subject's signature is still required to
      attest to participate in the study.
    
  