
    
      General organisation of the study

        -  Recruitment of the GP: 3 months (from January to March 2010)

        -  Training of the intervention group GP during a two days workshop in April 2010 on the
           therapeutic education and the intervention by an expert team

        -  Patient Inclusions of by GP: 10 months (from April 2010 to January 2011). The included
           patients will be followed for 19 months. Some patients will be potentially recruited
           during the 10th month of inclusion, the follow-up period being of 29 months.

        -  First consultation used to the inclusion:

             -  Information to the patient and collection of the patient written agreement (without
                informing the intervention objectives in the control group).

             -  Evaluation of the life quality in both groups with the SF-36 scale (general) and
                the Minnesota scale (HF specific) written by the patient or his/her main caregiver
                (wife or husband, a friend...) in the waiting room after the consultation thanks to
                a closed envelope given by the GP containing the questionnaire and a pre-paid
                envelope.

        -  Intervention of the general practitioner to the patients in the scope of a therapeutic
           education program:

             -  In the intervention group: first session (M1) dedicated to the educative diagnosis
                after one month. Then 4 sessions of standardized therapeutic education and adapted
                to the patient each three months for one year. One session in M19 will be dedicated
                to the synthesis of what the patient learnt from these interventions.

             -  In the control group: the patient is followed in consultation in the same deadlines
                without any particular intervention in M1, M4, M7, M10, M13, M19.

        -  Life quality evaluation of both groups at 0, 7, 13, and 19 months from the beginning of
           the inclusion filled in by the patient or his/her main caregiver (husband or wife, a
           friend...) thanks to a closed envelope given by the GP (at the end of his consultation)
           containing the questionnaire and pre-paid envelope. These documents are filled in the
           waiting room after the first consultation and at home in the 7 days following the other
           consultations. The life quality will be evaluated at the inclusion time (M0), during the
           intervention (M7 and M13) and at distance (M19) from the end of the intervention. The
           Minnesota score (22, 23) has been chosen because it is validated and specific of life
           quality of HF patients. The SF-36 score has also been retained as it permits a generic
           and global evaluation of life quality and because its reliability, validity and
           responsiveness have been established (24) (25) (26). SF-36 is the most widely evaluated
           quality of life measure between 1990 and 1999 (27).

        -  Collection of the number and the duration of hospital readmission for worsening heart
           failure and for all cause hospital readmission and of the total number of days of
           hospitalisation during the follow-up period.
    
  