
    
      Participants will be recruited from the Getting Off service program at Friends Community
      Center. Program participants will be invited to participate in the study at the time that
      they enroll in the program, and may enroll in the study at any time during their first or
      second week of program participation. Getting Off program staff will inform new participants
      about the research study. If the potential participant is interested in learning more about
      the study he will be directed to meet with the Study Counselor. Both the program staff and
      the SC will emphasize that participation in this study is voluntary and that participation in
      the program is not dependent on participation in this study. Interested participants will
      meet with the in a private room, then read the consent form, have questions answered by the,
      and sign the consent form if they wish to participate.

      All in-person contact (recruitment, screening, consenting, MoodGym sessions, and
      administration of follow-up interviews) with participants will take place in a private room
      with a closed door at Friends Community Center. Any telephone calls made to participants
      during the course of the study will be made from a private office with a closed door, so the
      phone conversation cannot be heard.

      MoodGym is an Internet-based CBT program that uses fun, engaging, interactive content,
      alongside character-driven narratives, to help alleviate symptoms of depression and comorbid
      anxiety. The program also aims to improve the individual's functioning by promoting the
      development of skills and strategies to manage depression.

      MoodGym consists of an introduction module, five structured intervention modules, and a
      workbook of assessments.

        1. Getting Started

           a. An introduction to MoodGym, including CBT, the different characters and structure of
           the intervention content, and baseline mental health quizzes (e.g., depression, anxiety)
           that are scored in real time to help the participant understand their current level of
           mental health symptoms. This will be done during the first MoodGym session, given its
           brevity and relationship to the first module.

        2. Feelings Module

           a. Understanding emotions, mood, and physical reactions of depression and anxiety, as
           well as the impact of your perspective on your personal feelings. Demonstrates links
           between events, thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.

        3. Thoughts Module

           a. Addresses unwelcome, unhealthy, or intrusive thoughts, and demonstrates how some
           thoughts can help you overcome mental health symptoms. Discusses how to improve
           self-esteem by changing thought patterns.

        4. Unwarping Module

           a. Introduces the idea of "warpy" thoughts, including false impressions that one must be
           perfect, that one can control all things, or that one is worthless if they are
           criticized.

        5. Destressing Module

             1. Discusses means and strategies to reduce stress, which can have important impacts
                on depression and anxiety symptoms, and mental health more generally.

        6. Relationships Module

           a. Discusses how relationships can both benefit or worsen one's mental health, and how
           to monitor and maintain healthy relationships.

        7. Workbook a. Contains all quizzes and tests the participant encounters during each of the
           above sessions. If a participant would like to retest themselves on some dimension
           (e.g., depression, anxiety, warpy thoughts), they can revisit the assessment in the
           Workbook section, and receive an updated score in real time.

      Each MoodGym session will last up to one hour and will begin with the brief CESD-R
      assessment, administered by the Study Counselor via the same computer as the MoodGym
      intervention, followed by one of the five online modules, which are self-contained and guide
      the participant through all intervention content. Online modules include quizzes, videos,
      characters, interactive activities, informational content, personal stories, workbook
      activities, and content summaries. Sessions can also include interactions with the Study
      Counselor, as much or as little as the participant chooses to initiate, including supportive
      feedback, guidance, help, and encouragement on activities.

      The SC will monitor participant attendance and conduct a phone call to any participant who
      does not attend a session for two consecutive weeks.

      Participants will be assessed one final time, receiving both the ART and PrEP Uptake and
      Adherence form and the CESD-R, at 90 days post-enrollment.
    
  