
    
      This study will be an open-label, single-dose, randomized, two-way, two-period crossover
      study in 20 adult subjects previously diagnosed with mild to moderate heart failure (New York
      Health Association [NYHA] class II/III) being treated with oral furosemide therapy at a dose
      of ≥40 mg/day. Each subject will complete Screening, Admission, Treatment, and Follow-up
      Phone Call phases. The Screening Phase will be conducted on an outpatient basis between 28
      and 3 days prior to admission. Subjects will be instructed to reduce sodium intake (target <2
      g sodium/day) starting 3 days prior to each of the clinical research unit (CRU) admissions.
      Admission (Day -1) consists of CRU admission and final qualification assessments. The
      Treatment Phase will comprise two crossover periods separated by a 7-day outpatient fluid
      re-equilibration washout. Subjects will discontinue oral furosemide at least 24 hours prior
      to administration of study drug for each Crossover Period (e.g., no oral furosemide should be
      administered after 10pm the night prior to CRU admission). Subjects will be randomly assigned
      in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of 2 treatment sequences (AB or BA) to receive both subcutaneous
      furosemide (Treatment A; Test) and IV furosemide (Treatment B; Reference) in Crossover
      Periods (i.e., subcutaneous followed by IV or vice versa). Subjects will remain domiciled in
      the CRU for each treatment Period during the Treatment Phase through 24 hours after
      administration of study drug, after which time they will be discharged from the CRU if safety
      parameters are acceptable to the Investigator. Oral furosemide therapy will be re-initiated
      at discharge after Treatment 1 (i.e., during the 7-day fluid re-equilibration washout) and
      after Treatment 2 (i.e., between discharge and Follow-up Phone Call). The Follow-up Phone
      Call Phase will occur 7 days (± 1) after discharge from the CRU following Treatment 2,
      completing subjects' study participation.
    
  