
    
      All patients will be seen in the outpatient setting. After skin testing, subjects meeting
      established criteria will be placed in the study. Subjects will use dust mite
      Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus extract or placebo nasal spray at home for 2 weeks, with a 1
      month washout period followed by 2 weeks of the other nasal spray. Both patients and
      investigators will be blinded as to which spray is being used. Subjects will monitor symptoms
      using a symptom score card and return to the research unit after the first and second week of
      challenge for review of symptoms and clinical assessment. If symptoms increase sufficiently
      to make the subject uncomfortable, they will return earlier. Testing will consist of peak
      nasal inspiratory flow rate and nasal lavage for PGD2 and ECP. Subjects will have these tests
      performed at the beginning of the study, and at the end of weeks 1 and 2.

      One group of subjects will have a clinical history of perennial rhinitis symptoms associated
      with dust exposure or not associated with other perennial allergens. These subjects will be
      ppt negative and intradermal skin test positive to Dp. The other group of subjects will be
      the control group. They will be healthy with no history of rhinitis or rhinitis symptoms.
      They will be skin test negative. This group will also perform the same nasal challenge with
      placebo or Dp extract three times daily each for 2 weeks. This group will also perform the
      same tests as the rhinitis group.

      In this study the research design is a prospective randomized double blind placebo controlled
      study. One addition is that both the experimental and control groups will use both types of
      nasal sprays, the Dp extract and the placebo during the nasal challenge. Each group will use
      one type of spray and then crossover to the other spray.

      Study Population Inclusion Criteria Gender: Male or female Females are eligible to
      participate only if they are currently non-pregnant and non-lactating. Female subjects should
      not be enrolled if they plan to become pregnant during the time of the study.

      Age: 18-65 years of age at enrollment Literacy: The subject must be able to read, comprehend,
      and record information in English.

      Consent: The subject must have the ability to give informed consent. Type of subject: The
      subject must be seen in the outpatient setting. Skin test: The subject must be ppt negative
      and intradermal positive to Dp dust mite allergen defined by an orthogonal wheal 6 mm or
      greater than the saline negative control.

      Rhinitis: The subject must have a history consistent with allergic rhinitis symptoms for at
      least 1 year.

      Exclusion Criteria Ppt positive to major seasonal allergens; oak, cypress, cedar, Australian
      pine, or bayberry tree pollens.

      Respiratory Instability: Hospitalization for respiratory disease within the last 6 months
      prior to entry into the study.

      Respiratory Disease: Current diagnosis of asthma, cystic fibrosis, pneumonia, pneumothorax,
      atelectasis, pulmonary fibrotic disease, chronic bronchitis, or any other lower respiratory
      abnormalities.Respiratory Tract Infections: Confirmed or suspected infection of the nose,
      sinus, middle ear, oropharynx, upper respiratory tract, or lower respiratory tract within 28
      days prior to testing.

      Other Concurrent Conditions/Diseases: Any clinically significant, uncontrolled condition or
      disease state that, in the opinion of the investigator, would put the safety of the subject
      at risk through study participation or would confound the interpretation of the results if
      the condition/disease exacerbates during the study. The list of conditions/diseases that will
      result in exclusion if determined to be clinically significant includes, but is not limited
      to: cardiac arrhythmia; congestive heart failure; coronary artery disease; Addison's disease;
      diabetes mellitus; dyspnea; uncontrolled hypertension; hematological, hepatic, neurological,
      thyroid, peptic ulcer, or renal disease; immunologic compromise; current malignancy; or
      tuberculosis.

      Physical Exam: Subjects who have nasal polyps, sinusitis, significant anatomic abnormality or
      infection of the upper airway will be excluded.

      Recruitment Plan Screening will occur at participating clinical centers. Screening will
      include subjects listed in existing registries, referred by their healthcare professionals,
      and those who respond to IRB approved advertisements. Nasal symptom scores and demographic
      information will be verified, and the subject's interest in participating in the study will
      be discussed. Screening may take place in person or over the telephone.

      Summary of visits for subjects Visit 1 Subjects will be given a symptom score card and
      calculate their baseline symptom score at home every night before bed for 7 days. (Table 2)
      Skin testing with DP dust mite allergen will be performed. Subjects who are ppt negative and
      intradermal positive will proceed. Subjects will complete a physical exam. (Table 1)

      Visit 2 subjects with an average baseline symptom score less than 7 out of 15 total points
      will proceed.

      Subjects will complete a physical exam. (Table 1) Baseline PNIF and nasal secretion
      collection will be performed in this order. Subjects will be assigned a nasal spray (placebo
      or dust) to be used at home three times daily in the morning, afternoon, and evening for 2
      weeks and instructions will be given on its use.

      Subjects will self-administer the nasal spray placebo or starting dose of Dp 500 AU/mL in
      each nostril under observation. If the challenge is positive by an increase in symptom score
      by greater than or equal to 3 from baseline; then PNIF and nasal secretion collection will be
      repeated after 15 minutes.

      Subjects will be assigned a score card to record nasal symptoms before bed on each study day
      based on the previous 24 hours.

      Visit 3 After 2 weeks of nasal spray usage subjects will return to the clinical research unit
      for testing consisting of PNIF and nasal secretion collection.

      Subjects will return for testing any weekday during the 2 weeks if symptoms increase
      sufficiently to make them uncomfortable.

      Nasal spray bottles will be weighed and symptom score card reviewed to monitor compliance.

      Subjects will complete a physical exam. (Table 1) Visit 4 After 4 more weeks (the washout
      period); subjects will calculate their baseline symptom score at home every night before bed
      for 7 days.

      On the 5th week subjects will return to the clinical research unit for a physical exam,
      baseline PNIF and nasal secretion collection.

      Subjects will then be assigned (crossover) to the other nasal spray (placebo or Dp) to be
      used three times daily for 2 weeks with instructions given on its proper use.

      Subjects will self-administer the nasal spray placebo or starting dose of D500 AU/mL in each
      nostril under observation. If the challenge is positive by an increase in symptom score by
      greater than or equal to 3 from baseline; then PNIF and nasal secretion collection will be
      repeated after 15 minutes.

      Subjects will be assigned a score card to record nasal symptoms for the last 24 hours before
      bed on each study day Subjects will complete a physical exam. (Table 1) Visit 5 After 2 weeks
      of assigned nasal spray usage subjects will return to the clinical research unit for PNIF and
      nasal secretion collection.

      Subjects will return for testing any weekday during the 2 weeks if symptoms increase
      sufficiently to make them uncomfortable.

      Nasal spray bottles will be weighed and symptom score card reviewed to monitor compliance.

      Subjects will complete a physical exam. (Table 1) Methods Skin Testing Medications known to
      affect skin test response will be withheld prior to testing. Ppt and intradermal testing will
      be done with Dp dust mite allergen, saline, and histamine controls. Criterion for a positive
      ppt result is a wheal diameter 3 mm or greater than the saline negative control. Criterion
      for a positive intradermal skin test result is a wheal 6 mm or greater than the saline
      negative control. Allergen and control skin tests are read at 15 minutes. Ppt will use
      standardized Dp (10,000 AU/mL; Greer Laboratories, Lenore, NC), glycerinated phenol saline
      (negative) and histamine (positive) controls (histamine base= 1.8 mg/mL) on the upper back.
      The minimum positive control will be a 3mm wheal diameter.

      Intradermal testing on the upper arm will use standardized Dp (1,000 AU/mL; Greer
      Laboratories, Lenore, NC), glycerinated phenol saline (negative) and histamine (positive)
      controls (histamine base= 0.1 mg/mL; Greer Laboratories, Lenore, NC)

      Testing technique Ppt: The GreerPick™ will be loaded with extract and inspected to ensure
      that a small droplet of extract is present at the tip of the device. While holding it at a 45
      degree angle to the skin at the test site, the tip will be brought in contact with the skin.
      The tines will be pressed making contact with the superficial skin, withdrawing with a slight
      lifting of the skin. A properly applied prick test will result in a small pricking of the
      epidermis, but will not result in bleeding. The device will be discarded into a suitable
      biohazard container.

      Intradermal testing: The volume of solution injected is 0.05mL. The disposable 0.5mL syringe
      with 27 gauge needle tip will be inserted at a 30 degree angle into the superficial skin
      layers. The solution will be injected maintaining steady pressure on the plunger until the
      volume is completely injected and the needle withdrawn. A distinct injection bleb should be
      observed. If leakage around the needle, an indistinct bleb or a subcutaneous injection
      occurs, then the test should be repeated at a different site. A tiny drop of extract at the
      injection site is common and will not affect test results.

      Peak nasal inspiratory flow rate (PNIF) PNIF will be measured using the method described in
      the package insert for In-Check Nasal Inspiratory Flow Meter (Clement Clarke, Harlow, England
      Issue 2, 05/2000). The subject will exhale fully, hold the device horizontally, ensure the
      face mask forms an air tight seal around the nose, and inhale forcibly through the nose. This
      maneuver should be a short, sharp inspiratory action of about one-second duration. The test
      will be repeated 3 times and the highest result recorded. The clinical research unit staff
      will observe for possible obstruction called the nasal valve. This can occur during
      inspiration when the nostril(s) close and obstruct further inspiration. The test will be
      repeated if this occurs.
    
  