
    
      Femur fracture is a common orthopedic problem following trauma in patients of all ages. It is
      a painful bone injury and is associated with severe pain and distress during preoperative
      period. Surgical repair is most commonly done in subarachnoid block. However, moving the
      patient for optimal positioning for spinal needle placement in subarachnoid space leads to
      severe pain. Adequate analgesia not only improves patient's comfort but has also been shown
      to improve positioning for subarachnoid block. Several analgesic modalities have been used to
      decrease movement evoked pain in these patients including the use of intravenous analgesics
      and blocks. However, there are only few studies comparing intravenous analgesics that
      alleviated the pain that occurs when changing position for subarachnoid block.

      Patient enrollment will be done by the primary investigator one day prior to the surgery. All
      eligible patients with American Society of Anesthesiologist Physical Status I, II fulfilling
      the inclusion criteria will be informed about the study and written consent will be obtained
      in pre operative visit, one day prior to the surgery, in the orthopedic in-patient ward.

      All patients will be kept nil per oral for 6 hours for solid, heavy meal, 4 hours for light
      meal and 2 hours for clear liquid. All the patients will be pre-medicated with Tab Lorazepam
      1mg (<50kg) and 2mg (>50kg) orally the night before and in the morning of the surgery.

      On the day of surgery, randomization will be done in pre operative holding area and the
      patient will be transferred to the operation theatre in trolley maintaining the skeletal
      traction. All standard monitoring devices like electrocardiogram, non-invasive blood pressure
      monitoring and pulse oximeter will be attached. Standard anesthesia monitoring including
      3-lead electrocardiography, oxygen saturation(Spo2), blood pressure(BP) and heart rate(HR)
      will be done.Baseline Numeric Rating Scale(NRS) for pain at rest and movement will be
      assessed (movement is defined at 5 cm active vertical movement of the limb).

      An intravenous line will be secured with 18 gauge intavenous cannula in the dorsum of hand.
      Pre-hydration will be started with Ringer's Lactate solution at 5ml/kg/hour.

      Dose of the drug required according to the body weight will be calculated and prepared by the
      anesthetist not involved in the study. It will be labelled as study drug and will be
      delivered by the investigator.

      Group A will receive Inj Ketamine 0.30mg/kg bolus dose. Group B will receive Inj Fentanyl
      1.5mcg/kg bolus dose. The drug will be prepared in an identical sterile syringe as a clear
      fluid and will be labelled as "study drug".

      Patient will receive the study drug according to randomization.Then, 10 minutes after
      delivery of the study drug, the patients will be kept in sitting position with the help of
      operation theatre assistant while maintaining the skeletal traction. Numeric Rating Scale
      will be enquired and noted. If the patient will report Numeric Rating Scale of 5 or more
      during placement in the sitting position, procedure will be stopped and fentanyl 20 microgram
      will given intravenously in the form of rescue analgesia before attempting to reposition
      again. Once the patient will be in sitting position subarachnoid will be performed in L 3-4
      inter space using 2.4ml of 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine maintaining strict asepsis. The
      patient will be laid down back to supine position. The level of sensory block and motor block
      will assessed. After ascertaining adequate block, patient will be shifted to fracture table
      for operation. The number attempts required for successful subarachnoid block will be noted.
      The quality of patient positioning will subjectively be rated as good, satisfactory and
      optimal depending upon the ease of positioning for subarachnoid block by the anesthetist.
      Sedation scoring will be noted for 30 minutes after delivery of the study drug. All the vital
      parameters will be monitored continuously and recorded every 3 minutes for first 15 minutes
      then every 10 minutes throughout the surgery and once in Post Anesthesia Care Unit. Patient
      will be assessed for the presence any adverse effect of the study drug throughout the
      surgery. The level of satisfaction regarding the analgesia during positioning will be
      questioned to the patient using Likert Scale in PACU. The time required for the patients to
      be discharged from PACU will be noted.

      Data management Data handling- Data will be entered in Microsoft Excel 2016 and converted
      into Statistical package for social sciences (SPSS 11.5) for statistical analysis
      Coding-Alpha numerical code will be used Monitoring-Data will be entered after every day of
      work. Data will be reported to guide and co-guides every week.

      Statistical Methods Collected data will be entered in Microsoft Excel 2010 and be converted
      into SPSS software 11.5 version for statistical analysis.

      For descriptive statistics percentage, mean, Standard deviation, median, interquartile range
      will be calculated along with graphical and tabular presentation. For inferential statistics
      Chi square test, independent t test, Mann Whitney U test will be applied to find out the
      significant difference between Fentanyl and Ketamine with selected clinical and demographic
      parameter at 95% confidence interval where level of significance is considered p <0.05.
    
  