
    
      This is an interventional, stratified, randomized, open blind study. It will conducted on
      outpatients selected on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Patients will be randomised according to a computer generated list of randomization to
      receive or not LMWH at prophylactic daily dosage (100 IU/kg).

      For a correct selection and analysis some parameters have to be checked before randomization
      (see randomization check list at the end). The women in LMWH arm will treated starting the
      day before the beginning of stimulation phase of the cycle of ART until the result of the
      procedure is confirmed in terms of pregnancy yes or no, and if the pregnancy will be
      confirmed until the delivery or the end of pregnancy. Women in the control arm are
      administered routine hormonal support without LMWH.

      Data will be collected on smoking habits, BMI, the number of retrieved oocytes, transferred
      embryos and implantation rate, ART outcome and parameters used for randomization on the basis
      of inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      During the study blood will be collected for analysis at the randomization, the moment in
      wich patient will be assigned to one of the two arms, at the transfer and at the day of check
      for betaHCG and in in case of pregnancy all women will be checked at 12, 24, 36 week for
      testing of functional parameters of coagulation (protein C, protein S, AT, ddimer,
      fibrinogen, PT, aPTT, FVII, FVIII, FIX, and vonWillebrand factor antigen), blood cells count
      and of lipids (cholesterol and triglycerides).

      The samples, identified with a sequential identification number, will be collected, processed
      and storage at -20/-80°C in the promoter center and will be destroyed after the analyses.

      Study treatment Women in LMWH arm are administered with prophylactic weight adjusted dose of
      LMWH, starting the day before the beginning of stimulation phase of the cycle until the
      result of the procedure is confirmed in terms of pregnancy yes or no and in case of pregnancy
      until the delivery or the end of pregnancy. Women in the LMWH arm will be tested for blood
      cell count twice in the first 10 days of therapy.

      Initial dose and schedule Parnaparin will be administered at the dose of 100 IU/kg/day from
      the day before the beginning of stimulation phase of the cycle until the result of the
      procedure is confirmed in terms of pregnancy yes or no and in case of pregnancy until
      delivery or the end of the pregnancy.

      None of patients can receive concomitant acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) or steroids therapy
      Treatment duration

      Women in LMWH arm are administered with prophylactic weight adjusted dose of parnaparin,
      starting the day before the beginning of stimulation phase of the cycle until the result of
      the procedure is confirmed in terms of pregnancy yes or no and in case of pregnancy until the
      delivery or the end of the pregnancy.

      Whatever the disease status, the treatment will always be discontinued in case of patient
      refusal excessive toxicity precluding further therapy, according to the responsible
      physicianother complications, according to the responsible physician
    
  