
    
      Pre-clinical and retrospective clinical data indicates hENT1 may be a predictive and
      prognostic biomarker for gemcitabine (Gem) efficacy. To ultimately prove its use as a
      biomarker, a prospective randomized study with hENT1 stratification is required. This study
      would provide the highest level of confidence, and would, if positive, vault Gem into the
      select few anticancer agents for which a truly sensitive population can be rationally
      treated. By this "molecular triage", the risk/benefit ratio of Gem therapy for pancreas
      cancer (PC) could be meaningfully improved while also providing rationale for the use of a
      different treatment regimen should tumours have low hENT1. The comparator arm of FOLFOX was
      chosen because of the recent data showing impressive patient outcomes with the use of
      oxaliplatin-based treatments.

      This is a randomized, open-label, multicentre, phase III trial in which eligible patients
      with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma will be randomized between Gem and FOLFOX with
      predefined upfront testing for hENT1. To be eligible, patients will have to have adequate
      tissue available for hENT1 testing which the Cross Cancer Institute (CCI) will ensure prior
      to treatment randomization. Patients will have their tumour sample tested for the expression
      of hENT1. A blinded pathologist with expertise knowledge and experience with hENT1 staining
      at the lead centre (CCI) will be responsible for pathologic hENT1 classification via IHC.
      hENT1 IHC will be determined and scored as previously outlined.(1) Once hENT1 status has been
      confirmed, patients will then be randomized 1:1 between Gem and FOLFOX. Patients will be
      treated on study until disease progression, overwhelming toxicity, or patient withdrawal of
      consent. Dose adjustments for one or more of the study drugs will be based on toxicities
      encountered by individual patients. Specific dose-adjustment and treatment guidelines for
      hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities including neutropenia, diarrhea, renal toxicity,
      and neurotoxicity will be outlined in the protocol. Prior to enrolment, screening procedures
      will document compliance with inclusion and exclusion criteria. The primary endpoint will be
      determination of the difference in PFS in the two study arms, defined from the study start
      date until either an increase in the sum of the products of the diameters of measurable
      lesions by ≥ 20% bases on revised RECIST guidelines version 1.1 (2), the appearance of any
      new lesion, or a deterioration in clinical status that is consistent with disease
      progression. Secondary endpoints will be determination of the differences in overall response
      rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and overall survival (OS). Administered dose
      intensity of Gem and FOLFOX will be reported. Health-related quality of life (HRQL) will be
      assessed for the duration of active treatment on study.

      Patient Population: The target population is patients with measurable metastatic
      adenocarcinoma of the pancreas who have not been previously treated with systemic therapy for
      their metastatic disease and who have tumour samples amenable to hENT1 testing. Fine needle
      aspiration biopsies will not be permitted. Patients who have received prior chemotherapy
      delivered as part of initial curative therapy (i.e. neoadjuvant, adjuvant, and/or
      concurrently delivered with radiation and/or surgery) are permitted as long as that treatment
      was completed at least 6 months prior to study start date. Patients may have received prior
      radiotherapy or surgery ≥ 4 weeks before study entry and must have recovered from the toxic
      effects from any prior therapy. Patients with locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the pancreas
      will be excluded. Full inclusion and exclusion criteria are detailed in the protocol.

      Study Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To determine the difference PFS between Gem and FOLFOX treated patients in
      hENT1 high and hENT1 low pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

      Secondary Objectives: 1) To determine the difference in ORR between the two treatment arms;
      2) To determine the rate of disease control, defined as the sum of complete response rate,
      partial response rate, and stable disease between the two treatment arms; 3) To determine the
      difference in OS between the two treatment arms; 4) To determine the differences in HRQL of
      patients on the two treatment arms.

      Exploratory Objectives: 1) To investigate the role of hCNT3 and its interaction with
      hENT1-related patient outcomes. 2) To evaluate excision repair cross complementing 1 (ERCC1)
      and microsatellite instability (MSI) in tumour samples, both of which are increasingly being
      linked to efficacy in oxaliplatin-based therapy but for which information in PC is lacking.

      Duration of Treatment: Treatment will continue until objective or symptomatic disease
      progression, overwhelming toxicity, or patient withdrawal of consent. A patient may continue
      to receive all or any combination of study drugs for as long as the investigator feels is
      appropriate, but will be discontinued from study in case of:

      1) Clinical and/or radiological documented disease progression (as determined by revised
      RECIST 1.1 criteria).(2) All drugs will be discontinued and the patient removed from study;
      2) Occurrence of unacceptable toxicity (this may be due to one or more drugs resulting in one
      or more study drug discontinuation); if all three drugs are discontinued the patient will be
      removed from study; 3) Failure to recover from hematologic and/or non-hematologic toxicity to
      re-treatment level despite dosing interruption of up to 28 days (this may be due to one or
      more study drugs resulting in one or more study drug discontinuation); if all drugs in
      regimen are discontinued the patient will be removed from study; 4) Patient's request
      (withdrawal of consent) or Investigator's recommendation (this may be one or more study
      drugs); if all three study drugs are discontinued patient will be removed from study; 5)
      Patient death (complete Serious Adverse Event Report for deaths occurring within 30 days
      after last study drug dose OR for deaths occurring after 30 days, only if considered related
      to study drug).

      Efficacy Endpoints: Response assessments will be performed every 8 weeks, regardless of
      treatment cycle. History, physical exam, laboratory work, imaging, ECOG performance status
      (PS), will be required at each response assessment. PS will be measured using the ECOG
      performance status scale. Tumor marker (CA19-9) may be followed at the discretion of the
      investigator but should not be used in determination of disease response and are not a
      requirement of the study. Tumor response will be evaluated according to the revised RECIST
      criteria 1.1.(2) Symptomatic progression will be defined as new or worsening disease symptoms
      deemed by the treating oncologist to incompatible with continuation of study medication or
      the requirement for palliative radiation therapy or a fall in ECOG performance status to ≥ 3
      deemed to be due to disease and not study treatment. Should symptomatic progression occur,
      imaging to confirm progression is advised but if not possible due to performance status, the
      study stop date will be recorded as the date of progression.

      Safety: The NCI CTCAE (version 4.0) will be used to evaluate the clinical safety of the
      treatment in this study. Subjects will be assessed for adverse events at each clinical visit
      and as necessary throughout the study. Safety will be assessed via vital signs, physical
      exams, laboratory tests (including hematologic, serum chemistry, and liver function testing),
      and adverse event determination. Pregnant and nursing females will be excluded from
      participation in the trial.
    
  