
    
      This is a prospective, multi-centre study. One (1) Reference Lab and approximately six (6)
      Healthcare or Research Facilities within geographic areas experiencing current Covid-19
      outbreaks in the U.S. will participate in the study. Study sites may be Point of Care (POC)
      locations, such as physician office laboratories, urgent care and outpatient clinics, or
      dedicated research sites.

      A subject's participation in this study will consist of a single visit. Following completion
      of the informed consent process and a review of Inclusion/Exclusion criteria to determine
      eligibility, each subject will receive a unique study identification number.

      Subjects will undergo two (2) fingerstick lancing's and 1 (one) venous blood draw. A total of
      eleven (11) tests (LumiraDx SARS-CoV-2 Ab and haematocrit) will then be performed using these
      samples. Specimens will be obtained from each subject enrolled using standard collection
      methods.

      All operators at a site level performing the LumiraDx SARS-CoV-2 Ab POC Test in this study
      will be required to complete training detailing the running of the LumiraDx Test/Instrument.
      This will be completed as part of a familiarization period and all operators will be required
      to show proficiency in using the system for QC, fingerstick, whole blood, plasma and serum
      testing prior to testing subjects. This will be captured on relevant training forms as part
      of the site initiation visit. In addition, the operator's satisfaction and ease of use of the
      LumiraDx SARS-CoV-2 Ab Test will be evaluated by completing an Intended Use Operator
      Questionnaire.

      The LumiraDx SARS-CoV-2 Ab POC Testing will be performed at the site on the same day as the
      date of collection. Samples will be shipped to a central laboratory for reference testing.
      Testing in the reference laboratory will be performed by trained laboratory personnel.

      Approximately 200 subjects will be enrolled in this study. Approximately thirty (30)
      SARS-CoV-2 positive, and thirty (30) samples negative for SARS-CoV-2 will be enrolled at each
      site.
    
  