
    
      1.1 Primary research question To determine the feasibility of a randomized controlled trial
      comparing an Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocol to conventional perioperative
      care for adult women with breast cancer undergoing post-mastectomy autologous breast
      reconstruction.

      1.2 Background and rationale Over 26,000 Canadian women are diagnosed with breast cancer
      every year. While the 5-year survival of breast cancer has improved to 87% in Canada, 1 in 3
      breast cancer patients that receive mastectomy experience a negative impact in quality of
      life. Breast reconstruction can improve the physical, psychosocial and sexual well-being of
      patients after mastectomy. With an upward of 40% of breast cancer patients who undergo
      post-mastectomy breast reconstruction, there is a significant opportunity to improve the
      quality of surgical care for breast reconstruction patients.

      Breast reconstruction can be classified into alloplastic (implant-based) and autologous
      (tissue-based) reconstruction. While alloplastic reconstruction is the most common form of
      breast reconstruction in North America, autologous reconstruction using the patient's own
      tissue confers superior long-term satisfaction and quality of life. The gold standard of
      autologous reconstruction is the deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap which uses
      the patients' abdominal tissue to reconstruct the breast using microvascular techniques,
      while preserving the abdominal musculature. The DIEP reconstruction is surgically more
      complex than the alloplastic approach, involving surgery at the breasts, abdominal donor
      site, and reattachment of the abdominal tissue to blood vessels in the chest using
      microsurgery. Consequently, patients undergoing DIEP reconstruction have an increased length
      of hospital stay and increased use of opioid analgesics. According to the Canadian Institute
      for Health Information, the average hospital cost for a patient undergoing breast
      reconstruction is $3,715 per day. Reducing postsurgical opioid use and containing healthcare
      costs is important to the Canadian public and resource-constrained healthcare system.

      Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) is a multidisciplinary, multimodal, and evidence-based
      approach to perioperative care that safely reduces hospital length of stay and opioid use
      following some surgical procedures.16-18 ERAS is the standard of care in colorectal surgery
      and its advantages are supported by a meta-analysis of 16 randomized controlled trials (RCT).
      Although ERAS guidelines have been developed for other surgical procedures, the evidence
      supporting the efficacy of ERAS for non-colorectal surgery is limited. An ERAS guideline for
      perioperative care of alloplastic and autologous breast reconstruction patients has been
      established. Main recommendations include minimizing preoperative fasting, postoperative
      nausea and vomiting prophylaxis, multimodal opioid-sparing analgesia, early feeding and early
      mobilization. Despite this, the evidence that these recommendations improve care in breast
      reconstruction is limited. A recent meta-analysis of ERAS in breast reconstruction found that
      ERAS reduces hospital length of stay by a mean 1.58 days and opioid consumption by 248mg of
      oral morphine equivalent without an increase in complications. However and to emphasize, none
      of these studies were RCTs and thus all were subject to the numerous biases associated with
      observational studies. Currently there is no level-1 evidence to support ERAS in autologous
      breast reconstruction despite the previously mentioned consensus guideline. A properly
      designed and executed RCT of ERAS in breast reconstruction would contribute evidence on ERAS
      in the perioperative care of breast reconstruction patients.

      1.3 Objective of the study To conduct a pilot RCT comparing ERAS to conventional
      perioperative care for patients undergoing autologous DIEP breast reconstruction. As a pilot
      trial, the primary objective of the study is to assess feasibility outcomes: 1) patient
      eligibility, 2) recruitment, 3) retention and 4) adherence to the ERAS protocol. The design
      and conduct of the proposed pilot study will mirror the methodology of the definitive trial
      including randomization, interventions, and clinical outcomes.
    
  