
    
      The central hypothesis is that CDS will help standardize ventilator management consistent
      with evidence-based recommendations leading to shorter LMV by limiting VILI (Ventilator
      Induced Lung Injury), preventing VIDD (Ventilator Induced Diaphragm Dysfunction) and allowing
      earlier recognition that patients are ready for liberation from the ventilator. However, key
      questions must be addressed prior to wide dissemination of this CDS tool:

      Specific Aim 1: To assess the feasibility of implementing a web-based, de-identified CDS tool
      for MV in pediatric ARDS in multiple PICUs. Hypothesis: this CDS tool will be implementable
      in all PICUs to function consistent with each hospital's specific Information Technology (IT)
      capabilities.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess the acceptability and compliance with recommendations from the CDS
      tool related to oxygenation, ventilation, weaning and extubation readiness testing in PARDS
      patients at each of the participating PICUs (anticipated 20 patients enrolled per site).
      Hypothesis: over time, adherence with recommendations in each of these domains will exceed
      80% in all PICUs.

      Specific Aim 3: To implement methods for automated data capture within CDS to provide the
      right information, to the right person, using the right format, in the right channel and at
      the right time during workflow ("CDS Five Rights") framework, which can be adapted to the
      individual IT capabilities at each hospital. Hypothesis: Over 90% of necessary data can be
      pulled into the CDS in an automated fashion in sites which have access to electronic data
      capture of ventilator settings and blood gases.

      Patients will be managed on the eVentilator protocol (the CDS tool), through the acute,
      stable and weaning phases of mechanical ventilation, including Spontaneous Breathing tests
      (SBTs) and Extubation Readiness tests.

      Data will be qualitatively assessed for implementation barriers. Acceptance and rejection and
      mode stratification will be examined. Data needed for the CDS protocol will be available
      electronically or can be interfaced through the bedside monitor.

      Patients will be on the CDS protocol, as intent to treat, while patient is on invasive
      mechanical ventilation, capped at 28 days, limitation of care, or death, whichever comes
      first.
    
  