
    
      Background:

      Obesity is a risk factor for ventral hernia complications with or without repair, but the
      management strategy that best balances overall risks and benefits for obese patients with
      ventral hernias is unknown. The primary aim of this project is to compare the effect of
      prehabilitation (preoperative physical conditioning and weight loss intervention) versus
      standard preoperative counseling followed by repair for obese patients (BMI 30-40 kg/m2) with
      ventral hernias on outcomes.

      Methods:

      A comprehensive cohort study of obese patients who have ventral hernias will be performed.
      Within the comprehensive cohort study, patients who are candidates for elective ventral
      hernia repair will be randomized to a prehabilitation intervention or standard counseling
      with surgical repair once weight loss goals have been met. All patients will have repair
      after 6 months even if they have not met their weight loss goals. Patients who are not
      eligible for the trial or who refuse to participate will be followed in a non-randomized
      cohort; they will have their hernia repaired based upon current institution standards.
      (figure 1) The primary outcome of the study will be proportion of patients who are hernia-
      and complication- free 2 years after surgical consultation. This composite outcome was chosen
      in order to encompass all clinically important risks and benefits of both operative and
      non-operative strategies. Based on power calculations(alpha=0.05, beta=0.20), 232 eligible
      patients are needed assuming a 30% non-enrollment and 50% dropout. Since this is an efficacy
      trial, analysis will be performed per protocol as well as intention to treat. The primary
      outcome will be compared using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. Generalized linear mixed
      models (GLMMs) will be used to identify independent predictors of a successful outcome
      defined as hernia- and complication free at 2 years. In addition to a frequentist analysis, a
      Bayesian analysis will be performed. Posterior point estimates, credible intervals, and
      probability of increase in proportion of patients without hernias or complications will be
      calculated.

      Conclusion:

      Prehabilitation may have no impact on outcomes following ventral hernia repair, cause more
      complications with acute hernia presentation, or prove superior and decrease recurrences and
      complications compared to standard of care. This randomized controlled trial will provide
      baseline information on the efficacy of prehabiliation prior to open ventral hernia repair in
      obese patients.
    
  