
    
      Purposes:

        1. To determine the prevalence of myocardial injury/impairment in patients hospitalised
           with COVID-19 disease.

        2. To determine the predictive value of baseline biomarkers in identifying patients at high
           risk of significant morbidity/mortality due to COVID-19.

      Justification:

      The Novel Coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2(SARS-CoV-2), first
      recorded in Hubei Province of Wuhan China in December 2019 has now swept the globe and has
      been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation.

      The largest published registry from the Chinese centre for disease control and prevention
      (CDC) describes a disease with a broad range of acuity but found from a cohort of 72314
      confirmed or suspected cases (72314) 14% of those affected required hospitalisation and 5%
      required critical care. Thus far treatment has focused on quarantine and supportive care.

      Predicting outcomes in COVID disease requires risk stratifying infected patients. Data so far
      have mainly come from small studies in China but the consistent risk factors appear to be
      advanced age, diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease. The CDC report a 10.5% risk
      of death associated with underlying cardiovascular disease, surprisingly more than those with
      respiratory disease, especially given that lung involvement is the dominant clinical
      presentation. The reason for poor outcome in cardiovascular disease is unknown but is likely
      to be multifactorial. A literature search of nine observational studies reported myocardial
      injury based on high sensitivity troponin, abnormal ECG, abnormal echocardiogram or a
      combination of the three. The reported rate of myocardial injury ranged from 7-28% and in all
      groups was associated with higher rates of requirement for critical care. Mortality was
      increased compared to those without myocardial injury- 51.2% vs 4.5%.

      Trial overview:

      Patients admitted to University Hospital Hairmyres (UHH) with confirmed COVID-19 will have 3
      biomarkers - high sensitivity troponin T (hsTnT), N-terminal (NT)-proBNP and ferritin - added
      on retrospectively to their admission blood samples, and an additional sample will be taken
      for cytokine analysis.

      An ECG and echocardiogram will be performed.

      Patients will be observed during the remainder of the hospitalisation and for up to 30 days
      from admission for major adverse cardiac events.

      Statistical analysis:

      The prevalence of echocardiographic abnormalities in the cohort will be presented.

      Biomarker levels will be compared between patients who require intensive treatment unit (ITU)
      admission or not, ventilation or not or who die or survive up to 30 days using independent
      samples t-tests if the data are normally distributed or Mann-Whitney-U tests if non normally
      distributed.
    
  