
    
      Although dietary modification coupled with increased exercise is the preferred treatment of
      obesity, these lifestyle changes alone are often insufficient in achieving and maintaining
      weight reduction in obese patients. Topiramate is not approved for the treatment of obesity.
      This double-blind, placebo controlled study will evaluate the effectiveness and safety of
      topiramate in maintaining weight loss achieved by an intensive non-drug weight reduction
      program. Enrolled patients will undergo run-in phase (8 weeks of intensive non-drug weight
      reduction therapy consisting of a low calorie diet, a behavioral modification program, and an
      exercise program). Those patients who achieve weight loss of >= 8% of enrollment body weight
      and meeting the eligibility criteria will be randomized to either 96mg or 192mg of
      topiramate, or placebo. After 8 weeks of dose titration, the patients will receive one year
      of treatment. Effectiveness will be assessed by body weight, Body Mass Index (BMI), number
      and proportion of 5%, 10% and 15% weight loss responders, number and proportion of patients
      who maintain 50%, 75%, and 100% of weight lost during run-in phase, waist and hip
      circumferences, fasting lipid profile, fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c, fasting insulin,
      two-hour glucose tolerance test, uric acid level, blood pressure, body composition,
      echocardiography, and Health Related Quality of Life scores. Safety evaluations (incidence of
      adverse events, electrocardiograms, vital signs, etc) will be performed throughout the study.
      The study hypothesis is that topiramate is more effective than placebo in maintaining weight
      reduction in obese patients following intensive non-drug weight reduction program. During the
      initial 8 weeks, the doses of topiramate or placebo will be gradually increased to the target
      doses (either 96mg or 192mg) daily by mouth and the doses will be maintained for one year.
    
  