
    
      The focus of this study is to assess how the quality of care for patients undergoing
      Femtosecond laser-assisted cataract surgery (FLACS) can be improved through the application
      of Brimonidine Tartrate 0.15% prior to the surgery. The surgery consists of the application
      of a vacuum which can result in subconjunctival hemorrhage, a benign disorder. The importance
      of this study is due to the considerable alarm and anxiety caused to the patients by the
      hemorrhage which may cause them to seek our further unnecessary medical help and reduce their
      ability to return to work or productivity.

      During the laser component of FLACS, the operated eye is secured with a suction cup or ring
      with vacuum that causes significant subconjunctival hemorrhage. Brimonidine is a selective
      alpha-2-adrenergic agonist that is a commonly used as a topical medication to treat glaucoma.
      Besides its intraocular pressure lowering effect, it also has a vasoconstrictive effect. This
      latter effect has been exploited to reduce bleeding in LASIK, cataract surgery, strabismus
      surgery, as well as intravitreal injections. This study will examine the effectiveness of
      Brimonidine to reduce subconjunctival hemorrhage during Femtosecond laser-assisted cataract
      surgery.

      Potential side effects of topical application of Brimonidine eye drop may include blurred or
      loss of vision, burning, dry, or itching eyes, discharge or excessive tearing, disturbed
      color perception, double vision, halos around lights, headache, itching of the eye, night
      blindness, overbright appearance of lights, redness of the eye or inner lining of the eyelid,
      swelling of the eyelid, tearing of the eye, tunnel vision. The risk of this study to the
      subject is negligible.

      To evaluate the degree of subconjunctival hemorrhage occurring in subjects undergoing
      Femtosecond laser-assisted cataract surgery, following preoperative application of
      Brimonidine 0.15%. Subconjunctival hemorrhage and its associated bulbar redness will be
      measured using Bulbar Redness Score using the Oculus M5 following the surgery.
    
  