
    
      Background and Rationale Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is a major international health burden.
      Despite the unacceptably high burden of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and associated
      mortality, trial-data on the management of CVD in people with advanced stages of CKD and
      dialysis-dependant End Stage Kidney Disease (ESKD) are sparse. Risk of bleeding in CKD and
      ESKD is increased when compared to the general population. Anticoagulant agents, such as
      rivaroxaban, are a core intervention in the prevention of CVD in the general population,
      although 90% of the trials evaluating these, exclude patients with CKD and ESKD, to mitigate
      trial risks.

      The TRACK trial will evaluate the effect of low dose rivaroxaban in patients with CKD and
      ESKD. Other trials have demonstrated that rivaroxaban reduces the risk of major
      cardio-vascular outcomes in high risk patients, and the limited data showed that CKD status
      did not significantly affect this result.

      Hypothesis Compared to placebo, low dose rivaroxaban reduces the risk of major adverse
      cardiac event (MACE) in people with CKD stages 4 or 5 or dialysis-dependent ESKD, and
      elevated cardiovascular (CV) risk, with an acceptable bleeding risk.

      Objectives The primary objective is to determine whether low dose rivaroxaban, compared to
      placebo, significantly reduces the risk of a composite outcome of;

        -  CV death,

        -  non-fatal myocardial infarction,

        -  stroke, or

        -  peripheral artery disease (PAD) events in people with CKD stages 4 or 5 or
           dialysis-dependent ESKD, and an elevated CV risk.

      A full list of secondary objectives are detailed in the protocol, and include identifying
      risk reduction in the treatment group, and whether this treatment is cost effective.

      Methodology The TRACK trial is an investigator-initiated, multicentre, prospective,
      randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The trial will test for the superiority
      of the trial intervention using a 1:1 allocation to parallel trial groups, on the basis of a
      pre-specified number of primary outcomes events.

      This is a global trial and will be conducted in renal units that provide comprehensive CKD
      care. Approximately 2,000 participants will be recruited.
    
  