
    
      Unexpected cardiac arrest is a devastating event with a high mortality and morbidity. Half of
      the patients who survive to ICU admission ultimately die because of hypoxic-ischemic
      encephalopathy (HIE). As outcome after cardiac arrest is depending on time and amount of
      oxygen delivery to heart and brain, preserving myocardial and cerebral perfusion in the event
      of cardiac arrest by the means of effective cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is of utmost
      importance. During CPR Coronary perfusion pressure is a significant predictor of increased
      rates of return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) and survival to hospital discharge, while
      cerebral perfusion pressure is crucial for good neurologic outcome. The absence of ROSC
      despite prolonged high quality and efficient initial basic life support (BLS) followed by
      traditional ALS ends finally in neuronal damage and death.

      For those patients not qualifying for eCPR or in areas where this highly invasive approach is
      not readily available, existing efforts to reduce mortality and morbidity focus on rapid
      recognition of cardiac arrest, initiation of basic and advanced life support (ALS), and
      optimization of post-arrest care.

      Clamping the descending aorta during cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) should redistribute
      the blood flow towards brain and heart. Animal models of continuous balloon occlusion of the
      aorta in non-traumatic cardiac arrest have shown meaningful increases in coronary artery
      blood flow, coronary artery perfusion pressure and carotid blood flow, leading to improved
      rates of ROSC, 48h-survival and neurological function.

      In humans, occlusion of the aorta using a REBOA catheter in the management of
      non-compressible abdominal or pelvic hemorrhage has shown improvements in hemodynamic
      profiles and has proved to be feasible in both, clinical and preclinical settings for trauma
      patients in hemorrhagic shock. These promising data provide an opportunity to improve outcome
      after cardiac arrest in humans too. For an ongoing study evaluating its feasibility, the
      investigators have developed a protocol for the reliable and safe placement of a
      REBOA-catheter during cardiac arrest in a clinical setting (see ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT03664557).

      Damage to heart and brain from lack of oxygen supply occurs during the first minutes
      following cardiac arrest. It is therefore crucial to apply any measure to improve efficacy of
      CPR early in the course of events and therapy. After proving feasibility in a clinical
      setting in the trial mentioned above, the next logical step and specific goal of this study
      is to transfer this protocol to the preclinical setting, and to investigate the effect of
      temporary endovascular occlusion of the descending aorta on the efficacy of CPR early in the
      course of treatment of out-of hospital cardiac arrest by means of an increase in blood
      pressure.

      The objectives are to investigate the effect of resuscitative endovascular balloon occlusion
      of the descending aorta early in the course of cardiac arrest therapy on blood pressure,
      cerebral oxygenation and endtidalCO2- Data collection allowing for sample calculation for a
      large outcome study
    
  