
    
      Study Objectives Research participants eligible for the study will be those undergoing
      Deformity Correction and Traumatic Provisional Fixation. These research participants have a
      number of pins placed to ensure this required rigid fixation. The number of external fixation
      pins averages approximately ten per research participant.

      It is a 510K FDA cleared medical device indicated for providing a covering over minor wounds
      and scrapes that are clean and dry. The microbicidal liquid solution consists of organic
      polymer dissolved in methylene chloride organic solvent. The unique formulation eradicates
      any organisms (bacteria, fungi, viruses) it comes in contact with. This is a result of the
      methylene chloride's activity against an infinite number of organisms. The methylene chloride
      evaporates leaving a clear, elastomeric, non-odorous film for covering minor wounds. The film
      protects the wound against entry of water, dirt, and germs. The film is elastomeric and
      protects in difficult regions where flexing, bending and creasing skin occurs. The clear film
      forms in less than a minute. Application is commonly accomplished using a cotton tip
      applicator. The liquid is applied on and around the wound extending at least an inch and a
      quarter beyond the edges of the wound. Momentary stinging may occur upon initial application.
      The film commonly remains intact for one to three days or longer depending on exposure to
      rubbing, flexing, or soap and water. This film is resistant to degradation by water alone,
      but can be easily removed with the combination of soap and water or it can be gently peeled
      off starting at the outer edges. It is for external use only. It is not intended for use on
      deep or infected wounds or puncture wounds, or for use near the eyes, mouth, or nose.
      Intentional inhaling of the contents may be harmful or fatal. The bottle should be tightly
      capped after each use to prevent evaporation of the solvent.7

      This Principle Investigator has previously utilized and topically applied the product as an
      additional step in the treatment protocol for pin site care for several reconstructive
      surgery patients (approximately 25) with over 200 pin sites with only 2 pin site infections.
      This represents a significant reduction from the average incidence of pin site infections
      reported in the literature (<1% vs 27% on a per research participant basis). A recently
      published retrospective case series evaluating this microbicidal polymer dressing reported 6
      patients and 66 pins had no infections when Duraderm® was used as part of their pin site care
      regimen.8

      This study was undertaken to formally evaluate whether this microbial liquid po used on pin
      sites leads to a reduction in pin track infections when compared to a control group as well
      as the reported average incidence in the literature.
    
  