
    
      Patients admitted to general internal medicine are admitted because they are sick and need
      monitoring that cannot be provided at home, need expedited testing and/or need treatments
      that are best administered in hospital. Currently, standard monitoring on the hospital ward
      consists of measuring vital signs typically twice a day. The rapid development, uptake of
      affordable wearables such as smartwatches and wearable devices that involve continuous
      measurement of vital measures may provide added information to the care of inpatients. To
      date, there have been limited studies on the use of wearables in hospitalized medical
      patients. The rationale for the study is to determine feasibility of using wearables in GIM
      patients and usefulness of the data that wearables provide.

      The wearable chosen for this study will be the Fitbit Charge 2. The Fitbit will be worn by
      all patients who are recruited to participate in the study. It will be worn like a watch on a
      wrist and uses photoplethysmography (PPG) to detect periodic changes in blood flow beneath
      the sensor; thereby measuring changes in heart rate. Heart rate will be measured nearly
      continuously. Fitbit will also assess activity and will also assess sleep. Fitbit data will
      be transmitted via Bluetooth to a mobile app which then is uploaded to Fitbit servers. The
      Fitbit data will then be accessed via the Web. The data will be downloaded from Fitbit
      servers to a secure UHN server.

      In an effort to reduce the risk of potential iatrogenic infection, the study team will use
      disinfectant wipes to thoroughly clean wearables between uses. Participants will be shown how
      to wear the band by a study investigator or research personnel.

      At the end of the study for each participant, the investigators will ask the questions
      related to how useful they found the data. For each participant, the study team will provide
      summary of their data to nurses and physicians who were caring for them. The investigators
      hope to get 2 nurse surveys per patient (because of there being multiple shifts per patient)
      and to get 1 attending survey per patient.
    
  