
    
      Objectives:

      Primary objective - The compliance of each group for the antihypertensive drug is evaluated
      and compared.

      The patients are allocated to three groups; active training group, passive training group, no
      training group (usual treatment group) and training is performed as described below.

        -  Active training group: Electronic Pill-Boxes with SMS service 1/week, training material
           provided

        -  Passive training group: Electronic Pill-Boxes ,Training material provided

        -  Usual treatment group: Electronic Pill-Boxes, maintain current treatment method

      Secondary objective -

        -  Evaluate other factor that has effect on the compliance of antihypertensive drug.

        -  Evaluate the blood pressure lowering effect according to the compliance of
           antihypertensive drug.

        -  Evaluate the percentage of missed doses, the percentage of delayed doses, the percentage
           of multiple doses.

        -  Evaluate the effect of education on the compliance of antihypertensive drug.

      Timelines FPFV : Jan, 2008 LPLV: Dec. 2008

      Methodology:

      This clinical trial is multi center, prospective, randomized, open, observational study.

      This study is to compare the compliance for antihypertensive drugs according to different
      method of patient training and the observation period per patient is 6 month. There is no
      fixed visit date and the visits are made according to patient's periodic treatment schedules.

      To come up with representative and reliable nation wide statistical data, from hospitals
      nation wide patient who receive drugs (ACE-I, ARB, β-Blocker, CCB, Diuretic) for blood
      pressure lowering purpose according to the prescription patterns of investigator will be
      registered.

      Number of centers & patients:

      No. of centers: 20 general hospitals No. of patients: 1,062 patients
    
  