
    
      Worldwide, about 1.9 million people became infected with HIV in 2015, most of whom live in
      Southern and East Africa. In South Africa, the HIV incidence rate among young women ages
      15-24 (2.5%) is four times higher than their male counterparts (0.6%). Recent HIV prevention
      trials in South Africa documented incidence rates of 5-6% per year in 15-24 year old young
      women. Given this high incidence of HIV, implementing effective HIV prevention strategies -
      including PrEP - is crucial to controlling HIV globally.

      The proposed study leverages existing community-based HIV counseling and testing platforms in
      South Africa and evaluates, using a mixed methods approach, a community-based PrEP adherence
      program for young women whilst optimizing the PrEP cascade. Numerous barriers have been
      described that delay or block young women from accessing clinic-based health services,
      especially reproductive health and HIV testing and prevention services. Consequently,
      reaching young women at large scale with HIV prevention services requires delivery platforms
      outside of clinic-based facilities. Community-based counseling and testing programs have
      shown the greatest coverage and potential to achieve high levels of knowledge of HIV
      serostatus and linkage to HIV care. Using community-based counseling and testing programs,
      this proposal will deliver PrEP as part of a population-level combination prevention program,
      which is necessary to substantially reduce HIV incidence.

      The investigators propose to answer key research questions through the following; Specific
      Aims: 1) Assess young women's uptake of PrEP when delivered through large-scale
      community-based HIV counseling and testing platforms in urban and rural settings in South
      Africa, 2) Evaluate community-based scalable interventions to achieve prevention-effective
      adherence to PrEP among young women, and 3) Evaluate the cost per young woman initiated on
      PrEP and provided adherence support through community-based platforms, and the
      cost-effectiveness per incident HIV infection averted. In order to achieve Aim 1, the study
      will leverage from on-going, at-scale CBCT programs and platforms (mobile unit and systematic
      home-based testing) to identify and link young women to community-based PrEP initiation
      services. In order to achieve Aim 2, the study will perform a 3-arm randomized controlled
      trial, with participants randomized to one of the following arms: Arm 1) a group-based
      community health club akin to an ART adherence club; Arm 2) one-on-one adherence counseling
      and support; Arm 3) community-based medication dispensary.
    
  