
    
      In order to evaluate the effectiveness of cognitive and physical barriers as child resistant
      design features, we are testing designs which change the physical area available for grip
      utilizing anthropometric data that, in theory, would exclude children and enable adults.
      Testing will be conducted with children aged between 42-54 months of age. Our testing is
      adapted from testing dictated by 16 CFR 1700; this testing is mandated by the Poison
      Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 and is used throughout the United States (and, in fact,
      adapted by much of the world) to verify the performance of child resistant packaging. The
      maximum age limit specified by 16 CFR 1700 is 51 months so the child testing for this study
      represents a more severe test of the closure.

      One type of package is being tested: a 38mm diameter neck 400 thread finish (38/400) bottle
      that is typical of what is used to hold over-the-counter (OTC) medications. The bottle is
      outfitted with a two-piece continuous thread screw cap closure. Three treatments of the screw
      cap are being evaluated. One treatment attempts to restrict children from accessing the
      package using a cognitive paradigm (design intuitiveness for opening) the second treatment
      leverages a physical paradigm (anthropometric characteristics of the hand to keep them out)
      and the third treatment, the control, is a standard OTC push-down and turn child resistant
      screw cap.

      Summary

      Children will be recruited with the help of the Michigan State University Child Development
      Labs (MSU CDL) and testing will take place in a designated room within the Wilkshire Early
      Childhood Center in Haslett, Michigan and/or Early Learning Institute (ELI) preschool in East
      Lansing, MI. Approximately 120 children will test a single treatment of the three (N=40 per
      treatment); attempts will be made to counterbalance age and sex by treatment . The width of
      each child's thumbs will be measured by taking a digital photographic with their hand place
      on a grid of known dimensions. Testing will then occur in two 5 minute segments for each
      treatment (as with the regulated protocol overseen by CPSC).
    
  