
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) indicates that hundreds of millions of people worldwide
      are affected by chronic respiratory diseases (CRD), including chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD). Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is an essential component in the management of
      CRD with the aim to improve patients' exercise and functional capacity and psychological
      condition with long-term adherence to health-enhancing behaviors, including exercise training
      and self-management skills.

      However, despite the well-known evidence, this service is mostly underutilized due to poor
      accessibility, with only 1% of worldwide availability of PR services for COPD patients. Thus,
      is important to undertake actions that improve access to and delivery of PR services for
      suitable patients. One of the strategies in the international guidelines is the creation of
      new models of programs, where a home-based approach is indicated.

      The aim of this project is to assess the short-term effectiveness and responsiveness of a
      home-based pulmonary rehabilitation program (reabilitAR) in patients with COPD. It is also an
      aim to establish the minimal clinically important differences for PR in patients with COPD
      for a novel incremental step test (exercise capacity outcome measure).

      The plan is to recruit the maximum of patients with COPD via clinicians at hospitals. This
      study will enroll adult patients with COPD according to the Global Initiative for Chronic
      Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) criteria.

      Patients will be referred by pulmonologists, from medical consultation in hospitals and
      clinics in Portugal. With the referral, it is expected that the medical doctor explains the
      goal and benefits of PR. Eligible patients will be contacted by the reabilitAR team, for
      additional questions and to begin the integration process.

      Sociodemographic, anthropometric, and comorbidities; vital signs and peripheral oxygen
      saturation; symptoms (dyspnea, fatigue); lung function; functional capacity; exercise
      capacity; the impact of the disease, balance, and cognitive function will be collected before
      the reabilitAR program. Additionally, health care utilization will be registered.

      The program consists in home visits for the exercise training and the self-management
      sessions, and motivational phone-calls including the follow-up of the clinical condition, the
      progression of exercise training, including a total of 14 home visits, with more visits in
      the first two weeks of the program (4 visits). From the third week, one visit will be
      replaced by a phone call, for a total of 10 phone calls.

      After 12 weeks all outcome measures will be reassessed.
    
  