
    
      The following procedures will be performed at the Screening Visit:

        -  Obtain informed consent.

        -  Obtain information about your age and gender.

        -  Evaluate whether you qualify for the study.

        -  Document prior negative testing for H. pylori infection (a bacterial infection in the
           stomach that can cause ulcers) including the date of testing.

        -  Make sure that you have not used any investigational medications or participated in a
           clinical trial in the 30 days prior to the Screening Visit.

        -  Obtain medical history.

        -  Record medication history (including concomitant medications).

        -  Obtain vital signs.

        -  Conduct a physical examination.

        -  If a Bravo pH study has not been done within 8 weeks, instruct the patient to
           discontinue their medication for GERD during the 7-10 day washout period.

        -  Instruct the patient to discontinue the use of all prohibited medications during the
           applicable time intervals and not to start any new concomitant medications during the
           trial.

        -  Distribute Gelusil tablets to be used as "rescue medication"; instruct the patient that
           no more than 6 Gelusil tablets per day or 21 tablets over any 7-day interval will be
           allowed.

        -  Schedule the patient to return for the Qualification Visit, or for pH monitoring and the
           Qualification Visit. Only patients with abnormal pH monitoring will be able to enter the
           treatment period.

      Procedures that will occur during the Treatment Period:

        -  You will receive Zegerid 1 hour before breakfast and at bedtime for at least 14 days and
           no longer than 28 days

        -  At the end of the Zegerid treatment period, you will undergo 48-hour Bravo pH monitoring
           on Zegerid therapy for two days. You will complete a symptom survey and quality of life
           survey after the completion of the pH study.
    
  