
    
      The "Monitoring Of Viral load In Decentralised Area" (MOVIDA) project aims at giving access
      to viral load (VL) monitoring to the patients coming from remote areas using Dried Blood Spot
      as tool of sampling.

      In resource-limited settings, many biological exams are not accessible to the entire
      population due to logistic and financial constraints. Regarding infection with hepatitis B
      and C viruses (HBV and HCV), serological screening tests are easy to perform and are
      available nationwide in either laboratory format or rapid diagnosis tests. However, hepatitis
      B DNA and C RNA assessment is not available in decentralised area as no laboratory is able to
      perform this complex biological measurement.

      WHO, in their latest guidelines, recommends using dried blood spots (DBS) as an alternative
      to serum or plasma. Blood is easy to collect on DBS, either after veni- or capillary
      puncture. Capillary blood collection can be of great interest when venipuncture is complex,
      for example in injecting drug users (IDUs) in whom finding an accessible vein can be
      difficult. Then it is easily transferred, and at a low cost as it does not require a cold
      chain, to a laboratory able to perform the HCV VL quantification. As of today, little is
      known about the performance of standard commercial HCV diagnostic assays when using DBS and
      none of these studies were performed in routine setting in resource-limited setting.

      In Vietnam, HCV seroprevalence in the general population is estimated between 0.4% and 5%,
      which is much higher than the prevalence in Europe or in the US. Genotype 1 is the more
      prevalent in Vietnam, genotype 6 that is only found in South East Asia is the second most
      frequent, but other genotypes are circulating . In Vietnam, HCV prevalence is much higher in
      the HIV-infected population and in injecting drug users (IDUs). Currently, anti-HCV
      antibodies detection is available around the country even if some difficulties remain.
      However, access to HCV HCV viral load measurement in routine remains scarce particularly in
      decentralized areas because the technique is complex, expensive and need well-trained
      personnel and high standard of equipment. Thus, HCV viral load measurement remains non
      accessible to the vast majority of patients diagnosed with HCV.

      This study (MOVIDA Hep) aims at evaluating the quality of HCV VL monitoring when using DBS
      (collection of venous and capillary blood) as compared to plasma (gold standard), in routine
      condition and using the existing machines. This, to find out if DBS can be used for HCV
      viremia confirmation in Vietnam, in the virology laboratory of the National Institute of
      Hygiene and Epidemiology (NIHE) in Hanoi (Vietnam) where these measurements would be
      performed.
    
  