
    
      Objective: To evaluate with multimodal magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and TSPO-PET imaging
      whether cladribine treatment has an effect on disease progression-related pathology in late
      stage relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients.

      Background: In Multiple Sclerosis (MS), plaques in the white and grey matter of the brain
      represent the best known pathological changes of the disease, but a significant inflammation
      process has also been detected outside these plaques in connection with the disease. This
      extensive, diffuse inflammatory process correlates with the progression of the disease.
      According to neuropathological research, the diffuse inflammatory process outside the plaques
      is connected with powerful activation of microglia, oxidative stress, and deficiencies in
      mitochondrial activity. The activation of microglial cells can be measured in vivo in
      patients using positron-emission tomography (PET) scanning and so-called 18 kilodalton
      translocator protein (TSPO) -radioligands. TSPO-radioligands, such as the 11C-PK11195
      radioligand, bind to TSPO molecules, which manifest in activated, but not un-activated,
      microglia.

      Cladribine is an immune cell depleting treatment for RRMS. Our hypothesis is that monitoring
      the treatment of MS could be carried out using TSPO-PET and Quantitative susceptibility
      mapping (QSM)-MRI scanning, and these multimodal imaging methods could be used to assess the
      impact of the cladribine medication on the disease process leading to progression and
      disability by measuring the activation status of microglial cells.

      An age-matched historical control group of 10 untreated RRMS patients that have been
      previously imaged at a 12-18 months interval will be used for comparison.

      Study population: 15 late stage RRMS-patients Methods: Clinical evaluation, brain QSM-MRI and
      PET imaging with 11C-PK11195 radiotracer will be performed at baseline and 18 months.
    
  