
    
      Statistics and Results Using data from the E-app, scores on the MCQs and the diagnostic
      accuracy of the GP's a dose/response relationship is calculated, in order to answer the
      research questions posed above.

      Aim The aim of this project is to investigate the dose/response effect on GPs' proficiency
      from AI augmented training and clinical feedback in skin cancer diagnostics. This project
      will examine how much training is needed before the GPs' ability to diagnose and correctly
      refer skin cancer is affected.

      Research Questions In a population of Danish GPs what is the dose/response effect of hours
      spent with an educational platform that offers AI augmented training and clinical feedback on
      their diagnostic accuracy and accurate clinical management (treatment, dismissal, referral)?

      Does access to an educational platform that offers AI augmented training and clinical
      feedback increase the number of malignant skin lesions referred by Danish general
      practitioners without simultaneously increasing the number of incorrect benign referrals? Can
      the participating GPs clinical accuracy be predicted from the MCQ-score by comparing their
      quiz answers and diagnostic accuracy on their registered lesions with their score on the MCQ?

      Design This stratified superiority RCT will include 90 GPs in Denmark. The study period is
      five months. Three months of active intervention, then two months of post intervention
      observation period.

      Participating GPs must give signed consent before receiving a short introductory course
      regarding the use of hard- and software. They are then asked to complete a short
      questionnaire regarding the use of the platform as well as completing a proficiency test
      using a multiple choice questionnaire (MCQ) at baseline and again after 1 and 3. The MCQ
      consists of 12 skin lesion cases randomly sampled from a test library developed and validated
      by our research group.

      Stratification and randomization:

      Eligible participants will be stratified based on gender, results on the pre-test, age, type
      of clinic and self-reported years of experience diagnosing skin lesions, before being
      randomized (allocation ratio 3:1) into either the intervention or control group. Intervention
      All participating doctors will be asked to register all skin lesions examined due to a
      suspicion for non-melanoma or melanoma skin cancer, raised by the GP or patient, throughout
      the study period (Figure 2). Skin lesions will be registered using the R-app that enables
      photo acquisition and registration of: patient social security number (CPR), location of
      lesion, tentative diagnosis and chosen clinical action (referral, excision, monitoring, none)
      ect.

      The intervention consists of AI augmented training and clinical feedback through an
      educational smartphone app (E-app), whilst the control group registers the lesions but
      otherwise continues its standard clinical practice.

      The E-app has two modules:

      The training module includes AI enhanced case training on a library of 10,000+ benign and
      malignant skin lesion cases each coupled to written learning modules. Clinical feedback
      module gives the user diagnostic feedback on all cases registered in the registration module.
      Feedback during the trial will be based on either histopathology or the consensus agreement
      of domain experts (if no biopsy is taken). Feedback on referred or dismissed skin lesions
      will be provided by independent experts in skin cancer diagnostics ( >10 years of experience)
      through a web-based review system developed by our group. Statistics The mean improvement in
      clinical and MCQ-tested diagnostic accuracy measured will be compared between intervention
      and control groups using independent t-tests. Clinical accuracy will be determined using
      histopathology and/or expert consensus as gold standard. Both per-protocol and Intention To
      Treat analysis will be calculated in order to elucidate potentially missed differences and to
      allow readers to interpret the effect of the intervention.

      Power and Sample Size To our knowledge there is no data within the literature that describes
      the typical number of skin lesions seen by a Danish GP. Based on estimates from clinical
      experience roughly eight patients are seen by each GP per week with skin lesions suspected of
      skin cancer. With 90 GPs registering 90% of all lesions this amounts to 8.417 skin lesions
      registered during the three months. However, the ratio of benign to malignant skin lesions
      (BMR) referred or removed by GPs is typically somewhere between 10-29:1. Specialised centers
      in the UK have reported that it is possible to achieve accurate melanoma diagnostics with a
      BMR of 1.74-6.3:1, based on clinical evaluation aided by dermatoscopy alone. Based on these
      numbers an effect size of Cohen's d = 0.5-0.8 is realistic. This would require around 25-40
      GPs in each group to achieve a minimum 80% power.

      Ethical considerations Patient participation contains no immediate strain or discomfort for
      the patient, and no change to current clinical practise, as dermoscopic evaluation is part of
      the clinical examination of skin lesions. The images captured are stored safely and
      anonymously with no risk for the patient.

      Participating patients receive current standard of practice or an additional
      teledermatological evaluation of their skin lesions, giving them an expert opinion rather
      than only the opinion of their GP, in cases where patients are not referred to a
      dermatologist. A setup with minimal discomfort for the patient and the evaluation of their
      skin lesions by an expert justifies the participation of the patients.

      With the current low diagnostic accuracy of GP's the educational nature of the intervention
      justifies the study for the sake of all future patients with skin lesions that are less
      likely to be misdiagnosed.

      Educational interventions on doctors do not require approval by The National Committee on
      Health Research Ethics in Denmark. However, a waiver has been obtained from the The Committee
      on Health Research Ethics in the Capital Region of Denmark (case number H-20059977) and
      ethical considerations have been made and the project is in concordance with the Helsinki
      Declaration II.
    
  