
    
      Obesity per se as a cause of liver dysfunction and failure has been well studied. However,
      although it is a very common disease, at present the only reliable way to diagnose it is with
      percutaneous liver biopsy. This is painful and not without risk, as the liver is a highly
      vascular organ. Even with ultrasound guidance, it is still a diagnostic test that is
      underused as it carries a 1:1000 risk of serious adverse events (eg bleeding, infection,
      bowel perforation) because it is invasive. Moreover, the patients requiring the test often
      have impaired clotting of their blood due to liver dysfunction, and so are at higher risk of
      bleeding, and need to be observed in hospital for a few hours after the procedure. This adds
      to the cost of the procedure. As a result of these factors, liver biopsy is not used in all
      patients for whom NAFLD, NASH or other liver disease are suspected, unless the patients have
      clinically moderate to severe disease.

      With the increasing prevalence of obesity in the community, NASH and NAFLD are becoming
      increasingly common, and there is a need for a reliable, feasible and cost-effective
      non-invasive diagnostic tool for these conditions. Moreover, they often coexist with other
      liver diseases (eg tumours, or autoimmune liver disease). There are approximately 1.5million
      UK adults with mild to moderate liver disease which, at present, cannot be ascertained
      non-invasively.

      Developments in magnetic resonance medicine may allow us to accurately diagnose liver
      fibrosis, using the amount of extracellular fluid (ECF) as a biomarker for fibrosis. T1
      mapping of the liver can reliably show differences in ECF content and thereby allow
      quantification of the degree of liver fibrosis. In conjunction with MR spectroscopy and T2*
      mapping for concurrent interpretation of lipid and iron content, this will allow rapid
      non-invasive diagnosis of the type and/or severity of many common liver diseases (NAFLD/NASH,
      hepatitis, iron overload).
    
  