
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Endothelial dysfunction precedes atherosclerosis. Endothelial cells play an important role in
      the modulation of vascular angiogenesis, inflammatory responses, homeostasis, as well as
      vascular tone and permeability. This vascular protection function is largely attributed to
      nitric oxide synthase endothelial, an enzyme responsible for the production of nitric oxide
      (NO).

      The decrease in local NO bioavailability and/or insufficient vasomotor response characterizes
      endothelial dysfunction; a fact evidenced in situations such as SAH, diabetes mellitus,
      obesity, dyslipidemia, menopause and sedentary lifestyle. The evaluation of flow-mediated
      dilation (FMD) of the brachial artery, although it is an indirect method to assess
      endothelial function, is not invasive and a large part of its result depends on NO. The
      findings resulting from the acute stimulus of physical exercise can also predict long-term
      adaptations, therefore, it has been widely used.

      Within this scenario, the change in lifestyle, including regular physical exercise, is part
      of the recommendations of antihypertensive therapy. The most cited factors, responsible for
      the potential antihypertensive effect and better endothelial response to long-term exercise
      include reduced sympathetic activity, balance between vasodilator and vasoconstrictor factors
      and reduced levels of vasoconstrictor endothelin-1.

      Analyzes of a resistance exercise session in the FMD demonstrated that the knee extension
      exercise performed with moderate intensity, as well as, with light intensity can reduce the
      FMD 10-30-60 minutes after the session in individuals healthy. Interestingly, the same
      session, when performed at high intensity, was not able to provide changes in the FMD,
      leading to the idea of an inverse relationship between intensity of resistance exercise and
      FMD response. Recently, the investigators demonstrated that an aerobic exercise session,
      resisted and combined (resisted and aerobic) performed in moderate intensity for 40 minutes
      and exclusively with lower limbs, were not able to alter the FMD of the brachial artery of
      individuals with SAH when analyzed 10-40-70 minutes after the sessions. These results were
      accompanied by maintenance of endothelial microvesicle levels and factors involved with
      oxidative stress. Collectively, the investigators can raise the hypothesis that other
      factors, such as exacerbation of sympathetic activity in untrained members, may cause
      vasoconstriction and redirect blood flow to trained members, consequently, competing with
      endothelium-dependent vasodilating activity.

      Researchers have shown that α1-adrenergic blockade with Phentolamine mitigated the reduction
      in blood flow in the forearm, demonstrated in a placebo condition, during a manual pressure
      exercise session in individuals with heart failure. Still, considering that the exacerbated
      activation of the sympathetic nervous system has been proposed as an important factor in the
      development and maintenance of SAH, the investigators can hypothesize that, after a session
      of acute physical exercise, there is a competition between the sympathetic activity
      (potentiating vasoconstriction) and endothelium-dependent vasodilation capacity, in
      individuals with SAH.

      Whereas the acute effect of different modalities of physical exercise on FMD has conflicting
      results in healthy and hypertensive individuals, as well as a lack of information in the
      hypertensive population regarding the influence of SNA activity on vessel reactivity in
      response to physical exercise, the investigators developed a randomized clinical trial with
      the primary objective of analyzing the influence of autonomic nervous system activity on the
      FMD of the brachial artery of individuals with SAH after acute aerobic, resisted and combined
      (resisted and aerobic) exercise performed exclusively with lower limbs.

      METHODS

      Study setting.

      The study will be carried out at the Institute of Cardiology of Rio Grande do Sul/Fundação
      Universitária de Cardiologia under the approval of the Ethics Committee of this Institution
      (UP 5678/19).

      Eligibility criteria.

      Men and woman with SAH, between 35-55 years old who attend the services of the Institute of
      Cardiology of Rio Grande do Sul and do not perform regular physical exercise (≥2 sessions per
      week) will be selected. The sample will exclude individuals with diabetes mellitus, chronic
      renal failure, body mass index (BMI) ≥35kg/m2, coronary artery disease, heart failure, not to
      be taking antihypertensive medication, making use of beta-blocker and/or alpha-blocker,
      present lesions in the lower limbs that prevent the protocol, smoking and menopause (woman).

      Sample size.

      Researchers have compared the FMD in healthy individuals after a session of aerobic exercise
      performed with the condition of placebo (SD 1.13%) and α1-adrenergic block (SD 1.91%)
      (difference of means: 3.1%). Thus, to find a similar difference in FMD between conditions
      (placebo and α1-adrenergic block) after our exercise session, the investigadors calculated a
      total sample of 15 individuals (α=0.05 and 80% power). For the comparison in FMD between the
      types of exercises, the pre-exercise (SD 1.18%) and post-exercise (SD 1.91%) of the
      α1-adrenergic block group. To find a difference in the FMD of 1.62% (α=0.05, power 80%), the
      calculated total sample was 30 individuals. Assuming a loss of 30% during the protocols, the
      total sample was 39 individuals.

      Evaluation and interventions.

      The volunteers will be selected from the information described in the medical records of the
      IC/FUC cardiology service. The first contact with the volunteer will be made via telephone in
      an attempt to check, a priori, the exclusion criteria.

      Step 1. The individual's first visit to the IC/FUC will take place at the Clinical Research
      Laboratory (LIC) and all inclusion/exclusion criteria will be resumed. After the respective
      signature of the Informed Consent Form, the individuals will answer a clinical questionnaire
      and the International Physical Activity Questionnaire. The individual's clinical blood
      pressure will be checked (3 blood pressure checks on the arm with the highest value).

      Anthropometry will be performed at the LIC and divided into assessment of total body mass,
      height and waist circumference.

      The exercise test will be performed on a treadmill, with the Bruce Protocol, according to the
      Guidelines of the Brazilian Society of Cardiology. The test will be conducted in a
      specialized ICF/FUC room by a qualified professional in the presence of a cardiologist.
      Afterwards, the maximum oxygen consumption, respiratory equivalents and maximum heart rate
      will be lauded (prescription of aerobic exercises).

      Step 2. The second visit will be held at the LIC, with the individual fasting for 12 hours
      for blood collection and biochemical analysis. After blood collection, a standardized snack
      will be offered and volunteers will be directed to a controlled room where they will lie for
      10 minutes. The evaluation of arterial stiffness will be through the carotid-femoral pulse
      wave velocity (PWV), with Complior Analyze equipment®. The distance between the two points is
      measured by an infantometer and the data on blood pressure, height, total body mass and
      distance between the points of the carotid and femoral arteries are entered in the Complior
      Analyze software to calculate the PWV.

      After analyzing the PWV, the volunteers will be tested for maximum strength of the lower
      limbs by testing a maximum repetition (1-RM). The test will be performed at the LIC in a
      specific environment for physical exercise (knee extension, knee flexion, leg pressure and
      plantar flexion exercises). A local warm-up will be performed with 10-12 repetitions and a
      load relative to 30% of the estimated weight for the 1-RM test and 2:2 cadence
      (concentric:eccentric), controlled by a metronome. After resting for 3-5 minutes, the 1-RM
      test will begin. The test will be interrupted to adjust the load when the individual performs
      more than 1-repetition or when he was unable to overcome the proposed load. When further
      attempts are required, a 5-minute rest period is allowed. The weight at which the individual
      performs only one repetition will be determined as 1-RM.

      Step 3-4. To analyze the influence of the SNS on the FMD in response to physical exercise
      sessions, the α1-adrenergic blocking described in the literature will be used. Considering
      the interruption of the commercialization of the drug prazosin in Brazil, it will be replaced
      by its analogue doxazosin. Briefly, 90 minutes before starting the exercise protocol,
      individuals will be offered a capsule containing placebo (microcrystalline cellulose) or
      α1-adrenoreceptor blocker (Doxazosin 0.05 mg.kg-1 body weight) and will be instructed to lie
      down. A researcher collaborating in the group and blinded to the type of physical exercise,
      will be responsible for making the capsules available to the individual on the day of the
      session, according to previous randomization.

      Evaluation of endothelial function: the evaluation of endothelial function will be performed
      by ultrasound using the FMD technique, as previously described. Initially, the speed of blood
      flow and the diameter of the brachial artery will be evaluated, simultaneously, in the
      volunteer's right arm, in a quiet, darkened room with controlled temperature (23-24°C) of the
      LIC, by a single qualified investigator and blinded to the condition. The initial blood
      pressure (left arm), resting heart rate, blood flow velocity and the diameter of the brachial
      artery will be evaluated after resting for 10-15 minutes in a supine position, with the
      subject's arm extended and positioned at an angle of ~40° of the trunk. The evaluation will
      take place 10 minutes before the exercise session, as well as 10-40-70 minutes after the
      exercise session.

      To analyze the FMD of the brachial artery, individuals should be fasting for ≥6 hours,
      medicated for SAH. A rapid deflation cuff will be placed around the forearm 5 cm distal to
      the antecubital fossa and the image of the brachial artery will be obtained in the distal
      third of the arm in B-mode using a linear multi-frequency transducer (12MHz) connected to a
      high resolution Doppler Ultrasound system. The sample volume will be adjusted to cover the
      width of the vessel and an insonation angle of 60° will be used. Baseline diameters will be
      recorded for 1 minute, before the forearm cuff is inflated at 50 mmHg above the SBP, for 5
      minutes. The recording of the images will be resumed 30 seconds before the deflation of the
      cuff and maintained for 3 minutes after deflation. The video signal of the Doppler Ultrasound
      will be recorded in real time by a USB video card and saved for offline analysis. The
      analysis of blood flow velocity and brachial artery diameter will be performed using edge
      detection and wall tracking software (CardiovasculareSuit™; Pisa, Italy). From the
      synchronized blood flow velocity data and the brachial artery diameter, the blood flow will
      be calculated at 30Hz. The FMD will be calculated as the percentage change in the peak
      diameter after deflating the cuff from the reference diameter (baseline).

      Nervous system: the assessment of the ANS will be performed through the variability of heart
      rate and blood pressure, as already described in the literature. The data will be collected
      through the pressure wave acquisition system in a continuous and non-invasive way by the
      Finometer® system. For this, a cuffing will be installed on the middle finger (right hand)
      coupled to an analog-to-digital signal converter. The frequency of sampling the signals will
      be acquired continuously at 1000 Hz, after resting the individual (lying down for 10 minutes)
      and before the FMD analysis.

      The collected data will be saved in the BeatsScope® and LabChart® software for analysis of
      blood pressure variability (BPV) histograms and pulse interval series (RR-interval) for
      spectral power analysis (heart rate variability, HRV). The pulse interval(PI) will be
      calculated as the difference between the start and end points of the cycle. The analysis of
      HRV and BPV in the time domain, such as the spectral composition (fast Fourier transform)
      will be performed using the CardioSeries® software (after removing transient and discrepant
      elements). The spectral bands for evaluation: very low frequency (VLF, 0.007-0.04Hz), low
      frequency (LF, 0.04-0.15Hz), high frequency (HF, 0.15-0.4Hz) and total power (TP, VLF+LF+HF).
      Spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity (SBE) will be inferred by the square root of (LF/HRV
      m2)/(LF/BPV m2).

      The physical exercise sessions will be carried out in two visits, always in the afternoon
      (1:00 pm) and in random order for placebo or α1-adrenergic block. Moderate fasting (6 hours)
      will be required and sessions should have intervals of at least 5-7 days. The exercise
      sessions will be: aerobic, resistance and combined, previously published by our group.

      The aerobic exercise session will be performed on a horizontal cycle ergometer. A warm-up
      will be performed (5 minutes), followed by 40 minutes with moderate intensity (60% HRreserve)
      and controlled by a heart rate monitor, as well as the subjective effort scale (Borg 6 to 20
      points). Blood pressure, heart rate and the Borg scale will be assessed at the beginning of
      aerobic exercise and every 5 minutes until the end.

      The resistance exercise session will be structured with knee extension, knee flexion, leg
      pressure and plantar flexion, in a station with guided weights, with 4x12 repetitions and 60%
      intensity of 1-RM; the cadence will be adjusted to 2:2 (concentric: eccentric) and controlled
      by a metronome. The rest between sets and exercises will be 90 seconds (total duration: 40
      minutes). Blood pressure, heart rate and Borg scale will be recorded at the beginning and at
      the end of the 4th series of each exercise.

      The combined exercise session will be structured with 20 minutes of resistance exercise + 20
      minutes of aerobic exercise, as already described, except that the resistance exercises will
      have 2 sets of each exercise. As with other sessions, blood pressure, heart rate and the Borg
      scale will be assessed at the beginning and end of the second series of resistance exercise,
      as well as at the beginning and every 5 minutes of aerobic exercise up to 15 minutes after
      end of exercises.

      Statistical analysis.

      The normality of the data will be assessed by Shapiro-Wilk. Values will be presented as mean
      ± standard deviation or mediated and 95% CI, according to the distribution of variables.
      One-way ANOVA will be used for prior comparisons of baseline data between groups. The
      multivariate analysis of the data will be performed using the GEE for repeated measures with
      Bonferroni's post-hoc. The evaluation of possible correlations between variables will be
      performed using Pearson or Spearman tests. Statistical analysis: SPSS 24.0, p-value <0.05.
    
  