
    
      Ankle-Foot Orthoses are a common form of ankle joint bracing prescribed for patients with
      impaired joint function. Passive Dynamic Ankle-Foot Orthoses (PD-AFOs) constitute a special
      class of ankle braces designed to enhance gait function by providing natural support to the
      lower limb as it progresses over the stance foot. However, a fundamental design
      characteristic of all PD-AFOs is that they are not capable of replicating all dynamic
      characteristics of the natural ankle complex. As a result, the efficient use of PD-AFOs
      during gait requires the wearer to develop an adapted, lower limb movement control strategy
      that effectively optimizes positive PD-AFO characteristics while compensating for
      characteristics detrimental to gait function. The long term goal of this research effort is
      to predict a patient's ability to adapt to PD-AFO use and to customize PD-AFO characteristics
      to optimize that adaptation. The purpose of this series of studies is to further refine our
      existing methods of constructing custom PD-AFOs and to document the movement control
      adaptations produced by normal and healthy strength impaired subjects in response to PD-AFO
      use.

      The research plan is comprised of three phases: technology refinement (pilot) effort (n=5),
      normal subject study (n=10), and an impaired subject study (n=20). During the technology
      refinement phase, we will refine our existing methods for PD-AFO customization and pilot test
      the PD-AFO accommodation gait training methods and movement control assessment measurements.
      The normal and impaired subject studies will be used to document PD-AFO use under a strength
      substitution paradigm (normal subject study) and a strength enhancement paradigm (impaired
      subject study).

      Subjects in all study phases will participate in each of three visit types. Initially,
      subjects will participate in a screening and PD-AFO tuning visit that contains a
      neuromuscular screening examination, a preferred walking speed test, and measurement for a
      custom fitting PD-AFO. Following the manufacturing of the custom PD-AFO, subjects will return
      for their PD-AFO receipt and accommodation training visit. During this visit, the PD-AFO will
      be further customized and evaluated for comfort and performance and the subject will undergo
      supervised gait training in PD-AFO use. Following successful accommodation to PD-AFO use,
      subjects will return for their third visit and undergo instrumented gait analyses under three
      conditions (targeted walking velocity without the PD-AFO, self selected walking velocity with
      the PD-AFO, and targeted walking velocity with the PD-AFO) and finally, objective
      plantarflexor strength testing.

      Walking velocity will be statistically compared between with and without PD-AFO conditions to
      determine the accommodation effect for self selected conditions and to test for differences
      between targeted walking conditions. The magnitude of peak natural ankle plantarflexion
      moments will be statistically compared to determine the efficacy of the strength substitution
      and strength enhancement paradigms. The nature and extent of movement control adaptations
      will be explored by contrasting the various biomechanical (kinematic and kinetic) variables
      between with and without PD-AFO conditions having congruent walking speeds. Results of the
      neurological examination and objective strength testing will be used to rationalize the
      existence of different movement control adaptations between subjects and form the basis for
      developing an initial predictive model.
    
  