
    
      The LNA-i-miR-221 Phase I trial is a no-profit fully academic study on research funds and no
      external sponsor does exist. The study is a monocentric, open-label, phase I dose-finding to
      determine the safety, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and the recommended phase II dose of
      LNA-i-miR-221 (RP2D) using escalating doses; The secondary endopoints will be plasma and
      urinary pharmacokinetc (PK), efficacy as preliminary exploration of the antitumor activity,
      the disease control and the evaluation of biomonitoring activity. The study will include
      refractory MM and advanced solid tumors. In the last cohort, if 3 out of 3 or 5 out of 6
      subjects do not experience DLT, no further dose escalation will be required and dose level 5
      will be declared the MTD. At the end, further expansion will be performed to define RP2D,
      after a critical evaluation of trial data by SRC. LNA-i-miR-221 is a 13-mer antisense miR-221
      inhibitor, which takes advantage of locked nucleic acid (LNA) technology and phosphorotioate
      (PS) backbone chemistry to increase affinity for miR-221 and nuclease resistance and
      represents a new frontier for chemically modified antisense oligonucleotides.

      Participants will be assigned to 5 different cohorts, according to 5 different dose levels
      used. The cohorts will be defined with progressive numbers (1, 2, 3, 4, 5). Each cohort will
      be composed of 3 to 6 subjects. The dose level of LNA-i-miR-221 will be increased from one
      cohort to the next one. Independently from the assigned dose level, patients from each cohort
      will receive a total of 4 IV administrations as boluses. The treatment cycle will last 28
      days. Each subject who will not experience any DLT (see DLT definition) will remain on the
      assigned dose level. In the case that MTD will be defined by the occurrence of DLT at the
      superior level, the MTD cohort will be considered for expansion to definitely assess the RP2D
      studies.

      The treatment schedule (as amended and approved by AIFA on 1/15/2020) will be IV daily
      infusion on days 1-4 followed by 24 days washout (1 cycle lasting 28 days) with a modified
      3+3 Fibonacci dose escalation design, with 5 different dose levels for each cohort (0,5
      mg/kg; 1 mg/kg; 2 mg/kg; 3 mg/kg; 5 mg/kg), for safety and toxicity evaluation, MTD
      assessment, PK and modulatory activity investigation in refractory MM and advanced solid
      cancer patients. No other investigational drug and/or standard antitumor chemotherapy will be
      allowed during the study.

      The enrolled subject will require hospitalization to ensure adequate protocol adherence.

      LNA-i-miR-221will be administered inpatient setting as intravenous infusion of 30 minutes.
      During infusion and the following two hours post infusion, patients will be continuously
      monitored for vital signs. Local healthy authority guidelines must be followed with regard to
      further observation and monitoring, if applicable. Following the first infusion, patients
      will be observed for at least 120 minutes for fever, chills, or other infusion-associated
      symptoms. If prior infusions were well tolerated (without any signs or symptoms of infusion
      reactions) subsequent doses of LNA-i-miR-221 will be administered in 30 minutes with a 120
      minutes observation period after infusion.

      The determination of LNA-i-miR-221 in human plasma and urine will be used for the
      pharmacokinetic evaluation. For each enrolled subject, 2-5 ml of blood samples will be drawn
      for the quantification of LNA-i-miR-221 before, after 15 min and at the end of infusion at
      the following time points: 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 12 hours on days 1 and 2. On day 3 and 4, blood
      samples will be drawn before and at the end of infusion at the following time points: 1, 2,
      4. At 24 hours (day 5) and 48 hours (day 6) after last administration blood samples will be
      drawn for the quantification of LNA-i-miR-221.

      Urine pharmacokinetic samples (15-20 ml) will be collected at pre-dose and 6, 12 and 24 hours
      period postdose on day 1 of cycle of treatment. Aliquots (15-20 ml) of 24-hour urine will
      also be collected at post dosing time during the cycle of treatment (day 2, 3, 4 and 5).

      The vials containing lyophilized LNA-i-miR-221 must be stored at +2-8°C, while the
      reconstituted solution must be manipulated rapidly in a safe and secure place below 25°C,
      with no access for unauthorized personnel. The solution can be reconstituted immediately
      before administration. All adverse events will be followed with appropriate medical
      management until resolved. Patients removed from study for unacceptable adverse events will
      be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse event. For selected adverse
      events for which administration of the investigational drug was stopped, a rechallenge of the
      subject with the investigational drug may be conducted if considered both safe and ethical by
      the study coordinator.

      All the safety data will be reviewed by an independent Safety Review Committee (SRC). Dose
      escalation to the next dose level will be allowed by SRC. In the last cohort, if 3 out of 3
      or 5 out of 6 subjects do not experience DLT, no further dose escalation will be required and
      dose level 5 will be declared the MTD. At the end, further expansion will be performed to
      define RP2D, after a critical evaluation of trial data by SRC. At 30 (+/-1) days from the
      first dose of treatment, each enrolled patients will be evaluated for the end of treatment
      (EOT) visit in order to evaluate the efficacy and clinical benefit of LNA-i-miR-221 treatment
      based on RECIST V1.1 criteria. Only for patients with clinical benefit or radiological
      response/stable disease, the treatment will be offered until disease progression or if the
      patient withdraws consent. Out patients follow up will be continued every two months, until
      death.

      Back-up blood samples will be collected for re-analysis in case of failure of the test
      measurement or for samples lost in transit. The samples will be appropriately stored and
      destroyed at study closure. Monitoring and auditing procedures defined/agreed by the External
      board (Sequre s.r.l. and Kilimo s.r l.) will be followed, in order to comply with GCP
      guidelines. This will include on-site checking of the case report forms (CRF) for
      completeness and clarity, cross-checking with source documents, and clarification of
      administrative matters.

      Primary endpoints:

        -  To determine the safety, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the RP2D of LNA-i-miR-221
           using escalating doses in refractory multiple myeloma (MM) and advanced solid tumors for
           further investigations.

        -  To assess the safety and toxicity of LNA-i-miR-221

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  PK analysis

        -  To preliminary explore the antitumor activity, the disease control, and the efficacy

        -  Biomodulatory activity A minimum/maximum number of 15/36 subjects will be enrolled in
           the study, according to expansion cohorts. All clinical data will be inserted on the
           Case Report Form (CRF) pages and all data can be extracted for the purpose of the
           ongoing analysis of the SRC and for statistical analysis.
    
  