
    
      Problem to be investigated: Innovative psychosocial interventions that enhance quality of
      life as quickly and fully as possible are needed. The psychosocial burden of breast cancer
      treatments and their sequelae are especially high for younger women (45 years and younger)
      who are more likely to experience aggressive disease, multi-modal treatments, and higher
      mortality rates. Psychosocial interventions that can assist women in their return to valued
      activities and reduce suffering are urgently needed. Illness intrusiveness is a construct and
      a measure describing the degree to which disease and treatments interfere and disrupt
      important activities and commitments, and is a key component of quality of life. In previous
      work, we demonstrated that an internet-delivered psychosocial intervention appeared to reduce
      illness intrusiveness and distress at follow-up in preliminary pilot data. Professional-led
      internet-delivered psychosocial interventions are showing promise but there is a need to test
      efficacy, as well as to develop and test other, less costly interventions that can be
      utilized by this and other cancer populations. Objectives: To test the efficacy of a 12- week
      Professional-led Online Support Group plus Education (OSG+E) and a Peer-led OSG+E compared to
      an Education-alone (E) intervention for reducing illness intrusiveness in young breast cancer
      survivors, and to test a primary mediator, emotional processing. Secondary objectives are to
      test additional outcomes, specifically, emotional distress, emotional support, loneliness,
      self-efficacy and life satisfaction. A third objective is to explore the role of two
      potential mediators of outcome, emotional suppression and social constraint. Methodology: A
      3-arm randomized controlled trial will be employed among Canadian women 45 years of age and
      younger (N =210 ) who have completed primary treatment for breast cancer. Measures of Illness
      Intrusiveness, Distress, Life Satisfaction, Self-efficacy, Loneliness and Perceived Support
      will be collected at baseline, completion of treatment (3 months) and at 6 and 12 months. A
      form of random regression modeling will be used to create individual slopes to test the
      primary hypotheses, while multiple regression analyses, based on the MacArthur Model, will
      test the role of mediators. Significance of the research to breast cancer: Women with breast
      cancer are using the internet for information gathering and support, and this study will
      determine the efficacy of two forms of internet-delivered interventions (Professional and
      Peer) for enhancing the adjustment process after primary treatment is completed.
      Understanding of mediators will inform understanding of how to enhance efficacy of the 2
      models of OSG's. The results will be of value to women with breast cancer as well as health
      care and community-based supportive care organizations.
    
  