
    
      Objectives:

        -  Study impact of statins on levels of biomarkers (IL-6 and TNF-α) of sepsis.

        -  Study survival benefit of statins in septic shock.

      Introduction:

      Sepsis is the leading cause of mortality in non-coronary ICUs. Mortality associated with
      sepsis is still considerably high. Rising economic burden of managing sepsis is a major
      concern. Statin is an anti-hyperlipidemic drug with pleiotropic effects. It has properties
      like anti-inflammatory/oxidative, immunomodulatory effects, enhances endothelial function,
      reduction in blood thrombogenicity, and increased nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability.
      Available evidence suggests that statins may play a positive role in reduction of mortality
      in sepsis. However, the multidimensional heterogeneous character of the available studies
      does not allow drawing firm conclusions about its usefulness in sepsis and septic shock. This
      randomized, double blinded, placebo controlled trial is an attempt to study the impact of
      statins on mortality and biomarker levels in septic shock.

      Details of material and methods:

      Patients >= age 18 yrs meeting the American European consensus conference definition of
      septic shock will be enrolled into the study. After the written informed consent from the
      primary decision maker the patients will be randomized into either the drug or placebo group.
      Each group will either receive Atorvastatin 40mg or a matched placebo for 7 days. IL-6 and
      TNF alpha levels will be estimated on D1, D4 and D7 of the trial week. Relevant clinical and
      laboratory (clinical biochemistry, hematological, coagulation parameters, LFT and renal
      function tests) will be recorded simultaneously. Severity scores, event free days
      (vasopressor, ventilation, dialysis, transfusion, parenteral nutrition), and mortality after
      28 days of inclusion in study will be recorded.

      Ethical Issues:

      Written informed consent will be taken from either the patient (if possible) or from the
      primary decision maker related to the patient.

      Study population:

      A total of 80 patients of septic shock admitted in ICU will be enrolled into this study.
      Patients either admitted with septic shock or who develop septic shock during their stay in
      ICU will be eligible for inclusion into the study. The statin and placebo group will have 40
      patients each.
    
  