
    
      Approximately 145 patients will be randomised using an Interactive Voice Response System
      /Interactive Web Response System (IVR/IWR system) in a 3:2 ratio (Olaparib:placebo) to the
      treatments as specified below:

        -  Olaparib tablets p.o. 300 mg twice daily

        -  Matching placebo tablets p.o. twice daily Eligible patients will be those patients with
           pancreas cancer previously treated for metastatic disease who have not progressed
           following completion of at least 16 weeks (can be more) of first line platinum-based
           chemotherapy. All patients must have a known deleterious or suspected deleterious
           germline BRCA mutation to be randomised; this may have been determined prior to
           enrolment into the study or may be assessed as part of the enrolment procedure for the
           study (via centrally provided MyriadIntegrated BRAC.

      Patients will be randomised within 6 weeks after their last dose of chemotherapy (last dose
      is the day of the last infusion) and treatment started as soon as possible but no less than 4
      and no more than 8 weeks of the last chemotherapy dose. At the time of starting protocol
      treatment, all previous chemotherapy treatment should be discontinued.

      Following randomisation, patients will attend clinic visits weekly for the first 4 weeks of
      treatment (Days 8, 15, 22 and 29). Patients will then attend clinic visits every 4 weeks
      whilst on study treatment. Patients should continue to receive study treatment until
      objective radiological disease progression as per RECIST as assessed by the investigator and
      as long as in the investigator's opinion they are benefiting from treatment and they do not
      meet any other discontinuation criteria.

      Once a patient has progressed the patient will be followed for second progression (PFS2)
      every 8 weeks and then survival until the final analysis.
    
  