
    
      This is a prospective pilot study to determine MUNE and CMAP values in a population of adults
      with SMA, assess how these electrophysiologic parameters change over time, and explore how
      well these parameters correlates with other outcome measures in SMA, including functional
      scales (SMAFRS and SF-36) and muscle strength (by MMT, MVICT, 6 minute walk test, time to
      climb 4 stairs and handheld myometry). The study was started in 2006 with 4 visits. It was
      initially intended to measure baseline and variability of values at baseline, 6 months, 10-14
      months, and 20-24 months to better characterize the disease and to validate measurements as
      suitable outcome measures to be used in future therapeutic trials on adults. Individuals who
      do not take nusinersen would continue on this visit plan.

      With the addition of the FDA approved drug nusinersen for SMA we would like to follow people
      who are receiving that treatment more frequently. The visits will fall in relationship to
      their treatment doses. Those patients who are receiving nusinersen will come in at a baseline
      visit that will be1 to 6 weeks prior to first treatment. Then they would follow-up one to 2.5
      weeks after each treatment dosing that happens quarterly after the initial loading dose.
      There will be 10 visits over 3 years. The visits will occur at baseline, 2, 6, 10, 14, 18,
      22, 26, 30, and 34 months. These additional visits will allow for better uniform monitoring
      of the response to treatment and resubmission to insurance providers. Additional long term
      data will be collected from interested/available patients every 2-3 years up to a max of
      fifteen years. Being followed long term would add 4-6 visits over 12 years. If subjects
      completed the study course in the past and are now starting nusinersen (SPINRAZA), those
      individuals are able to enroll again.

      A total of 100 people with SMA will be enrolled in this trial. This will allow for two
      cohorts of people with SMA; those receiving treatment and those not receiving treatment.

      Control participants will only come to a baseline visit and the only tests that will be
      completed are the EMG Measures (MUNE, CMAP, decomposition EMG) and EIM. There will be no
      further testing for those participants. This visit will take approximately 30-60 minutes. A
      total of 40 control participants are being recruited for this study.
    
  