
    
      1. Pregnancy, pre-eclampsia and immune regulation The preeclampsia syndrome, which is
           characterized by changes in the placenta and uteroplacental vasculature, is a major
           concern in impaired human pregnancy. Hypertension, proteinuria and exaggerated edema are
           typical clinical symptoms1. Although the etiology of the disease is uncertain, it is
           well established that a defect in placental trophoblast invasion during implantation
           contributes to inadequate remodeling of uterine spiral arteries, thereby initiating
           focal regions of reduced perfusion within the placenta2. It has been suggested that a
           consequence of placental ischemia is the generation of cytotoxic factors that may act
           systemically to activate or injure the endothelium3. The identity of the factors
           elaborated by the placenta, which presumably compromise endothelial function during
           preeclampsia, is unknown. Inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-α
           (TNF-α) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β), are known to be potent activators of the vascular
           endothelium and have been proposed as mediators of endothelial dysfunction during
           preeclampsia4.

           It is well known that the acceptance of the fetoplacental unit in human pregnancy
           requires maternal immune tolerance, which is thought to be regulated locally by the
           placenta. Therefore an anti-inflammatory cytokine, such as interleukin-10 plays a
           critical role in different pregnancy disorders, including preeclampsia5.

           Placental interleukins have been identified in reproductive tissues, but their roles in
           adaptive maternal immunity and determining term pregnancy outcomes have not been fully
           clarified. The acceptance of the fetoplacental unit by the maternal uterine surface
           requires an element of immunological tolerance. Local antiplacental immunity is modified
           by synthesis of uncommon histocompatibility Ags, growth factors, and cytokines by the
           placenta. The presence of immune cells in the decidual tissue of the uterus also
           presents a potential barrier, both physical and immunological, to the development of the
           placenta6. Some characteristics of the fetoplacental unit encourage endometrial and
           myometrial invasion7 and others modify the immunological barrier (e.g. HLA-G)8. These
           characteristics of placental function may be abnormal at the formative stages of
           placental development, and thus the presumptive uterine barriers may be abnormal in
           preeclampsia, a complication of human pregnancy related to shallow placental
           development9.

        2. Interleukin-10 Interleukin-10 was originally identified as the product of Th2-type T
           lymphocytes that inhibits the synthesis of Th-1 type cytokines such as Interferon-gamma
           and IL-210. IL-10 is known to be secreted by Th2-helper T cells, CD4+HT2 cells, and some
           B cell lymphoma and mast cell lines. The protein undergoes post-translational
           modification that includes N-glycosylation and the formation of critical cysteine bonds.
           IL-10 inhibits cytokine synthesis in both T cells and NK cells by controlling
           macrophage-monocyte accessory cells. IL-10 elicits responses in granulocytes,
           eosinophils, mast cells, B cells, T cells and NK cells11. IL-10 is crucial in limiting
           inflammatory responses in some disease states. The ability of IL-10 to inhibit
           macrophage activation should allow investigation into "cross-talk" between stimulatory
           and inhibitory cytokines. IL-10 is important in understanding autoimmunity and as a
           target molecule in the development of anti-rejection therapies12. The Th-like responses
           of this cytokine make it a suitable adjuvant for immunization development10.

           Human and mouse IL-10 are 73% homologous at the amino acid level. Human IL-10 is active
           in mouse cell lines, but human cell lines are not responsive to mouse IL-10.

        3. Maintenance of pregnancy and interleukin-10 production Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is an
           immunosuppressive cytokine expressed throughout pregnancy by epithelial cells and
           leukocytes in the endometrium and placenta. The anti-inflammatory and immune deviating
           properties of IL-10 are well characterized. Principally these are mediated through
           inhibiting proliferation and pro-inflammatory cytokine synthesis in type 1 T helper
           (Th1) cells, programming specific phenotypes in macrophages and dendritic cells and
           stimulating natural killer (NK) cell activation.

           IL-10 has been shown in normal placental cells (trophoblast cells) to suppress the mixed
           lymphocyte responses in vitro13. Maternal bone marrow-derived cells in the uterine wall
           include NK-like cells and T cells14 that may be modified by placental IL-10 production.
           Modification of the local maternal antifetal immune response has been shown to be
           important in patients with recurrent spontaneous abortion15.

           IL-10 has been identified as an important cytokine in pregnancy. IL-10 may be involved
           in the maintenance of pregnancy by corpus luteum maturation and progesterone
           production16. In a well-known mouse cross that is prone to spontaneous abortion a
           deficiency of IL-10 has been demonstrated to alter the net fetal number and outcome17.
           Longitudinal studies in mice demonstrate a sequential change in the cytokine profile
           including IL-10 in peripheral blood and release from spleen elements as pregnancy
           advances18,19. IL-10 inhibition in the second half of pregnancy in mice causes fetal
           growth retardation20. Besides, progesterone has been shown to increase Th2-type
           responses in T cells21. Taken together, these data suggest that early pregnancy is
           associated with an increase in circulating Th2 cytokine IL-10 and that fetal and
           placental growth and development are depend on adequate IL-10 production. Or in brief,
           IL-10 may have a fetal protective effect.

           In human pregnancy there is a shift of cytokine production from Th1-type inflammatory
           cytokines to Th2 type cytokines with a predominance of IL-10 and IL-4 over IL-2 and
           TNF-α in stimulated PBMC. This balance altered in preeclamptic mononuclear cells with
           the alternative result, a relative decrease in IL-10 compared with the pro-inflammatory
           cytokine production22.

        4. Interleukin-10 on trophoblast motility and invasion capacity Interleukin-10, expressed
           in the decidua and placenta, is implicated in regulating extravillous cytotrophoblast
           invasion through inhibiting matrix metalloproteinase expression and influencing the
           quality of the maternal immune response.

           Cytotrophoblast invasion in vitro requires the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9
           (MMP-9). In a recent article, the authors showed that cytotrophoblasts produce
           interleukin-10 (IL-10), a potent immunomodulatory cytokine that could have paracrine
           effects on the maternal immune system. IL-10 synthesis is dramatically downregulated
           after the first 12 h of culture, while MMP-9 secretion is rapidly upregulated and the
           cells acquire an invasive phenotype.13 These observations prompted the subsequent
           experiments to investigate whether IL-10 is an autocrine regulator of cytotrophoblast
           MMP-9 production. Adding recombinant IL-10 to cytotrophoblast cultures significantly
           decreased the cells' MMP-9 expression at both protein and mRNA levels, but did not
           affect mRNA levels of the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3.23 Thus, IL-10 may
           alter the proteinase/inhibitor balance. IL-10 treatment further caused a net decrease in
           MMP activity, thereby reducing cytotrophoblast invasiveness. Together, the current data
           suggest that IL-10 is an autocrine inhibitor of cytotrophoblast MMP-9 activity and
           invasiveness.

        5. Controversies of interleukin-10 and the development of preeclampsia Endothelial cell
           dysfunction has been hypothesized to be a major contributor in the pathogenesis of
           pre-eclampsia. This hypertensive disease of pregnancy is characterized by changes in the
           placenta, uteroplacental vasculature, kidneys, and liver consistent with endothelial
           damage. Hypertension and vascular hypersensitivity to pressors, neutrophil activation,
           and platelet activation have also been demonstrated in preeclampsia and are consistent
           with endothelial dysfunction.24 Inflammatory cytokines are known to be potent activators
           of the vascular endothelium and have been proposed as mediators of endothelial
           dysfunction during preeclampsia.25 Both tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) and interleukin 1
           β (IL-1β), interleukin-10 (IL-10) induce functional alterations in endothelial cells.26
           Although the association of these inflammatory cytokines with the development of
           pre-eclampsia (PE) is generally assumed, the actual mechanism, and modes of
           dysregulation are still in strong debate. In two authoritative journal, the authors
           described a dysregulation of cytokine expression occurs in the pre-eclamptic placenta,
           with overexpression of IL-10 mRNA in placenta tissues and elevated plasma level (Am J
           Obstet Gynecol 1999;181:915-20; Obstet Gynecol 2002;100:327-31).27,28 In contrast,
           another influential journal describes deficiency in plasma production of IL-10 and
           decreasing plasma level of IL-10 (J Immunology, 1999, 163: 3491-5)29. Authors also
           measured the IL-10 released by in vitro culture of CTB from PE patients. The results
           also shows significantly alternation in IL-10 release by in vitro culture of PE CTB
           (Cytokine 23 2003;23:119-25)30.

      We believed that studying the CTB itself is not enough to explain the pathogenesis of
      preeclampsia. CTB itself, and also the implantation environment are also expressed IL-10 and
      other inflammatory cytokines. We suggest assess the in situ specimen including placenta
      tissues and placental bed biopsies may include both the influence of CTB and its implantation
      environment. Besides, if IL-10 does play a role in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia, altering
      the expression IL-10 level may restore the PE phenotype to normal behavior. This is our
      purpose of observation in the following study.
    
  