
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether administration of eflornithine hydrochloride (eflornithine [DFMO]) in
      combination with dinutuximab, irinotecan hydrochloride (irinotecan) and temozolomide results
      in an improved response rate compared to dinutuximab, irinotecan and temozolomide in patients
      with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma and therefore is a therapeutic regimen worthy of
      further testing in patients with newly-diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression-free survival and overall survival between patients receiving
      dinutuximab, irinotecan and temozolomide with and without the addition of DFMO.

      II. To define the toxicity profile of DFMO administered with dinutuximab, irinotecan and
      temozolomide.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the immune and cytokine profiles of patients treated with
      DFMO/chemotherapy/dinutuximab combination and correlate with response to therapy.

      II. To evaluate GD2 levels in tumor cells from patient bone marrow samples and correlate with
      response to therapy.

      III. To explore whether the addition of DFMO to the dinutuximab and chemotherapy backbone
      affects pain as determined by patient report and opiate usage.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 regimens.

      REGIMEN A: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO), via nasogastric (NG), or gastric (G)
      tube on days 1-5, irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1-5,
      dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) or IV over
      2 hours on days 6-12 of a 21-day cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 cycles
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      REGIMEN B: Patients receive eflornithine PO, via NG, or G tube on days -6 to 7 and days 15-21
      of cycle 1 and days 1-7 and 15-21 of subsequent cycles, temozolomide PO, via NG, or G tube on
      days 1-5, irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1-5,
      dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim SC or IV over 2 hours on days
      6-12. Treatment lasts 28 days for cycle 1 and then every 21 days for subsequent cycles up to
      17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and periodically for
      5 years.
    
  