
    
      Approximately 15-20% of patients with concussion/mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) have
      persistent cognitive symptoms up to six months or longer. Problems with working memory,
      divided attention, processing speed, and executive function are common (Belanger &
      Vanderploeg, 2005; Mott, McConnon, & Rieger, 2012, Rabinowitz & Levin, 2014). Patients often
      report how these problems negatively impact daily communication. Although neurocognitive
      tests are frequently used to identify patients at-risk for persistent symptoms, perhaps tests
      that not only assess cognition, but also communication would be better at identifying more
      functional deficits. Patients at-risk for persistent symptoms could then begin therapy
      earlier to address problems affecting work, school, or everyday activities. Speech-language
      pathologists are uniquely qualified to evaluate and treat patients with concussion/mTBI and
      cognitive-communication disorders (ASHA, 2005; Cicerone, et al.; Cornis-Pop et al., 2012).
      Cognitive-communication is the relationship between cognition and its influence on verbal and
      nonverbal communication, reading, and writing (ASHA, 2007). At this time, practice guidelines
      are emerging for cognitive-communication intervention related to concussion/mTBI (Cornis-Pop
      et al., 2012), yet there is still much research to be done. Typically, in recovery following
      a concussion/mTBI, patients are referred for cognitive-communication intervention if they are
      failing or struggling at work, school, or in daily activities. Some patients will not be seen
      for up to six months based on the assumption by healthcare professionals that most persistent
      cognitive and communication symptoms will resolve on their own. The wait period before
      referral for additional services is currently being investigated in the literature.
      Additionally, therapy for cognitive-communication will only be provided if patients report
      difficulties to their physicians and are referred for services. If services are not sought
      out, problems in cognitive-communication will go unrecognized as being a result of the
      concussion/mTBI.

      The specific aims of this study are: 1) Determine if screening measures that evaluate
      symptoms of concussion/mTBI frequently used by speech-language pathologists administered two
      and four weeks post-injury will be able to predict individuals at-risk for persistent
      cognitive and communication symptoms, and 2) Will an early treatment group with persistent
      cognitive-communication deficits one month after injury differ in pre- and post-therapy
      functional outcome measure scores as compared to a delayed therapy group beginning services
      at two months post-injury?

      Significance: Results of this study will increase the understanding in the use of cognitive
      and communication screening measures frequently administered by speech-language pathologists
      to identify patients at-risk for persistent symptoms related to concussion/mTBI and provide
      information about the outcomes of cognitive-communication intervention delivered early in
      recovery.
    
  