
    
      Purpose and research question The main purpose is to evaluate integrity in the deep deltoid
      ligament in ankles with isolated Weber type B fractures using a minimally invasive Nanoscopic
      technique. Further results of a Nanoscopic evaluation will be correlated to the results of
      gravity stress and weightbearing radiographs. Additionally, the Nanoscopic evaluation will be
      used to assess associated injuries including cartilage and syndesmotic lesions.

      Methods Primary evaluation will be done in the acute setting. All isolated Weber type B
      fractures without radiological signs of instability (medial clear space of 7 mm or less) on
      initial non-weightbearing radiographs presenting to our clinic will be evaluated for
      inclusion. Nanoscopic evaluation will determine stability for all patients with radiographic
      measurements indicating "uncertain stability". "Uncertain stability" of the ankle is assumed
      when at least one out of 3 (plain-, gravity- or weightbearing-) radiographs is showing
      instability. Like Seidel et al. (2017), in the event of a MCS of over 7 mm on initial
      non-weightbearing radiographs the ankle is considered unstable and will be evaluated for
      surgery. These patients will not be evaluated for inclusion.

      For radiographic tests the size of the MCS will make up an indirect measurement of deltoid
      ligament capacity. The MCS is defined as the distance between the medial border of the talus
      and the lateral border of the medial malleolus on a line parallel to and 5 mm below the talar
      dome on anteroposterior radiographs. A MCS of 5 mm or less defines the ankle as stable. An
      MCS >5 mm AND 1 mm or more increase compared to the contralateral (non-injured ankle) ankle
      defines the ankle as unstable.

      Plain-, weightbearing- and gravity stress radiographs and nanoscopic evaluation will be done
      3-14 days after injury at the outpatient clinic. The radiographic test battery will be done
      prior to nanoscopy. Only patients demonstrating at least one positive stress radiograph
      (weightbearing or gravity) or a plain radiograph with a MCS measurement above the threshold
      (5 mm AND 1 mm or more increase compared to the contralateral ankle) will undergo nanoscopic
      evaluation.

      Participants with "uncertain" stability will be assigned to non-operative or surgical
      treatment based on ankle stability evaluation using results from the NanoScopic evaluation
      consistently. Stability is assumed when the posterior part of the deep deltoid ligament is
      visible and intact. Stable ankles will be treated non-operatively with a functional brace
      (AirCast) for 6 weeks. Participants will be instructed to bear weight as tolerated and to
      actively do standardized range-of-motion exercises. Unstable ankles will be operated on.
      Standard operative treatment is open reduction and internal fixation of the fracture using
      plate and screws. The goal is an osteosynthesis that allow for early range-of-motion
      exercises, but weightbearing is usually not tolerated until 6 weeks postoperatively.
    
  