
    
      Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a chronic inflammatory arthritis that occurs in individuals with
      psoriasis. It is estimated that 1% to 3% of the general population have psoriasis.1,2,3 In
      Europe the prevalence of psoriasis ranges up to 6.5%.4 Between 10% and 30% of subjects with
      Psoriasis develop arthritis. As a result, PsA is the second most common inflammatory
      arthropathy, following rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 1,2,3 Psoriatic arthritis, a seronegative
      spondyloarthropathy, is a complex disease involving peripheral and axial joints and
      periarticular structures resulting in enthesitis and dactylitis. Without appropriate
      management, the number of joints affected by PsA and the severity of joint damage increase
      over time, which can lead to marked restriction of daily activities and to substantially
      compromised quality of life. There is evidence that active PsA is associated with accelerated
      atherosclerosis, obesity, metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease. Other co-morbidities
      such as pulmonary fibrosis, uveitis, and, less commonly, aortic insufficiency, also
      contribute to the complexity of PsA.5 Unlike RA, effective treatment options are limited for
      PsA. Responses to the traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) have been
      suboptimal.6 There is a significant unmet medical need for more effective and safe therapies
      in PsA, especially for reducing the arthritic signs and symptoms as well as inhibiting
      progression of structural damage in joints. About 20% of subjects with PsA will develop a
      severe destructive disabling form of arthritis.7 In the absence of definitive therapy, more
      than 50% of subjects with PsA will develop 5 or more deformed joints within 10 years of the
      onset of disease.8 TNFi therapies are efficacious for both skin and joint diseases and have
      been shown to inhibit structural damage, but approximately 40% of subjects treated with TNFi
      agents do not reach a minimal improvement [American College of Rheumatology [ACR)
      20]9,10,11,12.13,14,15,16,17 In addition, serious adverse events (SAEs) including infections
      and injection site reactions have been associated with the use of TNFi therapies. Although in
      some studies a small percentage of patients previously exposed to TNFi were included, these
      studies were not powered to demonstrate efficacy in that sub-population. Thus, in subjects
      who experience inefficacy or intolerance of TNF blockade, there is still medical need for new
      options. Therefore, there is still need in PsA for therapies that provide significant
      improvement in arthritis and a risk benefit profile that is acceptable. Therapies directed at
      novel targets (IL-12/23, PDE4-Antagonist) are also approved since 2014. 18, 19, 20, 21 Joint
      involvement, is clearly the most prominent example for the systemic nature of psoriasis.
      Notably, the burden of joint disease in patients with psoriasis may be even higher, given
      that not all psoriasis patients experiencing musculoskeletal complaints fulfill the
      classification criteria of PsA22. If present, PsA is a severe disease associated with
      impaired function and reduced life quality life.
    
  