
    
      This study has two sets of aims. The first are related to social and environmental
      experiences, and the second are related to anxiety experiences.

      Aim 1: Social and environmental experiences

        1. To qualitatively observe and understand the social and skill-building experiences of a
           knitting group for people with neurodevelopmental disorders, physical disabilities, and
           acquired brain injuries from the perspectives of participants, their parents, and
           program facilitators;

        2. To explore whether a professionally facilitated knitting group is perceived to be a
           beneficial and/or enjoyable environment for people with neurodevelopmental disorders,
           physical disabilities, and acquired brain injuries to socialize with peers;

        3. To explore whether a professionally facilitated knitting group is perceived as an
           appropriate and/or desired learning or skill building environment for people with
           neurodevelopmental disorders, physical disabilities, and acquired brain injuries; and

        4. To collect data that will drive the creation of a manualized KneuroKnits program and
           funding for future quantitative outcome measurements of program success.

      Aim 2: Anxiety

      a. To evaluate the impact of a knitting instructional program on self report of anxiety in
      individuals with neurodevelopmental disorders, physical disabilities, and/or acquired brain
      injuries.

      Program design:

      The KneuroKnits program will be based upon current knitting education practices and leading
      practices in facilitation of social participation for youth with neurodevelopmental
      disorders, physical disabilities, and acquired brain injuries. The program will consist of 4
      weekly sessions in which participants will learn knitting fundamentals and have opportunities
      to socialize over a shared occupation. The 4 weekly sessions of the KneuroKnits curriculum
      will include related knitting and social skills themes of the week. Each session will begin
      with a structured lesson on the knitting topic of the day, and will then continue into
      knitting practice and social interaction. Participants will be encouraged to practice their
      new skills (knitting and social) between sessions, and will be allowed to keep all materials
      that they use or create. The project involves two pilot runs of the program in a pre-post
      study design.

      Research Design:

      The research includes both qualitative and quantitative components, all of which align with
      the structure of the KneuroKnits program described above. The project has two complementary
      foci that will be evaluated separately: (1) social and skill based experiences of program
      participation, and (2) the impact of program participation on anxiety related responses.

        1. Social and skill based experiences of program participation:

           Primarily using qualitative design driven by an interpretive phenomenological
           methodology, this study will explore program experiences using observation and
           interviews with participants and stakeholders. The research team will also evaluate the
           program environment (activity setting) using a validated measure (SEAS).

        2. The impact of program participation on anxiety related responses:

      This study will employ a pre-post design. Anxiety will be measured at 2 time points for all
      participants (baseline, week 4) using self report (the anxiety subscale of the Symptom
      Checklist 90 [SCL-90] and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory [STAI] will be collected when the
      participant attends the relevant KneuroKnits session. If the participant misses that
      particular session, they will be asked to come in to Holland Bloorview at their earliest
      convenient time to complete the measures.

      The program will be administered at two different sites to increase access to a broad
      population. In October-November 2018, the 4-week program will be conducted at the Ontario
      Science Centre site, and in November-December 2018, the program will be conducted at the
      Holland Bloorview site.
    
  