
    
      This is a randomized controlled double-group assignment study with intermedial switch-over
      including post-menopausal, physically inactive breast cancer patients in oncological
      follow-up with or without hormone therapy, that had completed adjuvant post-surgical
      treatment (radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy) from at least 3 months and from not more than 3
      years.

      Patients in hormonal therapy and patient not in hormonal therapy will be assigned in two
      different groups, each one of 50 patients. In each groups, patients will be randomized
      divided in a control group (25 pt) and in a 6 months-physical training group (25 pt). After
      6-months patient in control group will be switched in the physical training group.

      The duration of the study is 2 year. Clinical evaluation of the patients will be made: at the
      enrollment, after 6, 12, and 24 months.

      Physical activity will be adapted according to arm and shoulder morbidity, after fracture
      risk assessment. Exercise will be concentrated solely on leg muscles (pedalling on a cycle or
      bed ergometer) in individuals with limitations in the range of motion of the arms (eg, due to
      breast, axillary, or thoracic surgery). In patients experiencing ataxia, dizziness, or
      peripheral neuropathy, walking outdoors and mostly cycle-ergometry training will be preferred
      to other activities that also involve large muscle groups but require additional balance and
      coordination (eg, treadmill walking, outdoor cycling).

      Exercises will be performed at the Unipolar Spinal Unit of "S. Maria della Misericordia"
      Hospital, Perugia.

      The aim of the study is to confirm the positive effect of APA on metabolic stress, body mass
      composition, functional capacity, serum levels of specific circulating miRNA and quality of
      life in breast cancer patients in oncological follow-up.

      Currently, only few data are available about the relationship between physical activity and
      microcirculatory hemodynamics that, together with oxidative stress, could be involved in
      genesis and progression of breast cancer.
    
  