
    
      Bioserenity develops innovative solutions, using smart clothing that can be used in hospitals
      or homes, in short or long term. Without wires, these washable textiles allow, in particular,
      the measurement of biophysiological signals via a recording box, while allowing the
      participant the freedom to continue his daily activities.

      In order to perfect Bioserenity products, new types of non-invasive sensors will be
      integrated to offer a new range of multimodal and polygraphic products. Moreover, in order to
      optimise the already EC devices, they have evolved slightly in terms of textile and software.

      Participants will perform at least one recording session with one of the study devices,
      Neuronaute or Cardioskin. After that, they can hold other meetings if they wish. For this
      they will not be specially summoned, they will have to volunteer when they wish to
      participate. The model and type of Bioserenity device (Neuronaute or Cardioskin) may change
      depending on the session. The recording context may also change. Throughout the duration of
      the study, whether participants wish to participate regularly or not, they will in all cases
      be limited to two participation sessions per week. They can stop at any time, without having
      to justify themselves. The investigation centre will adapt to the availability of the
      participants and their willingness to participate: the aim is to generate them no
      constraints.

      During recording, subjects may be asked to do small, simple exercises, which differ depending
      on the recorded signal. Sometimes the exercises can be repeated with a non-invasive device of
      the market, with minimal risks and constraints, in order to be able to perform a comparison
      of signals

      The principal aim evaluate the performance of Cardioskin or Neuronaute device sensors over
      short-term recording periods.

      The secondary aim is to evaluate the performance of Cardioskin or Neuronaute device sensors
      over long-term recording periods.
    
  