
    
      Project Overview: This project is focused on the early diagnosis and management of septic
      shock using tissue near infrared spectroscopy (tNIRS) for continuous and non-invasive
      assessment of microcirculatory vasoreactivity as a diagnostic and prognostic indicator in
      critically ill patients. A novel aspect of this study is that point of entry of patients will
      be via the Critical Care Outreach Team (CCOT) which will ensure patients are assessed in the
      early phases of their disease prior to and co-incident with admission to Critical Care Unit
      (CCU). The investigators will employ tNIRS to assess peripheral tissue oxygen saturation
      (StO2) in all patients assessed by CCOT (n = 1031 patients in 2009) and in addition, the
      investigators will employ the NIRS vascular occlusion test (VOT) using a brief episode of
      forearm ischemia to quantify microvascular (dys)function.

      All patients admitted to CCU via CCOT (n = 230 patients in 2009) will have StO2 monitored and
      VOT assessment sequentially throughout the course of their critical illness. Biomarkers to
      assess severity of illness, inflammatory processes and microcirculatory reactivity will be
      obtained, and in a subset of patients (n = 30), correlations between these parameters and
      other indices of microvascular perfusion using sublingual orthogonal polarization spectral
      (OPS) imaging videomicroscopy will be sought. As it is estimated that 20-30% of CCOT
      admissions are for sepsis (n = 40-60), the inclusion of other critically ill non-septic
      patients will enable discrimination of various parameters of VOT to be contrasted between
      groups to determine relative diagnostic and prognostic significance.

      Statement of Objectives:

        1. To assess the diagnostic utility of tNIRS StO2 and VOT in early assessment of critically
           ill patients.

        2. To determine whether significant and pathognomonic differences exist in StO2 and indices
           of VOT between septic patients versus other non-septic critically ill patients and
           healthy age matched volunteers.

        3. To determine whether correlations exist between biomarkers of inflammation and
           vasoreactivity and measures of StO2 and VOT in severely septic patients.

        4. To determine whether incorporation of StO2 and VOT into a treatment protocol can
           positively impact clinical outcomes in critically ill patients.
    
  