
    
      Patients will be recruited from the outpatient clinics of Al Monofia university hospital,
      Cairo University Hospital and National Cancer Institute. Patients who fits the inclusion
      criteria and are motivated and consent to enter the study will be included. Patient
      recruitment will continue until the target sample size is reached.

      Patients data will be collected including personal data, medical history, family history, and
      classification of the tumor according to the TNM classification system. Patients will be
      assessed preoperatively with a transcutaneous high frequency probe ultrasound to measure the
      maximal tumor thickness in millimeters using a 10MHz superficial probe and the lymph nodes in
      the neck region. In addition to clinical examination and palpation of the neck lymph nodes.
      Patients will then undergo tumor resection surgery with adequate safety margins under GA with
      nasotracheal intubation. Selective neck dissection will then be performed. The specimens will
      be submitted for histopathological examination.

      Patients will receive standard post operative care based on the recommendation of the
      oncologist. Adjunct chemo or radiotherapy will be administered when deemed necessary. Wound
      care and dressings will be administered as needed.

      Patients will be categorized into two groups based on the tumor thickness (exposure).

      For the primary outcome, the data source will be the measurement of tumor depth based on
      Berslow method as discussed in the review of literature, obtained from ultrasonography and
      recorded in millimeters.Tumor width recorded in (mm) will also be obtained from the
      ultrasonography as it may be a source of confounders. Further, histological grade of the
      lesion will also be recorded.

      Two confounding factors are highlighted and may be sources of bias and attempt to control for
      them in the statistical analyses will be made.

      Appropriate statistical methods will be used after collection of the data and sources of
      confounders will be controlled for during analyses in subgroup An attempt to control for
      tumor width and histological grade in subgroup analyses

      All data will be entered electronically. Patients' files are to be stored in numerical order
      and stored in secure and accessible place. All data will be maintained in storage for 1 year
      after completion of the study. Data monitoring committee is independent from the sponsor and
      competing interest.
    
  