
    
      This research study is a Feasibility Study, which means the investigators are collecting
      information from a relatively small group of patients to determine if the sentinel lymph node
      procedure identifies the first nodes that drain the breast in patients with inflammatory
      breast cancer.

      The sentinel node procedure is a standard method to evaluate whether breast cancer has spread
      to the axillary lymph nodes (lymph nodes under the arm) or remains in the lymph nodes under
      the arm after chemotherapy in non-inflammatory breast cancer. "Standard" means that sentinel
      lymph node biopsy is accepted by the majority of the medical community as a suitable method
      to determine if breast cancer has spread to the lymph nodes or remains in the lymph nodes
      after chemotherapy. In women with non-inflammatory breast cancer, these lymph nodes are
      tested first and if they are free of cancer additional lymph nodes are not removed. By safely
      limiting the amount of lymph node surgery to only the sentinel lymph nodes, the likelihood of
      developing lymphedema (arm swelling after lymph node surgery) has declined among women with
      non-inflammatory breast cancer.

      Currently, sentinel lymph node biopsy is not performed in inflammatory breast cancer as there
      are little data supporting that it works or is accurate. For inflammatory breast cancer,
      performing lymphoscintigraphy (imaging study to show the drainage from the breast to the
      lymph nodes) and sentinel lymph node biopsy is investigational. "Investigational" means that
      this is being studied. If in this study it is determined that sentinel lymph nodes can be
      accurately identified and tested in patients with inflammatory breast cancer, this could lead
      to future studies testing whether complete lymph node dissection can be avoided in women with
      inflammatory breast cancer whose sentinel nodes are free of cancer. Thus, potentially also
      reducing the likelihood of lymphedema in patients who receive treatment for inflammatory
      breast cancer.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, imaging evaluation,
      lymphoscintigraphy, sentinel lymph node evaluation, a mandatory research biopsy, research
      blood draws and questionnaires.

      It is expected that about 50 people will take part in this research study at participating
      sites around the United States

      Johns Hopkins University on behalf of the Translational Breast Cancer Research Consortium
      (TBCRC) is supporting this research study by providing funding for the research study. The
      TBCRC is a group of academic medical centers across the United States that work together to
      conduct breast cancer research.
    
  