
    
      Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a highly specific vascular complication of diabetes mellitus,
      with prevalence strongly related to a number of risk factors including the duration of
      diabetes, the level of glycaemic control, etc. Diabetic retinopathy affects over one third of
      all people with diabetes and is one of the leading causes of vision loss. It is recommended
      that optimising glycaemic control could reduce the risk or slow the progression of diabetic
      retinopathy, and that the management of diabetes and its complications should include
      screening for diabetic retinopathy. A randomised trial is therefore needed of the use of a
      simple and widely practicable approach to explore the integration of eye care in managing
      diabetes. The trial is designed as a randomised, controlled, superiority trial. The aim is to
      explore the effectiveness of ophthalmologist-delivered health education on top of routine
      community care on blood glucose and eye-related clinical outcomes in type 2 diabetic patients
      at risk for diabetic retinopathy. Participants will be randomly assigned to either control or
      intervention group with a 1:1 allocation as per computer-generated random numbers. A senior
      onsite manager will monitor participant enrolment over the course of the study. An
      ophthalmologist-delivered health education will be offered as the intervention in an
      individualised, face-to-face counselling session to build awareness on diabetes symptoms,
      particularly on diabetic retinopathy, and its risk factors with appropriate management. All
      subjects, regardless of the group allocation, will be followed up for 12 months. Baseline and
      follow-up profiles will be assessed and collected by clinical personnel blind to group
      allocation. The intervention arm will be compared against the control for all primary
      analysis. The study was partly supported by the Open Research Funds of the State Key
      Laboratory of Ophthalmology. Trial results will be disseminated to key stakeholders and the
      general medical community.
    
  