
    
      Young children with ASD often present with a range of externalizing behavior problems,
      including aggression, tantrums and difficulty transitioning. Interventions based on the
      principles of applied behavior analysis (ABA) have been shown to offer an effective means of
      addressing many of these concerns. Parent-Child Interaction Therapy (PCIT) is a manualized,
      empirically supported parent coaching intervention that has been found to be highly effective
      for typically developing preschoolers presenting with a range of mental health concerns. It
      also holds considerable promise as a potentially effective treatment for children with ASD.
      The focus of PCIT treatment is to both improve parent-child interactions and to reduce child
      behavior problems. PCIT involves the coaching of parents in real-time, via a one-way mirror
      and a "bug-in-the ear" device that allows the therapist to provide feedback and directions to
      the parent while interacting with his/her child. The aim of the current proposal is to
      determine if the PCIT treatment manual can be successfully utilized for preschoolers with ASD
      and to evaluate its ability to significantly decrease measures of problem behavior. It is
      hypothesized that the current manual will require few modifications for use with ASD and
      that, in comparison to a wait-list control group, families who undergo PCIT training will
      evidence significant gains on measures of parenting stress, child externalizing behaviors and
      compliance to parental requests. To address the pilot study aims, we will recruit a total of
      25 families of children with ASD (ages 2.6-6 years) whose children are already receiving
      intensive, one-on-one behavioral treatment services (15-30 hours per week). Families will be
      randomized to either intensive services + PCIT or intensive services alone (wait list
      control). Assessments will be completed at baseline, mid-treatment (9 weeks post baseline)
      and post-treatment (18 weeks after the baseline assessment). PCIT families will attend 20
      weekly, one-hour coaching sessions. Both active treatment and wait-list control families will
      continue to receive intensive ABA services in the home or community. The results of this
      study will provide pilot data in a subsequent application for federal funding to conduct
      larger controlled trials, including examining the use of PCIT in school-age children with ASD
      and intellectual disability and to assess the individual and combined efficacy of PCIT and
      psychopharmacological treatment.
    
  