
    
      Epidemiology of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) in women admitted in a Family Planning
      for a termination of pregnancy is poorly defined currently in France. Only one bi-centre
      study (Bourgeois-Nicolaos, 2015), performed in two Family Planning suburban centres located
      within University Hospital (Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris), found high prevalence: C.
      trachomatis 15.1%, N. gonorrhoeae 3.1%. Moreover, heterogeneity can occur between centres. In
      students in Sweden, 26% had one or several previous STDs, mainly C. trachomatis and Human
      Papilloma Virus (HPV). Risk factors in univariate analysis were tobacco smoking, a previous
      termination of pregnancy, lack of vaccination against HPV, having sexual intercourse
      precociously, number of sexual partners, anal sex, having sexual intercourse without consent,
      having unprotected sex during last intercourse. Risk factors in multivariate analysis were a
      previous termination of pregnancy, lack of vaccination against HPV, number of sexual
      partners, having sexual intercourse without consent, having unprotected sex during last
      intercourse. Systematic screening for STDs in Women Admitted in Family Planning for a
      Termination of Pregnancy appears thus a logical strategy.

      In a previous study performed in Emergency Dpt in an University Hospital (Assistance
      Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris), screening patients born in sub-Saharan Africa, French Indies and
      French Guyana, prevalence 1.8% (6 times national prevalence), 7.8% and 3.6% for HIV, HBV and
      HCV was found respectively. Ile-de-France is the area of France with the highest HBV
      prevalence (133/100 000); moreover, most women with HBsAg positive are of child-bearing age.
      From the 24,000 women with HBsAg positive 18-39 years old, only 5700 (24%) are aware of their
      status. Similarly, Ile-de-France is the area of France with the highest HCV prevalence
      (109/100 000), with women 20-29 and 30-39 years old accounting for 15% each. HCV nationale
      prévalence is 3.1% in people born in sub-Saharan Africa, 1.4% in people born in Asia, 10.2%
      in people born in Middle-East.
    
  