
    
      Cognitive impairment is a well-recognized manifestation of multiple sclerosis (MS) with
      prevalence estimates ranging from 43 to 70%. It is also known to occur as early as the first
      demyelinating event and is a major factor contributing to quality of life in MS. Treatment
      strategies for cognitive impairment in MS are limited. Several agents have been tested as
      therapeutics for MS-related cognitive dysfunction and have showed no major benefit. Cognitive
      rehabilitation has shown some promise, but the data are limited and many studies have
      suffered from methodological shortcomings. Given the lack of well-established treatment
      options and the substantial impact of cognitive impairment, protection of cognitive function
      from the earliest stages of the disease is of great importance.

      Cognitive outcomes received relatively little attention in the pivotal studies of MS disease
      modifying therapies (DMT), but some data suggest that DMT may have a positive impact on
      cognition. Gilenya is of special interest because it was found to have a significant
      protective effect on whole brain atrophy when compared against placebo and intramuscular
      interferon β-1a in two phase III studies, showing a 31-35% reduction in percentage brain
      volume change. Gilenya's effect on whole brain atrophy leads to the natural hypothesis that
      it may have a beneficial effect on cognitive function in MS. Also of particular interest is
      the extent to which protection of the thalamus and cortex contributes to Gilenya's effect on
      whole brain atrophy and possible effects on cognition.

      The study will enroll 15 subjects from the Cleveland Clinic Mellen Center patient population.
      Participants must have been on Gilenya for at least 6 months at the time of study entry. The
      study will involve three assessments: at baseline, six months, and one year. At each time
      point, participants will undergo 7T MRI of the brain with and without contrast. Participants
      will also undergo a battery of neurometric testing at each time point. The tests will include
      the Brief Visuospatial Memory Test - Revised (visuospatial skills), the iPadTM Processing
      Speed Test (processing speed), the Selective Reminding Test (verbal learning and memory), and
      the Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System Sorting Test (problem-solving skills; can only be
      administered at baseline and one year due to version limitations).
    
  