
    
      Although the development of highly active anti-retroviral therapy has substantially reduced
      the incidence of Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) among HIV-infected individuals, PCP
      remains one of the most common presenting opportunistic infection among this population. The
      use of adjunctive corticosteroids in the treatment of patients with moderate to severe PCP
      has resulted in a significant improvement in the development of respiratory failure and
      mortality.

      Past studies have demonstrated no clinical benefit in patients with mild disease (pO2>75 torr
      on room air). This may have been due to the fact that few patients with mild disease develop
      either respiratory failure or die during the course of the acute illness so that a
      statistical difference could not be demonstrated.

      However, considering parameters other than mortality, there is some evidence to suggest that
      patients with high pO2 concentrations benefit from adjunctive corticosteroids. PCP is
      associated with the development of pulmonary fibrosis and this can have significant
      consequences. Pathological studies have shown the development of interstitial fibrosis late
      in the course of acute illness. Studies have documented the presence of diffuse interstitial
      pneumonitis five months after the onset of acute illness. Therefore, patients with PCP
      infection, regardless of their pO2 level on presentation may benefit from corticosteroid
      therapy.

      The current standard of care therapy for patients with PCP does not involve the addition of
      corticosteroids to standard antibiotics in those patients with pO2>70 mmHG. This study
      propose to conduct a randomized, prospective, un-blinded clinical trial to explore the
      effects of corticosteroid therapy on pulmonary fibrosis in patients with mild PCP who are
      admitted to the George Washington University Hospital.
    
  