
    
      Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common form of renal cystic
      diseases, affecting all ethnic groups with an incidence of 1 in 400 to 1.000. In Austria an
      estimated 8.000 to 21.000 people, and an estimated 670.000 to 1.675.000 people worldwide are
      affected by ADPKD, although statements of up to 6.000.000 affected individuals have been
      made. ADPKD is responsible for 5 to 10 percent of patients on chronic hemodialysis.
      Individuals with ADPKD usually present in the 3rd to 4th decade of life, progressing to
      end-stage renal disease within 5 to 10 years after the onset of renal insufficiency. Usually
      renal replacement therapy, either by chronic dialysis or renal transplantation, becomes
      necessary. Currently there is no treatment for ADPKD other than blood pressure control and
      supportive care.

      Thus, novel therapies for ADPKD are of great importance.

      The formation of cysts in ADPKD follows a mutation located within either the polycystic
      kidney disease 1 or -2 gene on chromosomes 16 and 4, which are coding for polycystin 1 (PC1)
      and -2 (PC2), respectively. PC1 and PC2 are members of the polycystin family of integral
      membrane proteins. PC1 acts as a G-protein coupled receptor and is suggested to mediate
      cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. PC2 acts as a nonselective cation channel and is
      supposed to act in ion exchange mechanisms. Among other pathways PC1 and 2 are functioning
      via a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, which is essential in protein
      translation, cell proliferation and -growth. Inhibition of the mTOR-pathway has reduced
      kidney enlargement in rodent polycystic kidney disease models and has shown to reduce the
      volume of cysts in human polycystic kidney- and polycystic liver disease. Thus, we
      hypothesize that the mTOR inhibitor sirolimus, an immunosuppressant drug with strong
      anti-proliferative effects, will delay the progression of renal insufficiency in patients
      with ADPKD in advanced stages of the disease.

      Before conducting a large multicenter randomized controlled trial in this population we will
      demonstrate that therapy with mTOR-I does not accelerate the decline in renal function (as
      natural course of the disease), as well as mTOR-I does not aggravate prevalent-, or cause new
      onset of proteinuria, as expressed by the protein/creatinine ratio, in patients with ADPKD
      and an eGFR between 20 and 40 mL/min per 1.73sqm, compared to a historic cohort of patients
      with ADPKD and an eGFR between 20 and 40 mL/min per 1.73sqm, treated at the Department of
      Medicine III, Division of Nephrology and Dialysis, Medical University Vienna.
    
  