
    
      There is very limited data on TCs associated with cardiac surgery in pediatric patients. The
      actual incidence of TCs in this context is not currently known reflecting a lack of clinical
      suspicion, reporting biases, and/or the use of inappropriate diagnostic tests

      Pediatric cardiac surgery is associated with disruption of blood flow, platelet dysfunction
      and activation, and blood hypercoagulability; all of which are contributing to clot formation

      All congenital heart defects are associated with blood flow disturbance but some are
      associated with more extreme disturbances. The investigators hypothesize that not all types
      of CHD repairs will be at the same risk of TCs based on the extent of blood flow disturbances
      they cause. The investigators hypothesize that line location, difficulties in line insertion,
      including multiple insertion attempts and longer duration of indwelling will be associated
      with increased risk of TCs.

      Pediatric cardiac surgery is associated with inflammation and platelet activation, both of
      which are potent contributors to blood hypercoagulability: CPB presents a hemostatic
      challenge associated with an abundance of pro-thrombotic risk factors and an opposite
      presence of pro-hemorrhagic risk factors. The investigators hypothesize that factors
      associated with increased platelet activation and inflammation, and in consequence, greater
      laboratory values of markers of platelet activation and inflammation, will be associated with
      increased risk of TCs.

      Coagulation system activity in children is immature, hyporeactive and exhibits a high degree
      of resistance to heparin and anticoagulation. The investigators theorize that lower levels of
      coagulation system activity, presence of high-risk genetic polymorphisms, greater CPB
      hemodilution, increased heparin requirement and lower blood heparin activity expressed by
      anti-factor X activity (anti-Xa) concentration during CPB and greater requirement for
      allogeneic blood will be associated for increased risk of TCs.

      There is a lack of consensus on clinical and laboratory signs/symptoms of active thrombosis
      and on which patients should be routinely screened for TCs. One of the most difficult aspects
      in the management of TCs is the fact that many episodes are asymptomatic or have non-specific
      symptoms. Creating a risk stratification model including both clinical and laboratory
      abnormalities which could be indicative of TCs in the post-operative period in order to
      identify patients who should undergo more targeted screening is the third aim of this study.

      Many methods of TC management have limited effectiveness while highly effective methods are
      often associated with much risk. The use of thrombolytics in children is rare and only
      partially effective in many cases. The margin of safety for treatment is thought to be very
      narrow; the reported frequency of major bleeding episodes varies from 5% to 40%.

      Outcomes of TCs are suboptimal, early surgical and long-term complications for survivors are
      frequent. The creation of risk stratification models for suboptimal surgical outcomes, PTS
      syndrome and, lower functional health status after surgery will be the fourth and final aim
      of this study.
    
  