
    
      Background: Approximately 15% of gastric adenocarcinoma patients presents with peritoneal
      carcinomatosis (PC) at the first encounter and is regarded as an unresectable and end-stage
      disease. The recommended treatment with palliative chemotherapy alone yields a poor clinical
      efficacy and long-term prognosis. Emerging evidences suggest the survival benefits of
      complete cytoreductive surgery (CRS) combined with intraperitoneal chemotherapy (IP) for
      gastric adenocarcinoma with limited PC. Previous studies focused on the CRS combined with
      hyperthermic IP chemotherapy (HIPEC); however, the high morbidity and mortality rates of
      HIPEC have raised a safety concern and limited the clinical application. The normothermic IP
      chemotherapy (N-IPEC), on the other hand, is a safer and gentler type of IP chemotherapy, and
      has gained in popularity and been evaluated in many recent clinical trials. The criteria for
      patient selection and standard protocol of complete CRS combined with N-IPEC and systemic
      chemotherapy remain to be determined. Moreover, treatment efficacy regarding this strategy is
      still suboptimal.

      Objective: To evaluate the 6-month disease control rate (DCR) of complete CRS combined with
      N-IPEC (paclitaxel) and systemic chemotherapy (high-dose fluorouracil and cisplatin;
      [P-HDFL], or capecitabine and oxaliplatin [CAPOX]) for gastric adenocarcinoma patients with
      limited PC (peritoneal carcinomatosis index [PCI] ≤ 10) (Arm-A) or positive peritoneal wash
      cytology (CY1/P0) (Arm-B).

      Patients and methods: Patients having resectable advanced gastric adenocarcinoma with limited
      PC (PCI ≤ 10) (Arm-A) or positive peritoneal wash cytology (CY1/P0) (Arm-B) will be enrolled.
      Patients with distant metastasis other than PC, including brain, lung, liver, bone, will be
      excluded. All patients should undergo D2 or more extensive gastrectomy and complete CRS
      followed by N-IPEC (paclitaxel) and systemic chemotherapy (P-HDFL or CAPOX). N-IPEC with
      paclitaxel 20 mg/m2 will be administered in combination with systemic P-HDFL or CAPOX on day
      1,8,15 or day 1,8 for each cycle, respectively. Peritoneal cytology will be collected at the
      surgery and on day 1 of each treatment cycle. The disease status and ascites amount will be
      evaluated every 12 weeks based on the computed tomography scan, and the clinical evaluation
      (outpatient follow-up) will be performed every 2 weeks for whom receiving P-HDFL and every 3
      weeks for whom receiving CAPOX. Patients will receive maximal 6 cycles N-IPEC with P-HDFL
      (total 18 courses of N-IPEC) or 8 cycles N-IPEC with CAPOX (total 16 courses of N-IPEC).
      After N-IPEC is discontinued, P-HDFL or CAPOX will be continued alone until disease
      progression or death. The primary endpoint of this study is 6-month DCR, and the secondary
      endpoints include 6-month response rate for ascites, 1-year progression-free survival (PFS)
      and overall survival (OS), 3-year PFS and OS, and safety profiles. Based on Simon's minimax
      two-stage design, this trial will be carried out in two stages. In stage I, a total number of
      13 (Arm-A) / 16 (Arm-B) patients is accrued. If there are ≤ 6 (Arm-A) / ≤ 14 (Arm-B)
      progression-free among these 13 (Arm-A) / 16 (Arm-B) patients, the study will be early
      stopped. Otherwise, additional 17 (Arm-A) / 2 (Arm-B) patients will be accrued in stage II,
      resulting in a total number sample size of 30 (Arm-A) / 18 (Arm-B).

      Expected result: A ≥ 75% (Arm-A) / ≥ 95% (Arm-B) 6-month DCR could be achieved for gastric
      adenocarcinoma patients with limited PC (Arm-A) / with CY1P0 (Arm-B) via this treatment
      strategy (complete CRS + N-IPEC + P-HDFL or CAPOX) -i.e., if there are ≥ 21 (Arm-A) / ≥ 16
      (Arm-B) progression-free among the 30 (Arm-A) / 18 (Arm-B) enrolled patients, we will reject
      the null hypothesis and claim that the treatment is promising.
    
  