
    
      Since the conventional Apgar score has its limitations in preterm or resuscitated infants,
      specifications of the individual items of the original Apgar score were suggested (Specified
      Apgar). The Specified-Apgar will slightly change the Apgars' perspective, but will not alter
      the number of its components. The advantage of the proposed definitions is the applicability
      in all infants, regardless of resuscitative efforts or gestational age. However, neither the
      conventional nor the Specified-Apgar score describes the condition of the infant. That
      problem has been taken up by the American Academy of pediatrics (AAP)and the American College
      of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). They suggested to use an expanded Apgar Score
      reporting form (Expanded-Apgar)that accounts for concurrent resuscitative interventions.
      Whereas the Specified-Apgar score describes the condition of the infant, the Expanded-Apgar
      is a measure of interventions needed to achieve this condition. By combining both scores
      (Combined-Apgar) the postnatal condition is described in more detail than by a single score
      alone.

      To validate the accuracy of these scores in a population of very preterm infants, the present
      prospective, observational, international multicenter study is planned. Until today there is
      no gold standard available to describe infant's conditions and interventions. For the
      evaluation of the scores it was therefore hypothesized that the Combined Apgar predicts poor
      outcome (defined as either death or any major morbidity) better than the Specified Apgar or
      Expanded Apgar alone. Prediction of poor outcome was used as a surrogate parameter to test
      the predictive value of the Combined-Apgar score in a clinical setting for preterm infants.
      In an attempt to determine how strong of an association there is between the Combined Apgar
      Score and neurologic impairment in early childhood, we are presently engaged in a long-term
      follow-up of all surviving infants at a corrected age of 24 months.
    
  