
    
      All subjects will be assessed and prescribed a pain regimen as part of standard practice at
      the initial visit. Subjects will provide a buccal swab for pharmacogenomic testing and will
      be discharged on their initial pain regimen.

      After the initial visit, subjects will be asked to rate their daily pain on a scale of 0-10.
      A coordinator will follow up with the subject within 7 days (Assessment #1). Subjects will be
      asked to report information about their pain scores, pain medication use, and caffeine
      intake, in addition to any bothersome symptoms. Subjects who continue to have "uncontrolled
      pain", are experiencing bothersome symptoms, and/or requests for a drug/dose modification
      will have his/her drug/dose modified using the pharmacogenomic test results. If the subject
      has had significant pain improvement, stable mild pain and/or is satisfied with their level
      of pain at the assessment (regardless of pain score), he/she will be recommended to continue
      the current drug/dose and return to clinic on day 30 for the final follow-up. Subjects will
      be told to call if their pain becomes intolerable or if they experience bothersome symptoms
      after Assessment #1 for further drug/dose modification if needed prior to day 30.

      The coordinator will follow up with the subjects receiving a drug/dose modification after
      another 7 days (Assessment #2). Subjects who have now had significant pain improvement,
      stable mild pain, and/or are satisfied with their level pain at the assessment (regardless of
      pain score) will continue on the same regimen. If the subjects' pain is still "uncontrolled",
      they are experiencing bothersome symptoms, and/or they request a drug/dose modification,
      their drug/dose will be modified accordingly. Subjects will be told to call if needed,
      otherwise they will be seen in clinic on day 30 (Final Assessment).

      If the subject experiences intolerable pain prior to any scheduled assessment, the subject
      will call for appropriate drug/dose modification.
    
  