
    
      Background:

      Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) or Kennedy's disease is a slowly progressive,
      X-linked motor neuron disease for which there is currently no treatment. It is caused by a
      mutation in the androgen receptor that results in a polyglutamine repeat expansion. Recent
      animal studies have demonstrated that decreasing endogenous androgen levels leads to
      functional improvement and increased survival. Studies have also shown that high levels of 5
      alpha-reductase, the enzyme that converts testosterone to the more potent dihydrotestosterone
      (DHT), are present in the ventral spinal cord, while low levels of this enzyme are found
      within skeletal muscle. Thus, by selectively decreasing levels of DHT with dutasteride, a 5
      alpha-reductase inhibitor, it is hypothesized that there will be a selective protection of
      motor neurons, without the adverse effects of reducing the anabolic effects of androgen on
      muscle.

      Objective:

      This will be a phase II, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial examining the safety and
      efficacy of the 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor dutasteride in inhibiting the progression of
      neurodegeneration in patients with Kennedy's disease. Natural history data will also be
      obtained from the placebo control arm.

      Study Population:

      We aim to enroll 50 men with genetically confirmed Kennedy's disease.

      Design:

      Our objective is to examine the safety and efficacy of dutasteride given at a dose of 0.5 mg
      a day for 2 years in an outpatient setting. This will be a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial with 25 subjects in each arm. The subjects will be evaluated
      neurologically and endocrinologically every 6 months at the NIH Clinical Center. In addition
      to their clinical visits at the NIH, subjects will also be examined by their primary
      physician after 3, 9, 15, and 21 months of treatment. The primary objective is to examine the
      effects of dutasteride on inhibiting or reversing the rate of progression of weakness as
      measured by quantitative muscle testing. Following informed consent, patients will undergo an
      initial medical history and physical followed by testing of specific neurological and
      endocrinological measures over a two-day outpatient visit. Patients will provide blood
      samples for analysis of hormonal levels and extent of muscle damage every three months. In
      addition, at the initial, one-year, and two-year follow-up visits patients will have nerve
      conduction studies as well as quantitative and functional strength evaluation. Each patient
      will be randomized to the treatment or placebo arm and will be given a 3 month supply of the
      study drug or a matched placebo at each visit. In between clinic visits, the NIH clinical
      pharmacy will send an additional 3 month supply to each subject until the subsequent visit.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measure used will be quantitative muscle testing (QMT). Secondary outcome
      measures include the Adult Myositis Assessment Tool (AMAT), 2-minute walk, a quality of life
      measure (Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short Form Version 2, SF-36v2), neurophysiological
      testing (sensory nerve action potentials, and statistical motor unit number estimation).
      Changes in hormone levels (testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, androstenedione, estradiol),
      and creatine kinase levels will also be measured and correlated with changes in strength.
      Evaluation of disease severity and course as related to CAG repeat length and androgen levels
      will also be assessed.

      Future Directions:

      The results of this phase II study will assist us in developing a multi-center, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled phase III trial. In addition, natural history data will be obtained from
      the control arm that will be important in future clinical trials of SBMA.
    
  