
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most common neuromuscular disorder among children, resulting from
      a non-progressive injury during early brain development which leads to impairment of movement
      and posture.

      Individuals with CP exhibit a wide range of motor disabilities; however, approximately 70% of
      them achieve the ability to ambulate during childhood, albeit with difficulty.

      Muscle weakness and spasticity associated with CP limit the joint range of motion and
      negatively impact ambulatory ability. The ankle joint is affected in virtually all patients.
      Insufficient ankle dorsiflexion during swing, foot drop and excessive plantar flexion during
      early to mid-stance may cause standing and walking instability with greater risk for falling.
      Most ambulatory children with CP are prescribed with ankle-foot orthoses (AFOs) to improve
      ankle position and stability for standing and walking and to maintain muscle range.
      Nevertheless, AFOs may also restrict desired motions and may exacerbate muscle weakness and
      atrophy, leading to further loss of function over time. In addition many children, especially
      adolescents, avoid using AFOs because of discomfort and concerns regarding negative effects
      on body image.

      During the last years a novel method is being used for treating upper motor neuron drop foot,
      by means of dynamic orthoses, namely Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES).

      These FES devices cause dorsiflexion of foot by stimulating the peroneal nerve and activating
      the tibialis anterior muscle.

      FES devices, by actively stimulating the muscle have theoretical advantages over static AFOs.
      In addition the stimulator can be cosmetically better accepted.

      Most of the studies of FES devices were conducted on adult population with upper motor neuron
      defect. These studies showed improvement in laboratory and functional gait parameters.In
      addition to the direct orthotic effect of the device during utilization, some studies also
      indicated a therapeutic effect ("carry over effect"), which was postulated to arise through
      the neural plasticity facilitation by increasing the strength of afferent feedback inputs to
      CNS. Whether this therapeutic effect actually exists and for how long is still unclear.

      A variety of Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) devices are being increasingly
      prescribed as a treatment option in CP children. There are relatively few studies on children
      with hemiplegic or diplegic CP. Prosser et al(Prosser et al 2013), reported good
      acceptability of FES device in CP population. Other studies have showed as well favorable
      results, with improvement of ankle kinematics parameters, such as dorsiflexion angle at swing
      phase and initial contact. Damiano et al (Damiano et al 2012) showed evidence of
      use-dependent muscle plasticity with increased tibialis anterior muscle thickness while using
      FES devices in CP patients.

      There is still no solid evidence whether the improvements seen in laboratory setting are
      reflected on functional ambulation in daily life. Some studies showed improvement in walking
      speed while others did not.

      Moreover, some studies also indicated an effect variability among subjects, which could be
      partially explained by the heterogeneity of CP population. There are no defined parameters
      which could predict the response to FES among those children.

      The WalkAide(WalkAide; Innovative Neurotronics, Austin, TX, USA) is a battery-operated, small
      medical electrical stimulator device, which attaches to a molded cuff located just below the
      knee and produces controlled dorsiflexion of the foot during walk.It utilizes a tilt sensor
      and accelerometer to control the timing and duration of the stimulation during walking.Use of
      the Tilt Sensor to trigger stimulation eliminates the need for additional components or
      external wires.

      The aim of this study is to determine whether using WalkAide device, improves daily motor
      function and gait parameters in children with spastic hemiplegic or diplegic CP. In addition,
      we aim to define clinical and biomechanical parameters that can predict a favorable response
      to using the FES device.
    
  