
    
      In recent years, people are more concerned with the aesthetic qualities of dental
      restorations and in response to enhancements in the resin technologies, tooth-colored resin
      composite materials are increasingly being used for posterior teeth instead of amalgam
      fillings. Developments during the years in chemical composition, filler reinforcement, and
      adhesive techniques have resulted in many new modified categories of materials. Some
      researchers recommend the use of the incremental technique, in which the composite material
      is gradually placed in layers of 2mm or less.

      This approach to restore teeth has a number of advantages, for example, it results in better
      light penetration and better polymerization of composite resin, reduction in cavity
      configuration factor, reduction in polymerization shrinkage stress and ensures that the resin
      adheres to the cavity walls. During curing of the resin, a network of polymers is formed,
      which becomes rigid due to increased cross linking of the polymer chains. Decreasing mobility
      of the network causes further shrinkage and results in a strain on the resin composite and
      cavity margins. The resulting stress has been associated with marginal deficiencies, enamel
      fractures, cuspal movement, and cracked cusps, which in turn may result in microleakage,
      post-operative sensitivity, and secondary caries. It has been stated that posterior class II
      and especially class I cavities with a high C-factor will result in greater stresses due to a
      larger number of bonded surfaces.

      However, there are number of disadvantages associated with the use of an incremental approach
      to place the resin. For example, voids can be trapped in between the increments, bonding
      failure can occur in between the increments, difficulty in placing the composite material
      after cavity preparation and the long time taken for the procedure. In an effort to counter
      these problems, a new restorative material has been introduced in 2009 which is known as
      'bulk-fill' composite, in order to increase efficiency of the operator. However, many
      clinicians who have accustomed to the incremental cure philosophy when placing the
      light-cured composite quite rightly question what has been changed to make these bulk-fill
      light-cured composite a variable alternative. According to some researchers, bulk-fill
      composite offers more advantages compared to the layered composite. These include increased
      efficiency in working time, reduced polymerization shrinkage and reduces the risk of
      contamination and voids forming between the resins.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the clinical performance of bulk-fill composite as
      compared to the layered composite technique in class I and class II restorations over the
      period of 2 years.
    
  