
    
      A cross-sectional study was performed in pSS patients from two different French tertiary
      referral centers for autoimmune diseases (Paris-Bicêtre and Montpellier). From January 2016
      to November 2017, questionnaires were randomly delivered to patients with pSS according to
      European-American Diagnostic Criteria (2002). Before completing the questionnaire, patients
      gave their consent to participate. This questionnaire was adapted from questionnaires used by
      the French national agency "Institut de Veille Sanitaire" to study vaccination coverage and
      were completed with the assistance of one fellow (HL) to limit missing data.

      Data collected in the questionnaire included previous vaccinations, reasons for
      non-vaccination, sources of vaccine proposition, and sociodemographic data including
      education level (Bachelor degree, and post-Bachelor degree education) and presence of young
      child(ren) (inferior 10 years old) at home. The following data was collected from the medical
      file: European-American Diagnostic Criteria (2002) for pSS, the most recent EULAR Sjögren's
      syndrome disease activity index (ESSDAI), comorbidities (chronic lung diseases, diabetes,
      chronic kidney diseases, chronic liver diseases, chronic heart diseases, cardiovascular
      comorbidities [coronary or cerebral ischemia] and severe neurological or muscle diseases),
      history of severe A cross-sectional study was performed in pSS patients from two different
      French tertiary referral centers for autoimmune diseases (Paris-Bicêtre and Montpellier).
      From January 2016 to November 2017, questionnaires were randomly delivered to patients with
      pSS according to European-American Diagnostic Criteria (2002). Before completing the
      questionnaire, patients gave their consent to participate. This questionnaire was adapted
      from questionnaires used by the French national agency "Institut de Veille Sanitaire" to
      study vaccination coverage and were completed with the assistance of one fellow (HL) to limit
      missing data. Data collected in the questionnaire included previous vaccinations, reasons for
      non-vaccination, sources of vaccine proposition, and sociodemographic data including
      education level (Bachelor degree, and post-Bachelor degree education) and presence of young
      child(ren) (inferior 10 years old) at home. The following data was collected from the medical
      file: European-American Diagnostic Criteria (2002) for pSS, the most recent EULAR Sjögren's
      syndrome disease activity index (ESSDAI), comorbidities (chronic lung diseases, diabetes,
      chronic kidney diseases, chronic liver diseases, chronic heart diseases, cardiovascular
      comorbidities [coronary or cerebral ischemia] and severe neurological or muscle diseases),
      history of severe infection (requiring intravenous antibiotics or hospital admission),
      current smoking status, treatments used for pSS including hydroxychloroquine,
      immunosuppressive drugs (methotrexate, leflunomide, ciclosporine, azathioprine, mycophenolate
      mofetil) and biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (bDMARDs).

      For descriptive statistical analysis, mean more or less SD were used for continuous variables
      and frequencies (percentage) for categorical variables. To evaluate factors associated with
      up-to-date vaccination, the investigators compared categorical variables between patients
      with updated and non-updated influenza, pneumococcal or DTP vaccines by using the Fisher
      exact test or chi-square test as appropriate. Continuous variables (age, ESSDAI) were
      compared by Student t test. A binary logistic regression model was used for multivariate
      analysis to estimate the odds ratio (OR) of being vaccinated with the 95% confidence interval
      (CI). p< 0.05 was considered statistically significant. All statistical analyses were
      performed with IBM SPSS 15 software.
    
  