
    
      This protocol seeks to formally create the database that will store demographic data. The
      data will be used by VISN 19 MIRECC Investigators solely for recruitment purposes for future
      studies.

      The repository data will include:

        1. Data regarding individuals in existing study databases who have already provided
           permission to have their information stored and used for future recruitment into VISN 19
           MIRECC research studies (specific data elements to be collected will be articulated
           below).

        2. Data of individuals to be collected and saved to use for future recruitment into VISN 19
           MIRECC research studies.

      A restricted section of the V19-MRD will contain V19-MRD identification numbers and
      identifying data including name (first, last, middle initial), Social Security number, phone
      number(s) (primary and secondary), date of birth, and mailing address. A less restricted
      section of the V19-MRD will contain V19-MRD identification numbers, the COMIRB protocol
      number of the study the participant was recruited from, gender, year of birth, and criteria
      identifiers marked as present or absent (i.e., history of medical and mental health
      conditions, history of suicide - thoughts/behaviors, history of combat experience, and
      presence of imaging results).

      The V19-MRD would enhance current research strategies by first allowing VISN 19 MIRECC
      Investigators an efficient method to conduct preliminary or ongoing investigations to
      determine if: 1) sufficient populations exist to conduct a study; or 2) potential
      participants meeting specific study criteria are included in the database who could be
      contacted regarding study participation. Second, with an approved protocol, the V19-MRD
      contact section of the database could be used to facilitate mailings to potential
      participants.
    
  