
    
      Introduction:

      Lung aspiration is an inherent complication of the loss of protective upper airway reflexes
      during general anesthesia. Its incidence is low in elective surgery, when preoperative
      fasting rules have been complied and in absence of risk factors for regurgitation of gastric
      contents. In emergency conditions, non-compliance with preoperative fasting rules and delayed
      gastric emptying increase the risk of regurgitation and therefore lung aspiration of gastric
      contents. In this context, a rapid sequence induction of anaesthesia is recommended to
      minimize the risk of regurgitation which combines the use of short delay and short duration
      of action anesthetics agents associated with the application of a Sellick maneuver. The goal
      of this maneuver is to collapse the esophagus by compressing it between the cricoid cartilage
      and the fifth cervical vertebra. Because of the low level of evidence supporting the Sellick
      maneuver in the literature, this maneuver, remains controversial although recommended.

      Hypothesis: The aim of this study is to assess the Sellick maneuver during rapid sequence
      induction in adults (pregnant women excluded) by comparing the incidence of lung aspiration
      whether this maneuver is applied or sham, in a noninferiority trial.

      Primary endpoint: Incidence of lung aspiration

      Secondary endpoints: Cormack and Lehane Grade , frequency of difficult intubation, frequency
      of impossible intubation, effect of releasing the Sellick maneuver on these three criteria,
      frequency of aspiration pneumonia within 24 hours, frequency of complications due to the
      Sellick maneuver (esophageal rupture and cricoid cartilage fracture rates) and mortality at
      day 28 or at hospital discharge.

      Methods: This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, non-inferiority trial. We compare a
      group of patients benefiting from a rapid sequence induction without achieving the Sellick
      maneuver, where the movement is fake (sham group) with a group of patients undergoing a rapid
      sequence induction with effective execution of this maneuver (Sellick group). The two patient
      groups differ only by the effective or sham application of the Sellick maneuver .

      In both arms, the Sellick maneuver , whether real or fake , can be released at the request of
      the person performing orotracheal intubation in particular to improve intubating conditions
      or in case of active vomiting. However, it should be kept in case of need for ventilation
      facemask.

      Number of patients: The number of patients is estimated at 1 750 patients per group and so
      3500 patients.

      Inclusion criteria: patients older than 18 yr undergoing general anesthesia requiring rapid
      sequence induction (full stomach or presence of at least one risk factor for regurgitation of
      stomach content) are eligible.

      Exclusion criteria: patients non consenting, pregnancy, contraindication to Sellick maneuver
      or succinylcholine, patients with predictive signs of bronchopneumonia during the
      preanesthetic consultation, patients with pulmonary contusion, upper respiratory tract
      abnormalities, laryngeal trauma, patients requiring an alternative to direct laryngoscopy,
      patients with troubles of consciousness, use of plastic single used laryngoscopic blade, use
      of rocuronium as neuromuscular blockade agent.
    
  