
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) ranks sixth in cancer incidence and third in cancer mortality
      worldwide. The diagnosis of HCC is made on the basis of tumor markers and imaging examination
      such as CT or MRI at present. The most commonly used serological marker is alpha-fetoprotein
      (AFP), of which the sensitivity ranges from 33% to 85% and is only 56.3% on average. The
      sensitivities of CT and MRI in the diagnosis of small HCC lesions (diameter ≤ 2cm) reported
      to be about only 20% and 27% respectively. Therefore, distinction from small malignancies to
      benign lesions by using tumor marker tests or conventional imaging method may be difficult
      and unreliable.

      Positron emission tomography (PET) is widely used in oncology. Fluorine-18-Fluorodeoxyglucose
      (18F-FDG) PET seems to be a powerful imaging method in diagnosis of breast cancer, gastric
      cancer, and colorectal cancer. However, our previous study has showed the limited diagnostic
      sensitivity of 18F-FDG PET in HCC lesions (54%), which makes 18F-FDG PET of no additional
      value to conventional imaging in the diagnosis of HCC. 11C-acetate PET has been used in the
      diagnosis of various malignant tumors. Compared with 18F-FDG PET, 11C-acetate PET has an
      increased sensitivity (63.6%) in diagnosis of well-differentiated HCC, which presents a high
      avidity for acetate rather than glucose. However, it still has a high rate of misdiagnoses,
      and has been insufficient to complement 18F-FDG PET for a better diagnosis.

      18F-FECH is a new tracer used in PET synthesized by Nuclear Medical Center of Peking Union
      Medical College Hospital and is favored for diagnosis of primary brain tumor. 18F-FECH showed
      a high presence of biological distribution in liver and was rarely used in HCC diagnosis.
      Recently, we find that 18F-FECH may presents a higher sensitivity in diagnosis of intra- and
      extra-hepatic lesions of HCC respectively, which are much higher than those of 18F-FDG or
      11C-acetate PET scan. Therefore, 18F-FECH PET could be a promising tool in diagnosis and
      staging, therapy selection and prognostic evaluation for HCC patients. However, more
      researches are required to assess the accuracy and application prospect of 18F-FECH PET in
      the diagnosis of HCC.

      The aim of our study are:

        1. To establish the model of clinical experimental prospective study, and to evaluate the
           sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of 18F-FECH PET in diagnosis of HCC.

        2. To assess the accuracy of 18F-FECH PET in diagnosis of HCC at the early stage (diameter
           ≤ 3cm), and to explore the difference of 18F-FECH PET imaging findings between early or
           late HCC lesions in order to guide the clinical application in the future.

        3. To evaluate the effectiveness of 18F-FECH PET in differential diagnosis of HCC and liver
           benign lesions such as hemangioma, focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH), hepatic adenoma, and
           primary neuroendocrine tumors.

        4. To evaluate the effectiveness of 18F-FECH PET in differential diagnosis of HCC and other
           hepatic malignancies (ICC, HCC-ICC, CC, malignant lymphadenoma, sarcoma or
           adenocarcinoma) or metastatic neoplasm.

        5. To explore the clinical pathological characteristics of HCC patients which may affect
           the accuracy of 18F-FECH PET in diagnosis of HCC, and to determine under which
           conditions the patients are suitable for 18F-FECH PET scan and to explore whether the
           liver disease itself, such as cirrhosis would affect the diagnostic efficacy of 18F-FECH
           PET. The characteristics include tumor size (diameter ≤ or > 3cm), number of lesions,
           Edmondson grade (including immuno-histochemistry), tumor thrombus in portal vein,
           extra-hepatic metastasis, clinical stage; patients' age, sex, history of disease
           (including chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, metabolic disease such as hepatolenticular
           degeneration, genetic diseases such as Gaucher disease and Niemann-Peak disease), liver
           function (Child-Pugh grade) and coagulation function.

        6. To search the differences of accuracy between 18F-FECH PET and 18F-FDG PET in diagnosis
           of HCC, and to explore the value of them in HCC diagnosis.

        7. To detect the relationship between 18F-FECH PET imaging findings and the prognosis of
           HCC patients under the same treatment, and to determine whether the 18F-FECH PET imaging
           findings can be used as independent factors in evaluating prognosis of HCC.

        8. To explore the mechanism of imaging features and specific findings of 18F-FECH PET in
           the diagnosis of HCC, which may offer potential help for analyzing 18F-FECH PET results.
    
  