
    
      Approximately 16,000-39,000 persons come in contact with potentially rabid animals and
      receive rabies postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) each year in the US. To appropriately manage
      potential human exposures to rabies, the risk for infection must be accurately assessed.
      Administration of rabies PEP is a medical urgency, not a medical emergency, but decisions
      must not be delayed. Prophylaxis is occasionally complicated by adverse reactions, but these
      reactions are rarely severe. Current data on the safety and efficacy of active and passive
      rabies vaccination were derived from both human and animal studies. Timely and appropriate
      human pre-exposure prophylaxis (Pre-EP) and PEP will prevent human rabies. Currently in the
      US, the approved dosage and administration for PEP in previously unvaccinated persons
      consists of the administration of vaccine (HDCV or PCECV) and HRIG. Vaccine is administered
      IM on days 0, 3, 7, 21, and 28 (deltoid area). The approved dosage and administration for
      pre-exposure prophylaxis (Pre-EP) consists of three 1.0-mL injections of vaccine (HDCV or
      PCECV) administered IM (deltoid area), one injection per day on days 0, 7, and 21 or 28).
      Intradermal (ID) route of administration of rabies vaccination is used in certain countries
      both for PEP and Pre-EP, and approved by WHO for modern potent cell culture vaccines. Recent
      studies outside the USA found the use of PCEC rabies vaccine by ID administration immunogenic
      and safe.

      The primary goals of this study are to obtain additional safety and immunogenicity data on ID
      administration of 0.1 mL doses of the inactivated PCEC rabies virus vaccine in adults. Given
      the need to provide alternative routes of administration to the current approved
      intramuscular route in order to protect a larger number of people facing potential vaccine
      shortages. The data yielded by this clinical trial will provide evidence to support
      alternative route of administration and dose of PCECV in the US.
    
  