
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by severe acute
      respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) that has posed a significant threat to global
      health. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been identified as a functional receptor
      for coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. SARS-CoV-2 infection is triggered by
      the binding of the virus spike protein to ACE2, which is highly expressed in the heart and
      lungs.

      There are multiple connections between COVID-19 and the cardiovascular system. First,
      COVID-19 patients and pre-existing cardiovascular disease are at increased risk for serious
      adverse events. Second, the infection has been associated with multiple direct and indirect
      cardiovascular complications, such as acute myocardial injury, myocarditis, arrhythmias, and
      thromboembolism. Third, the therapies under investigation for COVID-19 may have
      cardiovascular side effects. There is clear scientific evidence linking COVID-19 with cardiac
      damage, with a subsequent impact on mortality from any cause. The reasons for increased
      mortality in patients with COVID-19 and heart damage are not fully understood.

      The long-term prognosis for patients who have had COVID-19 is entirely unknown. Previous
      experience with SARS-CoV suggests that both the underlying disease and its treatment could be
      associated with a worse cardiovascular prognosis. In a study of 25 survivors of SARS-CoV, at
      12 years of follow-up, altered lipid metabolism was found. Similarly, viral diseases such as
      influenza A are associated with increased cardiovascular mortality after infection.

      For the reasons stated above, the investigators consider that patients who presented COVID-19
      have a high risk of long-term cardiovascular adverse events such as cardiac death, myocardial
      infarction, stroke, heart failure, and cardiac arrhythmias. To test this hypothesis, the
      investigators aimed to perform a registry of patients who have undergone a diagnostic
      nasopharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 and determine their long-term cardiovascular outcomes.
    
  