
    
      Patients with asthma have obstruction to exhalation resulting in hyperinflation of their
      lungs. This hyperinflation results in a phenomenon known as pulsus paradoxus in which the
      physiologic drop in blood pressure normally seen with inhalation is exaggerated. Studies have
      shown that patients with more severe asthma exacerbations (i.e. more hyperinflation) have a
      greater degree of pulsus paradoxus. Typically, pulsus paradoxus is measured using a
      sphygmomanometer, however, researchers have demonstrated that it can also accurately be
      measured using plethysmography, a term known as pleth variability index (PVI). Using this
      concept, Arnold et al (2008, 2010) showed that a greater degree of pulsus paradoxus
      correlates with asthma severity.

      The investigators' study aims to simplify the association between PVI and asthma severity.
      The investigators hypothesize the following:

        1. Patients with a higher admission PVI will have a higher likelihood of being admitted to
           the hospital.

        2. Patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (PICU) will have a higher PVI than patients
           admitted to a floor.

        3. PVI can be accurately used to gauge response to bronchodilator/anti-inflammatory
           therapy.

        4. PVI is as effective as respiratory severity score in predicting asthma severity and in
           gauging response to bronchodilator therapy.

      To do this the investigators will recruit children who present to the pediatric ED in status
      asthmaticus. They will be connected to a Masimo Radical 7 monitor upon admission to the ED
      and then again 4 hours later. In addition the investigators will calculate respiratory
      severity scores at those same time intervals. The investigators will then look at the
      disposition of the patient upon leaving the ED: discharge to home, admission to an inpatient
      floor or admission to the ICU.
    
  