
    
      This study is a double-blinded randomized control trial comparing tilmanocept to TSC as
      intraoperative radiolabeled mapping agents in female patients with early stage breast cancer
      undergoing partial mastectomy with SLNBx.

      To secure this aim, patients who are schedule to undergo partial mastectomy and SLBx will be
      consented and randomized (randomization table) into one of two experimental arms, tilmanocept
      or TSC.

      These patients will then undergo their scheduled partial mastectomy with SLNBx, with the
      patient and surgeon blinded to the randomization result.

      The respective radiotracers will both be delivered to the OR in the same delivery device and
      volumes to continue to preserve anonymity of the material. Care will be taken to handle the
      radiotracers along the standards and guidelines that are already in practice in Memorial
      Health University Hospital's nuclear medicine department. Two intradermal injections of these
      radiotracers will be delivered at 3 and 6 o'clock positions at the edge of the areola, after
      induction of general anesthesia, allowing for less discomfort to the patient.

      Methylene blue (5-10 ml) will also be injected in the subareolar space immediately afterwards
      in all study patients, using a separate syringe, in accordance with the surgeon's current
      standard practice.

      Transcutaneous probing of the axilla measuring counts per second will be performed in 3
      minute intervals after injection of the radiotracer. Incision in the axilla can, at the
      earliest, be at 15 minutes, as this is the FDA approved earliest time for tilmanocept. At
      this time, if the transcutaneous "hot spot" detected by the gamma detector probe is detected,
      an incision for SLNBx will proceed. A hot spot is defined as an area of increased
      radioactivity in the axilla with a fall-off in radioactive counts in adjacent tissue. If a
      hot spot is not detected, transcutaneous probing will continue at 3 minute intervals until
      this value is reached. In an effort to not prolong the anesthesia time, incision at 30
      minutes will be performed even if a hot spot is not identified transcutaneously.

      No changes will be made to the method of SLNBx for this study. As axillary lymph node
      dissection is no longer the standard of care at the time of SLNBx in partial mastectomy, we
      will continue the practice of sending the SLN for permanent sectioning, however this will be
      at the surgeon's discretion. If at the time of surgery there are histologically metastatic
      nodes or if a sentinel node cannot be identified, the surgeon can proceed to axillary lymph
      node dissection at their discretion, however for the purposes of this study only SLN data
      will be tracked (please see below for further information on data collection).

      Description of method for SLNBx:

      After the intradermal injection of tilmanocept or TSC and sub-areolar injection of methylene
      blue, and the decision to proceed with SLNBx, the standard incision will be made in the
      axilla overlying the area with the most counts per second per the gamma probe. The
      subcutaneous tissues are then dissected to the clavipectoral fascia. The fascia is then
      incised and the axilla is again probed with the gamma probe. Once a blue node or radioactive
      node(s) is detected they are excised. A radioactive node will be defined as having counts per
      second that are 10 times higher than surrounding tissue (background count). Once excised, an
      "ex-vivo" count will be taken of the sentinel node(s) and recorded. If the background
      radiation of the axilla is less than 10% the counts per second (cps) of the "hottest"
      harvested sentinel lymph node, the search for radioactive sentinel nodes will be deemed
      complete. If there is greater than 10% the counts per second remaining in the axilla, then
      additional nodes will be identified and excised using the same methods until the background
      radiation is less than 10% the counts per second of the hottest sentinel nodes removed.
      Additional nodes which are blue but not radioactive will be excised, as will any clinically
      suspicious nodes.
    
  