
    
      This study will evaluate the acceptability and effectiveness of a strength-based intervention
      (Kessler Foundation Strength Identification and Expression; KF-STRIDE) that can enhance job
      interview skills and employment. Despite possessing employable talents, the core social
      deficits of transition age youth with autism spectrum disorder (TAY-ASD) make it difficult
      for this group to articulate their individual strengths. This inability to identify and
      express one's strengths to a potential employer can negatively affect interview performance
      and lead to difficulty with job obtainment. Thus, the current proposal will examine the
      effectiveness (Aim 1), acceptability, usability, and feasibility (Aim 2) of a novel
      strength-based intervention, KF-STRIDE, which is designed to enhance the ability of TAY-ASD
      to identify personal strengths and effectively discuss them. The goals of the current study
      are to evaluate the preliminary effectiveness and feasibility of KF-STRIDE in an 8-week
      randomized controlled trial comparing the intervention to services as usual (SAU). The study
      will be performed at two private therapeutic schools. Compared to a SAU group, we hypothesize
      that the KF-STRIDE group will: a) improve the ability to identify strengths (Hypothesis 1),
      b) improve the ability to express strengths (Hypothesis 2), c) improve other job interview
      skills (Hypothesis 3) and finally c) improve ability to obtain employment 6-months following
      the intervention (Hypothesis 4). In this way, the current study is in line with the NIMH's
      experimental therapeutics model, as we will examine whether the intervention improves
      employment, as well as identify potential mechanistic targets that could affect outcome. In
      Aim 2, we will also monitor fidelity, acceptability, usability, and feasibility of the
      strength-based intervention. The long-term goal of the current research is to collect pilot
      data that will lead to fully-powered effectiveness and implementation evaluations of
      KF-STRIDE in other community settings.
    
  