
    
      Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is one of the most common progressive childhood muscle
      diseases with an incidence of 1 in 3500 male newborns and is associated primarily with
      decreased life expectancy. Pathogenetically, there is a deficiency of dystrophin, a
      structural protein of the sarcolemma, which is caused by mutations (usually deletions) of the
      dystrophin gene (Xp21.3-p21.2). The result of dystrophin deficiency is a necrosis of muscle
      cells that are replaced by connective tissue and adipose tissue. Clinical scores (6-minute
      walk test, 6MWT) and MRI studies to characterize the degenerative changes of skeletal muscle
      in the early stages are available for the quantitative assessment of the disease progression
      as well as therapy effects, the significance of which is controversially discussed. However,
      the highly sensitive assessment of gene therapy effects will become increasingly important in
      the future. Sensitive, non-invasive methods for the detection of early muscle degeneration
      and muscle function in the course are of great clinical and scientific importance.

      MSOT has already been demonstrated to be a potential monitoring tool in different diseases.
      However, it has not yet been investigated to what extent 1) previous physical activity 2)
      different measuring ranges at the muscle, 3) longitudinal measurements and 4) intra- and
      interoperative variability influences the measured results. In particular, molecular changes
      immediately after the 6-MWT are relevant for studies in patients with DMD.

      In this first pilot study, the investigators want to investigate in healthy adults, whether
      increased exercise changes the hemoglobin values, whether the collagen content remains
      constant and whether repeated measurements at different muscle positions by different
      investigators provide consistent results over time. This information is indispensable for
      future studies of children with muscular diseases in order to be able to make statements
      about disease progression or even therapy response.
    
  