
    
      The procedure:

        1. Eligible patients will be identified by the ED personnel.

        2. Research physician will address the patient, explain about the trial and ask the patient
           to sign a consent form.

        3. The patient will be randomized and assigned to a trial group: "A" or "B" and it will be
           noted in the Data sheet.

        4. According to physician order (IV amount and IM amount) and patient group assignment, the
           nurse will prepare and administer the different drugs.

        5. Patients in group "A" wiil receive IV Ketamine with IV morphine and IM placebo of normal
           saline. Patients in group "B" wiil receive IM Ketamine with IV morphine.

        6. The amount will be calculated based on the patients' weight:

           IV Morphine -0.1 mg/kg: Morphine vial contains 10 mg/10 ml. IV Ketamine -0.1 mg/kg:
           Ketamine vial contains 50 mg/1 ml. IM Ketamine -0.25 mg/kg: Ketamine vial contains 50
           mg/1 ml.

        7. Prior to administering medication to the patient a research assistant, who is blinded to
           the choice of drugs given, will measure vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate and O2
           saturation) as well as pain level on a 100 mm VAS (visual analogue scale) questionnaire.

        8. After administration of medications the researcher assistant will measure vital signs
           (blood pressure, heart rate and O2 saturation) as well as pain level on a 100 mm VAS
           questionnaire, at 5 and 10 minutes after administration, and then at 30, 45, 60, and 90
           minutes.

        9. Measurement of vital signs will not interfere with any other treatment that the patients
           receives for their injury in the ED.

       10. Cardiorespiratory follow-up (as per bullet point number 8 above), will be concluded at
           1.5 hours post-intervention, and clinical follow-up will continue as long as the patient
           remains in the ED.

       11. During the time of the the followup and after, if pain had not subsided sufficiently
           according to treating physician's clinical assessment, patient will receive further
           analgesic medications by physician order, as per ED protocol. The protocol takes into
           account concurrent medications.
    
  