
    
      Combined antiretroviral therapy (ART) efficiently suppress viral replication and dramatically
      decrease mortality of the disease in HIV-1/AIDS patients.1 While in cART naive patients with
      chronic human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection often characterized by HIV-1
      replication, immune activation and deficiency, which lead to profound and systematic
      inflammation and pathoglogical change, especially in the AIDS patients with CD4 T count less
      than 50/uL, who often develop deadly complications, which accounts for the major cause of
      death group in spite of cART era. Up-to-date, there are no effective immune interventions to
      restore host holistic immunity for advanced AIDS patients.

      In pre-cARTera, HLA-matched lymphocytes or stem cell transplantation had been exploratively
      used in AIDS patients. However, this kind of therapy failed for immunological reconstitution
      due to the lack of antiviral therapy to suppress HIV-1 replication at that time. With the
      advent of cART, allogeneic HLA-matched or mismatched lymphocytes or stem cell
      transplantations were mainly used for AIDS patients with hematopoietic malignancies, the
      Berlin and London patients were the cured pateints. However, allogeneic transplantation can
      not be used outside the setting of hematopoietic malignancies. In addition, the high
      frequency of GVHD (Graft-versus-host disease) owning to a transient or long-lasting
      engraftment is inevitable.

      Until now, there has been no report of effective immune therapy for late-stage AIDS patients
      with acquired immunodeficiency and severe opportunistic infections (OIs). The urgent
      challenge is how to efficiently restore the host holistic immunity in AIDS patients at late
      stage.

      The investigators have recently developed a mismatched allogeneic adoptive immune therapy
      (AAIT) protocol in combination with cART, and found that the treatment was safety and
      tolerability in a phase I study. The purpose of this study is to further investigate the
      efficacy of allogeneic adoptive immune therapy (AAIT) for advanced AIDS patients. 120
      patients received i.v. transfusion one round (2-3 times) of 2.0-3.0*10E8 cells/kg of MNSs as
      the treated group, all of these patients received the conventional cART treatment. In
      addition, the equal 120 patients received cART were used as control. The side effects, CD4 T
      cell numbers, HIV viral load, clinical symptoms improvement, control of opportunistic
      infections, AIDS-related events and non-AIDS related events will be evaluated during the
      96-week follow up.
    
  