
    
      Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder that has multiple causes and
      very heterogeneous degrees. The main symptoms involve deficits in social interactions,
      difficulties in verbal and nonverbal communication, repetitive and stereotyped movements, and
      restricted patterns of interest. In the context of ASD rehabilitation, there is no specific
      treatment for autism so far, being the behavioral therapy the most used therapeutic strategy,
      but with still unsatisfactory results. Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) has
      been shown to be a promising technique for the treatment of different disorders, including
      ASD. The tDCS consists of electrical signals emitted through two electrodes in different
      areas of the scalp, according to the purpose of the study. The anodic current reduces the
      firing threshold of the neurons that are located in the cortex (that is, they increase the
      spontaneous firing of these neurons), whereas the cathodic current increases the firing
      threshold of the neurons (that is, it inhibits the activity of these neurons). Considering
      neuroplasticity mechanisms as fundamental in cognitive processing, tDCS becomes a promising
      tool in neuropsychological rehabilitation in the treatment of autistic symptoms. Previous
      research using protomagnetic resonance spectroscopy (H-MRS) showed lower levels of N-acetyl
      aspartate (NAA, a marker of mitochondrial function and neuronal density) in the left DLFPC
      (F3) of autistic patients, compared to healthy individuals. The findings suggest that left
      DLFPC dysfunction may be a component of the pathogenesis of autism. Such aspects could
      explain why anodic neurostimulation in F3 can improve the efficacy of autism treatment
      through the beneficial effects on the cognitive processes associated with DLFPC activity,
      such as attention and memory, executive functions, and social cognition. Social cognition can
      be understood as a neurobiological process that facilitates the interpretation of social
      signs, leading individuals to behave adaptively. In this perspective, investigations have
      been made that use noninvasive neuromodulatory techniques as promising tools for the
      promotion of social neuroplasticity, that is, the modulation of the functional and structural
      substrates of the nervous system associated with social cognition aiming at more adaptive
      social interactions.In this sense, this study is a sham-controlled, double-blind, randomized
      clinical trial aiming to evaluate the efficacy of anodic tDCS in aspects of social cognition
      of children with mild ASD. Considering that tDCS can modulate neuronal activity in patients
      with ASD, presented as a promising tool in the promotion of social neuroplasticity, it was
      hypothesized that participants treated with active current will present better performance in
      the social cognition tests than those submitted to sessions with simulated current.
      Participants treated with active current will present less number and duration of fixations
      in the ocular tracing during the execution of the test of recognition of emotional
      expressions than those submitted to the sessions with simulated current. Furthermore,
      cognitive processes such as executive functions are essential for social cognition because
      they enable the individual to engage in socially relevant activities, make decisions and
      behaviors to achieve goals. Deficits in social cognition as well as executive functioning
      have been considered central elements in the understanding and functionality of people with
      ASD. Thus, it was hypothesized that participants who are treated with active current will
      present better performance in the tests of executive functions than those submitted to the
      sessions with simulated current. Participants treated with active current will present less
      number and duration of fixations during ocular screening in the executive function test than
      those submitted to the simulated current sessions. Considering that there were no prior data
      on the effects of tDCS on patients with ASD using the primary outcome measure of the present
      study, a formal sample size calculation was not possible; thus, it was estimated that
      enrolling 20 patients would be a reasonable approach for an exploratory trial. Patients are
      being recruited from the appointment of rehabilitators of multidisciplinary rehabilitation
      centers for temporary or permanent disability and global developmental disorders in Paraíba,
      Brazil. Children diagnosed with ASD according DSM-V, will be randomized to two groups, one
      with active stimulation (1.5 mA) and the other with a sham current, in which the anode will
      be positioned over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (F3), while the cathode (reference
      electrode) will be placed in the right supraorbital area. The intervention will be applied
      for 5 consecutive days for 20 minutes. Furthermore, everyone will receive Social Cognition
      Training concomitantly with neurostimulation to enhance social skills in children with ASD.
      To control adverse effects, reports of patients with feelings/sensations of itching,
      tingling, burning, headache or other discomfort (1 none, 2 mild, 3 moderate, or 4 strong)
      will be recorded, along with whether this effect could be related to stimulation on a Likert
      scale; 1 (no relation) to 5 (strongly related).

      The Descriptive and inferential statistical analyzes will be performed through SPSS
      (Statistical package for the social sciences), version 20. The design of the statistical
      analyzes is based on previous literature studies of randomized and placebo-controlled
      clinical trials using tDCS. The intention-to-treat analysis will be used with the last
      observation carried forward method for patients who initiate treatment and receive at least 1
      session. In this way, all participants, including in case of withdrawal of the treatment
      before its completion, will be included in the analysis. It will be used as significance
      level p <0.05.

      The descriptive statistics will be used to describe the clinical and sociodemographic
      characteristics, as well as the primary and secondary outcomes of each group in T0. The
      groups will be compared using Student's t test for continuous variables, or chi-square, for
      categorical variables.

      The evaluation and efficacy of tDCS in all variables of the primary and secondary outcomes
      will be examined with mixed two-way ANOVA, repeated measures, one dependent variable and two
      independent variables, one intra-group (time, with 3 levels, T0, T2 and T3), and
      between-groups (two levels: Active, Sham). Covariance analyzes (ANCOVA) will be used to
      identify significant differences between groups using the T0 scores as covariables. In
      addition, adverse effects will be analyzed using the chi-square test.

      Linear logistic regression will be used to identify predictors of response. The independent
      variables are: tDCS active and sham, the predictive variables, analyzed one at a time, will
      be: age and severity of symptoms. Patients will undergo three social cognitive assessments:
      at baseline, week 2 (after stimulation), and 1 month later. Adverse effects will be computed
      at each session. Thus, this clinical trial aims to investigate the combined effects of
      transcranial direct current stimulation and social cognition training in improving the social
      skills of children with ASD.
    
  