
    
      Many men in Denmark have poor mental health and need help to recover. However, designing a
      rehabilitation intervention appealing to men is challenging. The 'Wild man Programme' is a
      rehabilitation programme for men on long-term sick leave and with clinical or self-reported
      stress due to prolonged health problems such as stress, anxiety, depression, cancer, chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cardiovascular disease or diabetes. The programme is a
      nature-based rehabilitation (NBR) initiative combining nature experiences, attention
      training, body awareness training and supporting community spirit.

      The aim of the present study is to examine whether the 'Wild man Programme' can help to
      increase quality of life among men on sick leave compared to treatment as usual.
      Additionally, the study examines which natural environments best work as supportive
      environments in the rehabilitation.

      A matched control study comparing an intervention group (N=38) which receives a nine-week
      nature-based intervention to a control group (N=38) receiving case management as treatment as
      usual in the municipalities. Outcomes are measured at baseline (T1), post treatment (T2), and
      at follow-up 6 months post intervention (T3). The primary outcome is an improvement in
      quality of life and the secondary outcome is a decrease in stress level.

      With the 'Wild man Programme' we investigate whether it is a model that can be implemented in
      the health system in Denmark to help men with different kinds of health problems improve
      their quality of life and stress levels. The programme can also deliver valuable information
      for future nature-based rehabilitation for women (Wild woman) and mixed gender groups. The
      project will also contribute with information on whether the method and the concept can be a
      valuable tool for health professionals in the health sector.
    
  