
    
      This study is a Phase 2 randomized, crossover study comparing ORMD-0801 given QD versus TID
      in subjects with T1D. Subjects with T1D will have a screening visit (Visit 1) during which
      they will be required to review and sign the informed consent form. Medical history and
      demographics will be collected. Vital signs will be measured, physical exam will be
      performed, and blood and urine samples will be collected for hematology/chemistry/urinalysis.
      Eligible subjects will be scheduled to return to the clinic in 1 week (Visit 2). Subjects
      fulfilling all inclusion/exclusion criteria will have a CGM placed, provided with a diary,
      dispensed Placebo capsules and asked to return to the clinic in 10 Days (Visit 3, Day 1) for
      randomization. At Visit 3, data from CGM will be downloaded and diaries will be collected.
      Blood samples will be collected in fasting for chemistry and HbA1c. Subjects will be
      randomized to receive either ORMD-0801 24 mg given once daily at bedtime, or ORMD-0801 8 mg
      given three times a day, 45-90 minutes before meals.

      Subjects will be instructed to continue their normal diet, and to adjust their basal and
      bolus insulin in the normal fashion. Subjects will be instructed to return to the clinic 10
      days before Visit 5 (Visit 4, Day 18). At Visit 4, compliance will be assessed, IMP and diary
      dispensed and the CGM will be placed. Subjects will be instructed to return to the clinic in
      10 days for Visit 5 (Day 28). At Visit 5 a fasting blood sample for chemistry panel and HbA1C
      will be drawn and after the diary has been collected and the CGM monitor removed, they will
      be crossed over to the alternate treatment regimen. IMP will be dispensed, and the subject
      will be asked to return 10 days before Visit 7 for Visit 6 (Day 46). At Visit 6, compliance
      will be checked, IMP and diary will be dispensed and the CGM will be placed. Subjects will be
      instructed to return in 10 days for Visit 7 (Day 56). At Visit 7 the CGM will be removed,
      compliance checked, the diary will be collected, and a blood sample will be drawn for a
      chemistry panel and HbA1C. A physical examination will be performed, and the subject will
      exit the study. Subjects will be provided with diaries at Visits 2, 4 and 6, and will be
      asked to capture the amount of basal and bolus exogenous insulin administered each day and
      calculate their carbohydrate count for all meals and snacks over the 10-day CGM monitoring
      period. Diaries will be collected at Visits 3, 5 and 7.
    
  