
    
      This is a prospective, investigator blinded, randomised controlled study involving all
      patients admitted to any of ten acute wards in a large, busy hospital serving both the local
      population of about 700,000 people and a wider area for specialist services.

      Patients will be identified at the time of admission and recruited as soon as possible by
      nursing and medical staff involved in the admission process. The primary exclusion criterion
      is some obvious reason that using the equipment is not possible (e.g. allergy to materials
      used).

      After gaining consent, from the patient, or assent from a relative if the person is unable to
      consent at the time, the patient will be registered and allocated a number. Each ward will
      have prefilled envelopes with a randomly determined group allocation within it, and after
      registration this will be opened to determine the patient's group. Each patient will be given
      a short information leaflet and consent form.

      Patients allocated to the intervention will be given the ear plugs and eye mask (in a plastic
      wallet, with instructions) and will be informed about their use.

      On the next morning (i.e. after the first night in hospital) the patient will be approached
      and asked if he or she agrees to provide outcome information. Specifically patients who were
      unable to give consent initially (or do not recall doing so) will have the project explained
      again.

      Provided the patient agrees, he or she will be given a SleepSure questionnaire to answer
      (with help if needed); this asks about quality and quantity of sleep, and use of aids to
      sleep.

      After discharge a researcher will also extract from the patient's clinical record (which is
      on computer, not paper) information such as length of stay and use of night sedation
      (zopiclone). Basic demographic data will be extracted, and the hospital's incident reporting
      system (also on computer) will be checked to identify any falls.

      All data will be recorded on a computerised data-base, anonymously, and the primary analysis
      will be a comparison of the two groups in terms of sleep quality, with secondary analyses
      investigating differences in rate of recorded falls, total amount of sleep medication used
      during hospital stay, and length of stay
    
  