
    
      Research questions and objectives

        1. Work package 1 (WP1): What characterizes pregnant undocumented migrants attending the
           voluntary clinics in Oslo and Bergen from 2009 to 2020?

             1. Give a descriptive summary of the population of pregnant undocumented migrants
                seeking care (e.g. age, number of children, time stayed in Norway, work status,
                family network) and the medical problems they are presenting.

             2. Investigate the care received based on indicators such as number of antenatal
                visits and the extent of collaboration with or referral to other health facilities.

             3. Investigate the risk of pregnancy related complications (e.g. pre-eclampsia and
                gestational diabetes) and adverse perinatal outcomes (e.g. use of Caesarean Section
                and pre-term birth) in women seeking care at the clinics.

        2. Work package 2 (WP2): Are there any consultation trends in pregnant undocumented
           migrants seeking emergency care at the emergency units (DEGPs) in Oslo and Bergen from
           2007 to 2020?

             1. Give a descriptive summary of the population of undocumented migrants seeking
                emergency care at the DEGPs, in particular pregnant undocumented migrants seeking
                care.

             2. Investigate trends in emergency consultations at the DEGPs for pregnant
                undocumented migrants after the start of the voluntary clinics (2009/2014),
                comparing with the trends in consultations for the general population of pregnant
                women seeking care.

             3. Investigate trends in emergency consultations at the DEGPs for pregnant
                undocumented migrants after the start of the voluntary clinics (2009/2014),
                comparing to the trends in consultations for other undocumented migrants.

        3. Work package 3 (WP3): What is the occurrence of pregnancy-related complications and
           adverse perinatal outcomes (as reported in the Medical Birth Registry of Norway) in
           patients without national identity number from 1999 to 2020?

             1. Investigate the prevalence of pregnancy related complications (e.g. pre-eclampsia,
                gestational diabetes, nutrient deficiency) in undocumented migrant women compared
                to foreign and Norwegian born women.

             2. Investigate the incidence of adverse perinatal outcomes (e.g. use of Caesarean
                section, pre-term birth, small for gestational age, low Apgar score) in
                undocumented migrant women compared with foreign and Norwegian born women.
    
  