
    
      The study is devoted to patients affected with advanced stage (IIB-IV) Hodgkin Lymphoma.

      The study aims to compare the efficacy of two alternative ABVD-based strategies, the first
      one (Comparator arm) based on a PET-2-adaptation, the second (Experimental arm) relying on a
      straight dose- and time-intensified schedule, devoid of any PET-adaptation.

      In the Comparator arm, the patients will receive two courses of standard ABVD (ABVD-28).
      Those with a PET-2 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with additional 4 ABVD
      courses while those with a PET-2-positive scan (Deauville score 4-5) will be diverted towards
      a deferred intensification with either escalated BEACOPP or HDT plus ASCR , according to the
      preference of the Center.

      In the Experimental arm, patients are treated with three cycles of a dose-dense/dose-intense
      ABVD (ABVD DD-DI) [e.g. a modified ABVD including the single escalation of doxorubicin to 35
      mg/m2 (70 mg/m2 per cycle) and a three-weekly recycle time for all drugs (e.g. administration
      of all 4 drugs at days 1 and 11 of each cycle)]. Those with a progressive disease or
      non-responder patients according to PET/CT imaging at interim evaluation (after cycle 3) as
      categorized with Lugano 2014 Classification will be diverted to salvage strategies. The other
      patients will receive one additional course of ABVD DD-DI followed by two courses of
      dose-dense three-weekly ABVD (ABVD DD) (e.g. administration of all four drugs at days 1 and
      11 of each cycle at the conventional doses, including doxorubicin at 25 mg/m2).

      In both treatment arms 30 Gy Involved Site Radiotherapy (ISRT) is scheduled for those
      patients PET-negative (DS=3) with residual tumor rests ≥ 2.5 cm and for PET-positive patients
      in PR (DS= 4 or 5) regardless of the size of the rests. The single reference dose is 2.0 Gy
      daily and fractionation is five times per week.

      Only in the Comparator arm the patients in CR (final score 1-3 according to 5PS by central
      review panel decision) will receive adjuvant ISRT at the initial bulky site(s) for a total
      reference dose of 30 Gy in single daily fractions of 2.0 Gy, five times weekly.

      Blinded independent central reviewing for PET imaging will supervise response categorization
      at interim and final PET/CT evaluation.
    
  