
    
      Background Information:

      Capecitabine is an orally administered systemic prodrug of 5'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine which is
      converted to 5-fluorouracil. Capecitabine is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract
      and then hydrolyzed in the liver. Capecitabine has been studied in the treatment of
      gastric/gastroesophageal cancer in addition to a wide variety of other malignancies (e.g. GI,
      breast).

      Objectives

      Phase I:

      Primary Objective:

        -  To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of capecitabine with combined fixed doses of
           epirubicin and carboplatin in patients with advanced solid cancers. With the
           identification of the MTD, determination of the recommended phase II dose will be made
           and used to further evaluate the specific anti-tumor activity of ECC in unresectable
           locally advanced and/or metastatic gastric/gastroesophageal cancer.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To describe the safety, toxicity profile, principle and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT)
           of ECC when given on this schedule; and

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetic behavior of capecitabine when given in combination with
           epirubicin and carboplatin as part of the ECC regimen.

      Phase II:

      Primary Objective

        -  To determine the anti-tumor activity of ECC when given at the RPTD in patients who have
           unresectable locally advanced and/or metastatic gastric/gastroesophageal cancer who have
           not received prior palliative chemotherapy.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To further characterize the toxicity profile of the ECC regimen;

        -  To determine time to progression, duration of response, and overall survival of patients
           on this study;

        -  To determine the effects of thymidylate synthase (TS) polymorphisms on both toxicities
           and efficacy of ECC in prospectively genotyped patients;

        -  To prospectively evaluate other potential pharmacogenetic correlates which may also play
           a role in augmenting toxicity, including MTHFR; and

        -  To assess effects of uridine glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UGT 2B7) polymorphisms on
           epirubicin metabolism.

      Study Design:

      This is a Phase I/II trial that will study the safety as well as the efficacy of the ECC
      combination chemotherapy regimen.

      Epirubicin: will be administered as an IV push at a fixed dose of 50mg/m2 on day 1 - repeated
      every 21 days

      Carboplatin: will be administered IV, at a fixed dose with an AUC of 5 (over a 1-hour
      infusion in 500ml of 5% dextrose) on day 1 - repeated every 21 days

      Capecitabine: will be administered as a twice daily oral medication (variable dose for phase
      I portion of the trial, but fixed dose for phase II portion of the trial) for 14 consecutive
      days (days 1-14) - repeated every 21 days

      For the phase I portion of the study cohorts of 3 patients will be treated at each of 3
      pre-determined dose levels of capecitabine and monitored for toxicity:

        -  Dose level 1: 750 mg/m2 bid

        -  Dose level 2: 850 mg/m2 bid

        -  Dose level 3: 1000 mg/m2 bid

        -  Dose level 4+: 25% dose escalation (rounded to the nearest twice a day dosing).

      Statistical Analysis

      Phase I:

      Summary statistics such as frequency and intensity of toxicity occurring at each dose level
      will be provided. The percentage of patients developing DLT at each dose level will be
      computed. The dose-toxicity curve can be estimated accordingly using either parametric or
      non-parametric methods.

      Phase II: A Simon's optimal two-stage phase II study will be conducted in patients with
      unresectable locally advanced or metastatic gastric or gastro-esophageal cancer at the RPTD
      of the ECC regimen. A total sample size of 43 patients will be required, 13 in the first
      stage and 30 in the second stage, if criteria for second stage accrual are met. If <=3/13
      patients respond, this is deemed to correspond with the initial rejection limit and no
      further patients will be enrolled. If >=4/13 patients respond, an additional 30 patients will
      be enrolled in the second stage (total sample size = 43). Further statistical details are
      specifically outlined in Section 8 of the protocol. The response rate, standard error and its
      95% confidence intervals (CI) will be calculated under the binomial distribution model. The
      efficacy of the regimen will then be evaluated by comparing the point estimates and 95% CI
      with historical data. Potential covariates for response will also be identified and evaluated
      via the logistic regression model. Kaplan-Meier estimates will be computed to estimate the
      secondary endpoints such as time to progression and survival. Cox-regression model can be
      applied incorporating covariates in the model. Fisher's exact test will be applied to compare
      the response rates between the different genetic TS polymorphisms groupings.

      Stopping Rules:

      Treatment will be discontinued and the patient will come off the trial therapy due to severe
      intercurrent illness, disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, patient request to stop,
      and/or if the physician deems it in the best interest of patient to discontinue.

      Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria

      Patient Population:

      Phase I - Histologically or cytologically confirmed solid tumor refractory to conventional
      cytotoxic anticancer therapy, or for which there are no standard therapies with a reasonable
      therapeutic index.

      Phase II - Inoperable/unresectable locally advanced and/or metastatic, histologically (or
      cytologically) confirmed adenocarcinoma or undifferentiated carcinoma of the stomach or
      gastro-esophageal junction presenting for first line palliative systemic treatment. Prior
      adjuvant chemoradiotherapy for gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma is allowed
      as long as the patient has completed adjuvant therapy >= 6 months prior to study entry.
      Patients need to have at least one site of measurable disease as defined by RECIST criteria.

      Inclusion:

      In general, to participate in the study, patients must be 18 years or older, have an expected
      life expectancy of > 12 weeks, WHO performance status 0-2, LVEF by MUGA > 50%, adequate organ
      function: hematological (ANC > 1.5X 10^9/L, platelets > 100 x 10^9/L, hepatic (bilirubin <
      1.5 x ULN, AST/ALT < 3 x ULN), renal (calculated creatinine clearance > 60 ml/min). Negative
      pregnancy test for females with child-bearing potential. Prior radiotherapy allowed but must
      be delivered to < 25% of bone marrow, must be completed > 4 weeks before study entry and
      patients must have recovered from all side effects of the radiotherapy. Radiation must not be
      delivered to the sole response indicator lesion, unless there is documented evidence of
      disease progression in that site after completion of radiation. Patients must be able to
      reliably tolerate and comply with oral/feeding tube administered medications (patients are
      considered eligible if the investigator deems that there is no malabsorption syndrome and no
      GI obstruction that would impair the delivery of orally administered chemotherapy). If
      patient has had prior anthracycline, cumulative dose must be < 300mg/m2 of doxorubicin or its
      equivalent.

      Exclusion:

      Patients currently enrolled in another clinical trial involving active cancer treatment.
      Treatment with doxorubicin > 300mg/m2 or its equivalent. Serious medical conditions including
      myocardial infarction within 6 months prior to entry, unstable angina, active cardiomyopathy,
      unstable ventricular arrhythmia, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension,
      uncontrolled psychotic disorders, serious active infections, uncontrolled diabetes or any
      other medical condition that might be aggravated by study treatment. Pre-existing neuropathy
      > grade 1, history of seizures or patients receiving anti-epileptic prophylaxis, active and
      or progressive brain or leptomeningeal metastasis, pregnant or lactating women, patients with
      evidence or recent history of drug or alcohol abuse, prior treatment with capecitabine or
      infusional 5-FU, known hypersensitivity to carboplatin, 5-FU, anthracyclines or known DPD
      deficiency. Patients that lack physical integrity of the GI tract leading to intestinal
      obstruction. Patients taking warfarin, Coumadin or other coumarin derivatives. Presence of
      any mentally incapacitating psychological condition.

      Recruitment:

      The expected total number of patients to be enrolled (phase I and II) is 65.
    
  