
    
      We recently completed a double-blind placebo-controlled human laboratory study demonstrating
      that treatment with a low dose of the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor rivastigmine
      reduced methamphetamine (METH)-induced craving (see Preliminary Studies, Fig. 2). This
      finding is consistent with the preclinical report indicating that the AChE inhibitor
      donepezil reduced METH-seeking behavior in rats following exposure to a non-contingent dose
      of METH (Hiranita et al. 2006). To extend our clinical findings, we propose a 3-year human
      laboratory study to evaluate effects of higher doses of rivastigmine on METH-induced craving
      and on self-administration of METH. Our recently completed work indicates that 3mg
      rivastigmine attenuated METH-induced craving in the laboratory. Given that higher dosages of
      this produce greater inhibition of nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (in the treatment
      of Alzheimer's disease), it is reasonable to predict that 6mg and 12mg will have more
      pronounced effects on craving and other measures of reinforcement. This human laboratory
      study is a critical next step in the evaluation of rivastigmine as a potential treatment for
      METH dependence. We propose to include only participants exhibiting METH-induced craving by
      screening potential participants prior to admission (criterion based upon Preliminary
      Studies, Fig. 5). Selection of participants demonstrating METH-induced craving will
      facilitate assessment of effects of rivastigmine on craving. The project has the following
      objectives:

      Primary Objective: To characterize the effects of treatment with rivastigmine (0, 3, and 6
      mg) on craving produced by experimental administration of METH (0, 15 and 30mg, IV).

      Secondary Objective: To characterize the effects of treatment with rivastigmine (0, 3, and 6
      mg) on choices for METH exhibited in a self-administration paradigm (0 and 5mg, IV).
    
  