
    
      This study is a multicentre, open-label, prospective, 2-arm, phase IV study of tacrolimus in
      renal transplant recipients. Patients will be randomized to receive current clinical practice
      or to have a pre-transplant pharmacokinetic assessment of tacrolimus metabolism that will be
      used to guide post-transplantation tacrolimus dosing, with the aim of increasing the
      proportion of patients that achieve a tacrolimus whole blood trough level of >10 ng/mL by Day
      3 post-transplantation. Patients randomized to Group 1 will take a single dose of tacrolimus
      (0.1 mg/kg) prior to transplantation and a blood sample will be taken to determine tacrolimus
      whole blood concentration at 2 hours post-dose. The result of this blood sample will be used
      to guide tacrolimus dosing post-transplantation. Patients that return a low tacrolimus blood
      concentration will have a post-transplantation starting dose of up to 0.3 mg/kg/day, whereas
      patients that return a high tacrolimus blood concentration will have a post-transplantation
      starting dose of 0.1 mg/kg/day. Patients randomized to Group 2 will also receive a single
      pre-operative dose of tacrolimus, but will not have their tacrolimus whole blood
      concentration measured at 2 hours post-dose. These patients will be managed as per standard
      care.

      The primary objective of the trial is to compare, between the two groups, the proportion of
      patients that achieve a tacrolimus whole blood trough concentration of ³10 ng/mL by Day 3
      post-transplantation. The hypothesis is that performing a tacrolimus whole blood
      concentration assessment 2 hours after a pre-operative dose (to guide tacrolimus dosing
      post-transplantation), will lead to an increase in the numbers of patients that achieve
      therapeutic blood concentrations post-transplant. The tacrolimus whole blood concentration at
      Day 3 post-transplantation is a marker of the risk of rejection and toxicity.

      A substudy is being conducted which seeks to examine and compare clinical variability in
      absorption profile by measurement of the phenotype (blood levels) in kidney transplant
      recipients and determine the nature and extent of relationship with MDR-1 genotype, thus
      allowing the most predictive and cost effective method of determining tacrolimus dosing.

      Pre-transplant: One single tacrolimus dose 0.1 mg/kg/day orally. Post-transplant: 0.15 - 0.3
      mg/kg/day as two divided tacrolimus doses orally, the actual dose to be guided by the
      pre-transplant tacrolimus blood concentration.
    
  