
    
      1. BACKGROUND

           1.1 Hospitalized children under 18 years old are frequently undergo painful procedures
           including needles. Although children often have interventions to relieve pain during the
           period of hospitalization, few interventions are implemented specifically for painful
           procedures. Studies show that pain and anxiety associated with the painful procedure,
           such as needles, can lead to various physiological, physical and psychological
           consequences in children, as avoidance of medical care. In addition, physiological and
           psychological effects such as increased heart rate, blood pressure, and anxiety levels
           were also noted with parents who accompanied their child during a painful procedure.
           These effects on parents increase the anxiety of the child, which amplifies the pain
           felt by the child.

           Moreover, the effects of procedural pain do not only affect the child and his parents.
           Studies reveal that these painful procedures result in impotence and an increased level
           of anxiety among professionals performing the procedures, which in turn have an impact
           on children's anxiety and pain. Finally, procedural pain can lead to a lack of
           collaboration between the child, increasing the length of the procedure and the need for
           staff.

           1.2 A Canadian study found that pharmacological interventions are widely used among
           hospitalized children who are experiencing painful procedures but very few
           non-pharmacological interventions are were used. However, since pain is a multi-sensory
           experience and emotional and cognitive components modulate nociceptive treatment, the
           use of analgesics alone cannot alleviate each of the components of pain. Therefore, the
           use of physical and psychological interventions is recommended for optimal relief of
           procedural pain. Moreover, these interventions can be used alone or in combination with
           pharmacological treatment.

           1.3 Among non-pharmacological interventions, distraction interventions are widely
           studied and recommended for pain and anxiety management experienced in children and
           adolescents during needle-related pain procedures. Therapeutic clown distraction is a
           form of distraction, as it has multi-sensory effects that appear promising in children's
           procedural pain and anxiety management but have been little studied in this context.

           1.4 The presence of the therapeutic clown, which can adapt his interventions of
           distraction to the state of health of the patient and the culture of the child, is a
           multimodal and multi sensorial distraction intervention and can have an impact on health
           status, procedures, family and multidisciplinary team members. The results of five
           studies evaluated the effects of distraction by the clown therapy demonstrate a decrease
           in pain and anxiety in children aged 2 to 17 years, as well as parental anxiety in
           painful procedures involving needles such as venipuncture.

        2. AIM The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility, acceptability and preliminary
           effects of distraction by therapeutic clown on pain and anxiety of children aged 7 to 17
           years, and the anxiety of parents and nurses during a painful procedure in children.

      OBJECTIFS AND QUESTIONS:

        1. Assess the feasibility and acceptability of distraction by therapeutic with children
           during painful procedures. a) Is the distraction intervention by the therapeutic clown
           feasible and acceptable during painful procedures?

        2. Assess the preliminary effects of distraction by therapeutic clown on the pain and
           anxiety of children and the anxiety of parents and nurses.

             1. What are the preliminary effects of the therapy clown distraction on children's
                pain and anxiety, and the anxiety of parents and nurses?

                HYPOTHESES

             1. Therapeutic clown distraction is a feasible and acceptable method for procedural
                pain relief of children.

                3. METHODS

                4.1 Design.

                Experimental before and after pilot study.

                4.2 Sample and Setting.

                This pilot study will include a group that will receive the intervention of
                distraction by the therapeutic clown (CT) and the other that will receive the
                standard treatment. The study will take place at St. Justine's Hospital, precisely
                at the infectious diseases clinic. Recruitment of participants will be by
                convenience from parents and children who will be eligible for study. The sample of
                this pilot project will contain approximately 24 children in addition to parents
                and the nurse who will perform the painful procedure.

                4.3. Measures. Measures of anxiety will be recorded at T1, T2 and general anxiety
                will be asses by parents after the procedure at T3. Measures for procedural pain
                will be taken at: T2, during the procedure. Acceptability will be assessed with
                parents and nurses using an satisfaction survey at T3, after the procedure.

                4.4 Data analysis plan. The characteristics of children, parents and nurses will be
                described using descriptive statistics. Inferential nonparametric statistics will
                be used to compare the data of each group and to evaluate the preliminary effects
                of interventions on child pain and anxiety and parental and nurse anxiety.

                FEASIBILITY

                Acceptability will be assessed with parents and nurses using an satisfaction
                survey. The questionnaire will be provided to parents in paper form and will be
                verbally completed by the nurse. In addition, to document the feasibility and
                acceptability of the study, the number of children participating, as well as the
                duration of the procedure and the number of professionals involved will be noted
                throughout the procedure. In the case where the child must receive several
                vaccines, only the first immunization will be timed.

                4. POSSIBLE PITFALLS AND SOLUTIONS

                Since this study represents a pilot study, the results cannot be generalized and
                will not allow us to determine whether one intervention will be more effective than
                the other.

                5. CONTRIBUTION AND EXPECTED RESULTS

                These interventions, which we believe are feasible, could help reduce the negative
                impact of painful procedures on children, parents and nurses.
    
  