
    
      The purpose of this study is to study blast-exposed Veterans who report hearing handicap but
      show normal or near normal results on standard audiometric testing. The characteristics and
      nature of their auditory and auditory-related skills will be examined with a battery of
      behavioral and physiologic measures. The potential contributions of co-occurring PTSD also
      will be evaluated. In a preliminary treatment study, a sub-sample of the targeted Veterans
      will be fitted with mild-gain hearing aids to determine if they benefit from low-level
      amplification of high-frequency sounds.

      This study consists of two parts. In Part 1, four groups of Veterans, aged 20 - 50 years,
      will complete a battery of auditory and auditory-related assessments to better understand the
      deficit sources and patterns. The assessment measures will consist of questionnaires,
      behavioral tests, and auditory physiologic measures. One group will consist of blast-exposed
      Veterans with auditory problems but no PTSD. The second group will consist of blast-exposed
      Veterans with auditory problems plus PTSD. The third group will consist of Veterans with PTSD
      but no reported auditory problems, and the fourth groups will be a normal control group.

      In Part 2 of the study, 25 participants from group 1, and 25 participants from group 2 will
      be fitted with mild-gain open-fit hearing aids. Changes in hearing handicap, hearing aid
      benefit, hearing aid use time, intent to continue use, and speech perception will be measured
      over a 6-month period. A delayed treatment group populated from group 1 will be followed over
      a 12-month period with hearing aids fitted at 6 months. The participants will be assigned
      randomly from Part 1, but can decline participation.

      The information obtained from this study will help us understand the auditory problems
      experienced by blast-exposed Veterans and eventually contribute to the development of an
      efficient and effective assessment battery and intervention approaches.
    
  