
    
      -  ADMs have been used in combination with a tissue expander and radiotherapy but have not
           been studied formally in terms of their ability to avoid complications sometimes seen
           with other methods of reconstruction and improve the delivery of the radiation. The only
           difference between being on the study and not being on the study is that the research
           team will analyze the records of those who participate to see how easy it was to give
           the radiation, how good the cosmetic outcome of the reconstruction is and what, if any,
           complications occured.

        -  A minimum of 6 weeks between the surgery and the start of radiation therapy is required
           to allow for adequate healing. Often this interval will be longer, as many patients will
           receive chemotherapy in the interim. There is no maximum time from surgery to radiation.

        -  Around the time of radiation planning, the radiation oncologist and plastic surgeon will
           agree upon how much deflation of the tissue expander will be required to permit
           simulation of the radiation therapy.

        -  Radiation therapy to the chest wall (with or without adjacent lymph nodes) will be given
           once daily Monday through Friday over 5-7 weeks.

        -  After the completion of the radiation therapy, the tissue expander will be re-expanded
           and eventually replaced by the permanent implant or flap reconstruction at the
           discretion of the plastic surgeon.

        -  Participants will be expected to return to the Radiation Oncology Clinic for follow-up
           visits 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the end of the radiation therapy. Evaluation of
           cosmetic results and complications will be done at these visits using a recognized
           scoring system and photographs taken at each time point and scored for specific items
           (necrosis, telangiectasia, etc).
    
  