
    
      The current study aim to establish the therapeutic potential of tDCS for freezing of gait
      (FOG) and motor-cognitive dysfunctions in Parkinson's Disease (PD). FOG phenomenon is often
      unresponsive to pharmacological and other treatments, especially in the advanced stages of
      the disease. While it is likely that Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) will
      provide symptomatic relief, we will also explore, via secondary outcomes, the potential for
      tDCS to modify disease progression. Support for this possibility stems from the likely
      mechanisms of action of tDCS.

      Based on strong rationale and preliminary findings in previous works, the objectives of the
      current proposal are to conduct a prospective multi-center, double-blinded, stratified
      controlled randomized clinical trial, comparing real multifocal tDCS to sham stimulation. The
      main aim:

      - To demonstrate the "short-term" and the longer-term effects of tDCS on FOG severity and
      frequency.

      Participants: A total of 85 patients will be recruited (Hoehn and Yahr Stage 1-3.5) who
      suffer from FOG, as measured by the new FOG questionnaire (NFOG-Q) and as demonstrated in
      response to a FOG provoking protocol, who are on stable medications, who have no
      contraindications to tDCS, and who are between the ages of 40-80. Patients with DBS will not
      be included.

      tDCS intervention: Subjects will be randomized to receive either a real or sham tDCS
      intervention. Each intervention will consist of 10, 20-minute treatments completed over 2
      consecutive weeks (i.e., 5 per week), following previously established protocols. A single,
      weekly "maintenance" treatment will then be provided for the following 12 weeks (note: for
      depression, maintenance tDCS is most often provided once every two weeks; we will take a more
      conservative approach here in this first long-term study for FOG in PD).

      Participants will continue taking their regular medications, and treatments will take place
      in the "ON" medication state (approximately at the same time of day for each treatment). The
      real tDCS intervention will simultaneously target both the M1 leg area and the the
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), in the brain hemisphere contralateral to the more
      affected side of the body, as determined by the summation of the motor symptoms on The
      unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS). Current will be applied using an array of 8
      sponge electrodes and the StarStim tDCS device and software (Neuroelectrics, Inc). For this
      protocol, the placement and current delivered through each electrode has been optimized using
      the Neuroelectrics StimWeaver® Stimulation Optimization Service . In case of bilateral
      symptom symmetry, tDCS will target the left M1 and DLPFC. For the sham intervention, the same
      electrode placement and stimulation parameters will be used; however, current will only be
      applied for the first 60 seconds of the stimulation session. This is a reliable control as
      sensations arising from tDCS diminish considerably after the first minute of stimulation. At
      the end of each treatment session, participants will complete a short questionnaire to assess
      potential side-effects. At the end of the entire intervention, participants will be asked to
      state if, in their opinion, they received the real or sham intervention.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome will be the number of FOG episodes measured in the lab
      when subjects undergo a validated FOG-invoking protocol, after the initial 2-week
      intervention and at the final study point, similar to that proposed by Ziegler et al.
      Briefly, this protocol includes situations that have been shown to provoke FOG. Patients will
      be asked to sit, to stand up and to walk to a a mark on the floor. They will perform two 360°
      turns, clockwise and counter-clockwise. Then, the patients will be asked to open a door and
      walk through it, turn outside, and come back to their chair. Secondary outcomes of FOG will
      include FOG duration and the new FOG questionnaire (NFOG-Q). This FOG-provoking protocol will
      take place in both the ON and OFF medication state and higher values (worse) of FOG will be
      used as the primary outcome measure (in secondary analyses, we will examine ON and OFF FOG
      separately).

      Additional secondary measures will test the influence of tDCS on other motor, cognitive or
      motor-cognitive functions related to PD and FOG. Secondary outcomes related to motor
      function, which are likely to be affected by changes in M1 excitability, will include gait
      speed (usual walking), Timed Up & Go scores, UPDRS motor scores, and level of activity over 7
      days using portable, lightweight, water-proof sensors. Secondary measures of executive
      function, which are hypothesized to be responsive to tDCS of the DLPFC, will include the
      Trail Making test (TMT) parts A and B, and a previously validated computerized
      neuropsychological battery that provides normalized scores for executive function and
      attention (and memory). Dual-tasking gait speed (i.e., walking while performing a serial
      subtraction test) will assess motor-cognitive interactions. Functional near infra-red
      spectroscopy (available in Boston and Tel Aviv) will assess frontal activation during
      dual-tasking walking; this reflects the subjects ability to handle cognitive loading and has
      been associated with FOG. Finally, the PDQ-39 will evaluate quality of life.
    
  