
    
      Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is currently the neoplasm leading in deaths worldwide and
      in Brazil, it figures as the second most common cancer in terms of the number of deaths.
      Patients are usually diagnosed in advanced stages and, consequently, more than 45% of all
      patients are diagnosed with cachexia. This syndrome is characterized by a loss of muscle mass
      with or without fat loss and it cannot be reversed by nutritional support. In the
      physiopathology of cachexia, generally are present exacerbated inflammation, severe loss of
      muscle contractile proteins, leading to fatigue and increased mortality. Furthermore,
      patients with cachexia usually do present lower response rates to anticancer treatments and
      it is also associated with a worse overall prognosis.

      Treatments directed to mitigate muscle loss in these patients are awaited. Cohort studies do
      suggest a significant positive impact of physical fitness and prognosis in different chronic
      diseases; however, its impact in advanced NSCLC patients is not clear. Here our aim is to
      better understand the relationship between cachexia and physical fitness variables (muscle
      and cardiorespiratory function, body composition, and daily physical activity level) with
      prognosis and mortality in a group of NSCLC patients, as well as to study the effect of
      chemotherapy on these variables. Besides that, will be evaluated the skeletal muscle, Treg
      lymphocytes, and inflammatory biomarkers and compare cachectic and non-cachectic patients.

      Sixty NSCLC patients will be accrued. Will be assessed the maximum oxygen consumption, daily
      physical activity, muscle function, muscle morphology, anxiety, depression, performance
      status, and fatigue pre-treatment. Blood and muscle biopsy samples will be collected. The
      prognostic impact of these physical fitness variables will be defined, as well as their
      predictive value in terms of response to anticancer treatments in advanced NSCLC patients.
    
  