
    
      This study aims to identify effective Relapse Recovery (RR) treatments to assist smokers who
      relapse after an initial quit attempt. The study will use a sequential, multiple assignment,
      randomized trial (SMART) design with three phases. In a SMART design, randomization occurs at
      more than one stage, with randomization at a later stage based on response to treatment at an
      earlier stage. The three phases in this SMART study are as follows:

        1. Phase 1 consists of the Quit Phase in which all participants (smokers motivated to quit
           smoking) will be offered evidence-based cessation treatment (cessation medication plus
           counseling). Participants who relapse will be eligible to proceed to the next phase
           which involves Relapse Recovery (RR) Preparation treatment.

        2. Phase 2 consists of RR Preparation Phase treatments in which relapsed participants from
           the Quit Phase will be randomized to three arms: (a) Recycling Counseling (where
           participants are encouraged to quit again as soon as possible); (b) Behavioral Reduction
           Counseling + Nicotine Mini-Lozenge (which targets smoking reduction and preparation for
           a new quit attempt); and (c) Preparation Phase Control (continuation of Quit Phase
           treatment plus advice to seek additional help from the Wisconsin Tobacco Quit Line or
           their clinic care provider).

        3. Phase 3 consists of RR Cessation Phase treatments in which non-control (i.e. Recycling
           or Behavioral Reduction) Preparation Phase participants who elect to make a new quit
           attempt will be randomized to one of four treatment conditions in a 2X2 fully-crossed
           factorial design: (a) Supportive Counseling + Skill Training; (b) Supportive Counseling
           + Brief Information; (c) Skill Training + Brief Information; and (d) Brief Information
           Only. All participants will receive 8 weeks of combination nicotine replacement therapy
           (Nicotine Patch + Nicotine Mini-Lozenge). Brief Information will consist of generic
           information about the importance of taking the medication and how to use it, information
           about side effects/safety and what to do in case of problems, and participants will also
           be given encouragement.

      Smoking status will be assessed 14 months after randomization to RR Preparation Phase
      treatment. The investigators hypothesize that 7-day point point-prevalence abstinence rates
      will be 15% for the Preparation Phase Control condition, 25% for the Recycling condition, and
      35% for the Behavioral Reduction condition. The investigators propose that any increase in
      abstinence of 15% or higher would be clinically significant. The investigators did not power
      the study to demonstrate a significant difference between the two active RR Preparation Phase
      treatments. Therefore, the investigators anticipate that only the RR Behavioral Reduction
      treatment will significantly increase long-term abstinence rates (primary outcome:
      Biochemically-confirmed 7-Day Point Prevalence Abstinence at 14 Months post-randomization to
      Phase 2 Preparation treatment) over those produced by the Preparation Phase Control
      condition. Because of limitations in statistical power, analyses of RR Cessation Phase
      treatments will be exploratory only (secondary outcome: Self-Reported 7-Day Point Prevalence
      Abstinence at 26 Weeks post-randomization to Phase 3 Cessation treatment).
    
  