
    
      Recent guidelines for the management of Crohn's disease conclude that currently available
      data are insufficient to make firm recommendations on when and in whom to stop TNF-α antibody
      (TNF-α Ab) treatment after having obtained clinical remission. Further, the term "remission"
      is not well uniformly defined and may incorporate one or more features such as clinical
      remission, as assessed by CDAI, biochemical remission, endoscopical remission etc. The
      recently published prospective STORI study of 115 patients with luminal Crohn's disease
      reported that 56% of patients with Crohn's disease who had discontinued infliximab (IFX)
      while in clinical remission, maintained remission one year after discontinuation of therapy.
      Predictors of relapse included certain clinical features as well as objective biochemical and
      endoscopical markers of disease activity. Consistent with these data, we have recently
      reported that 61% of our own patients with Crohn's disease, who discontinued IFX while in
      complete clinical, steroid free IFX induced remission, maintained remission after one year;
      and half the patients were still in remission after nearly two years (median 680 days
      [412-948]).

      A prospective randomized study of patients with Crohn's disease is necessary to confirm and
      extend the limited findings above, and assess whether IFX can be safely discontinued in a
      selected subgroup of patients with complete clinical, biochemical, and endoscopical
      remission.

      Methods:

      Study design: Prospective, double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled, Danish
      multi-center study with estimated seven Danish participating centers. Patients and treating
      physicians are blinded for the type of intervention.

      Study population: Patients with luminal Crohn's disease in sustained complete remission on
      IFX.

      Study treatment: Patients are randomized to either continue IFX treatment at an unchanged
      dosage and frequency, or alternatively to receive matching placebo. All patients will be
      graded for disease activity (Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI), biochemical parameters,
      endoscopy, and/or MRI). Following screening and inclusion patients are seen after four weeks,
      and then every eight weeks. Endpoints are assessed at 48 weeks.

      Investigators will, as explorative analyses, examine the clinical utility of measuring IFX
      levels and antibodies against IFX in patients with complete remission, in order to
      investigate whether pharmacoimmunological data can predict the clinical outcome and
      rationalize therapeutic management of these patients with respect to continuation or
      discontinuation of IFX therapy. Additional, investigators will investigate the optimal
      time-point out of three to measure this activity. Patients will on the day of infusion have
      three blood samples drawn: one just before infusion (trough), one right after the infusion
      (obtained from the other arm)(peak) and one an hour after infusion (C1). Samples will be
      measured by common solid - and fluid phase assays for this purpose, e.g. Reporter Gene Assay
      (RGA).
    
  