
    
      Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease resulting from mutations in the CFTR
      gene. CFTR encodes a chloride channel, mainly expressed at the apical membrane of epithelial
      cells. CFTR dysfunction induces mucus thickening, causing multiple disorders in respiratory,
      digestive and reproductive tracts. In CF patients, lung disease is the main cause of
      morbidity and mortality, and its severity is variable among CF patients, even among those
      with the same genotype. This clinical variability depends on two factors: genetic (complex
      alleles of CFTR gene and modifier genes) and environmental factors. Genetic factors have been
      largely explored, and several modifier genes have been identified. By contrast, environmental
      factors are still poorly known. It is well established that environmental factors modify the
      phenotype by acting on epigenetic marks (i.e. DNA methylation, histone modification) present
      in the genome. Epigenetic modifications regulate and modulate gene expression.

      In a previous we profiled DNA methylation genome-wide in nasal epithelial cell samples from
      32 CF patients and 24 healthy controls. CF patients homozygous for the p.Phe508del mutation
      and >18-years-old were stratified according to the lung disease severity. Through this study,
      we identified 187 genomic regions (CpG dinucleotides) differentially methylated between CF
      patients with mild lung disease and CF patients with severe lung disease. The present project
      aims at identifying predictive epigenetic biomarkers of lung disease severity, among these
      187 regions. While the previous study was carried out on genomic DNA extracted from nasal
      epithelial cells, in the present project we will use a non-invasive model: spontaneous
      sputum.

      Hypothesis: some differentially methylated genomic regions between mild and severe CF
      patients can be used as predictive epigenetic biomarkers of lung disease severity in cystic
      fibrosis.

      Objectives: (i) to identify predictive epigenetic biomarkers of lung disease severity among
      the differentially methylated genomic regions between mild and severe CF patients, (ii) to
      characterize a non-invasive cellular model, spontaneous sputum, for the analysis of
      epigenetic biomarkers of lung disease severity in CF, (iii) to analyze the variations in DNA
      methylation for a same patient over time (at time of inclusion, 6 months, 12 months and 18
      months)
    
  