
    
      Fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma is variant rare of hepatocellular carcinoma witch
      distinct clinical, histological and prognostic features from conventional hepatocellular
      carcinoma. This entity typically occurs in young adults with no underlying hepatitis or
      cirrhosis. Surgical resections could be proposed in some referral centers and this in cases
      of localized tumors. However, in cases of postoperative recurrence, "salvage" resection is
      not often possible. Overall prognosis remains poor, because of its primary chemoresistance
      and early recurrence of metastasis.

      Sunitinib (SUTENT) is a potent tyrosine kinase inhibitor, with double antiangiogenic and
      antitumor activity, targeting multiple receptors as VEGF-R, PDGF-R, KIT and FLT3.

      Since 2006, Sunitinib has been approved to treat advanced kidney cancer also called advanced
      renal cell carcinoma (a typically chemoresistant disease for which there no active treatment
      was available).

      Several targets of sunitinib are overexpressed hepatocellular carcinoma lines as shown in the
      Literature review and pathological studies.

      Otherwise, the overexpression of PDGFR and VEGFR correlates with recurrence and invasion in
      HCC. Finally, sunitinib showed an interesting antitumor activity in patients with
      conventional advanced HCC.

      Thereby, it seems important to study how well the sunitinib, a potent antitumor and
      antiangiogenic agent, works in treating patients with advanced or inoperable fibrolamellar
      hepatocellular carcinoma especially, this setting lacks effective therapies. Furthermore, it
      seems urgent to conduct translational research and assessment to identify predictive
      biomarkers of response.

      In this study, orally sunitinib at dosed of 50 mg daily will be administrated to patients for
      4 weeks, followed by 2 weeks of wash out. This administration schedule is based on the phase
      I study of sunitinib.
    
  