
    
      The study population will consist of patients with electrocardiographically documented
      symptomatic paroxysmal AF (≥ 2 episodes of ≥ 15 min duration within a six month period) while
      on stable antiarrhythmic drug therapy. Patients will be excluded if they have AF due to a
      reversible cause, persistent AF, significant heart failure or a life expectancy of less than
      one year. Eligible patients will be randomized to carvedilol or metoprolol and followed for
      13 months. Randomization will be stratified based on the AF management strategy (rate or
      rhythm control). Carvedilol and metoprolol will be initiated over a one month drug titration
      period to achieve doses of 25mg bid and 50 mg bid respectively. AF occurrence will be
      documented using event recorders. The co-primary outcome measures are survival free from AF
      after one month blanking period for drug titration and the number of days in AF detected
      during follow-up. Secondary outcomes include event free survival to first symptomatic episode
      of AF, days in symptomatic AF, time between first and second episodes of AF, proportion of
      patients who develop persistent AF, AF Severity Scale, CCS-AF symptom score, ventricular rate
      during AF, proportion of patients with discontinuation of the assigned therapy and number of
      emergency department visits or hospitalizations for cardiovascular causes. Adverse effects
      and need to discontinue carvedilol or metoprolol will be documented. This study will
      determine whether carvedilol is safe and effective for prevention of recurrent paroxysmal AF
      in a general population with AF. Data will be analyzed on an intention to treat basis. Three
      hundred patients will be recruited over 4 years. The sample size is based on an estimated 20%
      reduction in event free survival from AF (power 0.90, α = 0.05). Patients will be recruited
      from our AF clinic population which averages 50 new referrals per month and over 2500
      referrals since it's' inception in 2005.
    
  