
    
      Objective

      This study uses magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to measure the neurotransmitter
      glutamate in the anterior cingulate cortex (and, if tolerated, the left caudate nucleus and
      possibly the thalamus) in children and adolescents.

      Study Population

      All of the subjects will be participants in an ongoing double-blind placebo-controlled trial
      (05-M-0225) of a glutamate antagonist, the drug riluzole, for Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
      (OCD). The subjects are male and female children and adolescents, ages 7-17 years. They will
      all have met criteria for clinically significant OCD and will have failed to benefit from
      standard-of-care treatments or have been unable to tolerate the treatments. Some of the
      subjects will also have a diagnosis on the autism spectrum.

      Design

      In one group of sixteen young people, glutamate will be measured in the anterior cingulate
      cortex at three points in time:

        -  at baseline, before starting riluzole or placebo;

        -  within ten to fourteen days of the baseline evaluation, after reaching full dose of the
           study drug (active drug or placebo) to which the sixteen subjects have just been
           randomized;

        -  at the end of the twelve weeks of the double-blind phase of the study.

      In a second group of sixteen young people, all of whom are subjects in the open-label phase
      of the same study, glutamate will be measured (first) in the anterior cingulate cortex at a
      single point in time when each subject has achieved steady state on the open-label drug
      riluzole. If the subject tolerates additional time in the scanner, glutamate will also be
      measured in the left caudate and possibly in the left thalamus. Glutamate levels in this
      group will be correlated with change in OCD measures.

      Outcome Measures

        -  In the first group, change in glutamate activity in anterior cingulate associated with
           active drug (riluzole) administration, as compared with change in glutamate activity for
           the subjects taking placebo.

        -  In the second group, correlation between serum riluzole level, glutamate activity (or
           flux) in anterior cingulate (and possibly in the caudate and thalamus), and therapeutic
           effect.
    
  