
    
      Rationale: scarce information exists on management of mechanical ventilation in intensive
      care unit (ICU) patients in low- and middle-income countries.

      Objective:The primary objective is to describe and compare ventilation management in patients
      at risk of ARDS versus individuals not at risk, and patients with established ARDS, and to
      ascertain whether certain ventilation settings are associated with a higher incidence of
      developing ARDS in patients in ICUs in Asia. PRoVENT-iMIC secondary objectives are to
      determine the epidemiological characteristics and clinical outcomes of patients at risk of
      ARDS in ICUs in Asia according to the ventilation practice applied.

      Primary hypothesis: a large proportion of patients at risk of ARDS in ICUs in Asia do not
      receive so-called protective ventilation, defined as tidal volume < 8 ml/kg predicted body
      weight and a level of positive end-expiratory pressure of at least 5 cm H2O.

      Secondary hypothesis: in ICUs in Asia a large proportion of patients is at risk of ARDS, as
      stratified by a Lung Injury Prediction Score of ≥4.

      Study design: an international multicenter service review focusing on ICUs in selected
      middle-income Asian countries.

      Population: consecutive intubated and ventilated ICU patients.

      Methods: Patients in participating ICUs will be screened daily during a 28-day period. A
      registry of limited demographic data will be compiled on all screened patients. Collection of
      ventilation characteristics is restricted to the first three days. The first seven days or up
      to death, whichever comes first, will be used for collection of patient demographics (on day
      of admission), development of ARDS and other pulmonary complications. All patients will be
      followed until ICU-discharge to determine length of stay in ICU and ICU mortality. The
      inclusion period will be flexible for participating centers and determined at a later stage
      together with the study-coordinator. Data will be coded by a patient identification number of
      which the code will be kept safe at the local sites. The data will be transcribed by local
      investigators onto an internet based electronic case report form
      (https://www.project-redcap.org).

      Centers: about 60 Asian ICUs from ten countries are expected to participate in this
      international multicenter study. Each participating center will recruit ~ 50 patients.

      Ethics Approval: The Oxford Tropical Research Ethical Committee has evaluated the study and
      considered it exempt from ethical review on the 1st of June 2017. National coordinators will
      be responsible for clarifying the need for ethics approval and applying for this where
      appropriate according to local policy. Centers will not be permitted to record data unless
      ethics approval or an equivalent waiver is in place.

      Monitoring: Due to the observational nature of the study, a Data Safety and Monitoring Board
      is not necessary.

      Sample Size Calculation: a formal sample size calculation was not performed, seen the largely
      descriptive character of this investigation. 3000 patients are expected to be enrolled in the
      study period, which will be sufficient to test the hypotheses.

      Statistical Analysis: Patient characteristics will be compared and described by appropriate
      statistics. Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney U-tests are used to compare continuous variables
      and chi-squared tests are used for categorical variables. Data are expressed as means (SD),
      medians (interquartile range) and proportions as appropriate. Comparisons between and within
      groups are performed using one-way ANOVA and post-hoc analyses for continuous variables.

      The primary analysis concerns the determination of (variation of) tidal volume and PEEP
      levels in patients without ARDS. These are compared between predefined patient groups:
      patients at no risk for ARDS, patients at risk for ARDS, patients with mild ARDS, and
      patients with moderate or severe ARDS.

      To identify potential factors associated with outcome like development of ARDS, or worsening
      of ARDS, development of pulmonary complications, duration of ventilation, or death,
      univariate analyses are performed. A multivariate logistic regression model is used to
      identify independent risk factors. A stepwise approach is used to enter new terms into the
      model, with a limit of p < 0.2 to enter the terms. Time to event variables are analyzed using
      Cox regression and visualized by Kaplan-Meier.

      Organization: The study is conducted by the PROtective VEntilation Network (PROVENet).
      National co-ordinators will lead the project within individual nations and identify
      participating hospitals, translate study paperwork, distribute study paperwork and ensure
      necessary regulatory approvals are in place. They provide assistance to the participating
      clinical sites in trial management, record keeping and data management. Local coordinators in
      each site will supervise data collection and ensure adherence to Good Clinical Practice
      during the trial.
    
  