
    
      This prospective randomized control trial will be performed on a convenience sample of 200
      patients presenting with undifferentiated SOB to an academic emergency department (ED)
      (volume 56,000 patients/year). Subjects are excluded if they have a known history of asthma,
      are 20 or more weeks pregnant, or have had thoraco-abdominal trauma in the past 72 hours. The
      BRIPPED pilot investigation (IRB #10-02-FB-0026) enrolled 43 patients and physician subjects
      from 4/30/2010 to 1/20/2011. This study differs in methodology from the pilot study in the
      reduction of the total number of ultrasound images obtained to decrease the total time to
      perform the scan. Instead of a cohort study, this randomized control trial includes the
      addition of a control group for cost and time saved comparison. As in the pilot study,
      eligible patients will be evaluated by the treating ED physician who will rank potential
      diagnoses from most to least likely. A study investigator performs the B-RIPPED scan and
      provides the initial treating physician with the results. The treating physician will again
      be asked to complete a differential diagnosis ranking knowing the B-RIPPED results. Changes
      in the differential diagnosis ranking, physician orders, and interventions will be compiled.
      A randomized control cohort will be assigned for eligible patients. In the control group, the
      treating physician will complete the diagnosis rank list prior to the completion of the
      workup, and then once all lab values are back. Time to disposition, and comparison of labs
      and radiology tests ordered will be compared to the cohort receiving the BRIPPED scan.
      Patients will be assigned a number at time of enrollment, which randomly assigns them to the
      control or experimental (patients receiving the BRIPPED scan) group. Packets containing the
      appropriate data collection form (control or experimental) will be organized so even numbered
      patients will belong to one group, and odd numbered patients will be assigned to the other.
    
  