
    
      Fludarabine is a chemotherapy drug that is approved for the treatment of CLL.
      Cyclophosphamide is also a chemotherapy drug that is commonly used in the treatment of CLL.
      Rituximab and alemtuzumab are special proteins that specifically target and attach to
      proteins on leukemia cells. These targeted proteins may also be present on normal blood
      cells. When these drugs bind to the proteins on leukemia cells, they may help to stop or slow
      the growth of the disease. The combination of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab has
      been used in the treatment of CLL. The purpose of this study is to determine if there is
      added benefit with the addition of alemtuzumab to this combination.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam, including blood tests (about
      3 tablespoons). You may have either a chest x-ray or a computed tomography (CT) scan if your
      doctor feel this is necessary. If you have not had a bone marrow sample collected in the past
      4 months, you will have a bone marrow sample collected at this time. To collect a bone marrow
      sample, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anaesthetic and a small amount of
      bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle. Women who are able to have children must
      have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      During the study, you will have up to 6 "cycles" of treatment. A cycle is made up of
      treatment with the study drugs for 5 days in a row, then around 31/2 weeks (23 days) of no
      treatment with the study drugs. On Days 1, 3, and 5 of each cycle you will receive
      alemtuzumab through a needle in a vein. On Day 2 of each cycle you will receive rituximab
      through a needle in a vein. Cyclophosphamide and fludarabine will be given separately on Days
      3, 4, and 5 of each cycle through a needle in a vein. In addition to the study drugs, you may
      also be given fluids by vein. The combination treatment will be repeated every 4 weeks (one
      cycle) for a total of up to 6 cycles. This treatment will be given on an outpatient basis.
      The injections for each daily treatment visit should take less than 6 hours.

      You will receive acetaminophen (Tylenol) by mouth and diphenhydramine hydrochloride
      (Benadryl) by mouth or vein 30 - 60 minutes before each dose of rituximab and alemtuzumab.
      You will also receive hydrocortisone (a steroid) by vein before each dose of alemtuzumab.
      These drugs will be used to help decrease side effects. If side effects occur during a
      treatment, the doses of the drugs may be adjusted (up or down) until the symptoms are gone.
      Also, if you experience side effects during treatment, you must stay in the clinic for 2
      hours after the drug is given to be observed.

      If you begin to experience side effects due to treatment, the dose(s) of the drug(s) may be
      lowered or the treatment may be temporarily stopped until the symptoms are gone.

      During the treatment and for two months after completion of treatment you will need to take
      prophylactic antibiotics to prevent you from developing infection.
      Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (Bactrim DS) is a sulfa-drug and you will be given this to
      prevent a type of pneumonia called PCP pneumonia. If you are allergic to sulfa drugs, an
      equivalent antibiotic will be given. You will take Valtrex to prevent virus reactivation
      including herpes. If you are allergic to Valtrex, an equivalent antibiotic will be given. You
      may receive an additional antibiotic to suppress another virus, cytomegalovirus called
      Valcyte. You may also take allopurinol for the first week of the first course of treatment.
      This will help prevent kidney damage from rapid destruction of your leukemia cells.

      During the first cycle of treatment, you will have blood drawn (about 2 tablespoons) for
      blood tests once a week. Then, these blood tests will be repeated before the start of each
      additional cycle (every 4 weeks).

      After 3 cycles of treatment, you will have a physical exam and blood tests (about 2
      tablespoons). You may also have either an x-ray or a CT scan. You will have another bone
      marrow sample collected. These tests will be used to see if the disease is responding to
      treatment. If it is found that the disease is not responding to treatment after the first 3
      cycles of therapy, you will be taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other
      treatment options with you. If it is found that the disease is responding to treatment,
      another 3 cycles (12 weeks) of treatment will be given (6 cycles total). During these
      additional 3 cycles of therapy, you will have blood drawn (about 2 tablespoons) once a week
      for routine blood tests.

      After 6 cycles of treatment, you will have a physical exam and have around 2 tablespoons of
      blood drawn for routine blood tests.

      Around 3-6 months after you receive your last treatment cycle, you will have a physical exam
      and blood tests (about 2 tablespoons). After that, you will have a physical examination and
      blood tests (about 2 tablespoons) every 6 months for the next 2 years. If your disease
      returns or if you start on more treatment, you will not need to return for these visits.
      However, you should inform the study doctor/staff that you are receiving other treatment.

      If at any time during the study the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side
      effects, you will be taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options
      with you.

      This is an investigational study. All of the drugs used in the study are FDA approved and
      commercially available. As many as 80 patients will take part in the study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  