
    
      Recent data suggest that early virologic response to HIV interventions may be predictive of
      long-term virologic outcomes. Defining early decay in viral load through carefully performed
      studies of viral dynamics may be a useful tool for assessing the likely outcome of long-term
      treatment. It may also be a useful screening tool to define which combinations should be
      studied further. In the main study, the viral load decay rate will be estimated in
      HIV-infected, treatment-naive participants receiving RAL and FTC/TDF.

      The A5248 study will last approximately 72 weeks. All participants will take RAL and FTC/TDF
      for 72 weeks. RAL will be provided by the study. FTC/TDF will not be provided.

      A5248 will consist of 16 study visits. These visits will occur at study entry; Days 2, 7, 10,
      14, 21, 28, and 56, and Weeks 12, 16, 20, 24, 36, 48, 60, and 72. Blood collection and
      pharmacokinetic studies will occur at all study visits. Self-reported adherence assessments
      will be submitted at each visit. A targeted physical exam will occur at most visits. Liver
      function tests and urine collection will occur at select visits. Pregnancy tests will occur
      whenever pregnancy is suspected.

      This substudy will enroll 10 participants from A5248. It is critical that substudy
      participants take their medications as directed to ensure accurate trial results. Any
      participant who discontinues study treatment will also be removed from the substudy and
      replaced. Participants will be asked about medication holds and adherence.

      No medications will be provided by the substudy. Study treatment will be provided and
      administered as per the main study, A5248. After participants begin study medications,
      samples will be collected for the substudy. Participants will be required to stay overnight
      and in the hospital from Day 0 until Day 2. The morning study medication dose will be
      administered in the clinic on Days, 2, 3, 4, and 7.

      Medication diaries will be provided for participants on Day 2. Participants will be
      instructed to record the times they take their study medications through Day 7 of the study.
      Participants are required to bring these diaries to their study visits on Days 3, 4, and 7
      for review.

      Participants may discontinue their enrollment in this substudy and still remain in the main
      study, A5248. Participants may not discontinue their involvement in A5248 and remain in the
      substudy.
    
  