
    
      Pelvic fractures are not usually isolated injuries and it is common that these severely
      injured patients have concomitant abdominal or thoracic trauma further complicating their
      management. In situations where multiple sources of hemodynamic instability exist, the need
      to control hemorrhage quickly becomes imperative. In patients where emergent laparotomy or
      thoracotomy is indicated, the time until pelvic bleeding sources are addressed is prolonged.
      Some would argue that the best initial management of the pelvic fractures should be surgical
      stabilization, while others would support immediate angioembolization of actively bleeding
      pelvic vessels. The main drawback of angiographic embolization is that it occurs in a
      separate Angio Suite facility, with concerns being time lost to patient transport and an
      environment less capable of managing these extremely unstable patients.

      At Hershey Medical Center, ten patients suffering pelvic fractures with associated
      hemodynamic instability between 2003 and 2007 were managed with intraoperative
      angioembolization (in the Operating Room as opposed to the Angio Suite). Extensive review of
      published orthopaedic, trauma surgery, and radiology journals yielded no other literature
      regarding intraoperative angioembolization as a management approach for these patients.
      Whether or not this approach has been carried out at other medical institutions, it is
      undoubtedly rare and results have yet to be reported in widely available literature. This
      novel approach has the potential to stop pelvic bleeding sooner and in a more controlled
      environment, where surgical stabilization can also be accomplished simultaneously.
      Statistical analysis and review of these patients has not been done, but may possibly show
      improvements in survival, shorter length of hospital stay, less time to embolization, and
      decreased need for supportive measures such as blood or platelet transfusion.
    
  