
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the effect of the Pathways to Fertility patient decision aid website (DA
      website) with women of reproductive age seen at the MD Anderson Oncofertility Service, in
      terms of improving patients' decisional conflict. (Part 1) II. To assess the effect of a
      multicomponent oncofertility decision support intervention (multicomponent DS intervention)
      compared to usual care with women of reproductive age at selected MD Anderson Houston Area
      Locations (HALs) on patients' decisional conflict. (Part 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess patients' decision-making process (e.g., preparation for decision making,
      decision self-efficacy, satisfaction) and decision quality (e.g., fertility preservation
      knowledge, clarity of patients' values, and congruence of preferences with the decision
      and/or treatment received). (Part 1) II. To assess patients' decision-making process (e.g.,
      preparation for decision making, decision self-efficacy, satisfaction) and decision quality
      (e.g., fertility preservation knowledge, clarity of patients' values, and congruence of
      preferences with the decision about whether to accept fertility preservation referral and/or
      fertility preservation treatment). (Part 2)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the acceptability of the DA website (e.g., length, clarity, ease of use) and
      feasibility of the research methods (e.g., preferences for viewing at home versus at the
      clinic, timing of viewing, website usage, recommendations for improvement), in preparation
      for future planned dissemination and implementation studies. (Part 1) II. To explore the
      feasibility of the multicomponent DS intervention and research methods (e.g., clinician's
      perspectives of the educational session and referral process, website usage, rates of
      referrals, recommendations for improving the intervention and referral process) as delivered
      in the HALs oncology clinics, in preparation for future planned dissemination and
      implementation studies. (Part 2)

      OUTLINE:

      PART 1: Participants review decision aid website and complete questionnaires to help
      researchers learn the website's effect.

      PART 2: Participants are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants receive standard of care including education materials about fertility
      preservation from the Livestrong organization and a referral for fertility preservation, if
      requested.

      ARM II: Participants receive standard of care as in Arm I. Participants also use the
      decision-making the website.
    
  