
    
      A total of 100 consecutive patients (November 2013 to October 2015) scheduled for implant
      surgery in the University Dental Clinic (Murcia, Spain) were included in this study. All
      patients were older than 18 and were free of medical and surgical contraindications and
      systemic disease that would conflict with treatment (American Society of Anesthesiologists
      (ASA) risk I or II). All participants in the study were able to read, understand and respond
      to the health questionnaire and were able to sign an informed consent document. This study
      was performed in accordance with the 2014 revision of the Declaration of Helsinki (General
      Assembly of the World Medical Association, 2014).

      Clinical materials The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of the University
      of Murcia.

      The study was conducted with a double blind randomized design using a visual analogue scale
      (VAS) of 100 mm to measure pain intensity. The degree of inflammation was measured using a
      5-point Likert scale (extremely inflamed, very inflamed, inflamed, somewhat inflamed, and not
      inflamed).

      Patients signed two informed consent forms, one for the implant surgery, and the other for
      participation in the study; the latter explicitly mentioned the patients' ability to leave
      the study at any time.

      A local anaesthetic composed of lidocaine hydrochloride and epinephrine (20 mg/ml + 0.0125
      mg/ml, respectively) was applied (never alveolar nerve block).

      All implants had sandblasted and acid-etched surfaces (TiCare Inhex®, Mozo Grau / Ticare,
      Valladolid, Spain). All implants were placed by the same surgeon (ASP) following the
      recommendations of the manufacturer (total = 100 implants).

      The test group received a dose of 25 mg DKT in an oral suspension 15 minutes before surgery,
      and the control group received 500 mg vitamin C 15 minutes before surgery. Both solutions
      were administered in an orange disposable cup to mask the small difference in colour.
    
  