
    
      First, all eligible patients will be screened for inclusion and exclusion and will be
      assigned to the experimental group and the control group. The experimental group will
      participate in a remote rehabilitation program via Lumosity platform, providing video-games
      aimed at strengthening specific cognitive functions for 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week, for
      a total of 8 weeks. The control group will watch a series of animated / TV shows, again for
      30 minutes a day, 5 days a week, for 8 weeks. Once a week the patient (or his family) will be
      contacted by the researcher to check the progress of the treatment. All patients will be
      evaluated within a week before the start of treatment and after the end of treatment with a
      standardized neuropsychological assessment battery (NEPSY-II) designed to evaluate the
      effects of the treatment. Patients (or their parents according to participants' age) will
      also compile a questionnaire to assess behavioral problems (CBCL); a questionnaire for the
      assessment of cognitive functions in an ecological context (BRIEF-2); a quality of life
      questionnaire (TACQOL) and ad-hoc treatment appreciation questionnaire. In addition to the
      cognitive-behavioral assessment, specific parameters of cortical activity will be recorded
      (via EEG), in order to evaluate any changes in predefined neurophysiological markers able to
      reflect the effects of the treatment. Evidence gathered from the literature reports that the
      relationship between theta and beta waves (the so-called theta/beta ratio) may be considered
      an index of a behavioral adaptation deficit in populations with poor executive control.
      Therefore, this index appears to be the ideal candidate to detect changes in cortical
      activity which may underlay behavioral effects of home rehabilitation treatment. Thus,
      resting-state cortical activity will be recorded before and after the treatment.
    
  