
    
      Acute upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage is one of the main digestive emergencies involving
      hospital admission. Endoscopic examination plays a key role to determine the cause of the
      bleeding and to carry out a therapeutic procedure. Endoscopic performance depends on the
      quality of the examination that may be hampered by residual blood in the gastric cavity.
      Gastric lavage is usually performed to clear the stomach. However, several teams consider
      that it is possible to avoid putting a nasogastric tube because it is ineffective in half of
      the patients, disagreeable in most of them, can induce side effects and need a long time work
      for nurses. It could be replaced by the use of Erythromycin. There are no official
      recommendations in that field. Recent studies have shown that Erythromycin, a macrolide
      antibiotic with gastro kinetic properties can accelerate gastric emptying by inducing gastric
      contraction. This motilin receptor agonist could improve the gastric cleaning and the quality
      of endoscopic examination and decrease its duration.

      This randomized trial is aimed to determine if the use of erythromycin IV before endoscopy
      could avoid putting a gastric tube for the management of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. It
      is a prospective, controlled, randomized, multicentric study with a blind assessment of the
      main criteria. All patients aged more than 18 years with an acute upper gastrointestinal
      bleeding, defined by melena or hematemesis, managed by emergency department are enrolled. 270
      patients are expected. Informed consent including for endoscopic examination and no
      contraindication for using Erythromycin (QT enlargement) is needed. Patients are randomized
      in three groups: Erythromycin alone, nasogastric tube with gastric lavage alone or both
      Erythromycin and nasogastric tube. Patients are followed-up until first month after bleeding.
      The main criteria are the visualization of the gastric tract and the other criteria are
      rebleeding until D 30, transfusion, gastric tube or erythromycin complications.
    
  