
    
      Background: Children with ASD are at higher risk for developing co-existing mental health
      conditions and consequently experiencing psychiatric hospitalization, compared to the general
      pediatric population. However, hospital environments can be exceptionally stressful for this
      population, given their social-communication deficits, ineffective emotional regulation
      skills and heightened physiological arousal. While the use of animal-assisted activities
      (AAA) show potential for various improvements in children with ASD in community settings,
      these "stress-reducing" and "social-buffering" benefits have not yet been studied within a
      psychiatric hospital setting for youth with ASD.

      Objectives: Evaluate whether an AAA with canines can lead to reduced physiological arousal
      and improvements in social-communication as well as aberrant behaviors in children and
      adolescents diagnosed with ASD in a specialized psychiatric hospital setting.

      Methods: Participants were recruited from the Neuropsychiatric Special Care (NSC) program's
      inpatient and/or partial day-treatment program. Prior to study participation, baseline
      demographic measures were acquired from caregivers and participants' ASD diagnosis was
      confirmed. Participants experienced two, randomly assigned 35-minute sessions (AAA and
      Control Condition) with a minimum two-day washout period between groups. Each session
      included a baseline 20-minute social skills group immediately followed by a 10 minute
      experimental or control condition. The AAA condition introduced a canine and volunteer
      handler for free interaction time while the control condition introduced a novel toy and a
      volunteer for free interaction. Participants' physiological arousal was continuously assessed
      throughout all conditions via the Empatica E-4 wristbands (Empatica Inc. 2014). All sessions
      were videotaped for behavioral coding using the Observation of Human Animal Interaction for
      Research - Modified, v.1.
    
  