
    
      Stratum 1: This is a phase 2 single-arm open-label study that will define event-free survival
      (EFS) and overall survival (OS) following therapy with irinotecan, temozolomide, bevacizumab,
      and compartmental (intraOmmaya) radioimmunotherapy (cRIT) 131I-omburtamab in patients with
      recurrent medulloblastoma. Patients with recurrent medulloblastoma will undergo surgery if
      feasible prior to study entry, followed by Induction Chemotherapy with irinotecan,
      temozolomide, and bevacizumab on study as per the Children's Oncology Group (COG) trial
      ACNS0821. Following 2 or 4 courses of chemotherapy and if radiographic disease status is
      stable or improved, patients will receive 2 therapeutic doses of 50 mCi cRIT 131I-omburtamab
      over 2 cycles of Radioimmunotherapy. Following 131I-omburtamab, patients may resume to
      Maintenance Chemotherapy with irinotecan, temozolomide, and bevacizumab for up to 12 total
      courses of chemotherapy or until disease progression, whichever occurs sooner. The primary
      comparison for this study will be the medulloblastoma cohort treated on ACNS0821 on the
      irinotecan + temozolomide + bevacizumab arm (N=52).

      Stratum 2: This is a feasibility cohort. The primary objective is to assess feasibility of
      incorporating cRIT 131I-omburtamab for patients with recurrent ependymoma and to assess
      dosimetry. Patients must have progressed after initial surgery, radiation therapy, or other
      therapies. Patients will undergo surgery (if feasible) prior to study entry with the goal of
      achieving stable or better disease. Tumors (archived or new) will be tested for B7H3 prior to
      enrollment. If positive, patients will enroll on Stratum 2 and receive one dosimetry dose (2
      mCi) of cRIT 131I-omburtamab with nuclear medicine scintigraphy using SPECT during the
      Dosimetry Course (1 week in length). Following the Dosimetry Course and within 2 weeks of the
      dosimetry dose, patients may continue to Radioimmunotherapy to receive 2 therapeutic doses
      (50 mCi) of cRIT 131I-omburtamab over 2 cycles.
    
  