
    
      1 Study Method

      1.1 Study Design

      The MTP STUDY is a retrospective, observational, non-interventional study based on a
      multicentric, anonymised Register. The Study is conducted by the emergency department of the
      University Hospital (CHUV) in Lausanne, Switzerland. The study design is observational, and
      no intervention is applied as part of the study protocol.

      1.2 Sample Size and Power consideration

      As his study is retrospective, the sample size is fixed. The number of participants will
      depend on the STR Database. The investigators anticipate using the data of 10'000
      participants included in the Swiss Trauma Registry from 1st January 2015 to 31st December
      2019. A post-hoc power calculation will be performed.

      1.3 Timing of Final analysis

      This statistical analysis plan is added before receiving the dataset and before any analyses
      have been conducted. After receiving the dataset, the investigators will check for data
      consistency. Once the database has been checked, statistical analysis will be performed
      (October 2020)

      1.4 Baseline patient characteristics

      1.4.1 Collected baseline patient characteristics

      The observational study is designed to record a set of demographical data, clinical
      examination in prehospital or in-hospital setting, in-hospital biochemical values and imaging
      variables for each included patient. The investigators will extract the data from the Swiss
      trauma registry (STR). The Investigators plan to extract the biological parameters from the
      register at the trauma room stage. The clinical examinations will be the first measures at
      the pre and in-hospital stage.

      1.4.1 Descriptive summary of baseline patient characteristics

      The investigators will list general patient characteristics in a baseline characteristics
      table. Data will be presented as mean with standard deviation (SD) when normally distributed
      or as median with interquartile range in case of skewed data. Dichotomous and categorical
      data will be presented in proportions.

      1.5 Assumed confounding covariate

      The majority of the requested variables from the STR are inevitably correlated, as most
      relate to the haemodynamic status of the patient and the trauma severity. The values of the
      variables can be confounded by unmeasured factors, such as environmental, genetic or
      psychological influences. Therefore, the investigators provide an example of possible
      confounding variables:

        -  Clinical examinations in prehospital settings (i.e. heart rate, systolic blood pressure,
           respiratory rate, Glasgow Coma scale) are assumed to be confounded by:

           - Quality of the measurements, stress, pain and anxiety. These confounding covariates
           should be minor for the statistical analysis.

        -  Clinical examinations at hospital admission (i.e. vitals signs) are assumed to be
           confounded by:

           - Quality of the measurements, administration of inotropes and/or vasopressors during
           transport, administration of propofol (negative inotropic effect), induced comas and the
           need for mechanical ventilation.

        -  Because some patients will not survive long enough to receive 10 red blood cell units,
           massive transfusion is subject to misclassification. To correct this misclassification,
           the investigators add in the massive transfusion definition the use of ≥ 3 RBC
           administered in the first hour (if the variable is available in the registry).

        -  The trauma-induced coagulopathy as secondary outcome is assumed to be confounded by
           anticoagulant treatments. To counteract the confounding covariate, the investigators
           will include the fibrinogen < 1.5 g/L in the definition of trauma-induced coagulopathy.
           The investigators will also define a subgroup of patients with anticoagulant treatment
           or not.

      The investigators acknowledge that there will be residual confounding in our dataset due to
      the presence of unmeasured confounding, some of which is listed above. However, the actual
      measured variables reflect daily practice and so are assumed to reflect similar confounding
      in daily assessments.

      2. Analysis

      2.1. Analysis methods

      2.1.1. Efficacy analyses of primary outcome

      First, the investigators will assess the accuracy (overall performance), discrimination and
      calibration of ABC, TASH and BATT score for the prediction of massive transfusion in trauma
      patients at the trauma scene and at the hospital admission.

      2.1.2. Accuracy

      The accuracy will be assessed using the Brier score. Where Y is the observed outcome and p is
      the prediction of the model The Brier score depends on the prevalence of the outcome, the
      investigators will also calculate the scaled Brier score to account for the baseline risk of
      Massive transfusion.

      The scaled Brier score ranges from 0% to 100% and indicates the degree of error in
      prediction. A scaled Brier score of 0% shows perfect accuracy.

      2.1.3. Discrimination

      Discrimination is the ability of the score to correctly identify patients with the outcome.
      The investigators will estimate the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      likelihood ratio for the defined threshold of each score (ABC, TASH, BATT).

      The likelihood ratio is the likelihood of a positive score in a patient with the outcome
      compared to the likelihood of a positive score in a patient without the outcome. The positive
      likelihood ratio is the ratio of sensitivity to 1-specificity. The negative likelihood ratio
      is the ratio of 1-sensitivity to specificity. A positive likelihood ratio of 10 or above will
      result in a large increase in the probability of the outcome. A negative likelihood ratio of
      0.1 or less will result in a large decrease in the probability of the outcome.

      The investigators will plot the Receiving Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve which is the
      sensitivity (true positives) on 1-specificity (false positives) for each defined threshold of
      each score. An ideal score will reach the upper left corner (all true positive with no false
      positive). The investigators will estimate the area under the ROC curve (AUROC) that
      corresponds to the concordance statistic (C- Statistic) for binary outcome. A C-statistic of
      1.0 shows perfect discrimination ability.

      2.1.4. Calibration

      Calibration is the agreement between observed and predicted outcomes. The investigators will
      mostly estimate calibration as the difference between the mean predicted and observed
      probabilities and the ratio of the predicted and observed number of events (P/O). The
      investigators will plot the observed and predicted probabilities of massive transfusion by
      decile of the score and with local regression based on LOESS algorithm. The investigators
      will estimate the calibration intercept and slope of the calibration plot as a measure of
      spread between predicted and observed outcome. Ideally, the intercept would be zero
      indicating that the predictions are neither systematically too low or too high and the slope
      would be 1.

      Unfortunately, the investigators cannot estimate the calibration of the BATT score, because
      of its different outcome (death due to bleeding and not the massive transfusion as the TASH
      and ABC score). For the BATT, calibration will be assessed with the outcome of death due to
      bleeding or early death.

      2.1.1.1 Efficacy analyses of secondary outcome

      The investigators will perform the same analysis for secondary outcomes as the primary
      outcome.

      2.2 Missing Data

      Due to the retrospective aspect of the study based on a multicentric registry, the
      investigators expect to have some missing data for some prehospital and in-hospital
      predictors.

      2.2.1. Imputation method

      To estimate baseline risk for the full dataset, the investigators will replace missing
      predictors using multiple imputation by chained equations on sex, age, systolic blood
      pressure, respiratory rate, heart rate, Glasgow coma scale, Haemoglobin, base excess, type of
      injury (penetrating/blunt) Instable pelvis fracture and open/dislocated femur fracture with
      20 imputed dataset. All analysis and results will be present in two subgroups: missing data
      imputed and missing data excluded.

      2.2.2. Early deaths and early deaths with haemorrhage as a proxy for death due to bleeding

      Because the investigators don't know if the Swiss Trauma Registry record the cause of death,
      the investigators expect some missing data about death due to bleeding as a secondary
      outcome. In case of missing data on secondary outcomes, the investigators will use early
      deaths and early deaths with evidence of haemorrhage as a proxy for death due to bleeding.
      Specifically, the investigators will included deaths from all causes within 12 hours of
      injury (excluding massive destruction of skull or brain; asphyxia, drowning and hanging are
      already excluded from the STR) and deaths between 12 to 24 hours with evidence of bleeding
      (Activation of massive transfusion protocol or blood within 6 hours or an abbreviated injury
      scale (AIS) diagnosis associated with haemorrhage: Blood loss >20%, Aorta [OR] Vena Cava
      [OR]carotid [OR]femoral [OR]Major arteries [OR]veins AND laceration, - Spleen [OR]liver [OR]
      Kidney [OR] Myocardium [AND] major laceration, major haemothorax, retroperitoneum
      haemorrhage).

      2.3 Subgroup analyses

      If the sample size permits, the investigators will conduct subgroup analysis in different
      subpopulations for the primary and secondary outcomes. The investigators will create the
      following subgroups in our MTP study:

        -  Subgroup 1: subdivide the population into two groups: with or without isolated severe
           traumatic brain Injury (TBI) with AIS HEAD ≥ 3 and AIS thorax/abdominal < 3 and/or AIS
           lower extremity < 4.

        -  Subgroup 2: subdivide the population into two groups: with or without anticoagulation
           treatment before trauma.

        -  Subgroup 3: subdivide the population into two groups: with or without trauma- induced
           coagulopathy.

        -  Subgroup 4: subdivide the dataset in prehospital settings and in-hospital settings.

        -  Subgroup 5: All analysis and results will be present into two subgroups: missing data
           imputed and missing data excluded with the complete case analysis.

      2.4 Statistical Software

      All analyses will be performed using STATA software (version 16.0; Stata Corp, College
      Station, Texas, USA).

      3 Ethical Approval

      As is mandatory in Swiss law (KVG), STR is authorised by the Human Research Act (HRA) as a
      quality registry for the Highly Specialised Medicine (HSM). Due to the retrospective aspect
      of our observational study based on an anonymized registry (identity, date of birth, trauma
      scene and hospital location unknown) and according to the swiss law by the HRA (Art. 2), the
      investigators don't need a protocol submission to an ethics committee.

      4 Conclusion

      This Statistical analysis plan (SAP) presents the principles of analysis of the MTP study and
      discusses its major methodological and statistical concerns. The investigators hope that the
      results of the MTP study will be as transparent and robust as possible, so that the
      investigators minimized the risk of outcome reporting bias and data-driven results.
    
  