
    
      1. Technology Roadmap:①Pregnant Women:Subjects are rolled in the group. ② 21 Weeks of
           Gestation：Sign informed contents (mother version), test depression scale ( BDI+HAMD ),
           fill in the basic information questionnaire and collect 3 ml of blood of pregnant women
           for genetic information extraction. ③Delivery: Sign informed contents(children version),
           collect 1 ml of umbilical cord blood and 2ml of urine from mother. ④Physical
           measurements are respectively taken when a child is 3, 6, 12, 24 months old and 3, 6
           years old. And the Montreal Children Hospital Feeding Scale will be also respectively
           completed when a child is 6 and 12 months old. What's more, the investigators plan to
           carry out developmental screening for the children aged 1, 2, 3 and 6, and if the
           developmental screening is positive, a diagnostic test then will be carried out. ⑤When
           children are aged 2, 3 and 6, blood samples are taken from 3 milliliters and urine from
           2 milliliters, and nutrients are detected to obtain genetic information. ⑥All biological
           specimens will be tested for nutrient levels and some other.⑦At last, data analysis is
           performed on all collected information including physical measurements, feeding behavior
           questionnaire, all biological specimens and so on.

        2. Study Protocol： A. Human Subjects Review: Studies must have approval (or be exempt, as
           appropriate) from a Human Subjects Protection Review Board prior to the enrollment of
           the first participant to be eligible for registration (Submitted, approved).

           B. Register a clinical study: Prior to the launch of the project, pre-registration will
           be completed at clinicaltrials.gov in the international clinical study register
           authority.

           C. Study cohort: Screening qualified pregnant women volunteered to take part in the
           study from pregnancy clinics of Chongqing suburban maternity and child health hospital
           and The Maternal and Child Health Hospital of Hainan Province.

        3. Measuring scale: To assess the depression status and degree of the subjects by Hamilton
           Depression Scale (HAMD) and Beck depression rating scale (BDI); To evaluate the
           cognitive function of subjects and exclude the patients with mental retardation by
           Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Activity of Daily Living Scale（ADL); To screen
           or identify the cognitive function and level of children in different age groups by
           Denver development screening scale (DDST) and Gesell Developmental Schedules (Gesell),
           and combining with the Adaptive Scale of Infant and Children (SM) to assist in the
           diagnosis of developmental delay/intellectual disability, The Vanderbilt ADHD Diagnostic
           Rating Scale on diagnosis of ADHD.

        4. Data management and statistical analysis plan:

           A. All the data is recorded by the professional staff, and checked by a third person to
           ensure accuracy of data entry; B. All statistical analysis is performed with SAS 9.4.
           The statistical analysis is completed by the applicant and the professional
           statisticians in the epidemiology research office of the unit.

        5. Recruitment process:

           A. To preach related knowledge of major depressive disorder, ADHD, and developmental
           delay/intellectual disability in the form of obstetrics clinics, network media, and
           network health management platform,etc; B. Recruitment information is released by
           platforms such as obstetrics clinics, network health management platforms, etc., to
           recruit pregnant women; C. The obstetric nurses and professional recruiters
           (postgraduate students) assist pregnant women to sign informed consents, agree to
           participate in the study, and promise that the delivery of children would take part in
           the same sequence of study as well.

        6. The required materials of recruitment:

           Manufacture recruiting advertisements of major depressive disorder, ADHD, developmental
           delay/intellectual disability related knowledge and disease hazards, the importance of
           early diagnosis, recruitment information of pregnant women and their children enrolled
           in the study (for example: network media recruitment advertisement, WeChat H5
           recruitment advertisement, network health management platform recruitment advertisement,
           etc.).

        7. Benefit Assessment： A. The pregnant women volunteered to participate in the study are
           able to enjoy regular check-ups (once every three months, including height, weight,
           blood pressure, mood questionnaires, etc.); B. Eligible children volunteer to
           participate in the study, all can enjoy free physical examination (height, weight) at
           the age of 1, 2, 3, and 6, moreover according to age to enjoy free screening or
           diagnostic test related to cognitive development level and attention deficit
           hyperactivity disorder test; C. The parents of all the children involved can receive the
           knowledge of parenting through WeChat or network health management platform, and be
           provided with free parenting seminars regularly; D. High-risk pregnant women and
           children are given priority access to the superior hospital for diagnosis and treatment;
           E. All subjects are eligible for the the nutrient level test of preferential price, 16S
           test (intestinal flora detection) of the preferential price , free related genetic test;
           F. Study may solve some urgent problems in the prevention and treatment of developmental
           disabilities such as ADHD, developmental delay/intellectual disability, and contribute
           to promoting maternal and child health, improving the quality of the population, and
           promoting the sustained and healthy development of the national economy.

        8. Risk Assessment ( illustrate the possible risk rate and take measures to ensure that
           risk is minimized in a possible range):

           A. Possible risk: the probability of subjects losing to follow-up (loss ratio of 5 to
           10% due to various reasons); B. Measurements: The professional staff would regularly
           contact with the mother or the child by phone or Wechat. And after the birth of a child,
           childbearing knowledge or childcare lectures are regularly provided for the parents.

        9. Special crowd protection:

      A.In the course of the study, obstetricians, psychologists, and childcare doctors are all
      involved in providing health care for pregnant women, mothers and children.

      B. At the same time, please protect the subjects' privacy and not to give out the information
      of the subjects. All subjects' personal information is treated with confidentiality and this
      study data is only used in the study design scope to ensure that the subjects' privacy is not
      invaded.
    
  