
    
      Study Procedures for Years 1-5:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will come to the clinic for study visits once a
      year during Years 1-5. It is your choice whether to visit your regular local doctor or your
      study doctor at MD Anderson. (If you visit your regular local doctor, you will need to have
      your test results and blood samples mailed to the study staff.) You will receive a reminder
      phone call once a year, when it is time to schedule these visits.

      At these visits, the following procedures will be performed:

        -  Blood (about 2-4 tablespoons each time) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs (blood
           pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate).

        -  You will fill out a questionnaire that asks about your medical history (your general
           health, the status of any medical conditions, and any illnesses or hospitalizations that
           may have occurred). It should take about 15-30 minutes to complete.

        -  You will be asked if there have been any changes in your contact information.

        -  If necessary to check the status of the disease, you will have scans (x-rays and/or
           computed tomography [CT] scans) and/or additional routine blood tests (about 1-2
           tablespoons).

      Study Procedures for Years 6-15:

      Once a year during Years 6-15, the research staff will contact you. Either over the phone, by
      email, or by mail (but usually by mail, with an enclosed questionnaire), you will be asked
      about your medical history (including if you have had any children since the infusion) and
      whether there have been any changes in your contact information. The phone calls and
      questionnaires should take about 15-30 minutes each time.

      Results of Study Testing:

      If any of the tests that are performed in this study suggest that you may have a medical
      condition and/or side effect that is likely to be related to the gene transfer therapy, the
      study doctor will contact you. You will receive a referral in case you would like to seek
      medical care for the condition and/or side effect.

      You and/or your insurance provider will be responsible for the costs of any CT scans and
      x-rays that may be needed for this study.

      Study Database:

      Your medical information that is collected for this study will be stored in a research
      database at MD Anderson for use in future research related to the safety and effects of gene
      transfer therapy.

      Your data will be given a code number. No identifying information will be directly linked to
      your data. Only the researcher or authorized personnel in charge of the database will have
      access to the code numbers and be able to link the data to you. This is to allow medical
      information related to your data to be updated as needed. Other researchers using your data
      will not be able to link this data to you.

      Changes in Parent/Guardian Contact:

      If you are younger than 18 years old when joining this study but turn 18 during this study,
      starting then, the research staff will contact you directly for this study instead of your
      parent/guardian. However, if you would prefer for your parent/guardian to still be the main
      contact person, please tell the study staff.

      Length of Study Participation:

      After 15 years, your participation in this study will be over unless the FDA decides that
      follow-up must continue.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 130 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  