
    
      Specific Aim #1: To establish the relationship between joint position and skin recruitment,
      expressed as the percentage of CFU recruited during active ROM, in patients with burn scars
      and normal controls.

      Specific Aim #2: To establish the within-day and between-day reliability of percent CFU
      estimation and absolute skin recruitment, measured in millimeters from a fixed reference,
      during active ROM for a specified joint.

      Specific Aim #3: To establish the relationship between scar height, measured by diagnostic
      ultrasound, scar cross-sectional area, and percent CFU recruitment in individuals with burn
      scar.

      Specific Aim #4: To determine whether the amount of skin recruitment, expressed as the
      percent of the CFU recruited during active ROM, is differentially affected by burn scar.

      Ho: There is no difference in the percent CFU recruited at the completion of active range of
      motion at a specified joint between individuals with burn scars and normal controls.

      Ha: Individuals with burn scars recruit a greater percentage of the CFU in order to obtain
      maximal range of motion at a specified joint.

      Specific Aim #5: To determine whether the timing of skin recruitment, expressed as the
      initiation of skin movement within a CFU relative to joint position during active ROM, is
      differentially affected by burn scar.

      Ho: There is no difference in the initiation of skin movement within a CFU relative to joint
      position during active ROM at a specified joint between individuals with burn scars and
      normal controls.

      Ha: In individuals with burn scars in a given CFU, skin movement farther from the joint axis
      occurs earlier in the range of motion compared to controls.

      Specific Aim #6: To determine whether skin extensibility within a CFU during active ROM of a
      specified joint is differentially affected by burn scar.

      Ho: There is no difference skin extensibility within a CFU during active ROM of a specified
      joint between individuals with burn scars and normal controls.

      Ha: In individuals with burn scars in a given CFU, skin near the joint axis undergoes greater
      deformation (stretch) as range of motion at the joint increases compared to controls.
    
  