
    
      I. Research Project Objectives

      Aim 1. To examine the effect of two HIIT cycles on presynaptic striatal DA availability (in
      dorsal putamen) in the tested PD patients using PET imaging method with the 18F-dopa -
      [18F]fluorodopa uptake, which provides in this case a very good index of restored striatal
      presynaptic dopaminergic function (Brooks and Pavese, 2011).

      Hypothesis 1. The presynaptic striatal dopaminergic function will improve (18F-dopa uptake
      increase) after the first and second bout of HIIT cycle compared to baseline in the PD-TR
      group, and will sustain in 1 year follow up time frame (3 months after the second HIIT cycle
      cessation). In the PD-NTR group, the presynaptic striatal dopaminergic function will not
      improve or even will be worsened (18F-dopa uptake decrease) in the same time interval.
      Importantly for this hypothesis the annual decrease of putaminal 18F-dopa is about 10% in
      early PD (Morrish et al., 1995).

      Aim 2. To characterize an influence of two HIIT cycles on neurophysiological functions (NPFs)
      of: (i) motor and cognitive subcortical and cortical structures, (that are critically
      dependant on the presynaptic DA availability), using fMRI and EEG, and (ii) skeletal muscles
      engaged in motor task, using surface EMG. The following neurophysiological functions of
      central nervous system (CNS) will be tested during performance of the DA
      availability-dependant self initiated index finger motor task and during mental imagery of
      this motor task (cognitive task): (i) a level of activation of subcortical and cortical
      structures, and (ii) strength of functional coupling (functional connectivity) between neural
      structures. For skeletal muscles NPFs', the investigators will study a strategy of motor
      units activation. Also, since the investigators will record EEG and EMG simultaneously, the
      investigators will assess strength of cortico-muscular coupling.

      Hypothesis 2. NPFs will improve after the first and second bout of HIIT cycle compared to
      baseline in the PD-TR group, and will sustain in 1 year follow up time frame. Namely, the
      investigators speculate that for the motor task and mental imagery task in CNS activity, it
      will be: (1) an increase of activation in substantia nigra (SN), putamen (PUT), primary motor
      cortex (M1), supplementary motor area (SMA); (2) decrease of activation of lateral premotor
      cortex (PMC) and cerebellum; with simultaneous (3) increase of functional coupling of: SN
      with PUT; PUT with M1, PMC, SMA and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC); and DLPFC with
      M1, PMC, SMA and cerebellum; (4) decrease of functional coupling between M1, PMC, SMA,
      cerebellum and parietal cortex; and (5) for the mental imagery task the investigators
      additionally assume an increase of parietal and decrease of occipital cortex activation. For
      the skeletal muscle function it will be an improvement in recruitment strategy of motor
      units. Taking into the data from the simultaneous recording of electrical activity of brain
      cortex and skeletal muscles engaged in motor tasks, the investigators assume strengthening of
      corticomuscular coupling. In the PD-NTR group NPFs will not improve or even will be worsened
      in the same time interval and especially after the 1 year from the baseline.

      Aim 3. To characterize an influence of two HIIT cycles on the psychomotor behaviors (PMBs),
      critically dependant on the DA availability and brain's NPFs. The following PMBs will be
      tested during several experiments: (1) self initiated bimanual anti-phase index finger
      flexion/extension movement task and mental imagery of this task during the fMRI scans, (2)
      self initiated bimanual anti-phase index finger abduction/adduction movement task and mental
      imagery of this task during the simultaneous EEG, EMG and force recordings; (3) simple
      functional test of bimanual dexterity (using peg board test), (4) all motor and non-motor PD
      symptoms evaluation, based on neurological assessment, (5) overall cognitive function and
      specifically aspects of executive function using psychological tests.

      Hypothesis 3. PMBs will improve after the first and second bout of HIIT cycle compared to
      baseline in the PD-TR group, and will sustain in 1 year follow up time frame, as a
      consequence of the improvements of presynaptic striatal DA availability and NPFs, The PMBs
      improvement will not be present in the PD-NTR group, or even the PMBs will be worsened in the
      same time interval and especially after the 1 year from the baseline.

      Aim 4. To evaluate: (i) the effect of two HIIT cycles on BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic
      factor), NGF (nerve growth factor), IGF-1 (insulin like growth factor type 1) secretion level
      in blood treated as markers of neuroplasticity efficiency and (ii) an influence of BDNF
      polymorphism on PD patients neuroplastic responsiveness to HIIT (expressed in
      exercise-induced increase of presynaptic DA level, and improvement of NPF' and PMBs).

      Hypothesis 4. The secretion level of the BDNF, NGF and IGF-1 will increase after the first
      and second bout of HIIT cycle compared to baseline in the PD-TR group, and will sustain in 1
      year follow up time frame. In contrary to PD-TR group, the improvement in BDNF, NGF and IGF-1
      secretion level will not be present in the PD-NTR group or even their level will decrease
      after 1 year follow up. The PD patients neuroplastic responsiveness to HIIT will be
      influenced by the BDNF polymorphism type, with potentially worse responsiveness for the
      Val66Met polymorphism of BDNF (this polymorphism causes a valine to methionine change at
      position 66 of the proBDNF protein).

      Aim 5. To investigate the relationships of presynaptic DA availability with the NPFs, PMBs
      and BDNF level of specific polymorphism type.

      Hypothesis 5. The investigators hypothesize that, the HIIT related increase of presynaptic DA
      availability will be significantly positively correlated with: (i) an improvement of NPFs and
      PMBs, and with an increased level of BDNF secretion in blood, and (ii) negatively with the
      BDNF Val66Met polymorphism type in PD-TR group. Contrary to the above, there will be lack or
      less significant correlations of presynaptic striatal DA availability with NPFs, PMBs and
      BDNF level in the PD-NTR group.

      II. Research design and work plan

      This project is a longitudinal, 1-year follow up randomized controlled study with 3 arms.
      Whole block type randomization process is carried out by the investigators of this study
      using sequentially numbered sealed envelopes. Opaque envelopes are used to conceal
      allocation. The project enrolls two PD patients' groups: PD-TR - the PD patients who will
      perform physical training cycle; PD-NTR - non-trained PD patients and one H-CO - healthy
      control group that will not perform the HIIT cycles. All PD subjects (PD-TR and PD-NTR) will
      be examined during their medication "OFF-phase" in the following time points: Pre HIIT 1, 1
      week-, 1.5 month- and 3 months-Post HIIT 1; and then similarly 1 week-, 1.5 month- and 3
      months-Post HIIT 2. The subject from H-CO will be tested only once.

      III. Research methodology

      III.1.1. Subjects characteristics The 40 PD individuals (aged 45-65 years), are qualified to
      the study after being diagnosed to have an idiopathic PD, based on neurological assessment.
      The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease are based on medical history, physical and neurological
      examinations and response to L-dopa. Patients are clinically assessed with the UPDRS and the
      H&Y scale by experienced movement disorder neurologist. To obtain the most homogeneous group
      of patients with unified type of medication (important for PET measurements), that will be
      able to perform HIIT cycle and participate fully in the testing sessions, the investigators
      limit patients' recruitment to mild PD (1-2 points in H&Y scale) with prevalence of
      bradykinesia and absence or less accentuated tremor. The healthy control group will comprise
      of age-, gender, height- and body mass-matched healthy individuals.

      III.1.2. Subjects recruitment The PD subjects are recruited from Neurology Clinics in Warsaw,
      Poland. The healthy elderly control group of subjects are recruited based on: (i) public
      advertisement and (ii) contacts with the Universities of the Third Age and the Seniors' Clubs
      around the Warsaw city.

      III.2. Training procedures The patients from PD-TR group will perform two 12-week HIIT cycles
      divided with 3 months of break. This HIIT cycle will consist of three 1-hour training
      sessions weekly. Each 1-hour training session will consist of 10-minutes warm-up (at slow
      voluntary speed), 40-minutes of interval exercise and 10-minutes cool-down phase. In each
      training session, the interval exercise part will consist of 10 sets of 4 minutes interval
      including 2-minutes cycling at ≥ 60 [rpm], but preferably at 80-90 [rpm] (fast phase of
      interval) and 2-minutes cycling at ≤ 60 [rpm] (slow phase of interval). The training will be
      performed on a stationary cycle ergometer (MONARK, Ergomedic 874E, Sweden), that allows to
      measure cadence [rpm]) and power [W]. The heart rate (HR, [bpm]) will be measured by Polar
      system (Polar, Finland). Training supervisor will adjust the resistance for each patient to
      ensure cycling at each patient's target heart rate (THR) and with appropriate speed. All
      training sessions will be performed while the patients' medication on-phase (beneficial
      effect of anti-parkinsonian medication). The patients will pedal on the cycloergometer at
      60%-80% of their individualized HRmax and will be encouraged to cycle faster (80-90 rpm, or
      30% faster than their preferred voluntary speed) during the fast phase of the interval
      training. Each patient will increased his/her target heart rate every 2 weeks by 5% from 60%
      up to 80% in the following order: 60% of the HRmax during the first two weeks, 65% during the
      3-4 week, 70% during 5-6 week, 75% during 7-9 week and 80% during 10-12 week of training
      period. During each part of these 36 training sessions (warm up; fast and slow phase of
      interval training part; slow down), for each subject, the investigators will measure: (i) the
      values of the % of HRmax, (ii) cadence and power, and (iii) patients' perception of exercise
      intensity using the Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) (Borg, 1982). To enhance the
      cognitive engagement in exercised PD patients the cadence (cycling speed) data will be
      presented on each patient's screen using custom-made feedback system. The patient will see
      two vertical bars, on which the first is going to be the set target level of speed
      (appropriate for the slow or fast phase of interval) and the second is going to be the an
      actual speed generated by exercising patient. Additionally, the PD patients will be cued with
      metronome and verbal comments of instructor to pedal with appropriate rhythm which will be
      adjusted to the set speed.

      IV. Statistical analysis

      The investigators will first perform a between-group comparison for all demographics and
      clinical characteristics to check for baseline differences (Student's t test or Mann-Whitney
      U tests for normally and non-normally distributed data or the Fisher's exact test for
      contingency data). Repeated measures ANOVA will be used to perform a between-group comparison
      of changes in the testing points. Significant main effects will then be subjected to a
      post-hoc pair-wise comparison primarily between PD-TR and PD-NTR, and PD-TR and H-CO.
      Correlation analysis (Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficient) will be performed between
      PET data (showing DA availability), and fMRI, EEG, EMG (describing NPFs), PMBs, and
      neuroplasticity markers outcomes. For all analyses, a significance level will be set to
      α=0.05 with Bonferroni adjustments for multiple comparisons when necessary.
    
  