
    
      Study design:

      COLLISION is a single-blind prospective multi-center phase-III randomized controlled trial.
      We hypothesize that thermal ablation is non-inferior to surgery for the selected patient
      groups in terms of the primary objective (overall survival). The Cox proportional hazards
      model (1-sided; non-inferiority or superiority) is used for sample size calculations. Given
      the superior safety profile we consider a hazard ratio of 1.3 to represent the upper limit of
      non-inferiority (non-inferiority margin). An HR of 1.3 corresponds to a 56.5% chance of the
      ablated patients to die first ((P = HR/(1 + HR) = 1.3/(1 + 1.3) = 0.565 (56.5%)). With 3
      years of patient accrual and five years of follow-up we will have reached 60% of events
      (death) in approximately 6.5 years (overall probability of event, pE =0.6). The calculated
      sample size therefore is 599 (NS).To account for a 10% drop-out ratio (NDO=69) prior to
      randomization and a 3% loss to follow-up (NLTFU=18) after randomization we need to include
      687 patients (NI). A total number of 618 patients will be randomized (NR) into one of two
      arms: arm A will undergo surgical resection (n=309) and arm B thermal ablation (n=309) for
      appointed target lesions.

      Study population:

      Patients with ≥1 resectable and ablatable CRLM (≤3cm), no extrahepatic disease and a good
      performance status (WHO 0-2) are considered eligible. Supplementary resections for resectable
      lesions >3cm and thermal ablations for unresectable CRLM ≤3cm are allowed with a maximum
      number of CRLM of 10.

      Intervention:

      Eligible patients will be stratified into low-, intermediate- and high disease burden after
      assessment by an expert panel. The panel, consisting of at least two diagnostic radiologists,
      two interventional radiologists and two hepatobiliary and/or oncological surgeons, will
      appoint lesions that are resectable and ablatable as target lesions, resectable and
      unablatable lesions as unablatable lesions and ablatable but unresectable lesions as
      unresectable lesions. All unablatable lesions should be resectable and all unresectable
      lesions should be ≤3cm and ablatable.

      With the exception of patients that are suitable for laparoscopic resection or percutaneous
      ablation (low disease burden), eligibility needs to be reconfirmed during the surgical
      procedure. Hereafter patients will be randomized to undergo surgical resection of the target
      lesions (allowing thermal ablation for additional unresectable lesions) or thermal ablation
      (allowing resection for additional unablatable lesions). For open procedures randomization
      will be performed shortly after surgical inspection and IOUS with the patient under general
      anaesthesia. Both the experimenter(s) and the participant will be unaware of the eventual
      treatment arm prior to the procedure; after the procedure the patient will remain unaware
      (single-blind).

      Conferring to national guidelines follow-up will include imaging, laboratory tests including
      tumour markers (CEA) and clinical examination every 3 months for the first year and every 6
      months hereafter. Follow-up cross-sectional imaging should include at least an abdominal ceCT
      or upper abdominal ceMRI at the given time-points. Participating centres are free to add
      18F-FDG PET-CTs at specific time-points or to use alternating specific modalities, as long as
      the follow-up protocol is pre-approved by the trial coordinators and as long as follow-up
      imaging is identical for both treatment arms. Quality of life questionnaires will be assessed
      at baseline, every 3 months for the first year and every 6 months hereafter accordingly.

      Patients with recurrences that are considered unsuitable for additional focal therapy will be
      re-referred to their medical oncologist to assess additional systemic chemotherapy. In the
      event of chemotherapeutic down-staging hereafter, focal therapy can be reconsidered.
    
  