
    
      Background:

      Existing criteria for AS/SpA such as mod. New York, ESSG, or Amor criteria for classification
      and/or diagnosis of spondyloarthritis have limitations when applied to early disease.
      Moreover, MRI is not part of any of the established criteria and the precise role of MRI in
      early axial disease has not been fully defined yet. Even less is known about sacroiliac (SI)
      changes in SpA patients with peripheral symptoms. A pilot study using data from 'paper
      patients' led to new candidate criteria for early spondyloarthritis. Subsequently, the
      members of the ASAS International Working Group decided to conduct a prospective multi-centre
      study to evaluate (validate) the new candidate criteria, and to assess their performance as
      diagnostic criteria.

      Aims of the study:

        1. To evaluate the new candidate criteria for axial SpA in a multi-centre setting.

        2. To assess the potential role of the new candidate criteria to be used as diagnostic
           criteria. To accomplish this, inclusion of consecutive and undiagnosed patients is
           mandatory as are longer periods of follow-up .

        3. To compare criteria encompassing the whole group of SpA such as ESSG and Amor criteria
           against criteria which are tailored to either predominant axial disease or predominant
           peripheral disease. To accomplish this, both patients with predominant axial disease
           (back pain) but also patient with predominant peripheral disease (arthritis/enthesitis)
           will be included.

      Participating centres:

      All ASAS members working in clinical practice are invited to participate in the study. More
      than one ASAS member/ rheumatologist per centre may participate.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Include newly referred patients if

        -  onset of symptoms (back pain / arthritis / enthesitis) < 45 years and

        -  undiagnosed* disease with the following symptoms:

             -  chronic back pain (duration of back pain more than 3 months)

             -  or / and peripheral arthritis (asymmetric arthritis / predominantly of the lower
                limbs)

             -  or / and enthesitis

             -  or / and dactylitis

                  -  Definition of 'undiagnosed':

      The patient is being referred to your department because of chronic back pain, arthritis,
      enthesitis or dactylitis but has not been diagnosed confidently before by the referring
      physician/rheumatologist as having SpA or as definitely not having SpA. If the referring
      physician/GP/rheumatologist suspects SpA but is not certain about it, the patient is
      considered as undiagnosed.

      Endpoints of the study:

        -  Primary endpoint: the diagnosis made by the rheumatologist (ASAS member) after the
           diagnostic work-up. This expert diagnosis serves as preliminary gold standard against
           which the various criteria will be compared. Final gold standard will be the outcome
           (diagnosis) after long-term follow up.

        -  Secondary endpoints: the diagnosis made by the rheumatologist at 2 and 5 years,
           respectively, after the first assessment. Thus, all patients should be invited to
           follow-up visits after 2 and 5 years, respectively.

      Further study rules:

        -  Include all newly referred patients strictly consecutively as long as they meet the
           inclusion criteria.

        -  The decision to include a patient should be based solely on the fulfilment of the
           inclusion criteria, and should be made ideally before you make the final diagnosis
           (prospective study design).

        -  Patients who have been diagnosed confidently and correctly by the referring physician
           prior to being referred to your department cannot be included in the study.

        -  If you are unable to perform MRIs in your clinical setting you cannot include patients
           with undiagnosed chronic back pain.

        -  If you want to include patients with undiagnosed chronic back pain, perform MRI of
           sacroiliac (SI) joints in the first 10 patients with axial SpA and in the first 10
           patients with non-SpA related (mechanical) back pain. In subsequent patients you may
           perform MRIs as needed on clinical grounds. (Explanation: a minimum number of MRIs in
           both SpA and non-SpA patients from several centres is necessary to obtain reliable
           results on sensitivity and specificity of MRI in early axial SpA.)

        -  MRI of SI joints in patients with peripheral symptoms only will be performed in selected
           centres (centres already indicated whether this will be possible).

        -  MRI results will be taken as provided by the local centre (either read by the
           radiologist or rheumatologist, whoever has greater experience). Results will be
           categorized into 'presence or absence of active inflammatory lesions compatible with
           SpA', and 'presence or absence of chronic lesions compatible with
           sacroiliitis/spondylitis'. (Selected centres will be invited to send us their MRIs for
           validation of locally performed readings (the intention is to increase the quality of
           data).

        -  Plain radiographs of the SI joints and lumbar spine are mandatory in all patients with
           undiagnosed chronic back pain. Previously taken radiographs are acceptable if they are
           not older than 6 months. Results are taken as provided locally either by the radiologist
           or rheumatologist, whoever has greater experience.

        -  At the end of the diagnostic work up, a preliminary diagnosis must be made by the ASAS
           rheumatologist as is done in usual daily clinics. It is not important to be absolutely
           confident about the diagnosis at this stage since this i) reflects daily practice, and
           ii) the level of confidence with the diagnosis will be assessed as well. (It is more
           important to include all patients consecutively in your centre in order to avoid any
           selection bias.) The senior ASAS member should supervise other physicians experienced in
           SpA in her/his department who participate in the study.

        -  Patients with peripheral symptoms should be included if they meet the inclusion
           criteria. Patients with peripheral symptoms and a history of chronic back pain or with
           concomitant chronic back pain must undergo radiographic examination of the SI joints.
           Patients with non-specific musculoskeletal pain or arthralgia (without arthritis) only
           cannot be included.

      Data documentation:

      The results of the clinical history, physical examination, blood tests, radiographs, and
      MRIs, and the diagnosis will be entered into the CRF locally by the ASAS member during/after
      the diagnostic work-up. The diagnosis will be made by the local rheumatologist (ASAS member
      or an experienced colleague at the centre). The completed CRF should be sent to the
      coordinating centre (Berlin) for data check and data entry. A copy of the CRF should remain
      locally at the study centre. The name, date of birth, address, and telephone number must also
      be kept locally in the centre since follow-up assessments after 2 years and after 5 years are
      planned.

      Sample size and inclusion period:

      It is estimated that about 400-500 patients with SpA (ca 250-300 axial and 150-200 peripheral
      SpA) with complete data sets are needed to allow for a reliable comparison of new candidate
      criteria with established criteria. Since the prevalence of SpA among newly referred patients
      with unclear diagnoses varies from centre to centre any calculation of the control group size
      (and thus total sample size) is bound to be inaccurate. Therefore, the proposal is that each
      centre recruits as many consecutive patients as possible until indicated by the study
      coordinators to stop inclusion. The study coordinators can adequately terminate the inclusion
      period only if the completed CRFs are sent within a reasonably short period of time (< 2
      weeks) to the coordinating centre. Data entry and data analysis will be done at the
      coordinating centre.

      DNA/RNA-analysis and biomarker analysis:

      In addition to the clinical study which aims to arrive at new classification and diagnostic
      criteria, two groups of researches will perform laboratory experiments in patients from
      selected centres: Genetic polymorphisms and gene products (RNA) which are potentially
      associated with spondyloarthritis will be analysed by Prof. Matthew Brown in Brisbane,
      Australia. A second group of researchers (Prof. Walter Maksymowych, Canada, Prof. Mikkel
      Ostergaard, Denmark, Prof. Rob Inman, US, and Prof. David Yu, US) will analyse several
      biomarkers such as cartilage break-down or bone formation proteins in serum and/or plasma.
      Data from both experimental projects may be of potential diagnostic value in the future
      and/or may reveal novel insights into pathophysiological mechanisms of spondyloarthritis.

      Longterm follow-up:

      A second follow-up visit of all patients 2 years after the first encounter and also 5 years
      after the first encounter is highly warranted since diagnoses may change over time and the
      final diagnosis after long-term follow up is the most important gold standard. Thus, a record
      containing the names, addresses, and phone numbers of all patients included in the study must
      be stored locally at the study site. The patient is best informed at the first visit that a
      follow-up assessments 2 and 5 years later are envisaged.
    
  