
    
      The proposed study will be conducted at Children's National Health System (CNHS). Pediatric
      subjects undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass will be recruited.
      Eligible and consenting participants will be assigned a unique identification number and will
      be randomly assigned to receive either methadone or fentanyl using a computer-generated
      randomization scheme. A total of 52 participants will be enrolled to each arm of the study,
      providing 80% power to detect a 30% difference between groups.

      Once informed consent is obtained the inpatient pharmacist at CNHS will randomly assign
      eligible participants to receive methadone or fentanyl. The pharmacist will prepare 0.3
      mcg/kg of methadone and 20 mcg/kg of fentanyl for loading dose administration, diluted to 10
      mL.

      The IDS pharmacy will store and maintain all medications per Department of Pharmacy standard
      operating procedures for waste of a controlled substance (C-II) drug.

      The treatment phase will begin at the induction of general anesthesia and finish at the end
      of the surgical procedure. Standard anesthetic practice for monitoring, induction, and
      maintenance of general anesthesia will be preserved throughout.

      Participants will receive either 0.3 mg/kg of methadone or 20 mcg/kg of fentanyl prior to
      surgical incision, over 20 minutes. The medication will be prepared as described above and
      all research and staff personnel as well as the study participant will be blinded to
      treatment group assignment.

      As per standard anesthetic practice, the subject will continue to be evaluated for
      hemodynamic stability, postoperative risk of bleeding, and respiratory effort. Morphine at
      0.05 mg/kg per dose will be administered intravenously as needed for pain control. Surgical
      procedures and times will be recorded in the operative report via the electronic medical
      record.

      Postoperative ICU Phase The postoperative cardiac intensive care unit phase will begin at
      admission to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (CICU) and will end on the third day of hospital
      admission. Postoperative care including hemodynamic stability, resuscitation, and respiratory
      support will be at the discretion of the CICU team.

      As per CICU protocol, the nurse will monitor and record vital signs and pain scale (FLACC)
      scores beginning at handoff from the anesthesia team to the intensive care team. The nurse
      will continue to document vital signs including: blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory
      rate, oxygen saturation, temperature, minute ventilation when mechanically ventilated, and
      oxygen supplementation when appropriate, in the electronic medical record every hour. As per
      nursing protocol, FLACC scores will be recorded in the electronic medical record every 4
      hours or when the nursing staff witnesses pain during the entirety of the subject's CICU
      stay.

      All subjects will receive analgesics and sedation medication based on CICU postoperative pain
      control and agitation protocol

      Data Collection The investigator or designee, blinded to group assignment, will collect all
      of the relevant data from the electronic medical record within six months of the cardiac
      surgery and enter it into the Medical Center's proprietary web-based data-entry and
      data-management system, REDcap (Research Electronic Data Capture). The source of information
      will be medical records at the Children's National Health System "Anesthesiology" and "Bear
      Tracks" information systems provided by Cerner Corporation.

      Data will be obtained specifically for research purposes. Subject identifiers (e.g. name,
      date of birth, address) will not be entered into the REDcap system. The previously assigned
      unique identification numbers will be used.

      Statistical Considerations Significance will be measured as a 30% reduction in postoperative
      pain requirement. Statistical analysis will be used to evaluate any differences between the
      randomization groups in opioid-related adverse events during the first 24-hour postoperative
      period.
    
  