
    
      Forty adults that underwent BS (sleeve gastrectomy and gastric bypass) were invited to
      participate in the study along two years (between 1-4 patients per month). After the initial
      interview, two patients refused to participate in the study. The participants provided
      written informed consent before starting the study. The study was approved by the Ethics
      Committee of the University in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Participants were
      divided into two groups (experimental, EG; and control, CG) depending on when the BS was
      performed. The first 10 patients of each year were the EG (n=19) and the other mine patients
      were the CG (n=19). A 6-month supervised and individualized program that combined aerobic and
      resistance training (CART) was only conducted with the EG. Both groups followed a nutritional
      supervision and were evaluated in 3 different time periods: Test 1 (T1), before the
      intervention period (approximately 1 month after BS) with no differences in any variable
      measured; Test 2 (T2), after the intervention period (7 months after BS) and Test 3 (T3) to
      evaluate a retention period (13 months after BS). The tests included in the evaluation were:
      blood sample, body composition, blood pressure, physical fitness (cardiorespiratory fitness,
      isokinetic and isometric strength measures of the lower limbs) and CVR. The test protocols
      were divided into 3 days: 1) between 8:00 AM and 9:00 AM., a blood sample was collected. 2)
      24 hours after, at the same hour, body composition and resting blood pressure were measured.
      In the afternoon (between 5:00 P.M. and 8:00 P.M.), muscle strength measures were obtained.
      3) at least 72 hours after the second testing session day, a cardiorespiratory fitness test
      was performed. Body composition, blood pressure and strength and cardiovascular tests were
      conducted at the facilities of the Sports Research Centre (Elche, Spain), in a climatically
      controlled laboratory, with a temperature between 22-24ยบ and relative air humidity between
      45-60%. Before any testing, all participants attended two familiarization sessions to
      introduce testing procedures and minimize the learning effects over the measures
    
  