
    
      Rationale: Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is a malignancy with a poor prognosis. Resection is the
      only curative option and still 5-year survival rate is less than 10 percent. However, most
      patients present with advanced disease and are provided with palliative care. The nature of
      the tumour and the intense stromal reaction around the tumour cells leave pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma relatively insensitive to chemotherapeutics. Current models, such as cell
      lines or patient derived xenografts, cannot provide predictive information in a clinically
      relevant timeframe. Organoids and organotypic culture systems have emerged as promising new
      culturing techniques that maintain some of the complexity of the tumour. As most patients are
      ineligible for tumour resection, this project will focus on metastases and will generate
      organoids from that tissue. Using a combination of organoids and organotypic systems,
      treatment (non)response can be predicted, which may provide a personalized treatment setting
      for patients with advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

      Objective: To develop a model system and infrastructure to individualize the treatment of
      patients with advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Additionally, we aim to identify predictors
      of therapy (non)response.

      Study design: Observational laboratory studies (with DNA/RNA isolation, RNA sequencing, cell
      culturing, organoid culturing and xenografting) will be performed with tumour specimens.
      These organoids will be stored for future research.

      Study population: All adult patients (> 18 years) with (a suspicion of) advanced pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The development of organoids from biopsies of metastases or
      primary tumour tissue of pancreatic cancer that correlate with clinical response. These
      models are then analysed for the expression of bio markers in organoid, organotypic and
      xenograft models. DNA/RNA profiles will be correlated to clinical and pathological
      characteristics such as therapy response, survival and TNM classification.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Participating in this study requires a biopsy from the patient. The material
      will be obtained from the biopsy required for diagnosis or the patient is asked for consent
      for an additional tumor biopsy not required for diagnosis. The study could benefit patients
      as their organoids can be used to assess efficacy of first-line treatment and when necessary
      may provide an advice for second-line treatment options. Additionally, patients may benefit
      in the future, if biomarkers are found to predict therapy (non)response.
    
  