
    
      Study Visits:

      If you agree to take part in this study, before your surgery:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a neurological exam (tests to check the functioning of your nerves,
           including tests of your balance and reflexes).

        -  You will complete questionnaires about pain and other symptoms that should take about
           10-15 minutes.

        -  You will sign a separate consent for your spinal surgery that explains the risks.

      During the Surgery:

      You will be positioned lying face down on your stomach during surgery. While you are under
      anesthesia, an MRI will be used to take images of your spine. This is an intraoperative MRI,
      meaning that it is performed in a special magnet located inside a specifically designed
      operating room. These images will be loaded into a computer navigation program and will be
      used to help the doctor perform surgery.

      Markers will also be attached to the skin of your back. These markers are used together with
      the navigation program and MRI images to record the location of where on your spine the
      doctor should cut. This recording will be compared to the MRI images.

      Your doctor will check the accuracy of this recording in 2 ways:

        -  Placing the tip of the navigation probe on your skin and comparing it with the computer
           calculation in the computer navigation program. This is a standard navigation probe
           commonly used in spinal surgeries.

        -  Inserting the navigation probe through a small cut on your skin along the surgical area
           and taking an x-ray image of its location.

      If there is a difference in the result of these 2 measurements, your doctor will use the
      result of the first step to check the accuracy of the MRI image.

      If there is more than 2 millimeter difference between the visual inspection position and the
      computer model position, your doctor may decide to do one of the following steps:

        -  Restart the recording process by getting a new MRI image

        -  Use only the x-ray images to complete the procedure

        -  Stop the surgery

      On the Day After Surgery:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will complete the same questionnaires as before.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      The research staff will call you 3 weeks after surgery to ask about your recovery and you
      will be asked to answer the same questionnaires as before.

      You will return for a follow-up visit after surgery:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will complete the same questionnaires as before.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your participation in the study will be over after your follow-up visit.

      You will be taken off study if during surgery the doctor thinks the navigation is not
      accurate, you are injured related to an inaccurate image guidance, or your surgery is
      stopped.

      This is an investigational study. The MRIs and x-rays on this study are performed using
      FDA-approved and commercially available methods. The use of MRI as image guidance for spinal
      surgery is investigational.

      Up to 10 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  