
    
      At the current rate of increase, Major Depression, it will be the 2nd most disabling
      condition in the world by 2020, behind heart disease. There are now a number of effective
      treatments for depression. However, a significant number of people either partially recover
      from their depression after a course of treatment, or do not recover at all. For example,
      between 30% and 50% of depressed individuals taking an antidepressant are partially or
      totally resistant to the treatment, and more than ½ of patients in psychotherapy never
      achieve full remission. The goal of treatment of major depression should always be full
      remission. Not achieving full remission from depression is problematic as lingering symptoms
      are a powerful predictor of relapse.

      One problem may be in the type of treatment that is offered to the individual. We know little
      about which clients benefit from which type of treatments and which clients do poorly. One
      individual may respond better to one type of treatment, while another individual may respond
      better to another type of treatment. The accurate identification of how an individual's
      characteristics interact with the type of treatment offered will help us match patients to
      the best-suited treatment for them, so we can optimize outcome.

      One characteristic that may be related to treatment outcome is adult attachment security.
      Adult attachment reflects how one seeks psychological and physical proximity to others for
      security and protection in times of stress. Researchers typically define four types of
      attachment security: one secure and three insecure (preoccupied, dismissing, and fearful).
      Secure adults have a good sense of self-worth and are comfortable with intimacy. Preoccupied
      adults have an exaggerated desire for closeness and a heightened concern about rejection.
      Dismissing adults deny the value of close relationships and instead value self-reliance.
      Finally, fearful adults have a very negative sense of self and avoid intimacy because they
      fear rejection. Secure attachment has been linked to positive interpersonal relationships and
      psychological health and insecure attachment has been linked to overall psychological
      distress.

      In this study, I focus on attachment security and its relation to treatment outcome. Adults
      with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) will be randomly assigned to either Interpersonal
      Psychotherapy (IPT) or to Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT). The expectation is that adults
      with avoidant attachment styles will respond better to CBT, and adults with preoccupied
      attachment styles will respond better to IPT. Also, in comparison to CBT, outcome in IPT is
      hypothesized to be more closely related to change in attachment.

      The power of this study lies in its considered integration of three important issues at the
      forefront of mental health today: MDD, attachment, and treatment. MDD is a leading cause of
      disability worldwide and theoretically and empirically related to attachment. Attachment
      theory is a primary paradigm in the developmental, social/personality, and clinical
      literatures, and forms the theoretical cornerstone for IPT. IPT and CBT, while successful to
      a degree, fail or partially fail in many cases. Successful outcome in IPT depends on
      successfully improving a patient's attachment representations; this is not the case in CBT
      where change in depression is associated with change in cognition. The fact that these
      treatments represent contrasting approaches in the context of attachment, affords us a unique
      opportunity to investigate the relationships between attachment and treatment outcome for two
      distinct treatments, and investigate whether an individual's attachment security interacts
      with the type of treatment offered to yield a better response for one type of treatment
      versus another. This research could have a major impact on tailoring treatment to patient
      characteristics to optimize treatment for major depression.
    
  