
    
      This study will be done at one quarantine hospital in Assiut, Egypt. After approval from our
      Institutional Ethics Committee, a written informed consent will be obtained from all patients
      or their legal representatives (if they are unable to provide consent) before enrollment in
      the study.

      Study Design and Sample Size Calculation: This study is an investigator-initiated cross
      sectional trial to record, assess the clinical manifestations and prognosis of all COVID-19
      cases to be admitted in the assigned hospital with positive results of nasopharyngeal swab
      for SARS-CoV-2 during one-month duration. According to our records, 30-60 patients may be
      included.

      Clinical Classification of COVID-19 patients according to the Egyptian Ministry of Health and
      Population:

        -  Mild Cases: The clinical symptoms are mild and no pneumonia manifestations can be found
           in imaging.

        -  Moderate Cases Patients have symptoms (such as fever and respiratory tract symptoms,
           etc.) and pneumonia manifestations can be seen in imaging.

        -  Severe Cases Adults who meet any of the following criteria: Respiratory rate< 30
           breaths/min; Oxygen saturations < 93% at a rest state; Arterial partial pressure of
           oxygen (PaO2)/Fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) [P/F ratio] <300 mmHg; Patients with
           more than 50% lesions progression within 24 to 48 hours in lung imaging should be
           treated as severe cases.

      Study Tools and Data Collection: All admitted patients to the hospital will be monitored
      carefully and observed for medical treatment, supportive measures, hemodynamic variables, and
      comorbid conditions.

        -  Demographic Data: including age, sex and occupation.

        -  History of travelling abroad and history of contact to confirmed cases (positive to
           SARS-CoV-2).

        -  Vital signs (heart rate, non-invasive blood pressure, respiratory rate, peripheral
           oxygen saturation) at admission, at day 3, and day 7.

        -  laboratory investigation:

             -  Complete blood picture

             -  CRP (C reactive protein)

             -  Prothrombin time, concentration, and INR

             -  Liver function (ALT, AST, bilirubin)

             -  Kidney function (blood urea and serum creatinine)

             -  Arterial blood gas (ABG): at admission, day1, day 3 and day 5.

             -  D-Dimer and ferritin levels

             -  HRCT chest (High resolution computed tomography) chest at admission and follow up
                at discharge.

        -  Follow up and outcome: (RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2, CT chest, ABG).

        -  The need of invasive mechanical ventilation, the clinical outcome, the duration of ICU
           and hospital stay.

        -  Any complications
    
  