
    
      This is a Phase IV single center, prospective, randomized, double-blind, dose response study
      designed to evaluate the optimum dose of dexamethasone to administer as an analgesic in total
      knee arthroplasty surgery. Randomization will be performed using computer software and the
      randomization order will be written and enclosed in envelopes in the study office. A total of
      40 patients will be randomized to receive different doses of dexamethasone intravenously at
      induction of anesthesia with the same dose repeated 24 hours later. The dose groups are: 0mg,
      6mg, 12mg, 24mg. The groups will be evenly divided into 10 subjects in each group. Patients
      will be cared for using established standard of care anesthetic and multi modal analgesia
      pathway used clinically at Duke University Medical Center. Knee arthroplasty generally occurs
      in patients over 65 years of age and an inclusion criteria is age 55 years or older is
      included in the study. Regional anesthesia is more technically challenging in morbidly obese
      patients. Because of an increased failure rate of regional anesthesia in morbidly obese
      patients an upper limit BMI of 40 is included in the study design.

      Anesthetic regime. The anesthesia will be standard of care apart from the administration of
      the study drug.

      Study Drug. After randomization the first dose of intravenous dexamethasone will be
      administered by the anesthesia care team immediately before surgery. The subject and study
      personnel will be blinded to the dose. The patient will be sedated and the study personnel
      will not be in the operating room. The dose will be recorded on the anesthesia record.

      The second dose of dexamethasone will be prescribed by the PI. This will be prescribed
      electronically to be administered to the subject on the floor 24 hours after the first dose.

      Surgery The surgery will proceed normally with no difference for the study.

      Postoperative Pain Management Patients in all groups will receive standard of care
      postoperative analgesic regimen.

      Blood Samples Blood will be drawn in preop holding (Time 0) for Interleukin 6, Interleukin10
      and for macrophage sorting.

      Blood samples will be repeated for Interleukin 6 and Interleukin10 at 10-14, 22-26 and
      33-39hours after surgery.

      Blood samples for macrophage sorting will be repeated at 33-39hours. The total blood
      collected will be 30ml on the day of surgery and 10 ml post operative day 1 for an overall
      total of 40cc.
    
  