
    
      The overall objective of this study is to establish the benefit of a bacterial product,
      Lactobacillus acidophilus strain L-92 (CALPIS U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, CA), in patients with
      allergic rhinitis. This will be done by noting:

        -  The threshold dose of pollen extract required on nasal challenge needed to elicit nasal
           obstruction as measured by acoustic rhinometry pre-treatment, and then comparing the
           nasal response to the same dose at the end of treatment.

        -  The dose of pollen extract needed (by progressive dose escalation) to elicit nasal
           obstruction at the end of treatment if significant nasal obstruction is not reached with
           the pre-treatment dose.

        -  Changes in the cytokine and chemokine profile obtained by analysis of the nasal
           secretion specimens pre- and post-treatment.

        -  Changes in the cytokine profile of cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells
           stimulated with PHA pre- and post-treatment.

        -  PHADIA ImmunoCAP perennial ryegrass pollen titer pre- and post-treatment.

        -  The threshold concentration of standardized perennial ryegrass extract to elicit a
           positive skin prick test pre- and post-treatment

        -  Total serum IgE pre- and post-

      The active product to be used is a tablet made from desiccated Lactobacillus acidophilus
      strain L-92 and fillers. These bacteria are present in the GI tract of most healthy humans.
      They are non-pathogenic, and have been used in the food industry for preparation of fermented
      foods for centuries. They lower the pH of their environment by converting sugar to lactic
      acid, which inhibits the growth of some pathogens. Lactobacilli are the first genus of
      bacteria suspected to have health benefits. Most Probiotic studies have been done with live
      cultures, and indeed there is animal model literature to support greater beneficial
      immunomodulatory effects of live bacteria over killed organisms. However, some beneficial
      effects of Lactobacilli are proposed to be due to uptake and processing of cell wall
      components and bacterial DNA, thus interaction with living bacteria may not be required for
      all the beneficial effects. However, if a tablet form can deliver live bacteria, in terms of
      ease of consumption by consumers, it would be preferred by many people, as well as allowing
      easier blinding of the supplement in clinical trials. The study proposed herein will be the
      first large study of this product using a live, but desiccated tablet preparation of the
      bacteria. If this product has a beneficial effect, the fact that it is in a tablet form will
      greatly benefit consistency in manufacturing, as well as ease storage and ultimate use of the
      product by consumers.

      CALPIS has selected a strain of lactobacilli, L. acidophilus (L92), on the basis of an IgE-
      lowering effect in experimental studies with mice. This product, in a liquid fermented milk
      form, has been tested in the following clinical studies:

        1. Cedar pollen allergy study (2003). Significant improvement in symptom-medication score
           was detected (ISHIDA et al BIOSCI. BIOTECH. BIOCHEM. 1652-60, 2005). Product: Liquid
           fermentation L acidophilus L-92 milk, heat-treated at 75°C for 10 minutes in 100 mL
           volume.

        2. Perennial allergic rhinitis (2002/03). Significant improvement in symptom-medication
           score was observed (ISHIDA et al J. Dairy Sci. 528-33, 2005). Product: 100 mL
           heat-treated milk fermented by L acidophilus L-92 (about 3x1010 counts/100 mL)

        3. Atopic dermatitis (2005). Improvement in symptom-medication score was detected.
           Unpublished data. Product: 100 mL fermented milk with L acidophilus L-92.

           An initial study using a desiccated form in tablets has been performed:

        4. Artificial pollen allergy study (2005). Improvement in quality of life was noted.
           Product: desiccated bacteria and fillers in tablets. 20 mg, 60 mg and 180 mg were
           studied. 180 mg/day was most effective. Unpublished data.

      METHODS

      PHASE 1

      In the first phase, subjects with a history of grass pollinosis, with positive skin tests to
      grass, will be studied out of season and will be randomized to placebo and active treatment
      for 4 months. Randomization will be based upon a retrospective Rhinitis Quality of Life
      Questionnaire regarding their recollection of the worst week of the last pollen season. The
      intent is to randomize subjects such that the distribution of those with severe versus mild
      allergy symptoms is equal in both groups. The subjects will be evaluated for their nasal
      function (patency by acoustic rhinometry) and undergo a nasal provocation test and collection
      of nasal secretions at the beginning and end of the study. Blood will be drawn and skin tests
      will be performed at the beginning and end of the study.

      Primary Objective:

      To assess the efficacy of L-92 versus placebo by comparing the change in nasal obstruction
      using acoustic rhinometry from the baseline, upon nasal provocation with the same dose of
      grass pollen extract found to elicit obstruction at enrollment.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To compare the change in threshold dose for nasal specific provocation (NPT) test with
           grass pollen required to elicit nasal obstruction.

        2. To compare the change of serum IgE levels to grass pollen (performed by PHADIA
           ImmunoCAP) and total IgE.

        3. To compare the change of cytokines IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-9 and IL-13, and the
           chemokine, eotaxin, in nasal secretion fluid using the same dose of pollen that elicited
           nasal obstruction at baseline.

        4. To compare the change of cytokines IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-9 and IL-13 in the
           supernatant from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) stimulated with PHA pre and
           post-treatment.

      PHASE 2

      In the second phase:

      Subjects will be given the option to participate for Phase 2 of the study. In this phase,
      subjects will continue on either placebo or active product throughout the next pollen season,
      starting in January 2008, and fill out Rhinitis Quality of Life Questionnaires when they pick
      up the study tablets at the beginning of April, May and June. They will be asked to fill out
      daily medication/symptom diaries during the first two weeks of May (exact dates subject to
      change depending on climatic factors). The peak grass pollen season is April through June.
      Blood will be drawn at a last visit in late June 2008 for specific and total IgE by
      ImmunoCAP.
    
  