
    
      To make donor derived multiTAA-specific T cells, the investigators will collect blood from
      the patient's stem cell donor, and mix the donor's T cells with small pieces of tumor
      proteins WT1, PRAME, NY-ESO-1, and Survivin. These protein fragments stimulate the donor T
      cells to grow and react against these proteins in such a way that they will recognize and
      kill cancer cells that express these proteins. Once sufficient numbers of multiTAA-specific T
      cells have been made, the investigators test them to make sure they target the patient's
      cancer cells, but not their normal healthy cells.

      The multiTAA-specific T cells will be administered as a single intravenous (IV) infusion over
      10 minutes. The patient's cancer will be assessed within 4 weeks prior to the T cell
      infusion, and then 4-6 weeks after the infusion. If at least 4 weeks after the infusion there
      is no change or a reduction in the number of cancer cells measured in the bone marrow, or a
      decline in cancer-specific markers in the blood, patients may receive up to six (6)
      additional doses of T cells at least 4 weeks apart. All of the treatments will be given by
      the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Houston Methodist Hospital or Texas Children's
      Hospital.

      For at least 4 weeks after the infusion, patients may not receive any other anti-cancer
      treatments, such as radiation therapy, or chemotherapy. Patients who do receive any other
      therapies will be taken off treatment and will not be able to receive additional doses of T
      cells. However, drugs such as 5-azacytidine (Vidaza), decitabine (Dacogen), or lenalidomide
      (Revlimid) will be allowed during infusions.

      This is a dose escalation study, which means that at the beginning, patients will be started
      on the lowest dose (1 of 5 different levels) of T cells. Once that dose level proves safe,
      the next group of patients will be started at the next highest dose. This process will
      continue until all 5 dose levels have been studied. If side-effects are too severe, the dose
      will be lowered or the T cells injections will be stopped.

      MEDICAL TESTS BEFORE TREATMENT:

      Before being treated, patients will undergo a series of standard medical tests:

        -  Measurement of AML/MDS (done by bone marrow biopsy or tests on blood or other tissues)

        -  Pregnancy test, if patient is a female who can have children.

      MEDICAL TESTS DURING TREATMENT

      Patients will undergo standard medical tests on the day of infusion:

        -  Physical exam.

        -  Blood test to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

      MEDICAL TESTS AFTER TREATMENT:

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function on week 4.

        -  Measurement of AML/MDS 4-6 weeks after the T cells infusion and 8-12 weeks after the
           infusion (done by bone marrow biopsy and tests done on your blood or other tissues).

      To learn more about the way the T cells are working in the patient's body, an extra 20-40 mL
      (4-8 teaspoons) of blood will be taken before the infusion, and at weeks 1, 2, 4 and 8.
      Afterwards, blood will be collected at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after the infusion. Blood should
      come from the central intravenous line, and should not require extra needle sticks.
      Investigators will use this blood to see how long the T cells last, and to look at the immune
      response to the patient's cancer. Investigators will also look at this in bone marrow and
      other tissue samples collected from the patient at the time points stated above
      (pre-infusion, 4 - 6 weeks and 8 - 12 weeks post infusion).

      Patients will be followed for up to one year from the date of the last T cell infusion, so
      that the investigators can learn more about the way the T cells are working, how long the T
      cells last in the body, and to assess the immune response to the cancer. Patients who receive
      additional doses of T cells will undergo the same tests and evaluations performed for each
      dose as described above.

      Patients will then be contacted once a year for up to 4 additional years (total of 5 years
      follow-up) to evaluate their disease response long-term.
    
  