
    
      In 2017, over 10 million people worldwide developed tuberculosis disease (TB), with 9% of
      cases among people with HIV (PWH). In that same year, there were 1.6 million deaths from TB,
      with 300,000 among PWH. The highest incidence of TB is in India, accounting for 27% of all
      new cases globally, with approximately 86,000 among PWH. Unhealthy alcohol use triples the
      risk of TB in the general population, increasing susceptibility to primary infection and
      reactivation. Among PWH, unhealthy alcohol use is associated with decreased use of and
      adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART), lower viral suppression and increased mortality.
      Treatment for TB presents a unique opportunity to address unhealthy alcohol use among people
      with TB and HIV/TB given the frequent contact participants have with healthcare providers and
      the deleterious effects of unhealthy use on both HIV and TB clinical outcomes. Although
      combined cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and motivational enhancement therapy (MET) can be
      effective in reducing alcohol use, access to and implementation of such interventions is
      limited in high-need, under-resourced low and middle income (LMIC) settings. Even in settings
      where formal treatment is available, alcohol-related stigma and cost of treatment may prevent
      individuals from seeking care. Integrating treatment for unhealthy alcohol use into TB and
      HIV/TB care may overcome barriers to alcohol treatment for such individuals at risk for poor
      health outcomes. HATHI (Hybrid trial for Alcohol reduction among people with TB and HIV/TB in
      India), is a 2-arm hybrid type 1 effectiveness-implementation randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) examining the effectiveness of a four-session combined CBT/MET alcohol reduction
      intervention (CAP-Counseling on Alcohol Problems), followed by three intervention boosters,
      integrated into TB and HIV/TB care, compared with usual care (provider advice, referral to
      treatment as needed). There will be 3 phases. In Phase 1) investigators will tailor the
      intervention tailoring based on results from a) focus groups (FG) with patients with HIV/TB,
      medical and clinical staff, and the intervention counselors (IC) and b) individual
      intervention testing with a subgroup of HIV/TB patients. In Phase 2) investigators will
      conduct an RCT in which participants will be randomized to CAP intervention or to usual care.
      Investigators will stratify by HIV status to ensure balance of HIV between the groups.
      Effectiveness outcomes measured at 3, 6 and 12 months will include 1) self-reported alcohol
      use (primary) and phosphatidyl ethanol (PEth), an alcohol biomarker (secondary), and 2) TB
      and HIV clinical outcomes. In Phase 3, evaluating trial participants, counselors, clinical
      and organizational staff, investigators will use the RE-AIM implementation framework using
      mixed methods to assess barriers and facilitators to alcohol treatment integration in TB and
      HIV/TB clinical settings and to assess the incremental costs of this intervention strategy.

      Setting: All phases of the study will take place at two sites in India: the Byramjee
      Jeejeebhoy Government Medical College (BJGMC) and Dr. DY Patil Medical College, Pune (DYPMC).

      Objectives/Aims:

      Aim 1: In a randomized controlled trial (RCT), to examine the effectiveness of CBT/MET
      integrated into TB and HIV/TB care compared to usual care on alcohol reduction.

      Aim 2: In a RCT, to examine the effectiveness of CBT/MET integrated into TB and HIV/TB care
      compared to usual care on TB and HIV treatment outcomes.

      Aim 3: Guided by the RE-AIM implementation framework, and using mixed methods, to 3a)
      evaluate patient, provider and organizational barriers and facilitators to integrated alcohol
      treatment in TB and HIV/TB settings, and 3b) measure incremental costs from health system and
      societal perspectives.

      Prior to RCT implementation investigators will tailor CAP and make final modifications to the
      CAP manual. CAP will be enhanced with content specific to Pune such as local alcohol
      containing beverages and local or state drinking norms and alcohol impacts on TB and HIV
      progression and clinical outcomes. Investigators will modify the manual and test in focus
      groups.

      Phase 2-Clinical Trial. This phase involves collection of routinely used research assessments
      for individuals with TB and HIV/TB at baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months and the launch of the
      RCT. The study will include adults individuals with newly diagnosed TB, unhealthy alcohol
      use, initiating TB medication treatment. Individuals will be recruited through both provider
      and self-referral. Up to half of the sample will have both TB and HIV. Eligible individuals
      will undergo baseline assessment which includes a medical history, clinical exam,
      questionnaires, and a blood spot for the alcohol biomarker PEth.

      Assignments of Participants to the Study Intervention: Eligible participants will be
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio upon completion of the baseline evaluation. The study
      biostatistician, independent of the trial will generate the randomization sequence in
      permuted blocks and randomization will be stratified by the presence of HIV infection. A
      sealed envelope with study assignment will be used to conceal the study group assignment.

      Study Conditions:

      Control: Individuals in the control arm will receive standard of care TB and HIV treatment
      and usual care from participants' provider, which includes advice to reduce alcohol use and
      referral to alcohol treatment services at participants' provider's discretion. Participants
      will also receive a general guide on nutrition, diabetes, tobacco and alcohol.

      Intervention: CAP is an up to 4-session manualized alcohol reduction treatment based on
      Cognitive Behavioral and Motivational Enhancement Therapy. Each session lasts up to 45
      minutes. The 4 CAP sessions will be delivered by a counselor during an 8 week period, closely
      aligned to regular TB treatment follow up visits. After the 4 intervention sessions,
      individuals will receive 3 scripted booster sessions, one month apart, corresponding to
      participants' TB follow up visits.

      Research Data Ascertainment: Assessments will occur at baseline (prior to randomization), 3
      months (end of 4 session intervention), 6, and 12 months post-baseline. Data collection will
      include self-report questionnaires staff interviews, and biomarker and specimens and will
      encompass demographics, a clinical assessment, measurement of alcohol use, its severity and
      consequences; HIV measures including viral load, medication adherence and HIV retention in
      care; TB measures, including TB clearance, TB treatment default, TB medication adherence and
      TB retention in care. Other measures span mental health, tobacco and other substance use,
      quality of life, diabetes mellitus, motivation to change and self-efficacy.

      Investigators' primary alcohol endpoint will occur at 6 months after baseline, with
      investigators' secondary endpoint at 12 months. Sample size calculations are based on data
      from behavioral alcohol reduction interventions in low and middle income countries.

      Investigators' trial will enroll a total of 450 participants with TB or TB/HIV; The study
      will be conducted at two sites and 2 counselors at each site will administer the
      intervention. Power calculations assume a 10% loss to follow-up, and intra-class correlation
      coefficient of 0.04 (based on CAP/PREMIUM RCT) to account for 2 counselors per site, 2
      sites). Analyses will also account for variation by counselor and by site.

      Phase 3: The Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance (RE-AIM)
      implementation framework will be used to collect quantitative and qualitative assessments
      from 3 levels of stakeholders (Numbers approximate, pending thematic saturation).
      Investigators will evaluate barriers and facilitators to intervention reach, effectiveness,
      adoption, implementation and maintenance, focusing in implementation outcomes of feasibility,
      acceptability, appropriateness, fidelity and sustainability. Investigators will also
      calculate the incremental costs of the intervention.
    
  