
    
      During the first visit, you will fill out questionnaires that ask about your sleeping habits,
      how you have been feeling, and the general quality of your life. This should take about 60-80
      minutes.

      Every day for the next 7 days, you will fill out a diary about your sleep. You will also wear
      an "actigraph" wrist watch 24 hours a day for these 7 days. The watch will collect data about
      your physical activity and sleeping habits.

      You will also have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test to measure the electrical activity of
      your heart) which will last about 10 minutes.

      Study Groups:

      After your first visit, you will be randomly assigned (as in the roll of dice) to 1 of 3
      groups:

        -  Group 1 will take part in one type of relaxation program.

        -  Group 2 will take part in another type of relaxation program.

        -  Group 3 will not take part in either program but will complete some of the follow-up
           procedures. Participants in this group will be given the option to take part in one of
           the two forms of relaxation (off study) after they finish their last questionnaire
           packet.

      You will have about a 1 out of 3 chance of being assigned to each group. The groups are
      randomly assigned, but it is also based on other factors such as your age and the status of
      the disease.

      Sessions:

      Groups 1 and 2:

      You will take part in 3 sessions each week for the 6 weeks of radiation therapy, or 4-5
      sessions each week for 4 weeks if your radiation therapy lasts only 4 weeks. You can choose
      any weekday (Monday through Friday). Each session should last about 60 minutes.

      The sessions will be taught by an experienced, trained instructor, usually in groups of 2-5
      participants. The movements are designed to be easy to follow. You will be able to work at
      your own pace.

      Each session will be audio and video recorded. This is so the researchers can keep track of
      the quality of the sessions. The audio and video files are digital and will be deleted after
      all the data are studied.

      Women in Groups 1 and 2 will be randomized to a maintenance intervention arm or a usual
      contact arm after the end of radiotherapy. If you are randomized to the maintenance
      intervention arm you will receive telephone counseling once a month after the end of your
      radiotherapy. You will also receive booster sessions once every 3 months post-radiotherapy,
      or at least when you come for your follow-up appointments.

      Groups 1 and 2:

      During the sessions, you will do simple stretching exercises, specific breathing skills, and
      guided relaxation. You will be asked to try and practice once a day for 12 months. You will
      be provided a DVD and an audio CD to help with your practice when you are not at the
      hospital.

      Questionnaires and Study Procedures:

      Groups 1 and 2:

      Before your first session of the week except for week 1, Groups 1 and 2 will fill out a
      questionnaire about the relaxation program. This should take about 1-2 minutes.

      During the middle of your radiation treatment period, you will have an ECG recorded before
      and after your classes. Each ECG will last about 10 minutes.

      All Groups:

      During the middle of your radiation treatment period, you will fill out a questionnaire that
      asks about any symptoms you may be having. This should take about 15 minutes. You will also
      have an ECG.

      During your last week of radiation therapy, and at 3, 6, and 12 months after your radiation
      therapy ends, you will fill out a set of questionnaires. The questionnaires will be mostly
      the same as at your first study visit. This should take about 60-80 minutes. You will also
      have an ECG at these times.

      Questionnaire packets will be mailed to your home by the research staff. After completing the
      questionnaires, you will return the completed questionnaire packet to the research staff via
      a pre-paid mailing envelope.

      Every day for 7 days in a row, after every time you fill out the questionnaires, you will
      fill out another sleep diary. During these 7-day periods, you will wear an actigraph watch 24
      hours a day to collect the same data as before. Each time, you will mail the actigraph watch
      back to MD Anderson in postage-paid envelopes that will be provided to you.

      If your questionnaire responses show that you may be having emotional difficulties or
      depression, you will be provided with names of mental health providers in case you would like
      to receive mental health screening.

      All participants will be asked not to do any other stretching/relaxation practices during the
      study.

      Saliva Testing:

      You will provide 4 saliva samples per day for cortisol testing on the following schedule:

        -  for 3 days before radiation therapy begins

        -  for 3 days in the last week of radiation therapy

        -  for 3 days in a row, 3 months after radiation therapy ended

        -  for 3 days in a row, 6 months after radiation therapy ended

        -  for 3 days in a row, 12 months after radiation therapy ended

      To provide a saliva sample, you will chew on a cotton ball for a few seconds and then put the
      cotton in a small plastic tube. You will then mail the samples back to MD Anderson in
      postage-paid envelopes that will be provided to you. The tubes will also be provided at no
      cost to you. These saliva samples will be destroyed after being studied.

      Length of Participation:

      Your study participation will be over after you fill out the questionnaires 12 months after
      radiation therapy.
    
  