
    
      Wearable activity monitors have the potential to continuously and objectively measure
      physical activity. However, existing monitors do not address the unique challenges that face
      older adults, who comprise the largest segment of population who suffer from physical
      disabilities and dexterity issues that can make using such monitors exceedingly difficult. In
      fact, the majority of wearable devices on the market address the needs of three broad
      segments:

        1. Consumers: these devices are designed and optimized for motivated, healthy younger
           individuals and require pairing with smartphones to transmit data, while restricting or,
           at best, limiting access to raw data and algorithms.

        2. Researchers: research-focused devices tend to be validated across a wide range of
           studies, but are not optimized for wearability or longitudinal use.

        3. Developers: Developer-focused devices typically provide high configurability, a high-
           definition screen, and a variety of sensors (e.g. accelerometer, gyroscope, air
           pressure, light, temperature, etc.) that are suited for research and development, but
           are not optimized for power-efficient use.

      To overcome the barriers that existing monitors impose on measuring free-living physical
      activity data, EveryFit developed in-home activity monitoring technology that addresses the
      specific and unique needs of the older population (incorporated in product called QMedic).

      The overall objective of this project is to evaluate and validate the accuracy and usability
      of a deployed beta sensor-based system. The technology utilizes novel power-efficient
      engineering to continuously measure physical activity (including intensity, type and
      duration) in both laboratory and free-living settings. To accomplish this objective we will
      enroll 100 adults 60+ years of age who will perform standardized lifestyle, exercise and
      sedentary type physical activity in the laboratory. A subset of participants will also be
      asked to wear the monitor in free-living settings.

      The proposed work can have far-reaching impact given the growth in the older adult
      population, which suffers disproportionally from chronic disease and functional impairments.
      Validating technology that measures physical activity continuously and accurately at the home
      is a critical step in scaling the system, conducting affordable population- scale studies,
      and maximizing the societal impact of the innovation.
    
  