
    
      Non-pharmacological intervention may represent adjunctive therapy to medications in order to
      delay the onset of the cognitive deficits or dementia. Moreover, increasing evidence suggests
      that environmental and lifestyle factors (education, cognitive engagement, experience..)
      impact on cognitive functions and brain plasticity during the lifetime and also during aging.
      These modifiable factors moderate differences in cognitive aging and are protective for the
      development of dementia.

      Among non-pharmacological approaches, previous studies observed a positive effect of
      Cognitive Training (CT) both in healthy elderly people and patients in the early stage of
      neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, the advances in the development of Information &
      Communication Technologies has prompted the possibility to develop computer-based solution
      for the training of cognitive functions, being able to overcome traditional-training
      advantages. However, some issue remain unresolved and larger randomized controlled trials are
      necessary to examine long-term CT effects, due to the lack of longitudinal studies. Our
      previous data demonstrated that CT program with Computerized cognitive training (CoRe)
      software is safe and effective on cognition in patient with Parkinson Disease-Mild Cognitive
      Impairment, in the attempt of briefly stabilizing cognitive decline, delaying the downward
      trajectory.

      Recently, different forms of non-invasive brain stimulation techniques have been applied to
      healthy older adults and patients with Alzheimer Disease (AD) in order to improve
      physiological and pathological aging-related cognitive impairments. Two main forms of
      non-invasive brain stimulation techniques are repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation
      (rTMS) and Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS). rTMS is a painless, non-invasive
      method that modulates cortical activities by delivering strong magnetic pulses to the cortex
      through the scalp. Depending on stimulation parameters (e.g., duration, stimulus intensity,
      frequency), rTMS can enhance or suppress cortical excitability in targeted cortical regions.
      In general, high frequency rTMS facilitates cortical excitability whereas low frequency rTMS
      suppresses cortical excitability. tDCS delivers weak electrical currents to the scalp to
      modulate neuronal transmembrane potential towards hyperpolarization or depolarization,
      thereby altering plasticity in the stimulated brain regions. Depending on whether anodal or
      cathodal stimulation is applied, tDCS increases or decreases cortical excitability,
      respectively.These non-invasive brain stimulation techniques can be used alone or in
      combination with cognitive intervention programs. Some studies suggested that these
      non-invasive neurostimulation are able to enhance the effect of CT; however other studies
      yielded conflicting results, likely due to differences in stimulation parameters,
      experimental design and outcome measures. Thus, the overall efficacy of non-invasive neural
      stimulation as a therapeutic is still under debate.

      In this frame, the primary goal of this double-blind randomized controlled trial is to assess
      whether the application of non-invasive brain stimulation techniques (tDCS or TMS) during the
      course of a computerized CT (on-line neurostimulation) enhances the effect on CT. Moreover,
      the follow-up visits allow to detect if the improvement are maintained over time and if this
      combined intervention affect the evolution of cognitive decline.

      The treatment protocol consists of 12 sessions (4 session/week, 45 minutes/day) of CT with
      CoRe software (training memory and logical-executive functions) combined with on-line tDCS
      (anodic tDCS, 2mA for 20 minutes, versus sham tDCS applied to the cortical prefrontal cortex
      - DLPFC ) or rTMS (rTMS 20 Hz for 20 minutes versus sham TMS applied to DLPFC).

      Patient with mild dementia or MCI are recruited from Neuropsychology/Alzheimer's Disease
      Assessment Unit and Neurorehabilitation Unit of IRCCS Mondino Foundation. The diagnosis of
      mild dementia or MCI is formulated on the basis of a comprehensive neuropsychological
      evaluation (baseline cognitive assessment - T0) according to the guidelines presented in the
      literature. The following standardized tests assessing different domains are used:

        -  global cognitive function: Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Montreal Montreal
           Overall Cognitive Assessment (MoCA);

        -  memory: verbal (Verbal Span; Digit Span) and spatial (Corsi's blocktapping test - CBTT)
           span; verbal long-term memory (Logical Memory Test immediate and delayed recall; Rey's
           15-word test immediate and delayed recall); spatial long-term memory (Rey Complex Figure
           delayed recall - RCF-dr);

        -  logical-executive functions: non-verbal reasoning (Raven's Matrices 1947 - RM47);
           frontal functionality (Frontal Assessment Battery - FAB); semantic fluency (animals,
           fruits, car brands), phonological fluency (FAS);

        -  attention: visual selective attention (Attentive Matrices); simple speed processing and
           complex attention (Trail Making Test parts A - TMT A and part B - TMT B);

        -  visuospatial abilities: constructive apraxia Rey Complex Figure copy - RCF-copy.

      The same battery is also used at follow-up visits; parallel versions are applied when
      available (verbal long-term memory tests), in order to avoid the learning effect. All the
      test scores are corrected for age, sex, and education and compared with the values available
      for the Italian population.

      At the baseline, the cognitive reserve is assessed using Cognitive Reserve Index
      questionnaire (CRIq). The patients' functional status is assessed using Activities of Daily
      Living (ADL) and Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) at the baseline and at the
      last follow-up visit after one year (T3). Moreover, mood is assessed using the Beck
      Depression Inventory (BDI) at the baseline and at the follow-up visits (T1, T2 and T3), while
      quality of life were assessed using the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey questionnaire
      (SF-36) at the baseline and at the follow-up visits six months (T2) and one year (T3) after
      training.

      All the patients recruited undergo baseline cognitive assessment (T0). Patients who met the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria are enrolled and randomly assigned to the experimental group
      (CoRE + anodic tDCS/rTMS) or control group (CoRe + sham tDCS/rTMS).
    
  