
    
      The proposal involves magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of healthy volunteers and patient
      volunteers suffering from Parkinson's disease. As part of the research study, volunteers will
      undergo 1-2 non-invasive MRI scans at a field strength of 3 Tesla. Each scan session will
      last 60-90 minutes, and will include the time when the volunteers will rehearse the
      experiment outside of the scanner, time for the volunteers and patients to be comfortably
      placed in the scanner, scanning, and finally time for the patients to slowly exit the scan
      room.

      All MRI methods are non-invasive and no exogenous contrast agents will be required.

      Patient volunteers will also undergo an C-11 PiB PET scan for Aim (2). This procedure
      utilizes a common radiotracer that is used routinely in clinical PET scans and will be
      purchased here from PETNET and certified for human use. All PET scans will be performed by a
      certified PET technologist at the Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science.

      Finally, in Aim (3) of this study, measurements of glymphatic function will be performed
      before and during general anesthesia. Importantly, the general anesthesia will be
      administered as part of standard-of-care for clinically-indicated MRIs required for deep
      brain stimulation planning and electrode placement. Therefore, the intervention itself is not
      a research procedure. Additionally, the scan that will be performed, which is a modified
      diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) MRI approach, is already performed as part of this clinical
      protocol. Therefore, it is anticipated that the participant will not be sedated any longer
      than what would be required for clinical indication for this procedure. As such, while this
      study qualifies as a clinical trial by NIH criteria, it is expected to pose no more risk than
      what the participant will receive from their clinical standard-of-care procedure.
    
  