
    
      Chronic non-malignant low back pain (CLBP) is very common. It is treated with diverse
      pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies, including complementary and alternative
      pain treatments. Acupuncture has gained increasing acceptance among patients in the United
      States; however, the efficacy and duration of benefit of acupuncture treatments is often
      unknown, and prolonged utilization of these treatments is expensive. Successful acupuncture
      may provide an alternative to pain medications. Randomized studies have shown that exercise
      can produce long term benefits for individuals experiencing CLBP. Studies have also shown
      that acupuncture may be useful for the treatment of CLBP.

      The purpose of the proposed research is to conduct a study to determine the feasibility of a
      larger efficacy study of acupuncture to decrease pain and facilitate exercise and function in
      Veterans with chronic low back pain (CLBP), in a Veteran population at the Veteran Affairs
      Maryland Health Care System (VAMHCS). To test this novel approach, subjects will undergo 16
      weeks of treatment, consisting of acupuncture for 4 weeks followed by an overlapping period
      of 12 weeks of acupuncture plus low intensity treadmill walking exercise. Preliminary data
      will be collected to assess the improvement, if any, of: a) self-report of function, b) pain
      control, c) ambulatory activity, and d) exercise capacity. Additionally, this study will
      determine the viability of this combined treatment paradigm for a larger study that will
      examine efficacy.

      Major objectives are to determine the rates of compliance for participation in this therapy
      of acupuncture plus low-intensity treadmill walking program, the completion rate of all
      treatment sessions and associated health assessment forms, as well as the challenges of
      recruitment. In addition, preliminary data to support the application for the larger pilot
      study will be obtained. The investigators' long-term research goal is to study this novel
      paradigm and its ability to reduce chronic low back pain.

      The specific aims of the study are as follows:

      Specific Objective 1. To determine whether individuals with CLBP receiving acupuncture plus
      treadmill exercise will exhibit superior improvement in function measured by Oswestry
      Disability Index II.

      Specific Objective 2. To determine whether CLBP patients receiving acupuncture plus treadmill
      exercise will exhibit reduced pain scores measured by the Numeric Pain Intensity Rating
      Scale.

      Specific Objective 3. To determine whether CLBP patients receiving acupuncture plus treadmill
      exercise will have improved home and community based ambulatory activity levels quantified by
      Step Activity Monitors (SAM).

      Specific Objective 4. CLBP patients receiving acupuncture plus exercise will have greater
      gains in cardiovascular fitness levels measured by exercise testing with open circuit
      spirometry (V02 Max).
    
  