
    
      Previous research has shown that real-time fMRI neurofeedback (rtfMRI-nf) training aimed at
      increasing the amygdala's response to positive autobiographical memory recall holds
      therapeutic potential for treating patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), as
      clinically significant decreases in clinician administered and self-report measures of
      depression severity were observed following two rtfMRI amygdala neurofeedback sessions.
      Furthermore, rtfMRI amygdala neurofeedback changed emotional processing towards a positive
      bias. As this rtfMRI-nf procedure utilizes principles of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT),
      including restructuring thoughts and emotional processing towards the positive, the current
      study seeks to examine the effects of augmenting CBT with amygdala rtfMRI-nf. Specifically,
      the investigators plan to test the hypothesis that pretreatment with two amygdala rtfMRI-nf
      sessions prior to the the start of CBT will result in a higher percentage of patients who
      exhibit 'sudden gains' (a between session drop of at least 25% on the Beck Depression
      Inventory associated with better treatment response) compared to those who receive rtfMRI-nf
      from a parietal control region putatively not involved in emotional processing. Over the
      course of three years, 60 participants diagnosed with MDD and planning to start CBT will be
      recruited through the clinical services of the Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic
      (WPIC) and through licensed CBT therapists in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. Participants
      will undergo two rtfMRI-nf sessions within the two weeks prior to starting therapy. Half of
      the participants will receive amygdala neurofeedback and half will receive control
      neurofeedback. At weeks 1-3 and 9 & 10 following the start of therapy, the participant will
      complete the BDI-II and the NIH Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System
      (PROMIS) Depression measure. The number of patients who meet criteria for sudden gains and
      the average session at which this occurred will be compared between CBT + amygdala rtfMRI-nf
      and CBT + control rtfMRI-nf groups. Success will suggest a new method for improving outcomes
      to CBT in depressed patients.
    
  