
    
      Background:

      Tumescent local anesthesia (TLA) permits a wide variety of therapeutic surgical procedures of
      subcutaneous tissues and skin to be performed totally by local anesthesia ( ). Infiltration
      of a sufficient volume of TLA causes the target tissues become temporarily tumescent, or
      swollen and firm.

      TLA is defined as the subcutaneous infiltration of a large volume of a tumescent local
      anesthetic solution (TLAS). The safe use of TLA requires the safe formulation and safe use of
      a tumescent local anesthetic solution (TLAS). By definition TLAS contains very dilute
      lidocaine (≤ 1 gm/liter = 0.1%) and epinephrine (≤ 1 mg/liter = 1:1,000,000) with sodium
      bicarbonate (10 milliequivalents/liter) in a physiologic crystalloid solution. Bicarbonate,
      an essential ingredient, neutralizes the acid pH of commercial lidocaine and epinephrine
      thereby eliminating the intense stinging discomfort which often associated with the
      infiltration of commercial local anesthetics. Lidocaine which has been infiltrated for TLA is
      referred to as tumescent lidocaine.

      The FDA-approved maximum recommended dosage is 7 mg/kg for lidocaine with epinephrine
      infiltration local anesthesia. However with TLA much larger mg/kg dosages of lidocaine are
      used. The safety and efficacy of TLA is based on the unexpected slow lidocaine absorption
      associated with large volumes of very dilute lidocaine and epinephrine when infiltrated into
      subcutaneous tissue. Published estimates of a maximum safe mg/kg dosage of tumescent
      lidocaine are derived from liposuction patients and have ranged from 35 mg/kg to 55 mg/kg ( )
      and much higher lidocaine doses without evident toxicity have been reported.

      Liposuction, a cosmetic surgical procedure which removes subcutaneous fat, also removes some
      tumescent lidocaine thereby reducing lidocaine bioavailability. In contrast, therapeutic
      surgeries usually do not remove subcutaneous lidocaine and therefore the bioavailability of
      lidocaine is relatively increased as is the peak serum lidocaine concentration (Cmax) and the
      risk of lidocaine toxicity. Because TLA is now used for surgical procedures unrelated to
      liposuction, it is desirable to have a reliable estimate of the maximum safe dosage of
      tumescent lidocaine based on clinical data from subjects not having liposuction.

      The goal of the present study is to obtain reliable estimates of the maximum safe mg/kg
      dosage of lidocaine after tumescent local anesthesia both with and without subsequent
      liposuction. The plan for the present pharmacokinetic study involves the following steps:

        1. Show that there is a significant difference between the bioavailability of tumescent
           lidocaine with or without liposuction. This will validate the need to determine the
           maximum safe mg/kg dosage of tumescent lidocaine without liposuction.

        2. Show that the magnitude of the peak serum lidocaine concentration is a linear function
           of the mg/kg dosage of tumescent lidocaine, with and without liposuction. This will
           support the use of interpolation and extrapolation in the discussion of results.

        3. For any specified mg/kg dosage of tumescent lidocaine, estimate the risk that the peak
           serum lidocaine concentration will exceed the 6 µg/ml toxic threshold.

      Methods:

      The protocol and consent forms for this research has been approved by an institutional review
      board. All clinical procedures are to be conducted within an accredited ambulatory surgery
      center.

      Serum lidocaine concentration will be measured by high pressure flame chromatography (HPFC).
      Female volunteer subjects will each participate in three procedures. Each procedure involves
      the infiltrating of TLA followed by sequential serum samples obtained from a peripheral vein
      via plastic catheter at time (T) = 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18 and 24 hours to be
      assayed for lidocaine concentration by HPFC. For each procedure, the mg/kg dosage of
      tumescent lidocaine and a corresponding peak or maximum serum lidocaine concentration (Cmax)
      are to be recorded.

      The areas targeted for infiltration of tumescent local anesthesia (TLA) will vary from
      subject to subject and include abdomen, hips, outer thigh, inner thighs and knees, female
      breasts, lateral thorax and back. For each subject, the first two investigative procedures
      involve an infiltration of TLA without subsequent liposuction; in the third procedure the
      subject receive TLA followed by liposuction. Thus each patient serves as her own control.
      Liposuction will be initiated one to two hour after completion of the infiltration process.
      For each subject the TLA infiltration will be in the same area and sequential infiltrations
      are to be separated by at least two weeks. As compensation for participation in the three
      clinical studies, each procedure requiring more than 24 hours, the patients will receive
      liposuction of the targeted area at no cost.

      The total mg/kg dosage of tumescent lidocaine will vary between patients and for different
      procedures within the same patient. An individual patient will receive the same mg/kg dosage
      of tumescent lidocaine on at least two occasions, once followed by liposuction and at least
      once without liposuction. Some patients will receive the same dosage of tumescent lidocaine
      for all three procedures. Similarly, in order to explore the effect of varying the
      concentrations lidocaine or the concentration of epinephrine within the TLA solution or to
      understand the effect of varying the mg/kg dosage of TLA, in some patients these factors will
      be varied.

      In order to determine if liposuction significantly affects the amount of lidocaine that
      enters the systemic circulation, the bioavailability associated of tumescent lidocaine
      without and with liposuction will be compared. The statistical significance of the difference
      between the area under the curve (AUC) without liposuction and the AUC with liposuction will
      be calculated For each procedure, a graph of the sequential serum lidocaine concentrations
      C(T) as a function of time (T) will be drawn and each peak serum lidocaine concentration and
      time will be recorded both with liposuction and without liposuction. Confidence intervals
      will be determined in order to estimate the risk that, for any given mg/kg dosage, the Cmax
      will exceed the toxic threshold for lidocaine.
    
  