
    
      According to the latest guidelines, ultrasound guidance has become the golden standard in
      Jugular Central Venous Catheter applications. This reveals the necessity of theoretical and
      practical training on USG for jugular central venous catheter training. Models for jugular
      venous catheterization training are few in number and also expensive. Thus, the investigators
      built our own Homemade Jugular Venous Catheterization Model(HJVCM) which meant to be cheap
      and easy to make and transport. With this study, the investigators will test whether this
      model will provide any benefit to the success of the training on USG Guided Jugular Venous
      Catheterization.

      Two different training sessions are planned as one will include the education model(HJVCM)
      and the other will not. The study will be conducted with resident doctors without any
      experience on jugular venous catheterization or ultrasound-guided interventions of any kind.
      Participants will be divided into two groups with stratified random sampling(According to
      departments and years of residents) and the both will attend to a lecture on jugular venous
      catheterization with US guidance and basic ultrasound principles for 20 minutes. Then, a demo
      video illustrating the procedure will be displayed. Later, the participants will practice
      ultrasound imaging of right jugular vein on a real human subject. Control group will be named
      GControl and test group will be named GModel. GModel will also practice jugular vein puncture
      on the HJVCM. After training sessions, each participant will be tested with a different HJVCM
      placed in a mannequin. The test session will include successful visualization of the jugular
      vein, puncture of the jugular vein, and insertion of the guide wire. Evaluation of the
      success and fail parameters(explained in outcome parameters) will be monitored by four
      educated supervisors. The sessions for both of the groups are planned to take 90 minutes and
      the test will be limited to five minutes individually.
    
  