
    
      The purpose of this research is to: (1) Evaluate a multifaceted implementation strategy for
      the uptake of a remote DPP by UMMC's Department of Preventive Medicine. (2) Conduct an
      analysis on medical expenditures among those who participate in a DPP to measure net savings
      and ROI relative to non-participants. (3) Conduct a longitudinal cohort analysis to assess
      incidence of diabetes, body composition, biomarkers, and psycho-social behavioral constructs
      among those who participate in a DPP relative to those who do not. Study methods are
      described below according to each of three specific aims.

      Aim 1: Conduct a concurrent implementation and effectiveness evaluation of the DPP in a
      clinical care setting for patients with prediabetes (n=245). An effectiveness-implementation
      hybrid type III research design will be used to conduct a non-randomized trial with 245 of
      patients with prediabetes over a three year recruitment period, while employing an iterative
      process evaluation to explore the complex processes, dynamic context and organizational
      influences on implementation. The RE-AIM framework will guide the implementation and
      effectiveness evaluation including measures of Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation
      and Maintenance. Multiple data sources and data types will be used to assess barriers and
      facilitators that affect the RE-AIM domains, as well as fidelity, costs, patient satisfaction
      and physician burnout.

      Aim 2: Utilize claims and encounters data to measure medical expenditures for patients with
      prediabetes, and determine spending differentials among DPP participants compared with
      non-DPP participants. Track trends in per capita medical expenditures for among a panel of
      case (DPP participant) and control (Non-DPP participant) subjects. To compare variations in
      spending, the differences in the arithmetic means, compound annual growth rates, and
      propensity score matching models will be implemented to compare case and control subjects.
      The study may also look at those with prediabetes that are later diagnosed with diabetes and
      individuals with prediabetes who are not later diagnosed with the condition. These estimates
      of spending differentials and evidence of DPP participation and engagement rates will help to
      further enhance the algorithm to estimate the potential cost savings and ROI if diabetes is
      prevented or delayed in the at-risk population who participate in the DPP.

      Aim 3: Assess the longitudinal effect of the DPP on participant changes in cardiovascular
      disease risk including anthropometric and clinical biomarker and psychosocial health outcomes
      (N=245). A prospective, repeated measures, experimental cohort design will be used to
      determine the long-term impact of the DPP on diabetes incidence and cardiovascular disease
      risk among DPP patient participants.
    
  