
    
      One hundred and twenty patients were randomly allocated to either the trans-abdominal guided
      embryo transfer group (n= 60) or the transvaginal guided embryo tranfer group ( n = 60) . The
      investigators used a computer generated randomization table obtained from http://graphpad.
      com/quickcalcs/randomize1 and sequentially numbered sealed opaque envelopes to randomize the
      patients to the study groups. The allocation information was written on a card placed in the
      sealed envelopes. A colleague (who was not directly involved in the study) prepared the
      randomization table and the sealed envelopes.The patients were blind to the assigned group.
      The gynecologists were as well blind to the received treatment.

      Patients included in the study are consenting to controlled ovarian hyperstimulation
      protocol, folliculometery visits, ovarian stimulation medications, ovum pick up, embryo
      transfer, luteal phase support, possible complications, as well as consenting to disclosure
      of pregnancy test results 14 days after embryo transfer.

      After obtaining an informed written consent, each patient will be submitted to the following:

        1. Full history taking including: name, age, menstrual history, history of previous trials
           (if any), obstetric history, medical history, and labs.

        2. The husband's history and andrologist consultation -if any- are revised. All cases of
           severe male factor were excluded.

        3. Clinical examination including: vital signs, weight, height, abdominal examination are
           done and recorded in the patient's sheet.

        4. TVUS to assess the uterus, adnexa, cul-de-sac for any abnormalities and the antral
           follicular count is assessed on day 2-5 of the cycle and recorded.

        5. All patients do serum FHS, LH, E2, Prolactin, TSH on D2 or D3 of the menstrual cycle.

        6. Fasting and 2 hours post prandial blood sugar, HBsAg, and HCV antibodies, liver and
           kidney functions test are done for all patients prior to ovum pick up and to be revised
           by both the gynecologist and the anesthesiologist.

        7. All the previous data are recorded in the patient's sheet at first visit.
           Folliculometery is done and recorded - in addition to any new findings- every visit.
           Uterine congenital anomalies and uterine pathologies seen by ultrasound are recorded.

        8. The patients follow long protocol, which includes down regulation starting on day 21 of
           the previous cycle. The patient is seen after 14 days to confirm down regulation. Serum
           E2 ≤ 50 pg/ mL and no ovarian cysts observed in transvaginal US.

        9. Induction is started on day 3 of the current cycle by gonadotrophins (FSH and LH) daily
           IM or SC injections provided that the different preparations at the market can be used.
           The number of ampoules given per dose is determined by infertility consultant.

       10. The duration of induction ranges from 10-14 days, during which the patient is assessed
           by TVUS in each folliculometery visit; to assess the rate of growth and the endometrium.

       11. When the majority of cohort of follicles reach 18-22 mm, hCG trigger 5000-10000 IU is
           administered IM and the ovum pick up is done 34-36 hours later.

       12. The OPU procedure is done at the operation room under total aseptic conditions, and the
           patient receives sedation by anethiologist prior to the procedure.

       13. OPU is done while the patient is in lithotomy position by inserting the TVUS probe with
           the needle guide attached to it in the lateral fornices of the vagina. The needle is
           connected to a suction device; which operates to create negative pressure for collection
           of the follicular fluid in tubes.

       14. The tubes are handed in to the nurse and in turn the nurse hands it in to the
           embryologist via a window in the operation room connected to the embryology lab.

       15. M2 cells of the collected ova are cultured and injected by sperms under electron
           microscope. Division takes place in the following 24 hours and only 'Grade 1' and 'Grade
           2' embryos are transferred on D3.

       16. The patient receives luteal phase support; progesterone 400 mg suppositories twice daily
           starting from the day of OPU.

       17. Embryos are commonly transferred on day 3 after OPU. The endometrium thickness and
           echogenicity are checked prior to ET.

       18. All the embryos transferred on day of ET are re assessed by the embryologist to
           determine their grade.

       19. Embryos were scored for three parameters on day 2 (41-44 h after insemination/injection)
           and again on day 3 (66-71 h post-insemination/injection): (i) fragmentation (GI = no
           fragmentation, GII = 20% or less by volume of anucleated fragments); (ii) number of
           blastomeres; (iii) number of multinucleated blastomeres.

       20. In both groups, Cusco speculum was used to allow access to the cervix. The vagina was
           flushed by saline, and the cervical mucus is removed by Q-tips and/ or suction tubes. In
           few cases, where patients had long vaginae; two Sims' speculums were used to spread the
           vaginal anterior and posterior vaginal walls apart. In these cases, the attending nurse
           assisted the gynecologists during transfer.

       21. In the trans-abdominal guided embryo transfer group, the patients' bladder were filled
           by 500-700 ml saline; in order to enhance the visualization. The trans-abdominal probe
           is applied on pelvis by an assistant nurse or the attending gynecologist intern.

       22. While the trans-vaginal guided embryo transfer group had their bladder emptied by the
           gynecologist via catheter prior to transfer or else the patient was asked to void. The
           speculum is applied followed by insertion of the outer sheath of the transfer catheter.
           The speculum is removed with caution; to maintain the outer sheath in place. The TVUS
           probe is applied vaginally and endometrium is visualized before transfer. The transfer
           is done through an inner catheter applied to the already inserted outer sheath.

       23. In all patients of the two groups the Edwards-Wallace embryo replacement catheter was
           used. And ultrasound device used during folliculometery, OPU, and ET was Mindray DP-5/
           Shenzen- China. The probe frequency 2.0/3.5/5.0/6.0/H4.6/H6.0MHz

       24. The gynecologist asks the embryologist to load the embryos in the transfer catheter, and
           the gynecologist receives the loaded catheter from a window connecting the lab and
           operating room. In cases of trans-vaginal ultrasound guided embryo transfer the
           embryologist hands in the catheter to the gynecologists in the outer sheath and the
           gynecologist injects slowly the fluid containing the embryo/s.

       25. All patients are asked to rest for 30 minutes after the transfer

       26. The intensity of pain was measured using a visual analog scale (VAS). Visual analog
           scale was a horizontal line, 100 mm in length, anchored by word descriptors at each end
           (0 = the absence of pain; 100 = the worst experienced pain). The patients were asked to
           mark on the line the point that represented their perception of pain. The VAS score was
           determined by measuring in millimeters from the left hand end of the line to the point
           that the patient marked. The patients were asked to evaluate the intensity of pain
           during and 30 minutes after the procedure (Fouda et al, 2016)

       27. At the end of the procedure the operator was asked to comment on the over all technique
           of embryo transfer by TAUS or TVUS, whether easy or difficult regardless the difficulty
           or ease of passage of transfer catheter through the cervix.

       28. The operator also recorded the quality of visualization in the transfer sheet whether
           good or fair.

       29. All patients are prescribed to the same luteal phase support regimen by progesterone 400
           mg vaginal suppositories twice daily.

       30. Quantitative serum hCG is measured 14 days after ET for all patients.
    
  