
    
      Despite improvements in treatment regimens and technology, less than 20% of adults with type
      1 diabetes (T1D) achieve glycemic targets. Sleep is increasingly recognized as a potentially
      modifiable target for improving glycemic control. Diabetes distress, poor self-management
      behaviors, and reduced quality of life (QoL) have also been linked to sleep variability and
      insufficient sleep duration. The American Diabetes Association Standards of Medical Care in
      Diabetes incorporated sleep as an important component of the medical evaluation in persons
      with diabetes. However, no specific recommendation was given as to how to improve sleep. A
      significant gap of knowledge exists regarding the effects of sleep optimization on glycemic
      control in T1D. The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of a T1D-specific
      sleep optimization intervention (Sleep-Opt) on the primary outcomes of sleep variability,
      sleep duration and glycemic control (A1C); other glycemic parameters (glycemic variability,
      time in range), diabetes distress, self-management behavior, QoL, and other patient reported
      outcomes in working-age adults with T1D and habitual increased sleep variability or short
      sleep duration. To achieve these aims, a randomized controlled trial is planned in 120
      working age adults (18 to 65 years) with T1D. Participants will be screened for habitual
      sleep variability (> 1 hour/week) or insufficient sleep duration (< 6.5 hours per night).
      Eligible subjects will be randomized to the Sleep-Opt group or healthy living attention
      control group for twelve weeks. A one-week run-in period is planned, with baseline measures
      of sleep by actigraphy (sleep variability and duration), glycemia (A1C and related glycemic
      measures: glycemic variability and time in range using continuous glucose monitoring), and
      other secondary outcomes: diabetes distress, self-management behaviors, quality of life and
      additional patient-reported outcomes. Sleep-Opt is a technology-assisted behavioral sleep
      intervention that this study team developed that leverages the rapidly increasing public
      interest in sleep tracking by consumers (+500% in 3 years). The behavioral intervention
      employs four elements: a wearable sleep tracker, didactic content, an interactive smartphone
      application, and brief telephone counseling. The attention control group will participate in
      a healthy living information program. At midpoint (Week 6) completion (Week 12) and
      post-program (Week 24), baseline measures will be repeated to determine differences between
      the two groups and sustainability of the intervention.
    
  