
    
      Introduction Pulmonary arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) can lead to life-threatening
      complications. These complications can be prevented with pre-symptomatic embolization. The
      Interlock™ Fibered IDC™ Occlusion System coil (IDC) is a new device which might be more
      effective for embolizing pulmonary AVMs. This study will investigate the efficacy of the
      Interlock™ Fibered IDC™ Occlusion System and compare rates of reperfusion using Nestor coils
      (standard coils used at participating centre) versus Interlock™ Fibered IDC™ Occlusion,
      randomizing by AVM.

      Rationale Reperfused AVMs put the patient at risk of pulmonary AVM complications. As such,
      these AVMs require repeat embolotherapy and therefore patients are subjected to further
      radiation, contrast and hospitalization. A number of devices have been studied and are
      currently being used for embolization of pulmonary AVMs including coils (stainless steel,
      platinum) and plugs (Amplatzer plugs). The immediate technical success rate is nearly 100%,
      but long-term reperfusion occurrence is approximately 15% of treated AVMs and up to 30% of
      patients. The IDC coil characteristics may lead to reduced reperfusion rates. No studies of
      IDC coils have been reported to date in the management of pulmonary AVMs. Safety of IDC coils
      has been demonstrated in other organs. Embolization procedure with IDC coils is similar to
      embolization with other devices, in terms of fluoroscopy time use and contrast load, as are
      procedural complication rates.

      Background Pulmonary AVMs are present in approximately 40% of patients with hereditary
      hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT), with a mean of five pulmonary AVMs per patient. Pulmonary
      AVMs can lead to life-threatening and debilitating complications, such as massive
      haemoptysis, spontaneous haemothorax, stroke and cerebral abscess. Fortunately, these
      complications are preventable, through screening of HHT patients and preventative treatment
      of pulmonary AVMs, as summarized in a recent decision analysis. The International HHT
      Guidelines recommends routine screening of all HHT patients for pulmonary AVMs, with
      preventative transcatheter embolotherapy of all significant pulmonary AVMs.

      Most published data have reported outcomes with stainless steel or platinum coils, and fewer
      with detachable balloons or Amplatzer plugs. Even with good success rates, reperfusion has
      generally been reported in the range of 15% of embolized AVMs with routine embolization using
      stainless steel or platinum coils. To date, comparative studies between stainless steel and
      platinum coils have not shown significant differences in outcomes.

      PLAN OF INVESTIGATION Study Hypothesis The device of interest has local characteristics
      including better positioning and controlled release, together with tighter packing, which may
      lead to superior outcomes and reduce costs as well as radiation time. Therefore it is
      hypothesized that the IDC coil will be associated with less reperfusion than standard Nestor
      coils, and will present a therapeutic advantage over Nestor coils.

      Objectives Primary Objective Reperfusion for each AVM will be assessed at 1-year follow-up
      post-embolization. If there is insufficient involution (<70% by volume) of the lesion, then
      the AVM will be considered to be reperfused and care will be according to best clinical
      practice. Follow up imaging will be as per usual practice/guidelines. If the participant
      develops complications suspected to be due to pulmonary AVMs during the first year follow-up
      period, then reassessment will be arranged according to current clinical practice protocols.
      If there is evidence at early follow-up of ongoing AVM perfusion or of lack of aneurismal
      involution, the AVM will be considered to be "reperfused".

      Secondary Objective Reported secondary outcomes include fluoroscopy time, contrast volume
      required, procedural time and complication rates.

      STUDY DESIGN Study Population All adult patients who attend the Hereditary Hemorrhagic
      Telangiectasia (HHT) clinic, require embolization procedures for their pulmonary AVMs, who
      meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be considered eligible for this study. The
      Toronto HHT Centre has a large well-characterized HHT population (approximately 1000
      patients), the largest such population in Canada, allowing for feasible recruitment. It is
      estimated that approximately 30 new patients undergo embolization per year, comprising
      approximately 150 AVMs.

      Enrollment Potential study participants will be identified from the Toronto HHT Centre
      Database, an IRB approved comprehensive database capturing clinical information of patients
      who have expressed an interest to participate in HHT related research studies and/or from the
      HHT Clinic. Potential participants will be pre- screened for eligibility and upon
      determination be approached for study participation. The study will initially be presented to
      the eligible patient by the treating physician or a member of the HHT clinic team, who will
      then introduce study personnel to the patient in order to give any additional information
      including obtaining informed consent.

      Randomization

      Each participant will receive a unique randomization list. The Investigators will first
      determine the number of pulmonary AVMs for which embolotherapy is required per participant.
      Each treatable AVM will be referenced anatomically and assigned a number starting from one
      and continuing up in sequential order. The Study Coordinator will then match this list to a
      pre determined randomization list. Each AVM will be randomized into one of the two following
      treatment allocations:

        1. AVM Allocation I: Standard embolization procedure with Nestor Coil

        2. AVM Allocation II: Standard embolization procedure with The Interlock™ Fibered IDC™
           Occlusion System coil Unused randomizations will be discarded and will not be carried
           over to the subsequent enrolled participant. The Investigators will not have access to
           the randomization lists but will be informed by the Study Coordinator as to which AVM
           will acquire which allocated treatment device.

      Blinding

      Blinding of the Principal Investigator is not possible since the Primary Investigator is also
      the treating Interventional Radiologist responsible for the embolotherapy procedure.
      Participants will be blinded to the type of coil they receive (Group Allocation) for each
      particular treatable aneurysm. Outcome ascertainment bias will be minimized by the following:

        1. Coil allocation will be performed by the Study Coordinator during randomization

        2. Final analysis results are non-subjective and obtained from concrete values acquired
           from imaging data such as reperfusion rate per coiled aneurysm

      STUDY VISITS Visit I - Screening and Baseline The study will be explained in detail to the
      eligible participant. They will be given as much time as needed to review the informed
      consent form (ICF) and ask any questions they may have regarding the study. It will be
      ensured that all questions regarding the study are answered to satisfaction of the eligible
      participants.

      Once satisfied and prior to commencement of any study related procedures, the participant
      will be asked to sign the Research Ethics Board-approved written consent form for this study.
      A copy of the informed consent form will be provided to the patient to take and look over at
      their leisure.

      After informed consent is obtained, the Study Coordinator will screen patients for study
      eligibility using the inclusion/exclusion criteria defined in this protocol and will document
      them on a screening log. Reasons for non-participation will be identified based on inclusion
      and exclusion criteria.

      Visit II - Procedure Pulmonary angiography and embolotherapy will be performed using standard
      clinical technique. Using standard aseptic technique the right common femoral vein is
      punctured under direct sonographic guidance. A 7 French sheath is placed and connected to a
      continuous saline irrigation. The right heart and then pulmonary arteries cannulated using a
      7 French Van Aman catheter. Pulmonary artery pressures are obtained; followed by pulmonary
      angiography, either unilateral or bilateral depending on the site of the PAVMs. Once
      confirmed the feeding arteries are cannulated using the Lumax catheter. After confirming
      position the coils are deployed until complete occlusion of the feeding artery is achieved.
      Similar procedure repeated for the other PAVMs. The catheter and sheath are then removed and
      haemostasis is obtained. The participant is sent to the ward for monitoring.

      Visit III - Post Procedure Post procedure, the participant will follow standard clinical
      practice recommendations. The participant will be admitted overnight and will undergo a
      routine chest X-Ray 1-day post embolization, before discharge from the hospital. The
      participant will be assessed for the presence of post-procedure complications.

      Visit IV - Month 1-3 Follow-Up As per standard clinical practice, the participant will be
      required to visit Dr. Faughnan at the HHT Clinic 1-3 months post-procedure. This visit will
      also include a single view chest X-Ray and standard oxygen shunt test. If there is any
      suspicion of reopening of the embolized artery, it will be managed as per usual clinical
      practice.

      Visit V - Month 10-14 Follow-Up As per usual clinical practice, the participant will be
      re-assessed at 10-14 months post-procedure with an unenhanced low-dose CT scan of the chest.
      If there is any suspicion of reopening of the embolized artery, this will be managed as per
      usual clinical practice.
    
  