
    
      The investigators conducted a cluster-randomized trial randomizing 34 ICUs. The program
      targeted staff members with 3 components : web-based systematic measurement of discomforts on
      the day of ICU discharge by institutional caregivers (nurses and assistant nurses of the
      participating ICU), immediate feedback through electronic reminder messages intended to
      caregivers, and targeted interventions in each ICU based on comparative discomfort scores
      monthly reported to local champions who were also responsible for staff education.

      The measurement of discomforts perceived by critically ill patients at the end of the ICU
      stay, related to the whole stay in the ICU, was performed by the bedside nurse using a
      specific questionnaire, the IPREA questionnaire whose construct validity, external validity,
      reliability, reproducibility and acceptability have been already demonstrated (Development
      and validation of a questionnaire for quantitative assessment of perceived discomforts in
      critically ill patients. Kalfon P et al, Intensive care Med 2010, 36:1751-58). The version of
      the IPREA questionnaire used in the study was a 18-item questionnaire : noise ; excessive
      light ; discomfort related to sleeping in a different bed from home ; sleep deprivation ;
      thirst ; hunger ; feeling of cold ; feeling of heat ; pain ; being tied down by perfusion
      lines, tubes or as a result of connections due to monitoring devices ; no respect for
      intimacy ; anxiety ; isolation ; limited visiting hours ; absence of phone ; lack of
      information ; shortness of breath ; and depression.

      The duration of the program is 6 months in each arm. Potential participants in the study were
      consecutive patients admitted in all the participating ICU that are divided in two groups of
      17 ICUs.

      During October 2014, the IPREA questionnaire is administered to all potentially eligible
      patients hospitalized in the 34 participating ICUs without applying the program (period P1).
      The 17 ICUs of the group 1 do not apply the multicomponent program during 5 months (until
      March 2015), while the 17 ICUs of the group 2 apply the program (period P2). During April
      2015, the questionnaire IPREA is administered again in both groups (period P3). From May 2015
      until September 2015, the multicomponent program is only applied in the group 1 and no longer
      in the group 2 (period P4) in order to achieve the crossover of the intervention. During
      October 2015, the questionnaire IPREA is administered again in both groups (period P5).

      The overall score of discomfort and the scores for each item will be compared in the control
      arm and in the interventional arm.

      The control arm consists in the patients included in the group 2 during October 2014 and the
      patients included in the group 1 during April 2015, i.e. patients included during the month
      preceding the implementation of the multicomponent program.

      The interventional arm consists in the patients included in the group 2 during April 2015 and
      the patients included in the group 1 during October 2015, i.e. patients included during the
      last month of the period of application of the multicomponent program.
    
  