
    
      This is a Phase 3, placebo-controlled, double-blind randomized study with an open-label phase
      designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adalimumab 40 mg administered every other
      week in adult patients with active axial spondyloarthritis (SpA) who are not diagnosed with
      ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis, or psoriatic arthritis and who have had an inadequate
      response or intolerance to one or more nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or had a
      contraindication to NSAIDs. Participants receive adalimumab or placebo for 12 weeks during
      the double-blind phase of the study. Following the double-blind phase, all remaining
      participants enter the open-label phase of the study in which they receive open-label
      adalimumab for up to 144 weeks. Efficacy endpoints include the Assessment of
      Spondyloarthritis International Society (ASAS) response criteria for patients with SpA. These
      response criteria were used to determine participants who were responders. ASAS response
      involves evaluations in the following 4 domains: participant's global assessment of disease
      activity, pain, function, and inflammation. The patient's global assessment of disease
      activity score is assessed using a 100 millimeter (mm) visual analog scale (VAS; 0 for no
      disease activity to 100 for severe disease activity). Pain is represented as a total back
      pain score and is assessed using a 100 mm VAS (0 for no pain to 100 for most severe pain).
      Function score is represented as the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) Functional Index
      (BASFI) 100 mm VAS score (average of the ability to perform 10 activities, each scored as 0
      for easy to 100 for impossible). Inflammation is determined using the morning stiffness
      overall level score (0 for none to 10 for very severe) and duration score (0 for 0 hours to
      10 for ≥ 2 hours) of the Bath AS Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) (mean of these items #5 and
      #6 scores). In addition, the BASDAI is used as an efficacy endpoint. The BASDAI is used by
      the participant to assess his/her disease activity. Using VAS scales, the participant answers
      6 questions pertaining to symptoms experienced over the past week. For 5 questions (levels
      of: fatigue/tiredness; AS neck, back, or hip pain; pain/swelling; discomfort at areas tender
      to touch or pressure; and morning stiffness), the response scale is 0 (none) to 10 (very
      severe). For 1 question (duration of morning stiffness), the response scale is 0 (0 hours) to
      10 (≥ 2 or more hours).
    
  