
    
      Study Overview

      Dosage regimen: Patients of CHB with advanced fibrosis and partial virological response to
      NUCs will be considered eligible for the present study. The enrollment will be up to the
      physician's discretion. The drug will be administered 1 pill (25 mg) per day orally, per
      manufacturers' instructions, and can be taken with food.

      Compliance: Enrolled patients must be monitored according to the protocol, GCP, and clinical
      practice guidelines.

      Study population: Approximately 80 adult CHB patients with advanced fibrosis (including
      fibrosis stage 3 and cirrhosis), who are currently on NUCs (except TAF) therapy with
      detectable HBV DNA after 52 weeks of therapy will switch prior NUCs to TAF 25 mg/day for 96
      weeks. For patients of fibrosis stage 3, the numbers of enrolled patients will be no more
      than 40% of total enrolled patients.

      Study Objectives

      Primary objective:

      • To describe the improvement of rate of viral suppression with TAF in patients of partial
      virological response with previous anti-HBV NUCs.

      Secondary objective

        -  To describe the persistence or improvement of rate of ALT normalization (local and AASLD
           criteria) with TAF in patients of partial virological response with previous anti-HBV
           NUCs.

        -  To describe the trends in serum creatinine, calculated creatinine clearance, and renal
           tubular function with TAF.

        -  To describe the trends in bone mineral density with TAF.

        -  To describe the progression/regression of liver fibrosis with TAF.

        -  To describe the prespecified factors associated with viral suppression and/or ALT
           normalization after switching to TAF, including viral resistance profiles, HBsAg levels
           and HBV viral loads at the initiation of prior NUC and at the time of TAF switching, HBV
           genotype, hepatic fibrosis, age, sex, prior preparations of NUCs, and host
           immunogenetics.

      Study Procedures:

      Pre-Screening: Patients who are currently under HBV NUC, except TAF therapy, with liver
      fibrosis stage 3 or 4 at the initiation of NUC, and with detectable HBV DNA after week 52 of
      therapy will be considered eligible in this prospective interventional cohort study. If the
      patient is deemed eligible to participate, the site will evaluate the potential patient using
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria and fill out the CRF for the screening visit. The local
      coordinator will transmit the pre-screening data to the central coordinator prior to the
      actual screening/baseline visit. If the patient is deemed eligible by the Primary
      Investigator, the patient will be given a study ID and allowed to enter the study.

      Screening/Baseline: Written and informed consent will be obtained prior to any study
      protocol-related procedures or data abstraction. If the patient has been pre-screened
      approved and all lab data are available, the participant will begin the study TAF treatment
      on the screening/baseline visit. The screening/baseline visit consists of obtaining written
      and informed consent, reviewing the inclusion/exclusion criteria, confirming medical history,
      completing a physical examination with vital signs and body weight, reviewing any concomitant
      medications and study drug dispensing. HCV, HDV, and HIV antibody test will be performed
      after written informed consent is obtained. The samples of HDV antibody test will be
      collected at local site and sent to KMUH, tested by central lab. Baseline resistance testing
      will also be performed by direct sequencing.

      Procedures: laboratory tests including CBC (complete blood count) panel, Serum Bilirubin
      (total/direct), AST, ALT, GGT, Albumin, BUN, Creatinine, Na, K, Phosphate, Prothrombin time
      (INR), and Urine routine/creatinine/phosphate will be done every visit. Pregnant test (only
      for women of child-bearing potential), Child-Pugh score, and FIB-4 score should also be done
      every visit. AFP (alpha-fetoprotein), and Abdominal ultrasound should also be done every 3 to
      6 months for HCC surveillance. HBV serological markers including HBeAg/HBeAb, HBV DNA
      quantification (by central lab.) will be done every visit and HBsAg quantification (by
      central lab.) every 6 months. Bone Density Scan (DEXA) will be done at week 24, 48, and 96.
      Fibroscan/CAP will be performed at week 48, and 96 to determine regression of fibrosis. Blood
      will be drawn at the site at which the participant was recruited, and processed by a lab
      technician in the clinical laboratory at that respective site, except HDV antibody test and
      HBsAg/HBV DNA quantification which will be performed by the central lab. at KMUH.

      Treatment Visits: Treatment will consist of TAF 25 mg daily with food for 96 weeks. Treatment
      visits will occur at week 4, 12, 24, 36, 48, 72, and 96 as per routine clinical care, except
      for those who developed virological breakthrough, SAE, or others judged by the investigators.
      At every visit, the patient must bring all study drugs (including empty bottles), so that the
      study coordinator can count compliance using the number of remaining pills.

      This schedule of clinic visits and laboratory tests are routine and standard practice for
      investigators in their treatment of similar patients with CHB. Patients will be encouraged to
      adhere to these recommendations. Results of these laboratory tests and clinical evaluations
      will be recorded as well as any additional evaluations that are done as part of the patient's
      clinical care that is pertinent to the objective of the study.

      Discontinuation criteria: The study can be terminated at any time for any reasons by Primary
      Investigator. Though there is no formal treatment stopping rules in this study, patients
      might be asked to stop if there are any adverse events that the investigator feels make it
      the patient's best interest to stop treatment.

      Withdrawal of Subjects

      Withdrawal Criteria:

        -  Failure to follow study instructions or protocol violation that in the judgment of the
           investigator

        -  Serious Adverse Events that in the judgment of the investigator

        -  Development of virological breakthrough (defined as reappearance of HBV DNA or at least
           one log10 elevation of HBV DNA from nadir in 2 consecutive measurements one month apart.
           further treatment plans are at the discretion of the treating physician and patient.

        -  Any medical, psychosocial or administrative or other reasons that in the judgment of the
           investigator, be detrimental to the patient's well-being.

        -  Death

        -  Withdrawal of informed consent

      Adverse Events and Toxicity Management

      Assessment of safety: Safety assessments will include monitoring of laboratory results, vital
      signs, treatment-emergent adverse events, serious adverse events, etc. Safety assessments
      will be performed at every clinic visit as part of clinical care and during follow-up visits.

      If, in Primary Investigator's judgment, a clinical significant worsening from baseline is
      observed in any laboratory or other test parameters, physical exam finding, or vital sign, a
      corresponding clinical adverse event should be recorded.

      If a specific medical diagnosis has been made, that diagnosis or syndrome should be recorded
      as the adverse event, whenever possible. However, a complete description of the signs,
      symptoms, and investigations which led to the diagnosis should be provided. For example, if
      clinically significant elevations of liver function tests are known to be secondary to
      hepatitis, "hepatitis" and not "elevated liver function tests" should be recorded. If the
      cause is not known, the abnormal test or finding should be recorded as an adverse event,
      using appropriate medical terminology (e/g/ thrombocytopenia, peripheral edema).

      Maintenance of Safety Information: Safety information will be maintained in a clinical
      database/repository in a retrievable format. At a minimum, at the end of the treatment phase
      (="last patient off treatment") as well as the end of the follow-up phase (="last patient
      out") of the study, Primary Investigator shall provide all adverse events, both serious and
      non-serious, in report format.

      Statistics

      Data management and analysis will be performed at Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital.

      Sample size to be used in the analysis: We calculated that a sample size of 80 patients with
      a 10% dropout rate would provide 85% power to show increased to 30% of virologic response
      (HBV DNA <LLOQ) rate after 52 weeks of TAF therapy, compared to 15% of continuing prior NUC
      therapy with a type I error rate of 0.05 for the one-tailed analyses of the primary endpoint.

      Statistical methods to be employed: Descriptive and comparative statistics will be performed
      for all demographic and clinical variables that are outcome endpoints for this pilot study.

      Level of significance: A 95% confidence interval will be used.

      Termination of trial: Termination of the trial will be upon completion of follow-up of all 80
      subjects enrolled and/or up to the discretion of the primary investigator.

      Procedure for missing, unused, spurious data: Data that is missing, unused or spurious data
      will all be treated as missing data. This data will be marked as an empty field.

      Deviation from the original statistical plan: Any deviation from the original statistical
      plan will be up to the discretion of the primary investigator.

      Selection of subjects to be included in analyses: All eligible subjects that have not been
      withdrawn from the study will be included in analyses.

      Interim analysis An interim analysis will be performed at Week 24 after all the 80 patients
      enrolled.
    
  