
    
      The level of arterial ligation can affect genito-urinary function (injury to the superior
      hypogastric plexus), extent (and yield) of lymphadenectomy, distal colonic arterial perfusion
      (distal colonic arterial perfusion could be deficient due to degenerative disease), sympathic
      nerve injures. Moreover, colonic stump blood supply together with anastomosis tension are the
      main factors in developing leaks in rectal surgery and is dependent of the level of ligation.
      The aim of this study is to compare the incidence of genito-urinary function depression and
      anastomotic leak in Laparoscopic Anterior Rectal Resection (LAR) with Total Mesorectal
      Excision with Ligation if the Inferior Mesenteric Artery at the origin or preserving the Left
      Colic Artery by a prospective randomized trial.

      Genito-urinary function will be evaluated with IIEF-5, Internation Consultation Incontinence
      Modular Questionnarie (ICIQ), Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI), International Index of
      erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaries and uroflowmetric test pre operatively.

      Surgery will be as follow:

      The following steps are required in all cases, independently of randomization. The first step
      consist in the opening of the left part of the gastrocolic ligament and the division of the
      left part of transverse mesocolon. The splenocolic and phrenocolic attachments are then
      divided, achieving complete dissection of the left colonic angle. The pelvic peritoneum is
      opened below the sacral promontory and the hypogastric nerves are identified and preserved.
      The common iliac veins, the genitofemoral nerve, the gonadic vessels, and the left ureter are
      successively identified and preserved.

      For High Ligation The opening of the peritoneum proceeds cephalad towards the duodenojejunal
      angle of Treitz, and the mesenteric root is incised 1 cm below the inferior margin of the
      pancreas. The aortomesenteric window is opened wide and the inferior mesenteric vessels are
      exposed. The inferior mesenteric artery (IMA) is ligated and divided at 2 cm from its origin.
      The inferior mesenteric vein is ligated and divided below the pancreatic margin.

      For Low Ligation The opening of peritoneum proceeds upward and then laterally towards the
      sigmoid colon. Left colic artery is identified and preserved while low ligation of the
      inferior mesenteric artery (superior hemorrhoidal artery) is performed. Lymphadenectomy is
      carried on medially along the inferior mesenteric artery until 2 cm from the aorta.

      For both groups dissection is then carried on windowing Toldt and Gerota fascias till the
      parietocolic gutter.

      Once the descending colonic tract is completely detached from the left parietocolic gutter,
      dissection of the rectum starts by incision of the peritoneal fold in the pelvis. Total
      Mesorectal Excision (TME) is then performed according to the principles of Heald.

      Colonoscopy will be performed 30 days after surgery to evaluate the anastomosis (leakage,
      signs of ischemia. Accurate description and pictures of the anastomosis will be produced.
      IIEF-5, ICIQ, FSFI, International Index of erectile Function (IIEF) and uroflowmetric test
      will be performed 1 and 9 months post-operatively
    
  