
    
      Patients with preoperative anemia have a poorer perioperative outcome in morbidity and
      mortality as part of surgery. Oral iron preparations have so far had poor bioavailability
      (approx. 30%) and mostly gastrointestinal side effects that often lead to discontinuation of
      treatment. Intravenous iron preparations also have an increased risk of allergic disease,
      which has already led to deaths in Austria. Oleovital® Eisen Forte shows improved
      bioavailability and hardly any gastrointestinal side effects. It should be improved in anemic
      patients by oleovital iron forte the hemoglobin content of the blood before surgery.
      Preoperative anemia is a relatively common problem that has not been preoperatively treated
      so far and therefore studies such as the one present here are very relevant.

      The dietary supplement (Oleovital® Eisen Forte) has been on the market in Austria for iron
      substitution since autumn 2016. Oleovital® Eisen Forte seems suitable to produce a
      physiological hemoglobin content. The improved galenics is without previously known
      gastrointestinal side effects and should be investigated in an oral dose of 2 x 30mg (=60mg)
      p.o. per day over a limited intake of 3-6 weeks due to increased physiological iron demand.

      The main objective of the study following a confirmant approach is to verify whether a
      sufficiently high number of anemic patients benefit from the oral intake of a high
      bioavailability iron preparation (Oleovital® Eisen Forte) in the last three to six weeks
      before an elective intervention (profit = response = increase in hemoglobin concentration by
      at least 1g/dl).

      This controlled, randomized, open, prospective, monocentric study (two-armed parallel group
      design) should be classified as a food study (application of the commercial dietary
      supplement Oleovital® Eisen Forte) in an interventional setting - study-specific measures:
      additional blood tests and intake of Oleovital® Eisen Forte, in certain cases additional for
      a study-specific blood test are re-quired.

      There are two study arms or groups:

        -  Group V = Verumgroup with iron supplementation by Oleovital® Eisen Forte

        -  Group K = Control group without iron supplementation - This group receives the usual
           treatment in the hospital.

      Furthermore, stratification is carried out according to the sub-collectives

        -  "Patients without menstrual bleeding" (subcollective A) and

        -  "Patients with menstrual bleeding" (subcollective B)
    
  