
    
      Study participants will be allocated, amongst patients invited for routine EEG monitoring in
      the hospitals EEG facility. All patients will be fasted on arrival, with a recommendation to
      awaken early on the day of the planned examination.

      Patients aged 4yrs and above, with a diagnosis of ASD will be allocated and investigated for
      fulfillment of inclusion and exclusion criteria for study participation. The legal guardians
      of patients meeting study criteria will be approached for study participation consent.
      Patients declining consent will be treated with TFS as per current protocol. Patients for
      whom consent is attained will comprise the study group.

      Study group patients will be randomized for treatment and stratified according to age groups:
      4-7, 8-12, 12-18. Treatment will consist of 2 alternative pathways:

      Oral Trichlofos Sodium (TFS) Pathway:

        1. Initial Drug dose: Patients will be treated orally with 50mg/kg of TFS to maximum of
           2000gr.

        2. Failure to achieve sedate state 45 minutes after drug administration will enable an
           additional oral dose of 25mg/kg.

        3. Patients failing to fall asleep following second drug dose will be regarded as treatment
           failure.

        4. Rescue therapy according to physician's choice can be instituted (Dexmed or Neuleptil).

      Intranasal Dexmedetomidine (IN DEX) Pathway:

        1. Initial drug dose: Patients will be treated with IN 3mcg/kg of Dexmedetomidine to max
           dose of 150mcg. The drug will be delivered through MAD nasal atomizer.

        2. Failure to achieve sedate state 45 minutes after drug administration will enable an
           additional dose of IN 1.5mcg/kg by MAD device.

        3. Paitients failing to fall asleep following second drug dose will be regarded as
           treatment failure.

        4. Rescue therapy according to physician's choice can be instituted (Neuleptil not
           recommended due to drug interactions).

      All sedated children will be connected to monitoring including ECG chest leads in addition to
      oxygen pulse saturation monitoring.

      Primary outcome assessment: Sedation depth by UMSS will be assessed by the EEG technician,
      who will be blinded to the drug used for sedation.

      Secondary outcome assessment:

        1. Satisfaction from sedation depth for completing exam by blinded technician on VAS score.

        2. EEG motion artifact by interpreting neurologist, blinded to study drug on VAS score.

        3. All other secondary outcomes from drug administration to discharge, including adverse
           events and needed interventions, will be documented by the nurse who is not blinded to
           administered drug.

        4. ECG monitoring for determination of HR or arrhythmia

        5. Assessing incidence of bradycardia, hypotension and their severity:

           a. HR and BP age related normal value chart to be used as reference. b. Bradycardia and
           Hypotension determined in relation to lower normal value for age: i. Mild<10% decrease
           from normal value ii. Moderate 10-20% decrease from normal value iii. Severe >20% or
           signs of hemodynamic compromise

           Ethics: This study is a comparison of two medications currently under routine use for
           performing sedated EEG's in our medical center. The study will be authorized by the
           Rabin Campus Helsinki Committee. Informed consent will be requested from the
           accompanying legal guardian.

           Statistics: Based on our experience, we assume a 70% success rate for sedation using TFS
           and a 90% success rate for IN DEX. Using an alpha of 0.05 and 80% power, two groups of
           62 patients would be needed, to demonstrate statistical significance.

           This trial is planned as a pilot study aimed at assessing drug effects and recruitment
           rate, over a limited time period of up to 2 year, or up to 200 patiens (100 TFS + 100 IN
           DEX).

           Randomization and age stratification: Patient allocation will be determined according to
           an age stratified randomization table. Patients will be stratified by 3 age groups: 4-7,
           8-12, 12-18.

           Funding: No funding has been allocated for this study. Study will be conducted using
           routine medications in current practice without additional cost.
    
  