
    
      As a prevalent problem among the elderly, insomnia is often treated by primary care
      physicians, and benzodiazepine receptor agonists (BzRA) are the most widely prescribed form
      of treatment. Behavioral interventions offer an effective option to BzRA therapy as they are
      preferred by many elderly patients and have a lower side effect profile. Presently behavioral
      interventions are available on specialty care clinics, provided by trained therapists,
      requiring up to six intervention sessions. This project will test the efficacy of a brief,
      two sessions behavioral model which could be adapted to the primary care setting. In
      addition, we will compare older insomniacs to age matched good sleepers through measurers of
      mental and physical health, sleep and general functioning. We expect that 100 enrolled
      individuals age 60 or older with Insomnia and a control cohort of 50 enrolled individuals
      matched by age and gender will complete the study. Subjects will be randomly assigned to one
      of two intervention conditions: (1.) receive a two session Brief Behavioral Treatment
      Intervention(BBTI), or (2.) a information-only modality in which they will be encouraged to
      read handouts on sleep, insomnia and healthy sleep practices published by the AASM. Clinical
      evaluation will include the Agebat measures (common to all five projects in this Program
      Project) and in-home or laboratory polysomnographic measures. Sleep dairies and wrist
      actigraphy will be used to measure treatment adherence. Patients will be evaluated before and
      after completing the assigned intervention cells. Those receiving BBTI will be re-evaluated
      at 12 months following a six month "booster" session. Data obtained from the control cohort
      will include the Agebat measures. We hypothesize that compared to those receiving the
      information-only intervention, those assigned to BBTI will have superior short-term outcomes
      and retain the gains made, at 12 months. We also predict that the insomnia cohort will have
      more physical and mental health disorders of a greater severity than the age-matched
      controls.
    
  