
    
      This is a two part, open-label, non-randomized trial that will be conducted at Thomas
      Jefferson University (TJU). Initially in Part 1, a two-period, crossover, dose-finding study
      will be performed in 12 healthy female volunteers to determine the optimal dose as well as
      the safety and tolerability of the tissue-specific, contrast agent Sonazoid (GE Healthcare,
      Oslo, Norway) for human lymphatic applications. Each volunteer will receive an injection of a
      low or a high dose in a blinded, sequence-randomized allocation schedule. Screening and
      baseline assessments/procedures will be obtained. Each volunteer will receive their
      subdermal, low or high dose of Sonazoid divided into four individual aliquots at four
      locations (12, 3, 6, and 9 o'clock) around a 2 cm in diameter region in the mid-upper outer
      quadrant of the left breast.

      Contrast enhanced ultrasound imaging (CEUS) will be performed immediately after Sonazoid
      administration (i.e., lymphosonography) to identify the number, location and course of the
      lymphatic channels (LCs) and SLNs using a S3000 scanner (Siemens Medical Solutions, Mountain
      View, CA) with a high frequency, broad bandwidth linear array. CEUS evaluations will be
      repeated at 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours, 6 hours and 24 hours post
      Sonazoid administration. The safety and tolerability of Sonazoid will be closely monitored
      throughout this safety and tolerability, dose-finding study.

      Following at least a one week of washout, the upper outer quadrant of the right breast will
      be injected with the alternate dose of Sonazoid and lymphosonography will again be used to
      identify the number, location and course of the LCs and SLNs. Volunteers who received the low
      dose during their first visit will receive the high dose the next time around and vice versa
      in a 1:1 ratio. All procedures from the initial visit will be repeated (see above), except
      that the left breast (injected initially) will be assessed sonographically for the presence
      of contrast-enhanced tissues (injection site as well as lymphatic structures) prior to
      contrast administration in the right breast.

      In Part 2 lymphosonography will compare SLN identification to that of isotope mapping during
      surgery on 90 female, breast cancer patients. A state-of-the-art S3000 scanner with
      contrast-specific imaging capabilities will be used to localize lymphatic drainage from
      breast cancers after subdermal administration of Sonazoid. The number and locations of the
      SLNs identified by the two imaging modalities (CEUS and isotope mapping) will be compared
      with dye-guided surgery as the reference standard for SLN detection. Moreover, as each SLN is
      resected it will be assessed ex vivo for the presence of radioactivity (using a gamma probe),
      Sonazoid (using CEUS) and blue dye (via visual inspection by the surgeon). All SLNs that are
      surgically removed will be documented and sent for histopathologic evaluation.

      Trial Population: Part 1 will consist of 12 healthy, adult female volunteers in the initial
      safety, tolerability and dosing study.

      In Part 2, 90 adult women, who have breast cancer and are scheduled for a surgical excision
      and SLN evaluation, will be enrolled in a clinical trial at TJU.

      Statistical Methodology: Our statistical analysis will address four major questions:

        -  Is subdermal administration of Sonazoid in humans safe and tolerable?

        -  Can an optimal and efficacious dose of Sonazoid for lymphosonography be established?

        -  Does lymphosonography identify more SLNs in patients with breast cancer than isotope
           mapping (with Tc-99m sulfur colloids)?

        -  Does lymphosonography identify more SLNs with metastatic deposits in patients with
           breast cancer compared to isotope mapping?
    
  