
    
      Background:

      Treatment of heart failure has improved considerably in the past decades. Despite this
      improvement, the disease may progress into an end-stage ultimately leaving the physicians
      with no other treatment option than heart transplantation (HTx). There are multiple
      etiologies underlying heart failure. Cardiomyopathy is the leading cause for HTx in any
      age-group with coronary artery disease being the second most common cause in adult patients.

      Alterations in the mitochondrial function have been recognized as key factors in heart
      failure. The understanding of the complex interaction of the mitochondria in regulation of
      the metabolism and cellular apoptosis has brought new perspectives to research in heart
      failure. It is now known that the myocardial mitochondrial density changes and their function
      and integrity is impaired during heart failure.

      During the transplant procedure the diseased heart is removed, providing a unique opportunity
      to collect samples eligible for thorough mitochondrial examination.

      The collected myocardial tissue samples will be evaluated with High Resolution Respirometry,
      examining the glucose coupled respiratory capacity of permeabilized myocardial fibers. The
      respiratory capacity in the diseased fibers will be compared to the respiratory capacity in
      fibers from coronary healthy HTx patients transplanted 1 to 2 years prior to acquisition of
      the fibers.

      Hopefully, the knowledge gained from this investigation will contribute with important
      insights in the diseased myocardial energy metabolism. Such knowledge may pave the way for
      development of treatments targeting energy substrate supply for adenosine-triphosphate
      generation produced by the mitochondria as well as mitochondrial function in the failing
      heart.

      Hypothesis:

      The pathological myocardial function seen in heart failure is related to dysfunctional
      cardiac mitochondria.

      Objective:

      To examine if cardiac mitochondrial function in end-stage heart failure of multiple
      etiologies is inferior to mitochondrial function in transplanted hearts with no signs of
      rejection or vasculopathy.

      Design and Endpoint:

      Myocardial mitochondrial function analyzed from 24 explanted hearts will be compared to
      endomyocardial biopsies from 20 HTx patients at scheduled biopsies (1 or 2 years after
      implantation).

      Endpoints: 1) Mitochondrial respiratory capacity. 2) Mitochondrial complex function, outer
      membrane integrity and mitochondrial content.

      Methods:

      High-resolution respirometry:

      High-resolution respirometry is used to measure mitochondrial respiratory capacity in
      endomyocardial biopsies. After appropriate preparation, two biopsies are transferred to an
      oxygraph (Oxygraph-2k; Oroboros, Innsbruck, Austria) for high resolution respirometry.
      Mitochondrial respiratory capacity will be analyzed in a step-by-step manner using titrations
      of substrates and inhibitors to evaluate glucose coupled respiration in the fibers.
      High-resolution respirometry analysis is performed within 8 hours after the biopsy has been
      taken.

      After analysis the tissue will be snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored in a research
      biobank at -80 degrees celsius until examination of citrate synthase activity is carried out.
      Hereafter, any remaining tissue will be destroyed.

      Electron microscopy:

      A sample from each biopsy used for high-resolution respirometry will be used for electron
      microscopy (EM) to evaluate mitochondrial volume density (MitoVD) and integrity. Muscle
      samples are fixated for 24 hours in glutaraldehyde and washed 4x15 minutes with Na-cacodylate
      buffer before being casted in Epon. The Epon casted tissue will be stored in a research
      biobank until EM analysis. Ultra-thin sections of the Epon-blocks (60 nm) are cut in three
      depths and dyed with uranyl acetate and lead citrate. Imaging is performed with an EM 208
      transmission electron microscope and a Megaview III camera. All fibers are photographed at
      10.000 × magnification in a randomized order. MitoVD is estimated from mitochondrial
      fractional area and only distinct fibers will be used in the final analysis.

      Statistics:

      Normally distributed data will be presented as mean ± standard deviation; non-normally
      distributed data will be presented as median and interquartile range. Categorical data are
      presented as absolute values or percentages. Histograms and Q-Q plots will be used to check
      continuous values for normality. Between-group differences will be assessed by t-test for
      normally distributed data and Mann-Whitney U test for non-normally distributed data.
      Statistical significance at a p-value of <0.05.

      Sample size calculation:

      At present there are no test-retest evaluation of mitochondrial respiratory analysis in
      endomyocardial biopsies from explanted human hearts. However, a recent study performed at our
      department on myocardial biopsies demonstrated that a total sample size of 40 human subjects
      in a 1:1 parallel group design was able to identify differences between the two groups
      (unpublished data).

      Data collection and processing:

      Source data will be recorded in the patient's electronic patient record or on specific
      worksheets.

      A centralized electronic Case Report Form (CRF) will be constructed for data capture. Data
      will be stored until completion of the project, after which, it will be transmitted to the
      Danish Data Archives.

      Perspectives:

      HTx is the golden standard treatment for patients suffering from end-stage heart failure, but
      its limitations cannot be ignored. Firstly, the procedure is accompanied by a substantial
      risk and a significant percentage of patients suffer from acute graft failure. Furthermore,
      HTx patients have a higher risk of severe infections and cancer, and up to 50% of HTx
      patients suffer from cardiac allograft vasculopathy 10 years after transplantation, all of
      which are highly related to mortality. Hence, postponing HTx is desirable, if health and
      life-quality can be kept at an acceptable level. In this context, mitochondrial function
      seems to be pivotal, as approaches to assess mitochondrial function in the failing heart may
      prove to pave the way for new follow-up algorithms and even treatment targets.
    
  