
    
      Integrating cognitive behavioral health nutritional therapy (hereafter CBT) and primary care
      services plays an important role in healthcare outcomes and the prevalence of chronic
      disorders treated in primary care. The Center of Disease Control has published some
      disturbing numbers: 9.3% of the U.S. population is affected by diabetes. Ninety-five percent
      of these individuals will receive treatment from their primary care provider, less than 5%
      will consult with a dietitian or behavioral health provider. Diabetes is projected to triple
      in the US despite numerous treatment options and greatly increased medical resources devoted
      to this problem. There is need for treatments that demonstrate an effectiveness that is low
      risk and wide spread.

      A person's state of mind can play an important role in physical and psychosocial health
      conditions such as diabetes. Depression and diabetes share a bidirectional association. A
      recent meta-analysis reported that depressed individuals have a 60% increased risk of
      developing diabetes. An association was found between the risks of developing diabetes and
      non-severe depression, persistent depression, and untreated depression. Cognitive behavioral
      therapy, among others, has demonstrated effectiveness for a variety of chronic conditions.

      By implementing a shared visit with primary care we encourage the advancement of this new
      approach. A focus on stress reduction by using mindfulness to encourage patients to think of
      their body as a whole and heal through not only the use of CBT, but with nutrition and manual
      therapy. Demonstrating the beneficial effects CBT has on uncontrolled diabetes will offer
      another psychosocial treatment option for the large number of suffering US residents. CBT and
      other mindfulness-based interventions have been recognized as helpful for a range of
      conditions including chronic pain. However, only 1 large randomized clinical trial (RCT) has
      evaluated CBT for chronic low back pain, and that trial was limited to older adults.

      This clinical trial also includes chiropractic manipulative treatment (CMT) with uncontrolled
      diabetes patients. This study is unique due to the lack of any pre-existing trials of this
      nature. CMT has demonstrated improvement in physical function. A compromise of the peripheral
      nervous system is a common long-term complication of diabetes. In severe cases, this can lead
      to limb amputations and sudden cardiac death secondary to autonomic polyneuropathy. Proper
      recognition of the musculoskeletal manifestations of patients with diabetes will aid the
      treating chiropractor and alert them to the possible neurological consequences of diabetes.
    
  