
    
      Phase III parallel-group, randomised, double blind clinical trial, performed in 31 primary
      healthcare centres in Spain.

      The use of narrow-spectrum antibiotics is needed because of the dearth of new antimicrobials
      and the link observed between the consumption of broad-spectrum antibiotics and the emergence
      and spread of antibacterial resistance.

      Objective: The aim of the present trial was to determine whether high-dose penicillin V was
      as effective as high-dose amoxicillin for the treatment of uncomplicated CAP in a
      Mediterranean adult population.

      Subjects: Patients between 18-75 years with lower respiratory tract infection and
      radiologically confirmed diagnosis of pneumonia.

      Primary outcome: Clinical resolution at day 14

      Visit Schedule: Initiation visit, day 3 phone call, day 14 presential visit, day 30
      presential visit.

      Quality: The study will be conducted in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of
      Helsinki, ICH Guidelines for GCP and in full conformity with relevant regulations. The study
      has been approved by the Ethical Committee of Investigation in Primary Care (Fundació
      d'Investigació en Atenció Primària) and by the Agencia Española del Medicamento y Productos
      Sanitarios. The study data was fully monitored by speciallized personnel.

      Sample size: The objective of the study is to demonstrate that penicillin V is not inferior
      to amoxicillin. Considering a success rate of 85% for the group treated with amoxicillin
      [1,2]. A total of 105 patients will be required in each treatment group (total of 210) to
      detect a non-inferiority margin of 15% between the two treatments with a minimum power of 80%
      considering an alpha error of 2.5% for a unilateral hypothesis and maximum possible losses of
      15%.

      Statistical analyses:The intention-to-treat (ITT) population included all randomized patients
      receiving at least one dose of study drug and the per-protocol (PP) population included
      patients who received no systemic antimicrobial agents other than the study drug for at least
      three days in the case of clinical failure or ≥80% of study medication in the case of cure,
      with adequate assessment of compliance and absence of major protocol violations.

      To evaluate the comparability of the groups the two groups will be analysed with variables
      expressed as means and standard deviations for the case of quantitative variables and with
      proportions in the case of qualitative variables. The variable of the principle result,
      clinical cure, will be expressed as percentages and the comparison of percentages in the two
      treatment groups will be analysed using the Chi-square test. Logistic regression will be
      performed for the analysis of the predictive factors of cure or not, with calculation of the
      odds ratio for each of the variables analysed and multiadjustment for each of the factors of
      the study with confidence intervals of 95%. Variables with a p<0.20 on bivariant analysis
      will be included in the analysis. A p value < 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.

      The protocol of the study has been published (3)
    
  