
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the safety, toxicity, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of autologous
           dendritic cell-adenovirus CCL21 vaccine administered as an intratumoral injection in
           treating patients with stage IIIB, IV, or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the biologic and clinical responses to therapy.

        -  To determine treatment-related toxicity using the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria.

        -  To identify the MTD.

        -  To monitor patients for evidence of autologous dendritic cell-adenovirus CCL21
           vaccine-induced cytokines and antigen-specific immune responses.

        -  To detect immune responses to tumor-associated antigens and vector.

        -  To assess patients for objective signs of tumor regression (RECIST Criteria).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of autologous dendritic cell-adenovirus CCL21
      vaccine.

      Patients undergo leukapheresis to obtain leukocytes for generation of autologous dendritic
      cells (DC). Adenovirus carrying the CCL21 gene is added to the dendritic cells to make the
      vaccine. Approximately 2 weeks after leukapheresis, patients receive an intratumoral
      injection of autologous dendritic cell-adenovirus CCL21 vaccine under CT-guidance or by
      bronchoscopy on days 0 and 7. Patients demonstrating a clinical response are eligible to
      receive a second round of gene transfer at their discretion and in consultation with the FDA.

      Cohorts of 3 patients receive escalating doses of autologous dendritic cell-adenovirus CCL21
      vaccine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. An additional 12 patients are
      treated at the MTD.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and then on days 0, 7, 14, 28, and 56
      for safety and immunological studies. Blood samples are analyzed for mycoplasma by PCR;
      dendritic cell phenotype by flow cytometry; detection of adenovirus CCL21 by nested PCR; and
      adenoviral antibodies by ELISA. Patients also undergo tissue aspirate or biopsy on days 0 and
      7 (during bronchoscopy or CT-guided procedure). Tissue samples are analyzed for
      immune-modulating cytokines (i.e., IFNγ, CXCL9, and CXCL10) by quantitative RT-PCR; detection
      of tumor infiltrating leukocytes by immunohistochemistry; CD83+ DC, CXCR3, CCR7, CCL21 and
      CD3+ T-cells, CD4, and CD8 by flow cytometry; determination of tumor expression of
      tumor-associated antigen by RT-PCR; and evaluation of immune modulation by ELISPOT assays.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  