
    
      Five-year kidney allograft survival rates are estimated to be as low as 71.6%. A leading
      cause for the high prevalence of graft loss is the delay in detecting allograft injury from
      active rejection, when early diagnosis and intervention presents the greatest chance of
      preserving kidney function. Despite the frequent testing called for by care protocols, low
      levels of injury can go undetected due to the low specificity and sensitivity of current,
      standard testing methods: checking creatinine and immunosuppressive drug levels. More
      definitive graft biopsies are an option, but they are invasive, expensive and can even put
      the patient at risk for graft loss and other complications, making it undesirable as a
      frequent monitoring test.

      Donor-derived cell-free DNA (dd-cfDNA) detected in the blood of transplant recipients has
      been shown to be a non-invasive diagnostic marker for allograft injury/rejection. Natera,
      Inc. has recently developed a novel single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based mmPCR NGS
      methodology to measure dd-cfDNA in kidney transplant recipients for the detection of
      allograft injury and rejection. As a growing leader in the diagnostic space, Natera has
      commissioned a randomized controlled trial to determine the clinical utility of its dd-cfDNA
      detection methodology for practicing nephrologists treating kidney allograft patients. This
      study is expected to fill a gap in the evidence base on the clinical utility of dd-cfDNA
      testing for allograft rejection.

      The study is a pre-post, two round controlled trial of care practices in a nationally
      representative sample of practicing nephrologists randomly assigned to a control or an
      intervention arm. All participants will be asked to propose care for a total of 6 CPV
      simulated patients who are adults aged 30-75; three or more months post-transplant; and
      presenting with signs, symptoms and laboratory findings suggestive of allograft rejection.
      Each assessment round will consist of 3 simulated patients. In between assessment rounds,
      participants randomized into the intervention arm will receive educational materials on the
      new allograft rejection test.

      Investigators will assess whether practicing nephrologists more effectively identify and
      manage patients with possible kidney allograft rejection when given access to Natera's novel
      SNP-based mmPCR-NGS test that measures dd-cfDNA, and, whether those behavioral changes
      improves patient management and optimizes resource utilization.
    
  