
    
      Objective: To determine the effectiveness of the Group Lifestyle Balance (GLB) program with
      an added maintenance component focusing on carbohydrate reduction and hunger management when
      compared to the GLB program with traditional maintenance.

      Research Design and Methods: The original Diabetes Prevention Program intervention was
      modified from a 16 session individual intervention to a 12 session group-based program called
      Group Lifestyle Balance (GLB). The Diabetes Prevention Support Center (DPSC) has been created
      to oversee the implementation of diabetes prevention and CVD risk reduction in various
      community settings. GLB is a 12-session group based program that focuses on a low fat diet,
      weight loss and physical activity. This evidence-based intervention is directed at those with
      pre-diabetes and/or the metabolic syndrome. A monthly maintenance component will be added
      which provides support in assisting individuals who have completed the 12-session course in
      the maintenance of healthy lifestyle changes.

      The efficacy (in terms of weight reduction) of an added maintenance component focusing on
      carbohydrate reduction and hunger management will be compared to traditional maintenance.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to either GLB traditional maintenance (GLB-TM) or GLB
      and carbohydrate reduced maintenance (GLB-CRM). There will be two groups of approximately 15
      subjects in each intervention assignment, for a total of approximately 30 subjects per
      intervention group and approximately 60 subjects taking part overall. Efficacy in both groups
      will be assessed by pre and post-intervention measures of diet (weight loss) and physical
      activity (the keystones of the intervention), as well as the achievement of the two goals: a
      7% weight loss by the end of 6 months and 150 minutes of physical activity per week.
      Secondary outcomes to be evaluated include the reduction of global CVD risk, as assessed by
      the Framingham Score, the presence of metabolic syndrome (NCEP ATP III), and a fall in blood
      sugar. Repeat measures will be obtained at six months and one year for further evaluation and
      comparison.
    
  