
    
      Low back pain is considered one of the most widely experienced health problems in the U.S.
      and the world. It is the second most frequent condition, after the common cold, for which
      patients see a physician or lose days from work. Estimated costs to those who are severely
      disabled from low back pain range from $30-70 billion annually. Rates of spinal surgery in
      the U.S. have increased sharply over time, and researchers have documented 15-fold geographic
      variation in rates of these surgeries. In many cases, where one lives and who one sees for
      the condition appear to determine the rates of surgery. Despite these trends, there is little
      evidence proving the effectiveness of these therapies over non-surgical management.

      This study will use the National Spine Network to conduct a multicenter, randomized,
      controlled trial for the three most common diagnostic groups for which spine surgery is
      performed: lumbar intervertebral disc herniation (IDH), spinal stenosis (SpS), and spinal
      stenosis secondary to degenerative spondylolisthesis (DS). This arm of the trial will deal
      with patients from the second diagnostic group. The study will compare the most commonly used
      standard surgical treatments to the most commonly used standard nonsurgical treatments. We
      will conduct the study at 12 sites throughout the United States.

      The primary endpoint of the study will be changes in health-related quality of life as
      measured by the SF-36 health status questionnaire. Secondary endpoints will include patient
      satisfaction with treatment, utility for current health in order to estimate quality-adjusted
      life years (QALYS) as the measure for cost-effectiveness, resource use, and cost.

      We will follow patients at 6 weeks and 3, 6, 12, and 24 months to determine their health
      status, function, satisfaction, and health care use. We anticipate that we will enroll and
      randomly allocate a total of 370 study participants in this arm of the trial. We will track
      an additional observational cohort to assess health and resource outcomes. Enrollment in the
      Observational cohort has been completed as of February 2003.

      We will integrate data from the trial and observational cohorts to formally estimate the
      cost-effectiveness of surgical versus nonsurgical interventions for IDH, SpS, and DS. The
      results of this trial will provide, for the first time, scientific evidence as to the
      relative effectiveness of surgical versus nonsurgical treatment for these three most commonly
      diagnosed lumbar spine conditions.
    
  