
    
      Humans carry on the order of 100 trillion microbial cells (the microbiota),which play a major
      role in normal health as well as disease pathogenesis. In the gut, the microbiota interact
      with the intestinal epithelium and immune system to regulate inflammation and metabolism. The
      impact of the microbiota on GVHD and other clinical outcomes may be mediated by bacterial
      metabolites such as short chain fatty acid (SCFAs). In particular, the SCFA butyrate has been
      shown to be a preferred fuel source of human colonic epithelial cells and essential for
      normal differentiation of regulatory immune cells in the intestine, which in turn may
      decrease GVHD. This is supported by murine studies, in which manipulating the gut microbiota
      to increase microbial SCFA production or by direct administration (oral gavage) of butyrate
      has been shown to improve HCT outcomes, including protection from GVHD

      Manipulating the gut microbiota in HCT to decrease the risk of GVHD could potentially be done
      using several methods, namely prebiotics (dietary carbohydrates or fibers), probiotics (live
      bacteria), and fecal transplantation. In contrast to live bacteria, prebiotics are dietary
      carbohydrates classified as nutritional supplements that can sustain gut bacteria, regulate
      gastrointestinal transit time, and foster cooperative metabolic networks between enteric
      microbes. Because prebiotics encourage the growth of existing bacteria rather than
      introducing new organisms, they may be safer. Moreover, bacterial fermentation of prebiotics
      may yield SCFA.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether the carbohydrate prebiotic (dietary
      supplement) known as galacto-oligosaccharide (GOS) can modulate the microbiome (the bacteria
      in the gut) and help prevent graft-versus host disease (GVHD) after allogeneic stem cell
      transplant. The study has two two parts. In phase 1, three dose levels 0.75g/day (25% maximum
      dose, D1), 1.5g/day (50% maximum dose D2), and 2.9g/day (maximum dose, D3) will be evaluated
      to find out the provisional maximum tolerated dose (pMTD) of GOS to be used in phase 2. In
      phase 2, using pMTD of GOS, participants will be randomized to receive GOS or a placebo
      (maltodextrin, a common food additive that is not known to affect the microbiome) so that the
      effect of GOS can be determined. Note that if the pMTD is D3, there will be a D1 and D2
      lead-in period similar to the Phase 1 study however if the pMTD is D2, there will only be a
      lead-in with D1 and if pMTD is D1, there will only be one dose with no lead-in. The study
      will generate important data on gut microbiota responses to help tailor or personalize future
      prebiotic therapies to patients and their microbiota.
    
  