
    
      Rationale: Stent Thrombosis (ST) is a serious complication of percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) with stent implantation. Previous studies have been hampered by small
      sample size, in particular regarding the number of patients with late and very late ST and
      patients with DES thrombosis, and by incomplete patient characterisation, particularly
      concerning intracoronary imaging and blood platelet function data.

      Objective: to identify novel predictors and to observe clinical outcome after an episode of
      ST, with the use of state-of-the-art new techniques such as OCT/IVUS, platelet function
      testing, genetic analysis.

      Study design: multicenter matched case control study

      Study population:

      Cases: all patients presenting with definite ST. Expected number of patients to be included:
      2000

      Controls: patients undergoing PCI will be matched based on the following criteria:

      Expected number of patients to be matched: 2000

        1. who underwent a PCI for the same indication

        2. who underwent a PCI on the same date (±5 days)

        3. who underwent a PCI in the same interventional centre Main study parameters/endpoints:
           clinical, ECG, biochemical, angiographic, procedural, haematological, histopathological,
           genetic, OCT/IVUS-imaging, and follow-up characteristics Nature and extent of the burden
           and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: Prior to PCI, 50
           ml of whole blood will be drawn from all patients. Primary PCI for ST will be performed
           according to institutional best practise. During PCI, performance of Optical Coherence
           Tomography and/or Intravascular Ultrasound is encouraged. Thrombus aspiration is
           performed when indicated. During hospitalisation, all patients will be asked to fulfil a
           questionnaire regarding possible triggering mechanisms that might have provoked the ST.
           Patients will be asked to visit the patient clinic for platelet function 30 days after
           the acute phase of the ST. Finally, patients will be contacted for follow-up details.
    
  