
    
      Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) occurs following acute and chronic phases of ischemic
      heart disease as well as during pressure and/or volume overload (arterial hypertension,
      valvular heart disease). Persistence of the pathological stimuli, i.e. pressure and/or volume
      overload, will ultimately lead to the decompensation of cardiac function described as heart
      failure (HF). HF is worldwide one of the major healthcare concerns both in terms of the loss
      of human life and economic burden due to the expanding costs of care for patients with this
      condition (Ambrosy 2014). HF is associated with cardiomyocyte death, exacerbated inflammatory
      reaction with ensuing fibrosis and alteration of local angiogenesis. A better understanding
      of the mechanisms involved in the maintenance of the compensated state and in the transition
      to heart failure will promote the conception of new pharmacological interventions to prevent
      or even to reverse the transition to heart failure. Based on preclinical studies, the aim of
      this study is to advance our knowledge of relevant mechanisms involved in this process.

      In an experimental setting in mice, the protective role of macrophages presenting an
      anti-inflammatory polarization in the progression of isuprel-induced left ventricular
      hypertrophy to irreversible heart failure has been recently demonstrated (Keck et al.,
      submitted). These findings in the experimental model encourage their confirmation in the
      clinical setting. In the latter case, new therapeutic strategies can be projected to prevent
      or even to reverse the transition of compensated cardiac hypertrophy to heart failure.

      To this purpose, the investigators will study cardiac tissue and blood sample of patients
      presenting compensated cardiac hypertrophy compared to those with end-stage heart failure.

      Patients undergoing aortic valve replacement associated with septal myomectomy for aortic
      valve stenosis and asymmetric septal hypertrophy as well as patients with hypertrophic
      obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) undergoing septal myomectomy are included in the group of
      compensated cardiac hypertrophy. Patients undergoing heart transplantation or implantation of
      mechanical life supporting system are included in the group of end-stage heart failure.
    
  