
    
      Marginalized populations, including those who are unstably housed and have mental health or
      substance use disorders, demonstrate alarming rates of disparities in the incidence of new
      HIV infections and treatment outcomes. These populations have HIV viral suppression rates as
      low as 13% and mortality 3 to 5 times higher than people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) who
      have stable housing. Economic disadvantage can contribute to poor medication adherence and
      clinical outcomes through limited social resources, repeated cycles of housing instability,
      high levels of stress caused by financial insecurity, and lack of resources to cope with
      these demands. While the remediation of poverty on a broad scale is not on the near horizon,
      addressing factors that result from economic disadvantage and limit adherence is feasible and
      achievable. The investigators aim to understand whether providing financial management to
      marginalized PLWHA can improve their financial and housing stability, and in turn,
      antiretroviral therapy treatment adherence and rates of viral suppression.

      Representative payee is a structural intervention that provides financial management to
      marginalized individuals, which has already shown promise in helping marginalized populations
      achieve undetectable viral loads. Structural interventions aim to alter social, political, or
      economic contexts in order to improve health outcomes rather than focusing on proximal health
      behaviors (14). "rep payee" is a Social Security Administration (SSA) policy whereby an
      organization is appointed to serve as a money manager for vulnerable individuals who receive
      SSA benefits. The client and their physician complete a request for determination of a
      representative payee, and once authorized bu SSA, the rep payee establishes a checking
      account for the client into which SSA entitlements are directly deposited. The client does
      not have direct access to the account. The rep payee pays the client's bills, which improves
      regular payment of rent and utilities, and then disburses expendable funds to the client.

      In a pilot study examining associations between our "Client-Centered rep payee" services and
      viral load, it was found that only 7 of 18 participants had suppressed viral loads (SVL) at
      baseline, but 16 of the 18 had SVL at six-month follow-up (p = .004, McNemar's) (15). In a
      more recent analysis, investigators determined that of 40 participants who received Client
      Centered rep payee, 82% had suppressed viral loads at both 6- and 12-months follow up. The
      Open Door, Inc. (TOD), the organization that developed this intervention, has provided these
      services to 76 PLWHA over the past nine years. Though clients can terminate the rep payee
      arrangement at any time, 90% of clients has kept TOD as their rep payee indefinitely,
      demonstrating both the feasibility and acceptability of this approach. The hypothesis is that
      by helping clients to pay their rent and other bills on time, housing stability improves and
      financial stress decreases. By reducing the cognitive burden of living with chronic financial
      stress and frequent threats of housing loss, clients can devote more time and attention to
      medical appointments and medication adherence. Ultimately, it is believed that this program
      improves clients' self-efficacy for health behaviors, retention in care, medication
      adherence, CD4 counts, and viral loads. These these hypotheses will be tested via the
      following aims in a randomized controlled trial of 320 PLWHA.

      Aim 1. Conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT, n=160) with two additional non-randomized
      arms (n=50) to test the effect of Client-Centered Rep Payee on anti-retroviral (ART)
      medication adherence and viral load among PLWHA who are economically disadvantaged and
      unstably housed. Compare clinical adherence will be assessed through behavioral and
      biological measures including, self-reported appointment adherence, and viral load for
      patients receiving the intervention versus those receiving standard of care.

      Aim 2. Test underlying mechanisms associated with Client-Centered Rep Payee that contribute
      to changes in medication adherence and viral suppression rates. Quantitative (mediation
      analysis) and qualitative (semi-structured interview) methods will be used to test
      hypothesized mediators of medication adherence and viral suppression including financial and
      housing instability, financial stress, self-efficacy for health behaviors, and retention in
      care.

      Aim 3. Assess the cost and cost-effectiveness of the Client-Centered Rep Payee model. The
      investigators will conduct an economic analysis to model the impact of the intervention as
      compared with standard of care on quality adjusted life years as well as new infections
      averted.

      Client-Centered Rep Payee offers a structural intervention to improve adherence by addressing
      economic insecurity. This approach requires low financial investment and can be layered with
      existing clinical services. Further, it is highly scalable as it builds on a current policy
      in practice within the Social Security system. It is projected that by demonstrating the
      impact and cost-effectiveness of Client-Centered Rep Payee an innovative approach to
      improving viral suppression rates and reducing health disparities among marginalized PLWHA
      may be documented.
    
  