
    
      Poor drug solubility, and therefore low bioavailability, remains a problem in drug
      development that causes many drug candidates to drop out during drug development.
      Bioavailability is linked to drug solubility and intestinal permeability. A promising method
      to increase drug solubility, and therefore bioavailability, is the formulation of the drug as
      hot-melt extruded amorphous solid dispersion drug delivery systems, which have been shown to
      potentially increase in vivo and clinical bioavailability.The mechanisms that lead to
      increased bioavailability are not understood completely.

      In this study, investigators investigate the role of amorphous solid dispersions and thereof
      generated drug-rich particles on bioavailability and their in vivo behaviour. Investigators
      do so by administering the delivery system at different stages in the process of drug
      availability.

      Primary objectives are the pharmacokinetic analysis of a model formulation using efavirenz as
      model drug tracer in human.

        -  Comparison of pharmacokinetic parameters such as relative bioavailability and further
           parameters derived from pharmacokinetic analysis and corresponding interpatient
           variabilities.

        -  Mechanistic analysis of pharmacokinetic data, such as determination of in vivo
           dissolution from the solid formulation (study product 1) to drug rich particles (study
           product 2) using numerical deconvolution or analysis of the effect of drug rich
           particles on the absorption rate of Efavirenz in comparison to the solution of Efavirenz
           (study product 3).

      Secondary objectives are the comparison of obtained pharmacokinetic profiles to existing data
      of a conventional formulation with respect to:

        -  Comparison of pharmacokinetic parameters such as relative bioavailability and further
           parameters derived from pharmacokinetic analysis and corresponding interpatient
           variabilities.

        -  Extrapolation investigation from in vitro to in vivo data.

      Safety objectives are the recording of any side effects or tolerability issues of the
      investigational drug delivery system.
    
  