
    
      Asthma, a chronic respiratory disease, belongs to the most prevalent chronic conditions. In
      Switzerland, 7-15% of all children and 6-7% of all adults suffer from it. Common symptoms are
      breathlessness, coughing and wheezing. The symptoms often get worse at night and often cause
      awakenings. Cough is a particularly important symptom in asthma because it predicts asthma
      severity, indicates a worse prognosis and is perceived to be a troublesome symptom.
      Additionally, asthma is the leading cause for chronic cough, responsible for 24-29% of cases.

      However, little is known about the utility of cough tracking for self-monitoring purposes in
      asthmatics. A first cross-sectional study has indicated that the cough rate during both day
      and night might be a valid marker for asthma control, rendering it a potentially useful
      parameter for self-monitoring. Unfortunately, due to considerable variance of cough rates
      within each category of asthma control (i.e. uncontrolled, partially controlled and
      controlled asthma), the statistically significant relationship between cough rate and asthma
      control might not be clinically meaningful. Additionally, due to the cross-sectional design
      of existing studies, it remains unclear whether the cough rate might have any prognostic
      value for predicting future asthma control.

      Therefore, the purpose of this study is to explore the value which cough rate might provide
      for asthma self-management in more detail. In This study, the focus will be put specifically
      on nocturnal cough rate due to the technical reasons. In general, the plan of this study is
      as follows: With a longitudinal study design, it is possible to investigate to which extent
      trends in the nocturnal cough rates might have meaningful implications for future asthma
      control and asthma exacerbations of patients. However, in order to analyze the predictive
      value of trends in nocturnal cough rate, the symptom has to persist over multiple nights.
      There is no research available on the prevalence of nocturnal cough in asthmatics over
      multiple nights. Therefore, the incidence of nocturnal cough in asthmatics will be described
      and visualized over the course of one month in the first stage of our study. Additionally,
      the aim will be to identify and model trends in nocturnal cough rates.

      Measuring cough is very time-consuming. Currently, there are no cough frequency monitors
      available, which measure cough rates in a fully automated and unobtrusive way. Consequently,
      manual labeling of cough based on video or sound recordings is still considered to be the
      gold standard for measuring cough rates by medical guidelines. Nevertheless, a machine
      learning algorithm has been successfully designed to automatically detect cough in a proof of
      concept study. Despite using only very limited data for algorithm development (80 coughs from
      5 healthy subjects), the accuracy reached 83%. However, the data were gathered in a
      laboratory setting, which limits the generalizability of the results and thus applicability
      in practice. Therefore, the aim is to develop a machine learning algorithm which is also
      capable to provide robust results in the field. This study will focus on cough during the
      night time due to the limited interfering noise, which greatly facilitates manual labeling
      and enables a more reliable detection rate of the machine learning algorithm. It is important
      to point out that the analysis of nocturnal cough prevalence described above will not be
      based on cough detected by an algorithm, but on the manually labeled coughs in the audio
      track recorded during the night by a study smartphone, which will be provided to subjects for
      the course of the study.

      Apart from developing a machine learning algorithm for cough detection, data will be gathered
      for an algorithm assessing patient's sleep quality. For this purpose, sleep quality will be
      predicted based on data obtained from the smartphone's sensors.

      After concluding the first study stage, the prevalence of nocturnal cough in the study will
      determine whether further analyses of the recorded data will be needed and thereby initiate
      the second stage of the study. If nocturnal cough does not occur more frequently than could
      be explained by chance alone, no additional analysis will be conducted implying that the
      conclusion of the first stage and the end of the project. However, given a sufficient
      prevalence of nocturnal cough in the first stage (i.e. nocturnal cough prevalence differs
      from zero with statistical significance); the second stage of the study will focus on the
      value of nocturnal cough as a prognostic marker for asthma control. The considerable variance
      within categories of asthma control shown in suggests that the relationship between nocturnal
      cough rate and asthma control might be moderated by other variables. Prior research has
      demonstrated that sleep quality is associated with asthma control and quality of life: Even
      if accounted for concomitant diseases (e.g. gastroesophageal reflux disease and obstructive
      sleep apnea), poorer sleep quality is associated with worse asthma control and quality of
      life. One reason for the association between sleep quality and asthma control might be that
      nocturnal asthma symptoms frequently cause awakenings. Considering the importance of sleep
      quality for asthma control, the (predictive) value of the nocturnal cough rate and its
      influence on sleep quality will be explored.

      In summary, the following asthma-related research question will be explored within each stage
      of this study: (1) what is the prevalence of nocturnal cough in asthmatics over the course of
      one month? (2) Is nocturnal cough, accounted for sleep quality, a valid prognostic marker for
      asthma control? Additionally, the study addresses two technical objectives: gather data to
      develop two machine learning algorithms, which are able to detect nocturnal cough and sleep
      quality fully automated by means of a smartphone in real-life conditions.

      Answering these research questions results in multiple contributions: in terms of
      asthma-related questions, the hope will be to provide context on the symptom of nocturnal
      cough in order to increase interpretability of cough rates and to successfully replicate and
      expand the findings of, which would support the validity of nocturnal cough as a (prognostic)
      marker for asthma control. In terms of technical objectives, the hope will be to provide a
      proof of concept that smartphones are suitable devices for sensing asthma symptoms in an
      automated fashion under real-life conditions.

      The expected results could enable a novel therapeutic option, namely fully automated
      tele-monitoring of asthmatics. Using the smartphone of a patient, an unobtrusive early
      warning system for asthma worsening/exacerbations could be envisioned. Such an system could
      lower the burden of asthma for both the individual patient (e.g. higher quality of life and
      asthma control by identifying windows of opportunity, in which patients can change their
      medication according to their asthma action plan to prevent asthma worsening and
      exacerbations) as well as the healthcare system (i.e. cost savings due to reduced
      hospitalizations and emergency room visits). Considering the wide spread availability of
      smartphones, such a novel therapeutic option might enable large scale and cost-efficient
      asthma tele-monitoring. Prior research has indicated the need for such a novel therapeutic
      option: the majority of asthmatics suffers from uncontrolled asthma. Half of asthmatics are
      not able to assess their symptom severity properly and would thus benefit from an early
      warning system. Additionally, automated systems seem to have a higher long term engagement
      compared to traditional interventions, making them particularly suitable for early warning
      systems in chronic diseases. Furthermore, tele-monitoring of symptoms could provide
      physicians with valuable insights regarding a patient's asthma symptoms between visits. In
      summary, an automated early warning system might help patients register asthma worsening
      earlier and inform their physicians in time, so that adverse health consequences can be
      prevented.

      The planned study falls into the risk category of health related personal data collection
      with only minimal risk and burdens. It is a prospective observational study, no intervention
      will be administered. Only a slight and temporary impact on the participant's health can be
      expected, if at all.

      Throughout the study, a patient's asthma symptoms will be monitored unobtrusively using the
      smartphone; thus, minimal risk and burdens are ensured. Between both doctoral visits at the
      beginning and end of the study, all control questions and questionnaires will be administered
      via smartphones that we will provide for this study. Thus, the burden should be minimal for
      patients as their daily routine will not be disrupted.

      No invasive procedure will be conducted in the two doctoral visits. The medical examination
      follows the standard protocol for asthma. Additionally, patients will be reimbursed for any
      inconveniences encountered during the study.
    
  