
    
      The aim of the HomeStyles-2 online learning mode RCT is to determine whether this novel,
      age-appropriate, family intervention enables and motivates parents to shape their home
      environments and weight-related lifestyle practices (i.e., diet, exercise, sleep) to be more
      supportive of optimal health and reduced risk of obesity in their middle childhood youth more
      than those in the control condition. RCT Design CONSORT guidelines extension for social and
      psychological intervention trials will be used to generate a participant flow diagram and
      report RCT enrollment and retention data.113 Interested participants will begin by completing
      a short eligibility screener survey. Eligible participants who give informed consent will
      have immediate access to the baseline survey. Those who complete the baseline survey, meet
      survey plausibility checks (e.g., consistent answers to items measuring the same concept,
      meet minimal likely completion time, do not answer to all questions on a survey page the
      same), and complete the registration page (i.e., provide name and contact information) will
      be enrolled in the RCT. Enrolled participants will be systematically randomized by computer
      by alternating assignment to the experimental or attention control study condition.
      Recruitment materials and the bona fide treatment to be delivered to the attention control
      group are designed to blind participant assignment to study condition. Participants will
      receive intervention materials starting immediately after registration and at weekly
      intervals for 8 weeks. In week 9 of the study, participants will be invited to take the post
      survey to assess intervention effects Approximately 8 to 10 weeks after participants complete
      the post survey, they will be invited to take the follow-up survey to assess longer-term
      intervention effects.

      Each week parents will be encouraged to spend about 15 minutes reviewing intervention
      materials; think about the changes like those suggested in the materials that could help
      their families; and implement 1 or 2 easy, quick, low-cost changes in their homes.
      Intervention materials (described in a subsequent section) provided each week for 8 weeks
      include an electronic informational guide for parents, tracker to list guide-related goals
      for the week and monitor progress toward them, 3 to 4 encouraging nudges delivered by SMS and
      email, and a guide for kids that is available electronically and is mailed to the participant
      homes along with a reminder magnet.

      Participant progress through the RCT will be monitored by project staff by observing their
      visits to the website. Bilingual staff will be trained in customer service strategies and
      instructed to quickly address any participant queries submitted by email or phone using
      scripted responses to ensure equitable care across study groups. Participants will receive
      modest stipends that increase in value after they complete each survey.

      Experimental Group Intervention The HomeStyles-2 experimental group intervention materials
      (i.e., "Healthy" HomeStyles-2) were designed to be congruent with White House and IOM
      recommendations for home-centered obesity prevention interventions and critical elements for
      effective interventions (e.g., interventions are positive, culturally sensitive, supportive
      of parent-child interaction and child development; develop realistic, effective plans that
      empower families). Like HomeStyles for preschoolers, HomeStyles-2 for middle childhood
      intervention materials provide intensive, interactive, fun, non-judgmental opportunities for
      parents to shape their home environments and lifestyle practices to protect child health.
      They also promote positive strategies and changes that adults can control in their
      environments to reduce risk of excessive weight gain in their middle childhood youth. A
      positive approach teaches individuals what they can do (eat more fruits) rather than giving
      prohibitions (cut out fries). Substantial evidence supports parent preference for positive
      messages and the value of promoting positive vs restrictive behaviors to achieve health
      goals.

      Intervention Content. Key factors contributing to childhood obesity that can be suitably
      addressed in the home environment with middle childhood kids identified for inclusion in the
      intervention materials were selected using systematic literature reviews and input from
      experts in childhood obesity prevention. The most salient factors affecting school-age
      children's health and nutritional status that emerged were inadequate intake of fruits and
      vegetables, infrequent family meals, excessive consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages,
      large portion sizes, irregular breakfast consumption, limited physical activity, and
      inadequate sleep. An additional factor was children's limited food preparation skills.
      Attitudes toward engaging in healthy behaviors (i.e., eating fruits and vegetables, having
      family meals, curtailing intake of sweet beverages, controlling portion sizes, eating
      breakfast, getting physical exercise and limiting screentime, getting sufficient sleep, and
      giving children food preparation opportunities), barriers to performing healthy behaviors,
      strategies for overcoming barriers to healthy behaviors, and confidence in the ability to
      perform healthy behaviors regularly, as well as determinants of quality of life, were
      explored via focus groups with parents of middle-childhood youth and children ages 6 to 11
      years.

      Attention Control Intervention The attention control intervention will use bona fide,
      credible materials that are structurally equivalent to the experimental group. The attention
      control treatment will be credible in that it focuses on a topic fitting the description of
      the study recruitment materials (i.e., shaping homes and lifestyles to help kids grow up even
      happier and healthier) yet providing distinctly different, non-overlapping content (i.e.,
      home safety) devoid of the RCT "active" ingredient (i.e., content related to childhood
      obesity prevention). The attention control intervention materials include the same components
      as those used in the experimental group (i.e., parent guides, trackers, children's guides,
      and reminder magnets) with the content focused on home safety.

      The Safe HomeStyles parent guides, like the HomeStyles! Guide for the experimental group
      provided an overview of home safety. The other parent guides, as well as the children's
      guides, trackers, and reminder magnets, focus on indoor air quality, mold & moisture,
      hazardous household products, carbon monoxide, home safety, foodborne illness, and
      refrigerator temperatures. The Safe HomeStyles materials have an appearance and structure
      similar to those in the experimental group.

      Instruments The study survey, "Home Obesogenicity Measure of EnvironmentS"-Families with
      School-age Kids (HOMES-FSAK), will be used to collect baseline, post, and follow-up data in
      the HomeStyles-2 RCT. The Social Cognitive Theory along with the key concepts addressed in
      the HomeStyles-2 guides provided the framework for identification of cognitions, behaviors,
      and aspects of the home environment to be assessed. Online survey collection procedures will
      be used to collect baseline, post, and follow-up data. The survey will collect
      sociodemographic characteristics of the participant, child, and partner/spouse; child and
      parent health status; parent weight-related cognitions; weight-related behaviors of the
      parent and child; and weight-related characteristics of the home environment.
    
  