
    
      Fibromyalgia Syndrome (FMS) is a disease characterized by chronic widespread pain, along with
      muscle stiffness, sleep disorders, chronic fatigue, anxiety, depression, or neurocognitive
      deficiencies and autoimmune dysfunction. FMS prevalence is about 2% of the general
      population. Recently, a European study found a prevalence of 4.7% in all five countries
      surveyed, including Spain. The etiology of FMS is still unknown, but recent evidence supports
      the involvement of neuro-inflammation.

      Celergén® is a dietary supplement with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties composed
      of a proprietory mixture of herring and mackerel milt semen and sperm-filled reproductive
      gland of male fish provided by Celergen Ltd, Luxemburg), hydrolyzed collagen, CoQ10, lutein
      and selenium.

      This is an open-label, prospective, study to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of
      Celergen in 90 patients with Fibromyalgia. The study duration was 90 days and patients were
      evaluated by the following:

      INSTRUMENTS OF ASSESSMENT:

        -  Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire Revised (FIQR): The most commonly used scale to assess
           the severity and impact of fibromialgia.

        -  Brief Pain Inventory (BPI): Evaluates both pain intensity and interference with daily
           activities. The validated Spanish version will be used.

        -  Questionnaire of Health SF-12: This questionnaire, shortened version of the SF-36
           version, has shown strong correlation with the latter both in relation to the physical
           and mental summary, presenting the advantage of its reduced complexity.

        -  Scale Clinical Global Impression Improvement assessed by the patient (PGI): A Likert
           scale of 7 points ranging from 1 (much better) to 7 (very much worse). It is used in
           most studies and clinical trials to assess the patients perception of the evolution of
           the disease in relation to the prescribed treatment.

      COURSE OF STUDY:

      The total duration of the study will be 12 weeks. Visit 1 (Week -0). - A general medical
      history, in which the possible diseases suffered by the patient and the medications they are
      taking for treatment is recorded, which should not be changed during the study. Data relating
      to previous or ongoing treatments (pharmacological or not) for FMS will also be collected.
      The inclusion and exclusion criteria will be checked, informed consent will be obtained. and
      blood will be drawn and stored at -80o C until the end of the study for biochemical analysis
      and comparison with blood drawn at the end of the study.

      Visit 2 (baseline). - FIQR and the SF-12 and BPI questionnaires will be completed.

      Celergen® treatment, to be administered as an adjunct to medication the patient is taking. A
      Celergen® capsule will be prescribed after breakfast, unmixed with taking other supplement or
      medication.

      Visit 3 (Week 1). The FIQ, the BIS, the SF-12 and PGI questionnaires will be completed.

      Visit 4 (Week 4). - Supplement tolerability will be assessed by recording the occurrence of
      adverse effects. The FIQ, the BIS, the SF-12 and PGI questionnaires will be completed.

      Visit 5 (Week 8). - Supplement tolerability will be assessed by recording the occurrence of
      any adverse effects. The FIQ, the BIS, the SF-12 and PGI questionnaires will be completed.

      Visit 6 (Week 12). - The FIQ, the BIS, the PGI, the SF-12 and PGI questionnaires will be
      completed. The end of the treatment will be recorded. Potential adverse reactions will be
      also be recorded. Final blood samples will be drawn for biochemical analysis.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      Both the primary variable (the change in the initial and final mean scores of FIQ) and other
      quantitative variables (differences in mean scores on the BIS and SF-12) will be evaluated by
      analysis of variance for paired data.

      Adverse reactions and PGI will be analyzed using descriptive statistics.
    
  