
    
      Children with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) or other pain-related functional
      gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) such as functional abdominal pain (FAP) represent a
      considerable part of visits to pediatric practitioners. These disorders do not only decrease
      the quality of life but also increase the risk of symptom persistence and comorbid mental
      issues in adulthood. As etiology and pathophysiology of FGIDs are still a matter of research,
      several approaches of managing of FGIDs are commonly used: dietary interventions, probiotics,
      drug treatment, psychosocial interventions. While recent meta-analyses showed almost no
      favorable effects of dietary interventions and drug treatments (5-HT4 receptor agonists,
      antispasmodic and anti-diarrheal agents, antibiotics) in children with FGIDs, probiotics and
      psychosocial interventions remain promising regarding effective symptom relief. Several
      randomized controlled trials (RCT) have shown a beneficial effect of both gut directed
      hypnosis (GDH) and probiotics. To our knowledge, there are no studies that investigated both
      types of intervention in comparison to a control group intervention. This study aims to fill
      this gap.

      In a prospective randomized study the investigators aim to obtain preliminary results about
      the impact of gut-directed hypnotherapy (GDH) modified for self-practicing and probiotic
      nutritional supplement (NS) on symptoms in children with pain-related FGIDs (IBS and FAP).
      This is going to be measured by the mean of number of days the children experience no
      abdominal pain or discomfort. Beside that the investigators plan to obtain data on abdominal
      pain intensity and duration and about the effects of above mentioned interventions on
      children's health-related quality of life (KINDL-R), pain-related disability (P-PDI), their
      coping abilities (PPCI) and behavioural and emotional problems (CBCL). The information
      obtained from children as well as from parental perspective will allow more extensive models
      on mechanisms of change.

      Beyond psychometric instruments some well-established psychophysiological methods will be
      used. Assessment of the heart rate variability under mental stress conditions (Parametric
      Go/No-Go test) and measuring of cortisol awakening response (CAR) are used to study the
      function of autonomic nerve system and stress-level/tolerance of the study population.

      The investigators hypothesize:

        1. a significant decrease in number of days with pain/discomfort in both intervention
           groups (GDH, NS) as compared to the control group (active waiting-list control group)

        2. that both types of intervention lead to an increase of quality of life and decrease of
           pain duration, intensity and pain-related disability as compared to the control group.

        3. a decrease of physiological stress parameters (as measured by heart rate variability
           [HRV] analysis, cortisol awakening response [CAR]) in both intervention groups as
           compared to the control group, but more prominent in GDH group.

      The data of this pilot study will be used for further projects where the most promising
      intervention and research parameters will be investigated more detailed in a larger sample.

      Current study is regarded as a pilot and is conducted in order to obtain information about
      the efficacy of GDH and probiotic intervention in children with IBS or FAP as compared to
      reference group. Based on our previous studies and data of literature the investigators
      expect to see moderate effect power of the primary outcome measure (η²~.06). In order to
      detect a 50% improvement of symptoms during 4 week treatment with 80% power, assuming α=.05
      and using a 2 x 3 repeated measure design for the main analysis, 51 participants should be
      included in the study. Taking into account possible dropouts the investigators plan to
      recruit 60 children (20 children per group).

      Short description of study protocol: Parents that are interested in the study after a first
      contact with the investigators will receive detailed informations about the study and a short
      anamnestic questionnaire. After returning it they will be invited together with their
      children for the diagnostic appointment ("Visit I"). Inclusion into the study will be made
      based on the results of anamnestic interview as well as based on the reports from the
      responsible gastroenterologist regarding exclusion of other possible reason for the symptoms
      (including organic disorder, e.g. Celiac disease). Participants and their parents will also
      receive all necessary information about goals of the study and methods used in the study as
      well as about possible health risks from applied interventions. Informed consent is to be
      signed prior inclusion in the study. After inclusion, children and parents will be asked not
      to change any currently used medications or to undertake another treatment, as well as not to
      change usual habits until the end of the follow-up period.

      Participants will be filling in diaries that will question about their symptoms once a day.

      During the first two weeks ("run-in period") participants will only be keeping their symptom
      diaries. This data will be used in later analysis as "baseline" data for comparison with any
      changes that will occur due to intervention. The week three and four are regarded as
      "wash-out period": participants will be instructed to stop answering questions in diaries.
      The investigators hypothesize that this will reduce the effect of self-monitoring when the
      treatment starts.

      At the end of week four, children will be randomized into one of three groups: based on
      computer generated table of random numbers each participant will be allocated either to a
      group practicing a gut-directed hypnosis or receiving a probiotic for the next four weeks
      (SymbioLact B) or reference group (only symptom diaries). Participants are randomized with an
      aspect ratio 1:1:1. Children will continue to keep the symptom diaries for another two weeks
      (week 9 and 10) and will return them to the investigators during "Visit II" at the end of
      10th week.

      Visits I and II will also be used to collect psychometric data from children and their
      parents as well as psychophysiological measures (HRV). Saliva samples should be collected at
      home: participants will be provided with appropriate collection tubes as well as with
      detailed instructions on how to collect, store and deliver samples to the investigation site.
      Baseline saliva samples should be collected inside the first week and during week 10 (in a
      morning before Visit II).

      For ethical reasons, a second intervention can be chosen freely by the family after the
      follow-up period.

      Risks of the study: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials about
      the effects of probiotic in children with pain-related FGID as well as RCTs report seldom or
      no adverse effects from probiotics. If appeared - most often in a form of gastroenteritis and
      vomiting - the adverse effects were comparable to those in a placebo group. Based on previous
      studies of our group we expect no adverse events from gut directed hypnosis. All adverse
      events in any group will be documented and reported.
    
  