
    
      Introduction Sitting balance may be affected by stroke, resulting in functional impairment
      and reduced mobility. Early return of sitting balance predicts greater return of motor
      function and mobility after stroke. Task-specific therapy is effective but patients must be
      motivated to perform the exercises repeatedly for the greatest benefit.

      Virtual reality training (VRT) allows patients to do exercises while interacting with a video
      game interface. It is enjoyable and may encourage repetition of therapeutic exercises. Past
      work in our laboratory showed that standing balance exercises performed with VRT produced
      additional improvements in gait speed and leg function over traditional inpatient
      rehabilitation (1). Because of legislative change in Ontario most stroke rehabilitation
      inpatients today cannot stand independently. There have been no studies on the effect of VRT
      on sitting balance.

      Purpose To assess whether additional sitting balance exercises performed via VRT can improve
      sitting balance and sitting function (ex. reaching) in stroke rehabilitation inpatients.

      Hypothesis The addition of VRT for sitting balance will significantly improve sitting balance
      and function, beyond the gains realized from traditional inpatient rehabilitation.

      Experimental Approach In this blinded randomized control trial funded by the Heart & Stroke
      Foundation, 76 participants with stroke will be recruited from an inpatient rehabilitation
      unit. This number will provide enough power to detect a large effect size (0.83) with the
      primary outcome measure and accounting for a 20% drop-out rate. Individuals who are medically
      stable and who can sit for at least 20 minutes with or without trunk support but cannot stand
      independently for more than one minute will be eligible. These criteria will target our
      selection to those who need to work most on sitting balance. Participants will be randomized
      into experimental and control groups.

      Participants in both groups will perform VRT for 30-50 minutes daily for 10-12 sessions, in
      addition to their rehabilitation program. VRT will be delivered with Jintronix software and
      motion capture technology. Exercises for the experimental group will challenge sitting
      balance control, reaching and shifting the base of support. Control group exercises will
      require limited hand and arm movements, to equalize the additional time spent in an engaging
      activity without working on trunk balance. Control group participants will be strapped into
      their chair to minimize trunk movement. A CONFORMat pressure mat will be used to monitor
      centre of pressure changes during the intervention.

      Outcome measures will be performed pre-, post- and 1 month post-intervention, by an assessor
      blinded to group allocation. The primary outcome measure will be the Function in Sitting
      Test. Secondary outcome measures will be: Ottawa Sitting Scale, Reaching Performance Scale,
      Wolf Motor Function Test and quantitative measures of postural control performed in sitting.
      Two-way analyses of variance [factors: time (pre-, post-, 1 month post-)and
      group(experimental, control)] and Tukey's post-hoc analyses will be used to test the effect
      of VRT on the outcome measures.

      Significance and Knowledge Translation If we show that the addition of sitting balance
      exercises via VRT to traditional rehabilitation improves sitting balance and function, VRT
      may be added to inpatients' rehabilitation therapy. The ultimate goal is to improve the
      quality of patients' lives and decrease the burden on their caregivers. Since the Jintronix
      system is portable, we hope to acquire funding for several units. We would then be able to
      assess the use of VRT by therapists for inpatients and outpatients with stroke.

      (1) McEwen D et al. Stroke 2014;45:1853-1855
    
  