
    
      This study plans to enroll 2600 patients, 1300 patients in each group, in the project
      participating hospitals who received coronary stenting and are expected to undergo DAPT ≥6
      months after operation. Hp13C-urea breath test and serum Hp antibody scores Type detection,
      patients with positive Hp infection.

      Antiplatelet drugs (DAPT) use aspirin 100 mg qd, plus clopidogrel 75 mg qd or aspirin 100mg
      qd plus ticagrelor 90 mg bid. The specific medication is evaluated and decided by the
      interventional doctor.

      After the subjects in each center signed a written informed consent form, they randomly
      divided each test case into a test group or a control group at a 1:1 ratio:

        1. Test group:

           In the project participating hospitals who received coronary stenting and are expected
           to undergo DAPT ≥6 months after operation. Hp13C-urea breath test and serum Hp antibody
           scores Type detection, patients with positive Hp infection. Antiplatelet drugs (DAPT)
           use aspirin 100 mg qd, plus clopidogrel 75 mg qd or aspirin 100 mg qd, plus ticagrelor
           90 mg bid. The specific medication is evaluated and decided by the interventional
           doctor.

           H. pylori eradication using a dual eradication regimen, a course of 14 days, followed up
           to 6 months after randomization; the treatment regimen is as follows: routine use of
           Vonoprazan 20mg bid + amoxicillin 1g tid, a duration of 14 days(Considering the high
           drug resistance rate of Hp strains in China, we increase the course of eradication
           treatment to 14 days) .

           i. Introduce the subject to the possible adverse reactions to the dual eradication at
           the informed stage, and inform the subject that when the adverse reaction occurs, the
           researcher should be contacted as soon as possible to deal with it as soon as possible
           to reduce unnecessary shedding. For patients who are unable to tolerate the combination
           therapy and fall off, record the reason for the incomplete treatment and the
           corresponding time point, and continue the safety visit.

           ii. More than 1 month after completion of the dual eradication (scheduled at the 12th
           week of follow-up, visit 3), use the 13C-urea breath test to retest Hp infection. For
           subjects who failed H. pylori eradication, in the Department of Gastroenterology
           Remedial treatment under the guidance of a doctor.

        2. Control group:

      In the project participating hospitals who received coronary stenting and are expected to
      undergo DAPT ≥ 6 months after operation. Hp13C-urea breath test and serum Hp antibody scores
      Type detection, patients with positive Hp infection. Antiplatelet drugs (DAPT) use aspirin
      100 mg qd, plus clopidogrel 75 mg qd or aspirin 100 mg qd plus ticagrelor 90 mg bid. The
      specific medication is evaluated and decided by the interventional doctor. Taking
      pantoprazole 40 mg daily, followed up to 6 months after randomization.
    
  