
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is clinically diagnosed based on memory and cognitive deterioration,
      and the loss of other functional abilities. Nevertheless, for the caregivers and the patients
      themselves, the psychological and behavioral symptoms of dementia (PBSD) are specially
      relevant aspects.

      These PBSD are a source of stress for the caregiver. PBSD treatment starts with
      non-pharmacological treatment, but if the symptomatology is moderate to severe, then
      pharmacological treatments are indicated on top of the non-pharmacological ones. The symptoms
      that better respond to non-pharmacological interventions are depression and mild apathy,
      wanderings and repetitive behaviors.

      Once dementia progresses, the ability to interact at cognitive and emotional levels are
      reduced, and then, alternative approaches are needed. In this circumstance, it has been
      postulated that the caregivers should not try to bring -patients with AD back to the
      objective reality, but that they should rather empathize with them and establish an emotional
      connection. This is a complex process, and requires intervention tools that favor this
      connection and improve the subjective welfare of the caregivers of persons with dementia.

      The current study is based on a previous experience in implementing the Montessori method at
      SARquavitae nursing homes and daycare centers. The "therapeutic game" called CONEM-BETA
      contains a subset of these activities that have been adapted from the original texts from the
      Myers Research Institute. We aim to prove that CONEM-BETA may have also socio-emotional
      benefits for the caregivers when they systematically use them at home with their AD
      relatives. These potential benefits will be assessed by using validated questionnaires that
      measure changes in subjective welfare, anxiety and depression, coping strategy, overload
      level and perceived social support.
    
  