
    
      FM is a chronic pain condition that has no cure, and drugs are only partially successful in
      managing its symptoms. Many people with FM utilize nondrug management methods, such as
      exercise, for symptom relief. Nondrug methods can be quite effective, but some patients find
      it difficult to use these methods consistently. This study will determine which nondrug
      methods relieve FM symptoms by examining patients' brains after exercise or relaxation
      techniques. Preliminary data indicate that beliefs about one's personal ability to control
      pain result in use of differential neural mechanisms to process pain. This study will use
      fMRI, a tool for visualizing pain-processing patterns, to gain insights into how exercise and
      relaxation techniques modify pain processing in patients with FM.

      There are four arms in this study. All participants with FM will be randomly assigned to one
      of three study arms. Participants in Arm 1 will receive relaxation training to supplement
      standard care for FM. Arm 2 participants will be prescribed an exercise regimen to supplement
      standard care. Participants in Arm 3 will receive standard care only. Arm 4 is a healthy
      control group, which will be followed during the 8-week intervention period.

      At baseline, all participants will undergo blood collection and physical examination and will
      complete questionnaires about demographics, treatment history, symptoms, functional status,
      affective status, and beliefs about pain. They will also undergo a baseline fMRI imaging
      study, combined with evoked pressure pain testing, to evaluate differences in neural
      mechanisms involved in pain processing. Patients in Arms 1 and 2 will then attend one
      face-to-face training session with a therapist, followed by phone contact over the next 8
      weeks. Participants will be asked to record pain and adherence to treatment on an electronic
      diary. After 8 weeks, all study participants will undergo a second fMRI scan, blood
      collection, and physical examination, and will complete questionnaires similar to those
      completed at baseline.
    
  