
    
      Suicide is a national public health crisis and a critical patient safety issue. Suicide is
      the 10th leading cause of death overall and, shockingly, the 2nd leading cause of death in
      adolescents and young adults (15-34 years old). 1 A recent U.S. study of suicide reported
      that 45% of individuals who died by suicide had contact with primary care services within one
      month before their death. 2 Another study found that 80% of youth who died by suicide saw
      their primary care provider within the year of their death. 3 Patient safety is compromised
      when primary care providers lack the knowledge and skills to assess and respond to patients
      at risk for suicide.

      This randomized control study responds to the need for effective suicide prevention
      education/training that is grounded in adult learning theory and advances in education, in
      the context of a changing health care landscape where primary care providers are likely to
      encounter suicidal individuals. 4 We will test the effectiveness of suicide prevention
      education for providers-in-training by comparing two conditions: 1) A Control learning group:
      includes suicide prevention didactics (Commitment to Living: Primary Care) delivered online
      via brief videos, and 2) An Experimental learning group: includes didactics plus two
      standardized patient (SP) interactions. One Experimental learning group SP interaction will
      be in person and the other will be conducted remotely using a secure webcam service (OoVoo).
      All SP interactions will be recorded. Both groups will be compared in terms of their suicide
      prevention skills using an SP 'test case' at 6-month follow up. The primary research question
      is to learn about the impact of practice (though SP simulation) over and above didactics
      alone. The hypotheses are as follows:

      H1: All subjects will demonstrate improved suicide prevention knowledge from pre to post
      didactics and maintain improvement 6 months after didactics.

      H2: Subjects in the experimental learning group will report greater satisfaction with the
      training, greater self-efficacy in identifying and responding to patients at risk for
      suicide, greater intention to use, as well as use of suicide prevention skills.

      H3: Subjects in the experimental learning group will also be more skillful in responding to
      patients at risk for suicide (in an SP interview, measured by objective observed ratings)
      compared to the control learning group 6 months after didactics.

      Exploratory Aims: We will examine moderators of outcomes, differences among SP simulations
      (i.e., face-to-face vs. telehealth modalities), and if there is growth in improved skills
      observed over multiple SP experiences in the experimental learning group.
    
  