
    
      Methods Patients with positive LQTS diagnosis and their family members reviewed in
      collaborating Canadian Inherited Arrhythmia Clinics will be invited to participate in the
      registry.

      Optional bio bank donation will be offered. Consenting participants will have blood work
      drawn in their local outpatient laboratory.

      Bio banking at other collaborating centres will be done only at centres that have their own
      bio banking facility at the site investigator's discretion. There will be no central bio
      banking on a national basis at this time for this project.

      Optional Post Mortem Consent:

      The next of kin (NOK) may provide consent to include the healthcare information of the
      deceased family member into the data registry. The NOK may also consent to the storage of any
      post mortem tissue not required for clinical testing to be stored in the bio bank for future
      research.

      Data Collected Clinical data will be collected from willing/consented registry participants.
      Their healthcare information will be coded in compliance with Tri Council Policy Statement
      criteria: direct identifiers will be removed and replaced with a unique study code that does
      not use personal information such as the participant's birth day (month and year will be
      included), health number, social insurance number or name/initials. The coded data will be
      transferred into the research database.

      The master list of registry participants with their study identifiers will be kept separately
      from the research database. This master list will be stored in an encrypted file within the
      research office of each site investigators under their supervision. Only the site
      investigators and their local research staff will have access to this list. The inherited
      nature of these conditions makes the master list an important and very sensitive document. It
      will be very important that this list is maintained so that participants may be contacted and
      informed of any new findings the research may reveal that may affect themselves and their
      family members.

      All medical information pertaining to the cardiac history of inherited arrhythmia patients
      will be collected. This may include:

        -  Clinical information

        -  All diagnostic test results

        -  Genetic screening results

        -  Pedigree

        -  Medications

        -  Treatments

        -  Ethnicity

      Participants will continue to have their data collected for the research database throughout
      the entirety of the study. Participants will be able to decline further participation in the
      registry at any time. The Research Steering Committee will review the data registry annually
      to assess the integrity of the data and the usefulness of continued data collection. They
      will also review related research projects that the data may be useful for.

      The registry will not contain stored images graphics, test results or reports that would
      permit identification of individual subjects. The registry may contain procedural images but
      these will be coded per TCPS criteria as previously described for the participants' data and
      biological samples.

      Follow-up: Patients will be followed based on severity of presentation (previous cardiac
      arrest or arrhythmic syncope, or family cascade screening). Vital status(cadiac events) will
      be determined in person or by telephone annually in all patients enrolled. As per standard
      care, participants with previous cardiac arrest or arrhythmic syncope on beta-blockers will
      be followed in person every 12 months (Group 1), and asymptomatic patients, those free of
      syncope on beta blocker, or gene negative unaffected family members (Group 2) every 2 years
      (or at the discretion of the site investigator). An annual resting ECG is possible for all
      participants, and exercise testing will be repeated every 2 years in Group 1, and every 3-4
      years in Group 2 based on the clinical practice of the enrolling centre.

      Research Database The database will be hosted on the University of British Columbia Research
      Server. This research institute is in compliance with National Canadian/Provincial PIPEDA
      privacy guidelines. Data will be entered directly into the e-CRFs for electronic submission
      to a password protected internet-based server located at the University of British Columbia
      Research DNS: cio.ciahealth.org IP Address: 142.103.184.100 Server: UBCIT Virtual Server
      Location: UBC University Data Center (UDC) Pharmaceutical Sciences Building 2405 Wesbrook
      Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T1Z3 Institute, housed on the Kelowna BC campus and will not collect
      any personal identifiers.

      Individual subject medical information obtained as a result of this registry is considered
      confidential and disclosure to third parties is prohibited except for the following reason:
      relevant medical information may be given to the subject's personal physician or to other
      appropriate medical personnel responsible for the participant's welfare.

      Bio Bank Biological samples will be coded in compliance with Tri Council Policy Statement
      criteria: direct identifiers will be removed and replaced with a unique study code that does
      not use personal information such as the participant's birth date, health number, social
      insurance number or name/initials. The coded biological samples will be stored in the James
      Hogg Research Centre at St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia. The coded samples
      will be linked to the master list kept securely in the research office of the collaborating
      site investigators. Only site investigators and their local research staff will have access
      to the master list.

      Blood Samples drawn:

      1 X 9 ml EDTA

      Samples for bio banking will be stored long-term in the James Hogg Research Centre (JHRC) Bio
      Bank at St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver for future research. Specimens will be stored in -20
      and -80 degree freezers located in a secure area within the JHRC. The freezers are in a
      dedicated, electronically monitored room managed by JHRC. Inventory management will include
      retrieving samples, reporting inventory and sample history, and tracking samples with
      FreezerWorks Unlimited software.

      Post mortem samples not required for clinical purposes may be stored in the Bio Bank for
      future research. In these cases, the sample will be used for research only if the NOK is in
      agreement to the use of the sample. The investigators will be responsible for notifying the
      NOK if the sample is to be relocated and for what purpose this is proposed. Written
      documentation of the notification and consent to proceed from NOK will be required. The NOK
      will be responsible for keeping the enrolling centre up to date with their contact
      information so that contact for future use of the sample is feasible. The investigators will
      be diligent in their attempt to notify the NOK but this may not be feasible in all cases.

      Database/bio bank access and Oversight Dr. Andrew Krahn will have ultimate responsibility for
      the database/bio bank. Investigators wishing to access and use certain data/specimens from
      the registry/bio bank will submit requests to Dr. Krahn and the Steering Committee for review
      and approval. Institutional ethics review and approval will be required for new projects.
      Projects other than retrospective data review will need to seek informed consent from the
      participant before the data can be extracted from the database.

      The National Long QT Syndrome Registry and Bio bank Research Steering Committee The Steering
      Committee (SC) will be responsible for the design, execution, analysis, and reporting of the
      study, and will assign appropriate responsibilities to the other study committees. The SC
      will monitor study progress, execution and management. The SC will be comprised of the
      Principal Investigator (Chair), who will be the Data/Bio Specimen Steward, and all co
      applicants. The team is composed of adult electrophysiologists (EPs) that oversee inherited
      arrhythmia clinics (Drs. Martin Gardner, Hank Duff, Jeff Healey, Jason Roberts, Andrew Krahn,
      Zach Laksman, Collette Seifer, Mario Talajic, Rafik Tadros, Paul Angaran, Christian
      Steinberg, Martin Green, Richard Leather, Shane Kimber), and 4 counterpart pediatric EPs
      (Robert Hamilton, Shubhayan Sanatani, Joseph Atallah, Anne Fournier). The SC will generate an
      annual report outlining the study's contributions to the scientific community and usefulness
      of the data . A formal Data and Safety Monitoring Committee will not be created because this
      is a registry without planned therapeutic comparative studies.

      Requests for future use and sharing of the data/specimens will be evaluated according to the
      following criteria:

        -  The objectives and hypothesis of the proposed research in relation to established and
           emerging basic and clinical science

        -  The proposed research's scientific, clinical and medical importance and translational
           potential

        -  Commitment to provide a publication or presentation copy of the primary research data to
           supplement or complement the registry information

        -  The proposed test's or research's unique nature and the importance of its validation in
           LQTS

        -  The proposed research's duration, demographics, patient population, health economic
           situation, and probability of success

        -  Whether the potential benefits and application are local or international in scope

        -  The quantity of study data required and the commitment to reimburse the full cost
           associated with delivery of study data

        -  The contribution that the applicant has made to the registry

      Data/Specimen Sharing In addition to the research carried out by the Study Team, some
      data/specimens may be shared with researchers at other universities; only aggregate coded
      data would be released for these purposes. These data/specimens may be used by a variety of
      sources. Prior to data/specimen release, the SC will review written request for access. It is
      anticipated that there may be requests to pool de-identified data/specimens with
      data/specimens from other Canadian or international registries/banks in order to answer
      investigator initiated questions about patient selection, rare events, and long term
      outcomes.

      Statistical Analysis At this phase there is no planned statistical analysis. Descriptive
      analysis will be performed on the entire cohort, and standard statistical approaches will be
      used. The current REB application is focused on the permission to prospectively collect
      data/specimens from the participants and to store it in a coded repository.

      Ethical Considerations Participants in this project will be aware that they may not hear any
      individual results about their own (or deceased NOK's) research data or bio specimen.
      However, it is possible that there may be future research findings that the investigators may
      be obliged to inform the individual participants about. These would include findings
      affecting the heart health of the participant and/or their first-degree family members.
      Participants will be aware that they may be contacted in the future if there are findings
      that may affect their heart health care.

      Future Research This national approach to case finding and management represents a step
      towards a population-based approach to studying a "rare" disease (1:2500). The knowledge
      translation strategy aims to enhance public and health care professional awareness of warning
      signs, deliver structured histories to assess risk, and improve ECG interpretation skills.
      This will be imperative to begin a health system approach to recognition of LQTS.
    
  