
    
      Pancreatic cancer represents the fifth cause of death by cancer in Western countries. In over
      90% of cases, it is due to an adenocarcinoma. The only curative treatment for pancreatic
      cancer remains the surgical exeresis. This one can only be suggested as a curative treatment
      in only 10 to 15% of cases. Besides, prevention or screening is impossible due to the absence
      of clearly identified risk factors or groups and to the absence of useful markers for the
      diagnosis in clinical practice.

      The research efforts in this area must face a double challenge: saving time while improving
      the diagnosis period and strengthen the therapeutic equipment. It is important to identify
      and characterise the new molecular markers applicable for a better diagnosis and/or treatment
      (especially the response factors to chemotherapy). The present project aims at creating a
      multicentre national network used to set up a clinical biological base (CBB) dedicated to the
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma, built on the best quality standards, for the biological resources
      as well as the associated clinical and epidemiological data.

      The originality of this CBB relies on the fact that it will have not only tumour tissues
      sampled from surgical specimens of resectable tumours but also cell and biopsy material from
      unresectable and/or metastatic tumours sampled under endoscopic ultrasonography (1500
      biopsies over 3 years coupled to systematic blood samples). Endoscopic ultrasonography is a
      technique used to specifically perform biopsies on pancreatic tumours and to obtain useful
      cell material for research. To these samples will be associated every clinical and
      epidemiological target data required for research projects related to this unique CBB in
      France. From these samples, DNA and RNA will be especially isolated, as it is a precious
      biological material for the programmed molecular analyses.

      There are many stakes: creating a French network in order to form, with the prospective plans
      over 3 years, a collection of tissue, biopsies, nucleic acids from pancreatic cancer
      associated to circulating blood samples and relevant clinical data. Thanks to this
      collection, the investigator team hope to be able to identify new molecular markers (from
      cancer tissue and/or circulating blood from pancreatic cancer patients) applicable to
      clinical practice to diagnose, to assess the prognosis or to predict the response to
      pancreatic cancer chemotherapy. The investigator team will also try to identify new risk
      factors for this cancer, especially regarding the diet. The base will thus be made up from 12
      different French centres from University Hospital and private Centres where
      gastroenterologists, oncologists, digestive surgeons, anatomopathologists, epidemiologists
      intervene as they are all associated to scientific teams dedicated to pancreatic cancer,
      itself already formed in collaborative networks.

      Investigators hope through this project: to get a unique and exceptional CBB for pancreatic
      cancer, to reach the required standards (especially Inca) for this CBB, and to be
      internationally recognised. This base will be a strong guarantee to identify new molecular
      markers for the diagnosis, the prognosis, and the predictive response to chemotherapy for
      pancreatic cancer, especially when locally advanced. Finally, the epidemiological projects
      related to this project are originally about the nutritional issues (regardless of the lipid
      diet and the cachexia) associated to pancreatic cancer.
    
  