
    
      This is a phase II, single arm study to investigate the safety and efficacy of
      pembrolizumab-activated autologous D-CIK cells (CIK:Cytokine-induced killer, D-CIK:CIK cells
      are stimulated using mature dendritic cells) with Axitinib in patients with advanced kidney
      cancer.

      Heparinized peripheral blood was obtained from participants over a 1-week period.
      PBMCs(Peripheral blood mononuclear cells) were separated by Ficoll-Hypaque gradient
      centrifugation, suspended in X-VIVO 15 serum-free medium, and culture with 1000 U/ml
      rhIFN-γfor the first 24 h, followed by stimulation with 100 ng/ml OKT-3 , 1000 U/ml rhIL-2
      and 100 U/ml IL-1α to activate the CIK.Dendritic cells were incubated with CIK. Fresh medium
      containing 1000 U/ml rhIL-2 was added every 2 days and the cell density was maintained at
      2×10^6 cells/mL.D-CIK were harvested, washed, and resuspended after culture for 14 days.
      Before cell transfer,D-CIK were incubated with anti-PD-1 antibody(Pembrolizumab (Merck & Co.,
      Inc.) is a humanized IgG4 anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody that binds to PD-1 to prevent it from
      engaging with PD-L1 or PD-L2.), and a fraction of the D-CIK were collected to assess their
      number, phenotype, and viability of cells, and to test for possible contamination by
      bacteria, fungi, or endotoxins. Then, autologous D-CIK (1.0-1.5*10^10 cells) were transferred
      to patients via intravenous infusion.

      The present study was designed with Simon's best two stage study to explore the efficacy and
      safety of low-dose pembrolizumab in the treatment of patients with advanced renal cancer by
      D-CIK re-transfusion combined with Axitinib in vitro. The expected effective rate of the
      combined treatment is set at 60%, and if the effective rate is less than 30%, the effective
      rate of the combined treatment is considered to be at an undesirable level. The best
      two-stage design is 3/8, 10/24. In the first stage, 8 patients need to be treated. If the
      number of effective cases is less than 3, the combined treatment is deemed ineffective and
      the trial needs to be terminated. If the number of effective cases is more than 3, the phase
      II trial will be continued, and a total of 24 subjects need to be included.
    
  