
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the 12-year survival of patients with clinical stage I-IIA Hodgkin's
      disease treated with radiotherapy with or without doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and
      dacarbazine (ABVD) versus ABVD only. II. Compare the freedom from progression at 5 and 10
      years in patients treated with these regimens. III. Compare the complete remission rate,
      freedom from secondary disease progression at 5 and 10 years, and cause-specific survival at
      5, 10, and 15 years in patients treated with these regimens. IV. Compare the short- and
      long-term toxicity of these regimens in these patients. V. Compare the quality of life of
      patients in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by center. Patients
      who are under age 40 and have lymphocyte-predominant or nodular sclerosing histology, an
      erythrocyte sedimentation rate less than 50, and fewer than 4 disease sites
      (supradiaphragmatic or pelvic node sites) are assigned to cohort 1 (good prognosis). All
      other patients are assigned to cohort 2 (poor prognosis). Cohort 1: Arm I: Patients with
      supradiaphragmatic disease undergo radiotherapy to the supradiaphragmatic lymph node areas
      (mantle region), spleen, and para-aortic lymph nodes 5 days a week for 4 weeks. Patients with
      pelvic disease undergo radiotherapy to an "inverted-Y" field (excluding the spleen) 5 days a
      week for 4 weeks. Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and
      dacarbazine IV on days 1 and 15 (ABVD). Treatment continues every 4 weeks for a total of 2
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      complete remission (CR) after course 2 receive 2 additional courses past CR. Patients with
      partial remission (PR) after course 2 receive 4 additional courses past PR. Patients with
      unconfirmed/uncertain complete remission (CRu) receive 2-4 additional courses past CRu.
      Cohort 2: Arm III: Patients receive ABVD as in arm II, followed 4-6 weeks later by concurrent
      radiotherapy to the mantle region and upper abdomen to the level of L2 5 days a week for 4
      weeks. Alternatively, radiotherapy may also be administered sequentially to the mantle region
      5 days a week for 4 weeks and then to the upper abdomen to the level of L2 5 days a week for
      4 weeks. Arm IV: Patients receive ABVD only as in arm II. Patients with disease progression
      after treatment in arms II or IV are considered for radiotherapy. Quality of life is assessed
      on day 1 of each course of chemotherapy (arms II-IV) and on day 28 of the last course of
      chemotherapy (arms II and IV); on the first and final days of radiotherapy (arms I and III);
      at 4 weeks and at 3, 6, and 12 months after completion of radiotherapy (arms I and III) or
      chemotherapy (arms II and IV); and then annually for 2-10 years. Patients are followed at
      months 3, 6, and 12 and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 450 patients will be accrued for this study within 7.5 years.
    
  