
    
      At the screening visit, investigators will perform a full history-taking, mental status
      examination, physical and neurological examinations, the ADI-R with a caregiver or parent to
      confirm autism, an EKG and complete rating scales, as well as a pregnancy test (beta-HCG) in
      sexually active females of childbearing age. Sexually active females of childbearing age must
      be on a form of birth control during the study, such as the oral contraceptive pill,
      intrauterine device or Depo Provera shot. A parent or guardian will sign informed consent, as
      appropriate, and written assent will be obtained from subjects. Blood tests for CBC and diff,
      CMP, amitriptyline level and brain derived neurotrophic factor will be obtained at at
      baseline (except for amitriptyline) week 6 and 12. An eye-tracking test will be done at
      baseline and weeks 12.

      Subjects will be randomized to amitriptyline (AMI) or placebo. Parents and guardians will be
      instructed to lock up all medications, warned regarding overdose toxicity and this will be
      documented in writing. Treatment will be low dose AMI or placebo for 12 weeks. Study visits
      will occur at weeks 0,1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8,10, and 12.

      Investigators will complete a Clinical Global Impressions scale (CGI), and have the
      accompanying adult or parent complete rating scales, at each visit, notably the Child Yale
      Brown Obsessive Compulsive scale modified for Pervasive Developmental Disorder (CYBOCS-PDD),
      Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Irritability subscale (ABC-I), Repetitive Behavior Scale-Revised
      (RBS-R), ADHD-RS, adverse events form, ADI-R item 11 for phrase speech, and a concomitant
      treatment review form, which will also detail for example any over-the-counter medications,
      supplements or antibiotics taken. Also a gastrointestinal symptom form based on that used by
      Valicenti-McDermott et al. 2008.

      At all interim visits, the PI will perform a follow-up history taking, mental status
      examination, vital signs, rating scales as above and study drug dispensing. Any unused
      capsules must be returned at each visit, to monitor compliance as well as to prevent
      accidental overdose. Parents and caregivers will agree to lock medication up, and will be
      reminded of overdose toxicity at each study visit, with written documentation.

      Flexible dosing, arranged by calling the pharmacy to randomize the subject and then dispense
      and mail study capsules, according to the psychiatrist's instructions at each visit, to a
      maximum dose of 100mg/day or 1.5mg/kg/day maximum by subject weight.

      Individuals and their parents or guardians will be questioned about suicidal ideation at each
      visit, and instructed to call study staff if that should arise. At that time the PI will
      arrange an urgent visit to closely assess risks of remaining in the study. In our experience
      suicidal ideation has not occurred. Subjects may drop out at any time however, and in the
      unlikely case, if warranted, be admitted to hospital for close observation.

      The study will be double- blind and placebo-controlled. All investigators except a child
      psychiatrist co-investigator will be blinded, as will caregivers, families and subjects.
    
  