
    
      Both examinations will be performed ideally on the same day or a maximum of 7 days apart. The
      order of the two tests will be directed according to scan appointment availability. The WSCE
      will take place at St Marks Hospital London. Due to the MRI capacity at LNWH trust the
      MRI-Enema will take place at Number 9 Harley Street, London. A service level agreement will
      be in place for the scans to occur, and St Marks Seedcorn funding has already been awarded to
      fund the MRI scans. The patients will be asked to fill in a survey to assess their experience
      immediately after each test in each location.

      MRI-Enema:

      A 16Fr Foley catheter is introduced per-anus with the patient in a left lateral decubitus
      position on the MRI scanner table. If the anastomosis was low (within 5 cm of anorectal
      junction) the catheter will be taped to the skin to maintain its position. In the event of a
      mid-rectal or upper rectal anastomosis (>5 cm from anorectal junction), the catheter balloon
      may be filled with 2-5mls of water and withdrawn to a location at the top of the anal
      sphincter complex. In both instances, after catheter insertion the patient is then
      re-positioned to a supine body position.

      The MRI protocol used is detailed below. In summary, T2 and T1 (with fat suppression)
      sequences are obtained prior to filling the lumen with contrast to assess the presence of any
      pre-sacral and peri-anastomotic fluid, to identify the presence of haematoma and to ensure
      the catheter is appropriately sited with the catheter tip above the anal canal and close to
      the anastomosis, ideally within 3cm.

      The enema comprises a mixture of normal saline (400mls) and contrast agent (Gadovist, 4mls)
      to produce a 1% contrast solution which part fills a standard contrast enema bag and delivery
      system. The bag is attached to a fixed hook located 100cm above the scanner table height,
      such that fluid will deliver from the bag via the catheter according to gravity.

      Dynamic MRI sequences are then performed with the delivery tube open to maximise flow of
      contrast into the residual rectum/neo-rectum or ileo-anal pouch.

      Following the dynamic sequences, further axial and coronal images are acquired in order to
      identify the presence of leaked fluid within the pelvis.

      After all images have been acquired, the enema bag is then placed on the floor to allow
      drainage of enema solution back into bag prior to removal of catheter.

      MRI Protocol:

      Pre Enema T2 sagittal Pre Enema T2 sagittal Fat-sat Pre Enema T2 axial SFOV Pre Enema T1
      axial Filling Phase Dynamic sagittal Post Enema 3D volumetric T1 sagittal SFOV Post Enema T2
      axial fat sat Post Enema T2 coronal fat sat

      WSCE:

      The WSCE is undertaken according to standard practice. As with the MRI, a 16Fr Foley catheter
      is introduced per anus with the patient in the left lateral decubitus position. Having
      affixed the catheter in place according to the height of the anastomosis above the anorectal
      junction as described above, water-soluble contrast (Gastrografin) is introduced via an enema
      delivery bag system as described above.

      Radiographic images are then acquired with the patient in the supine and lateral decubitus
      positions as required in order to delineate the anastomosis and any related leak of contrast.
      The bag is then placed on the floor to allow drainage of fluid and the catheter removed.

      Patients will be asked to complete a questionnaire immediately following both examinations.
      Questions will be targeted to evaluate anxiety, comfort, embarrassment and confidence in the
      test's outcome.

      Reference standard = Consensus of both tests (WSCE and MRI-Enema) with agreement between two
      radiologists and in agreement with referring consultant /clinical assessment including
      findings at clinical examination where applicable.
    
  