
    
      Background: Elevated estradiol (E2) levels and multiple folliculogenesis predispose to
      development of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). In patients with GnRH agonist
      protocol, both withdrawing GnRH agonist and GnRH antagonist administration are associated
      with a reduction in (E2) levels with subsequent decreasing the incidence and severity of
      OHSS. This work is to compare the clinical and endocrine outcome response of cycles in which
      GnRH agonist withdrawing with cycles in which the GnRH antagonist administration in patients
      at risk of severe OHSS.

      Purpose: To compare the decreased levels of estradiol (E2), coasting days, severity of OHSS
      and pregnancy outcomes of cycles in which GnRH agonist withdrawing with cycles in which the
      GnRH antagonist administration in patients at risk of severe OHSS.

      Methods: a prospective randomized study was designed to evaluate clinical and endocrine
      outcome in two different coasting protocols. Women (n=120) under controlled ovarian
      hyperstimulation with GnRH agonist protocol at the risk of OHSS (≧20 follicles >12 mm
      development with E2> 4000 pg/ml) randomized into two groups. Group I (n=60), withdrawing GnRH
      agonists and continued low dose r-FSH 75 IU. Group II (n=60), GnRH antagonist administration
      and continued low dose r-FSH 75 IU. When E2< 3000 pg/ml, hCG was given. Oocyte retrieval was
      performed 36 h after hCG administration. The primary outcome measures were the decreased
      levels of estradiol (E2) and the days of coasting. The secondary outcome measures were number
      of oocytes retrieved, pregnancy rate and the incidence of OHSS.

      anticipated results: No significant differences were seen in the levels of estradiol (E2)
      decreased, the days of coasting, number of oocytes, pregnancy rate and the incidence of OHSS.
      GnRH antagonist is not necessary in coasting treatment while stop GnRH agonist.
    
  