
    
      Female subjects with distinctive follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and LH deficiency require
      both FSH and LH. Until now these subjects were treated either with a combination of two
      recombinant preparations (r-hFSH and r-hLH) or else with a menotropin preparation, composed
      of urinary human FSH (u-hFSH) and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) as LH-replacement.

      In Pergoveris™ for the first time both hormones FSH and LH are available as recombinant
      produced hormones in a combination preparation.

      Pergoveris has both hormones i.e. FSH and LH available as recombinant produced hormones in a
      combination preparation in the ratio 2:1. This study is planned to record data for the
      stimulation not only in case of the ovarian stimulation with intercourse for the optimum
      (VZO) but also the intrauterine insemination (IUI) and the ovarian stimulation for the
      assisted reproduction [in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) and intracytoplasmatic sperm injection
      (ICSI)] in subjects with severe FSH and LH deficiency and learn more about this subject group
      and the applied stimulation plan.

      Apart from the demographic data, anamnestic details e.g. reason for the infertility, duration
      of the unfulfilled wish for children, past medical treatment for conception and accompanying
      illnesses will be documented. The duration of the stimulation with Pergoveris as well as the
      dose per day will be recorded from the cycle documentations. Follicle sizes and hormones will
      be documented in accordance with the respectively carried out cycle monitoring. The result of
      the treatment is related to the number of cycles with ovulation stimulation using hCG, the
      number of the cycles with puncture, the number of the cycles with embryo transfer, the number
      and quality of the ova and embryos, on occurred pregnancies and documented abortions.
      Multiple pregnancies and births will also be recorded.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  To find the reason for the diagnosis of the severe LH deficiency such as e.g. low
           endogenous LH, amenorrhea, low endometrial thickness or low estradiol level.
    
  