
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and tolerability of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) in combination with
      dinutuximab in children and young adults with relapsed/refractory (R/R) neuroblastoma (NBL)
      or relapsed osteosarcoma.

      II. Determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) given in
      combination with dinutuximab in children and young adults.

      III. Determine the safety and feasibility of administering Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) in
      combination with dinutuximab to patients that undergo pulmonary resection of metastatic
      osteosarcoma within three weeks of surgery.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) in children and young adults.

      II. Evaluate the event free survival (EFS) in two cohorts of patients who are treated at the
      recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) (measurable relapsed osteosarcoma and patients with pulmonary
      relapse undergoing resection) and compare to historical controls.

      III. Observe and record anti-tumor activity. IV. Evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) of
      patients in the NBL cohorts (measurable R/R NBL and evaluable R/R NBL) and osteosarcoma
      patients (measurable relapsed osteosarcoma) in the expansion cohorts treated at the RP2D.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore biomarkers of response and resistance including genomic (CD47 expression, Fc
      receptor [FcR] polymorphisms, SIRPa polymorphisms, and KiR phenotype) and immunologic
      (dinutuximab HACA, magrolimab ADA, peripheral and bone marrow immune subsets, and circulating
      cytokines).

      II. To explore biomarkers of response in the tumor microenvironment through multiplexed ion
      beam imaging (MIBI) on resected tissue or archival tissues including comparison of pre- and
      post- treatment tumor tissues from patients undergoing staged resection of pulmonary
      osteosarcoma.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose de-escalation study of magrolimab with fixed-dose dinutuximab
      followed by a dose-expansion study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive magrolimab intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1, 8, and 15 of
      cycles 1-2 and days 1 and 15 of subsequent cycles, and dinutuximab IV over 10 hours on days
      2-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive magrolimab IV over 2 hours on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-2 and
      days 1 and 15 of subsequent cycles, and dinutuximab IV over 10 hours on days 2-5. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with pulmonary osteosarcoma may undergo surgical resection of
      tumor after cycle 1. After surgery, these patients continue receiving magrolimab and
      dinutuximab every 21 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, at 2, 4, 6, 9, and
      12 months, and then yearly for 4 years.
    
  