
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival at 6 months in patients with unresectable
           metastatic colorectal cancer treated with first-line therapy comprising bevacizumab and
           irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil (FOLFIRI) vs bevacizumab
           and irinotecan hydrochloride and capecitabine (XELIRI).

      Secondary

        -  Compare the toxicities of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the objective response rate and duration of response in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the tumor control in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center, WHO performance status (0 or 1 vs 2), age (< 65 years vs ≥
      65 years), and number of metastatic sites (1 vs ≥ 2). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes, irinotecan hydrochloride IV
           over 90 minutes, and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV
           continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 12
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may
           then continue to receive bevacizumab alone every 2 weeks in the absence of disease
           progression.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes and irinotecan hydrochloride
           IV over 90 minutes on day 1 and oral capecitabine on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every
           3 weeks for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Patients may then continue to receive bevacizumab alone every 3 weeks in the absence of
           disease progression.

      Quality of life is assessed periodically.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 144 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  