
    
      MDS is a disease that produces low blood counts and may cause anemia, infections, and/or
      bleeding. Erythropoietin and Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF or GCSF) are drugs
      that stimulate the production of red cells and white cells. Prednisone and cyclosporin are
      drugs that work against MDS by affecting your immune system.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete medical history and physical exam. Routine blood tests
      (between 4-6 tablespoons) will be performed. You will have a bone marrow aspiration. To
      collect a bone marrow aspirate, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic
      and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle. Women who are able to
      have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive erythropoietin
      as an injection under the skin once a week and G-CSF as an injection under the skin 1-2 times
      a week for as long as you respond well to treatment. You will take prednisone by mouth every
      day for a month and cyclosporin tablets by mouth every day for 6 months.

      During this study, you will need to visit your doctor for a physical exam and measurement of
      your vital signs. The frequency of doctor visits will vary depending on your physical
      condition, but will be required at least once every 3 months.

      Blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) will be done about every 1-2 weeks during the first 12 weeks
      of treatment, then every 2 to 4 weeks for the remainder of the study. The blood samples will
      be collected for routine lab tests. Periodic (every 3 to 6 months) bone marrow samples will
      also be taken to check cells related to the disease before, during, and after completion of
      this study.

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. All drugs are FDA approved and commercially available. Up
      to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  