
    
      This is a prospective cohort study of lung transplant recipients and those who will undergo
      lung transplantation. Patients will be identified by the pulmonologist performing the
      bronchoscopy. The patient's sera (obtained from a one time blood draw of 10 milliliters - two
      tablespoons) and cell pellet of BAL will be frozen at -70ยบ C. Once the active or non- OB
      status is determined by the pathologist, stored BAL fluid (cell pellet) will be analyzed.
      C.pneumoniae serum titers will also be measured and compared with stored pre-transplant sera.
      Left over cell pellet of the BAL fluid will be used to measure the presence of C. pneumoniae
      by PCR method. Additionally PCR will be performed for other viruses (CMV, EBV, HHV6 & 7,
      human metapneumo virus and human rhino virus). In addition, during the bronchoscopy procedure
      as part of the patient's standard of care, a biopsy is obtained. This is done during the
      bronchoscopy procedure. The tissue is then sent to the pathology lab. We will collect
      residual (excess) tissue samples to perform research related testing. This testing will
      determine if we can predict other types of infections and early onset of rejection. These
      determinations will assist clinicians in administering appropriate dosage levels of
      antibiotics required to prevent or treat infections and help stop the rejection process. The
      subject will be asked a few questions about pulmonary symptoms that will not take more than
      five minutes by one of the investigators or study coordinator. The subject's medical record
      will be reviewed for demographic information (age, sex, and race), lab results (standard to
      post transplant care), medication information, as well as any testing/procedures during the
      transplant follow-up period. This information and results of the tests/procedures will become
      part of the research record.
    
  