
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate 6-month progression-free survival (PFS6) in patients with survivin positive
      newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) treated with at least 4 doses of
      SVN53-67/M57-keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) peptide vaccine (SurVaxM) and standard of care
      temozolomide.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of SurVaxM in patients receiving standard care
      adjuvant temozolomide.

      II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in patients with survivin positive newly diagnosed GBM
      treated with SurVaxM and adjuvant temozolomide.

      III. To describe the immune response in patients treated with SurVaxM and predictors of
      response.

      IV. To evaluate objective tumor response rate (applicable only for patients with evaluable
      disease at study entry, as defined per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology [RANO] criteria)
      and predictors of response.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive the first priming dose of SVN53-67/M57-KLH peptide vaccine in emulsion with
      montanide ISA 51 subcutaneously (SC) and sargramostim SC within 7-28 days after completion of
      chemoradiation. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for a total of 4 doses in the vaccine priming
      phase and then every 12 weeks during the adjuvant phase in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive standard adjuvant temozolomide orally (PO) or
      intravenously (IV) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses or more (at the
      discretion of the investigator) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients may then receive maintenance SVN53-67/M57-KLH peptide vaccine in emulsion
      with montanide ISA 51 SC and sargramostim SC every 12 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks.
    
  