
    
      Pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMP) is an orphan disease, characterised by the progressive
      accumulation of jelly-like material within the abdomen, which occurs in approximately 1-2
      people per million per year. Advanced disease is often the result of tumour perforation and
      seeding of tumour cells within the peritoneal cavity, leading to this syndrome. Multifocal
      mucin collections are the main cause of morbidity and mortality.

      In the past, management of mucinous peritoneal disease involved repeated surgical debulking,
      with systemic chemotherapy having minimal effect. The combined modality of complete
      cytoreductive surgery and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (CCRS/HIPEC) is
      considered standard of care for peritoneal spread of appendiceal tumours and a treatment
      option for other mucinous peritoneal tumours. The intention of CCRS/HIPEC is cure, however
      this is dependent on the characteristics and extent of tumour involvement, with the main
      limitation being amount of disease involving the serosa or mesentery of small bowel.

      Mucin produced by tumours is known to be highly resistant to chemotherapy as mucin acts as a
      tumour coating. Many patients with mucinous tumours or PMP, however, can achieve long-term
      survival through this therapy although in a significant proportion recurrence following
      CCRS/HIPEC occurs, and repeat interventions for recurrent disease are increasingly complex
      and may have a negative impact on quality of life, where the risks of the procedure in many
      cases outweigh the benefits.

      In an attempt to modify these outcomes, mucin and mucin-producing cells have remained the two
      main targets of the investigator's research. The principal investigator discovered remarkable
      synergy between Bromelain (Brom) and Acetylcysteine (Ac), and together this new method of
      medical treatment was able to completely dissolve appendix mucin within hours with
      considerable effects on gastrointestinal cancer muffins known as MUC1 and MUC5AC. The
      investigators have since performed a substantial number of preclinical studies in both bench
      and animal models of human mucinous tumours including adenocarcinomas and signet ring
      tumours, which support the use of this method of treatment with efficacy and safety.

      This potential treatment for pseudomyxoma peritonei/appendix mucinous tumours received orphan
      designation from the (Food and Drug Administration (FDA) (DRU-2018-6644) European Medicines
      Agency (EMA) (EMA/3/18/2107, EMA/3/18/2113). A phase I study at the Peritonectomy Unit at St
      George Hospital in Sydney, Australia has treated 31 patients with mucinous tumours with a
      manageable safety profile and an improvement in presenting symptoms was reported in over 65%
      of patients.

      This study will extend to examine in a larger cohort, the safety and efficacy of applying
      BromAc directly into recurrent mucinous tumour deposits or intraperitoneally in patients that
      are not suitable for repeat intervention by CCRS/HIPEC or debulking surgery. These patients
      currently have no other treatment option for their disease.

      The aim of this study is to assess whether the application of BromAc via radiologically
      placed percutaneous catheters directly into the tumour in an extended study remains safe and
      dissolves the mucinous tumour, with the hypothesis being that the tumour may be drained.

      A pre-treatment computed tomography (CT) scan less than 6 weeks old is required for
      assessment of the tumour and calculation of the size (dimensions) and volume (of a sphere if
      spherical) of tumour to be treated (RECIST v1.1 if measurable). Blood tests including full
      blood count (FBC), electrolytes urea creatinine (EUC), liver function tests (LFT), c-reactive
      protein (CRP) and coagulation screen (INR, APTT, PTT, Fibrinogen, CEA, CA19-9 and CA125) will
      be performed. Multidisciplinary team assessment of suitability will be performed and the
      participant will be educated and consented if all criteria are met.

      Under radiological guidance, a needle-wire-dilator approach will be taken to access the
      target tumour or free intraperitoneally, then a large pigtail drain (10fg) is guided into the
      tumour cavity, or free intraperitoneally (14fg) under standard procedures. The drain will be
      aspirated to ensure that tumour material cannot be removed prior to the drug treatment as a
      baseline measurement. The drug is then injected through the drain, administered over a period
      of at least 5 minutes. The drain is then clamped/capped. The participant is monitored for 3
      hours post procedure with clinical observations and blood testing performed at specific
      intervals (30 min, 1 hr, 2 hr, 3 hr (bloods)).

      The participant is seen the following day (approx. 24 hours post) and the drain is aspirated.
      Fluid aspirated is collected and measured. The participant is assessed for any symptoms and
      repeat treatment is dependent on clinical condition. If re-treated, the above drug delivery
      procedure is repeated with a further 24 hour dwell time, followed by aspiration. A maximum of
      two drug treatments are given in a 48 hour period.

      The efficacy of this intervention will be assessed on post intervention radiological imaging
      and volume aspirated.The projected benefits of direct injection of the BromAc include
      improvement of symptoms of the disease, which frequently include pain, vomiting, inability to
      maintain adequate oral intake and progressive loss of condition.
    
  