
    
      The main purpose of this study is to reveal the effectiveness of the Knack maneuver and
      lifestyle recommendations program to be given in addition to the pelvic floor muscle training
      (PFMT) program, which has been proven to be effective in individuals with urinary
      incontinence symptoms after prostatectomy. This study is a prospective, controlled,
      randomized clinical trial. The study includes an 8-week pelvic floor muscle training, Knack
      maneuver and lifestyle recommendations.

      It was planned to enroll 72 individuals with urinary incontinence problems after radical
      prostatectomy in this randomized controlled clinical study. A physical therapist is
      responsible for all assessments.

      Participants were included in one of three treatment groups (G1: Pelvic floor muscle training
      + Knack maneuver + lifestyle recommendations; G2: Pelvic floor muscle training + Knack
      maneuver G3: Pelvic floor muscle training).

      In summary, it is stated in the literature that PFMT and lifestyle recommendations are
      beneficial in the treatment of urinary incontinence (UI). However, although there is evidence
      of the effectiveness of the Knack maneuver in stress UI in women, there is no evidence of the
      Knack maneuver in urinary incontinence after prostatectomy. On the other hand, the literature
      on the effect of lifestyle recommendations after prostatectomy is very limited.

      Therefore, the aim of this study is to reveal the effectiveness of the Knack maneuver and
      lifestyle recommendations program, which will be given in addition to the PFMT program, which
      has been demonstrated in individuals with UI complaints after radical prostatectomy, in a
      randomized controlled design.

      With this study, the effectiveness of different programs to be applied to individuals
      suffering from urinary incontinence after prostatectomy will be determined and compared. It
      will increase the level of evidence for the treatment of urinary incontinence, a common
      complaint after prostate cancer surgery. In this direction, it will also contribute to the
      development of public health.
    
  