
    
      Ventilator-induced diaphragmatic dysfunction (VIDD) is characterized by diaphragmatic atrophy
      and weakness leading to an inability to liberate from the ventilator. Patients with VIDD have
      increased intensive care unit and hospital length of stay, higher reintubation rates, and
      need for tracheostomy. There are two commonly used modes of ventilation in the ICU -
      controlled and support mode ventilation. Conventional practice is to initiate mechanical
      ventilation with controlled mode followed by a support mode to facilitate weaning and
      eventual extubation. However, this approach may induce irreversible diaphragmatic atrophy.
      Observational studies suggest that controlled ventilation is associated with higher rates of
      diaphragmatic atrophy than support modes of ventilation. Diaphragmatic atrophy occurs within
      the first 24 hours of mechanical ventilation. To date, it remains unknown whether early
      initiation of support mode ventilation prevents VIDD and its associated complications in
      comparison to controlled mode ventilation.

      The investigators hypothesize that by initiating subjects on support mode ventilation, an
      associated increase in ventilator-free days will be seen in comparison to subjects on
      controlled mode ventilation. Subjects on support mode ventilation will have less
      diaphragmatic atrophy and weakness than subjects on controlled mode ventilation. To
      investigate this hypothesis,investigators are conducting a phase III randomized trial
      examining the effects of volume support mode versus assist control mode ventilation on
      ventilator-free days and rate of diaphragm atrophy.

      enrolled subjects requiring mechanical ventilation will be randomized to either volume
      support mode or assist control mode within 24 hours of mechanical ventilation initiation.
      Diaphragm thickness will be measured by ultrasound daily and subsequently diaphragm atrophy
      rate will be calculated in each arm. The operator acquiring ultrasound images will be blinded
      to the ventilator mode that the subject was randomized to. Subjects in the study will follow
      standard ICU sedation awakening trials and spontaneous breathing trials. The medical team in
      charge of the subject will determine when the subject will be liberated from the ventilator.

      There will be up to a 24 hour period from initiation of standard, non-study mechanical
      ventilation during which the subject can be consented and enrolled. This will allow the
      research team time to contact the subject and/or family in order to obtain informed consent.
      Once randomized, all subjects will be initiated on study mode of ventilation. The medical
      team will direct other aspects of care.

      The phase III trial will be powered to determine if there is a statistically significant
      difference in rate of diaphragm atrophy and ventilator-free days between volume support mode
      and assist control mode.
    
  