
    
      Evaluation criteria will consist of the level of assistance, number of sessions and time to
      perform each of the tasks. Because some of these tasks have never been performed in an
      exoskeleton there is no standardized information to set a goal. As such, level of assistance
      and time to complete those tasks will be recorded in each participant for a descriptive
      analysis. Other tests, such as the six-minute walk test (6mWT), 10 meter walk test (10mWT)
      and timed up and go (TUG) have a range of specific timed values that have been measured in
      the exoskeleton by our investigators and others. These exoskeletal-assisted walking tests
      have standardized criteria on which the participants will be evaluated.

      Participants will attend three to four, one to two-hour sessions per week for a total of 20
      sessions in six weeks. Each session will consist of exoskeletal-assisted skill practice
      during standing and walking mobility training. In order to determine the number of session to
      learn the tasks, measurements will be performed one time weekly for the task-specific skills
      and walking tests and again at the end of 20 sessions.

      Participants will tested in the exoskeleton for ability to perform certain task-specific
      indoor and outdoor mobility skills.

      Advanced indoor skills include, but are not limited to:

        1. Performance on a an indoor six-minute walk test (6minWT) and ten meter walk test (10mWT)
           on a smooth floor and on carpet;

        2. Timed up and go test (TUG) performance indoors on a smooth floor and on carpet;

        3. Home/work skills include: manipulating items on a counter top, retrieving an item from
           an overhead cabinet, and/or retrieving an object from a refrigerator;

        4. Door navigation skills include: a push button door, revolving door and/or a non-powered
           door;

        5. Elevator Skills include: pressing the call button outside an elevator, navigate the
           elevator doors, pressing the floor selection buttons in an elevator, and/or exiting the
           elevator doors; and

        6. Exoskeletal-assisted stair ascent and descent.

      Advanced outdoor skills include, but are not limited to:

        1. 10 mWT and 6minWT performance outdoors on concrete, asphalt, uneven surfaces, and grass.

        2. Exoskeletal-assisted walking on incline slopes (assessed as time to navigate a specified
           distance) for: up slight slope, down slight slope, navigate up curb cut-out, and/or
           navigate down curb cut-out.

        3. Ability to navigate up and/or down a curb (assessed as level of assistance required).

      Note: Additional skills may be tested and recorded as per each individual's ability and
      competency.
    
  