
    
      Patients suffering from chronic rhinosinusitis undergoing Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery
      (FESS) require nasal spacers to be inserted intra-operatively into the middle-meatus to
      prevent lateralization of the middle turbinate and subsequent scarring and adhesions. Nasal
      spacers can be impregnated with topical steroids to assist in post-surgical recovery. Our
      centre is now investigating the effect of triamcinolone-medicated nasal spacers placed inside
      a punctured glove finger to improve wound healing.

      All patients enrolled in this study will have spacers (impregnated with saline or
      Triamcinolone) inserted into their middle meati after sinus surgery. Patients will serve as
      their own controls. One nostril will receive the experimental treatment
      (Triamcinolone-impregnated spacer) and one will receive the control treatment
      (Saline-impregnated spacer). These spacers will be removed after 6-days post-op.

      Randomization of patients' nostrils to a treatment arm will occur on the day of surgery based
      on a closed envelope system.

      Participants will undergo the standard post-operative endoscopic sinus surgery follow-up
      appointments plus one additional research visit (not standard of care). This includes
      follow-up appointments at 6 days, 14 days, 5 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months of the
      post-operative period. The 14-day follow-up appointment is an additional visit not included
      as standard practice at our centre. However, study patients will have this added visit in
      order to closely observe their recovery and endoscopic evaluation. During these appointments,
      the surgeon will assess the post-operative appearance (Philpott-Javer Sinus Rating System),
      number of infections, pain, and 1st week post-operative bleeding (only at 6 day visit).

      The Sino-Nasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22) questionnaire is to be completed by the study
      participants at 6 days, 14 days, 5 weeks, and 3 months of the post-operative period. The
      SNOT-22 is a 5-minute questionnaire consisting of 22 questions, which asks participants to
      rate their sinus symptoms and social/emotional consequences of their nasal disorder from "no
      problem" to "problem as bad as it can be."

      Sinus tissue biopsies will also be taken from both meati intraoperatively (standard of care)
      and on 28-day and 3-month post-op follow-up appointments (above standard of care). Biopsies
      will be sent to a pathologist for grading on a scale of tissue inflammation. To grade the
      level of mucosal inflammation in an objective fashion, the pathologist has previously devised
      a grading system on a scale from 0 to 4. A score of 0 is given for normal tissue, 1 for
      submucosal inflammation with no inflammatory infiltrate into the epithelium, 2 for
      inflammatory infiltrate with neutrophils into the epithelium with no evidence of necrosis, 3
      for inflammatory infiltrate with neutrophils into the epithelium with evidence of focal
      necrosis and 4 for inflammatory infiltrate with neutrophils into the epithelium with evidence
      of extensive necrosis (5).
    
  