
    
      Participation in this study will be for one year. Patients will receive this treatment either
      while in hospital or in the outpatient clinic. Each patient will be entered into one of three
      different dosing schedules being evaluated. Three to six patients will be evaluated on each
      dosing schedule. Escalation will continue until unacceptable side effects are seen.

      First, patients will be given Tylenol (for any aches/pains) and Benadryl (for any minor
      allergic reactions such as itching/rash). This is called premedication. Next, the T cells
      will be injected into the patients' vein (intravenously) over approximately 10 minutes.
      Patients will be closely watched during this time to make sure they do not experience any bad
      effects such as an allergic reaction. If the patient does not respond to the T cells or if
      during follow-up examinations evidence of relapse is shown, the patient may receive another
      (higher) dose of T cells approximately six weeks after their first injection. Patients may
      decide NOT to continue to receive this therapy (receive further injections), however, the
      follow-up period will still be for one year.

      Each patient will be seen every two weeks in the clinic or contacted every two weeks by the
      research nurse or other member of the research team, for six weeks after the injection(s).
      They will then be seen or contacted monthly for 3 months and then once every three months for
      one year and again if relapse occurs or is suspected.

      To learn more about the way the T cells are working and how long they last in the body, 40
      mls (8 teaspoonfuls) of blood will be taken once before the injection of T-cells, every two
      weeks for 6 weeks after the injection, monthly for 3 months and then every 3 months for 1
      year. This amount of blood will be less for small patients. We will also take another blood
      sample from the patient if relapse is suspected. Each patient will need to have a physical
      examination by their physician to check on their progress.

      Additionally, before the injection of T-cells, once every two weeks after the injection for 6
      weeks and once every month for 3 months and then once every 3 months for one year and again
      if relapse occurs or is suspected we will obtain a blood sample from the patient to evaluate
      for transplant rejection. The amount of blood that we will take will be 3-5 mls (1/2 to 1
      teaspoon). If the patient has received a heart transplant they will also be asked to have
      other tests such as an ultrasound or tomography (similar to an x-ray) done to help with this
      evaluation.
    
  