
    
      Diabetic patients are at high risk for co-morbidities which are closely related to disease
      duration and coexisting cardiovascular risk factors and complications. Data has shown that
      the following 3 groups of diabetic patients are at extremely high risk for future events:

        1. Obese type 2 diabetic patients: Weight control is a major therapeutic challenge which
           often requires cognitive-psychological-behavioral therapy (CBT) in addition to
           pharmacological and surgical interventions. After long disease duration, often
           characterized by the presence of complications, many obese diabetic patients need
           insulin to control glycemia which put them at risk of further weight gain which sets up
           a vicious cycle.

        2. Young type 2 diabetic patients: In both Pima Indian and Caucasian type 2 diabetic
           patients, young age of onset substantially increased risk of cardiovascular and renal
           complications, mainly due to long disease duration. Furthermore, these patients often
           default follow up or are non-compliant due to competing priorities and lack of symptoms.
           These young patients also have marked phenotypic heterogeneity characterised by insulin
           insufficiency and/or obesity with strong family history.

        3. Diabetic patients with established cardiovascular-renal complications. In a series of
           analyses, Chinese type 2 diabetic patients with established cardiovascular and kidney
           disease had 38% event rates including all-cause death and cardiovascular-renal
           complications including peripheral vascular disease (PVD) over 5 years.

      These 3 groups of patients are difficult to treat with many unmet needs requiring complex
      treatment regimens, intensive counselling and emotional support.

      In a series of studies, the investigators have confirmed the marked benefits of using a team
      approach to deliver structured care with particular emphasis on continuation of care and
      periodic reminders on clinical outcomes. Preliminary analysis from our peer support program
      also demonstrated the benefits of utilizing organized and visual information to communicate
      personalized risks and targets, further augmented by peer support, to improve risk factor
      control in type 2 diabetic patients.
    
  