
    
      The purpose of this study is to find out if multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistant
      chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) can be treated with
      combination approach of Nilotinib with Ruxolitinib which may block alternative pathway
      besides BCR-ABL kinase inhibition in Ph positive leukemia, esp against JAK2-STAT5 pathway.
      First step is to define the dose of Ruxolitinib with fixed dose of Nilotinib which had been
      approved at the dose of 400mg bid for imatinib failed CML.

      During phase I part of the study,dose escalations will be decided on the basis of DLTs
      observed hence the exact sample size could not be predicted with certainty but will range
      between 9-12 patients. Three patients will be enrolled per dose level. Accordingly 9 patients
      are expected to be enrolled. If a DLT is observed, 3 more patients will be enrolled at the
      dose level in which the DLT occurred.

      The study will be conducted at multiple sites across Canada and enrollment will be
      competitive. Once 3 patients are enrolled in a cohort, that dose level will be closed to
      enrollment until safety assessment of the 3 subjects is performed at the end of cycle 1. This
      procedure will be performed for each dosing cohort. Patients will be assigned to a dose level
      based on authorization from the sponsor in collaboration with Ozmosis Research Inc.

      For the phase II part of the study, once the RPTD has been established in the phase I portion
      of this trial, the phase II will begin. The phase II portion will be a two-stage, single arm,
      unblinded study investigating the potential efficacy of the combination of Ruxolitinib and
      Nilotinib.

      A maximum of 20 patients will be accrued in the phase II portion. Those patients treated in
      the phase I portion of this trial at the RPTD will be included in the analysis of the Phase
      II study.
    
  