
    
      Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with the appropriate research oversight,
      all study procedures are temporarily suspended as of 3/15/20.

      This study will explicitly compare the effects of a 12-week progressive exercise training
      program on 1) the clinical symptoms of chronic pain and PTSD, 2) pain threshold and
      tolerance, and 3) anti-stress, anti-nociceptive neurohormones such as neuropeptide Y (NPY)
      and allopregnanolone/pregnanolone (ALLO) in Veterans with chronic pain/PTSD compared to
      healthy comparison participants. The revised study design includes a baseline cardiopulmonary
      exercise assessment (CPX) that will inform the exercise prescription for a 12-week
      "progressive exercise" training program, comprised of three 30-45 minute exercise sessions
      per week (walking or running, depending on the ability/capacity of the participant). Exercise
      sessions will be initially supervised by an exercise physiologist in the Clinical Studies
      Unit (CSU) at the VA Boston Healthcare System and then each participant will transition into
      the home. Weekly telephone calls by the PI will provide additional motivational support and
      assistance with problem solving. Implementation of the prescribed exercise regimen will also
      be supported by the use of heart rate and actigraph monitors programmed for the participant
      to achieve their prescribed heart rate range (HRR). Finally, an "endpoint" maximum load
      exercise assessment will occur at week 13 in order to track measurable change for both
      psychological and neurobiological factors and to delineate their impact on pain indices and
      PTSD symptomatology. Both maximum load exercise tests will be performed in accordance with
      guidelines published by the American College of Cardiology. Measures of pain, pain tolerance
      (via the cold pressor test) will be implemented 30 minutes before and 30 minutes after
      exercise testing as well as at a midpoint "check-in" at which self-report questionnaires will
      also be repeated. Based on the PI's earlier research, the role of exercise motivation and
      self-efficacy on changes in perceived pain and pain tolerance will be correlated with changes
      in NPY and ALLO levels, pre and post exercise. It is anticipated that differences in
      biological responses to aerobic and anaerobic exercise between healthy participants and those
      with chronic pain/PTSD will predict differences in the psychological and pain-reducing
      benefits of aerobic and anaerobic exercise. Once identified, such factors could be augmented
      by modification of the exercise regimen in order to help enhance the ant-stress hormone
      levels for the pain/PTSD population and experience clinically significant reductions in their
      symptoms. In order to obtain sufficient power as well as accounting for an expected drop-out
      rate of 18-20%, the proposed recruitment is 30 participants per condition (total of 60
      participants). Data from this pilot work will be used to compute effect sizes in support of a
      future clinical trial incorporating individually prescribed exercise regimens and a
      motivationally based exercise behavior change intervention aimed at reducing pain and PTSD
      symptoms in our Veterans. Advanced education and training is sought by this CDA-2 award
      applicant in four broad areas: 1) psychophysiology of chronic pain and PTSD with a sub-focus
      on sex differences, 2) the neurobiology of chronic stress, PTSD, and pain, 3) exercise
      physiology and 4) the neuropsychology and neurobiology of traumatic brain injury (TBI). The
      combination of didactic and experiential training in these areas will serve the PI's
      long-term goal of becoming an independent scientist/practitioner in the VA focused on
      development of improved treatments for health conditions co-morbid with PTSD such as chronic
      pain and mild TBI. In the shorter-term, this CDA-2 will allow the PI to develop a more
      effective, motivationally based, exercise behavior change protocol that fosters long-term
      exercise compliance in patients with chronic pain/PTSD. This intervention will be used as an
      adjunct to cognitive interventions for these disorders to be further developed and studied
      via a larger VA, NIH, or DOD-funded grant for which the PI will apply in years 4-5 of the
      CDA2.
    
  