
    
      Recurrent urinary tract infection (rUTI) is common in postmenopausal women and can lead to
      significant bothersome symptoms. This clinical scenario is a difficult and common clinical
      problem seen by the urologist and urogynecologist with limited options for treatment. Overuse
      of antibiotics has led to significant resistant microorganisms and can have adverse side
      effects such as C. Dificile colitis. Current treatments include topical vaginal estrogen and
      prophylactic antibiotics. Other supplements such as cranberry pills, methenamine and
      D-mannose have varying levels of evidence and efficacy.

      Fractional CO2 LASER vaginal therapy has recently been studied for the treatment of GSM.
      LASER therapy is currently commercially available and has FDA clearance for use in
      gynecology. Current evidence shows that with treatment, histologic changes of the vaginal
      epithelium have shown regeneration to a premenopausal state, along with subjective
      improvement in GSM symptoms and sexual function. Recent literature has shown improvements in
      thickening of vaginal epithelium, decreased vaginal pH and improvement in the vaginal
      microbiome. Based on this, the investigators propose fractional CO2 laser may have a positive
      impact on women with rUTI.

        1. The investigators therefore hypothesize that fractional CO2 LASER vaginal therapy is
           non-inferior to topical vaginal estrogen therapy for the treatment of rUTI.

           a. Primary Outcome: Improvement in recurrence of culture positive UTI

        2. The investigators also hypothesize that LASER therapy will improve the urinary and
           vaginal microbiome, decreasing the uropathogenic presence and increasing Lactobacillus.

             1. Measurement 1: The number of UTI with UPEC isolated from patients

             2. Measurement 2: The pH of the vagina as a proxy for presence of Lactobacillus sp.

             3. Measurement 3: Categorize vaginal and urinary microbial communities

        3. The investigators hypothesize that LASER therapy will improve symptoms of GSM and be
           associated with regenerative change in vaginal histology.

             1. Measurement 1: MESA and DIVA surveys of symptoms

             2. Measurement 2: Observations of vaginal biopsy between.

      Menopausal women will be recruited if subjects have recurrent UTI defined as 3 culture
      positive UTIs in 1 year or 2 culture positive UTIs in 6 months. Subjects will be randomized
      to standard of care with topical vaginal estrogen or 3 treatments of fractional CO2 LASER of
      the vagina. Samples will be collected to show microbiome and histologic changes with
      treatment.

      Samples include:

      Vaginal culture Urine culture vaginal biopsy (optional).

      Validated questionnaires and clinical recurrence of UTI will also be gathered over 6 months.
    
  