
    
      The ability of the brain to use its major fuel, the sugar glucose, is reduced in Alzheimer's
      disease. A nutritional supplement has been developed to improve the function of the Alzheimer
      brain by increasing its ability to use sugar effectively. The ingredients of the supplement
      are natural products, and are found in the normal American diet. Results have been
      encouraging in open trials where the patients knew they were taking the active medicine.
      Patients are now being invited to participate in a placebo-controlled trial lasting 3 months,
      followed by a 3-month open label trial where all patients will receive the active
      preparation.

      This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, 3 month trial followed by a
      3-month open-label period, of a nutritional supplement designed to improve brain metabolism
      and function in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The design of the nutritional
      supplement is based on replicated observations of abnormalities in mitochondria in AD. The
      constituents of the nutritional supplement are components of the normal American diet, and
      are classified by the FDA as GRAS (Generally Regarded As Safe). Results with the supplement
      have been favorable in preliminary, open trials (eg mean improvement in MMSE score of +4.9,
      range +3 to +8, n = 7, P <0.0004).

      During the placebo-controlled portion of the trial, half of the participants will receive the
      active preparation and half a sugar pill. During this first phase, neither the patients nor
      those testing them will know who is taking active medicine and who is taking placebo. The
      active supplement or placebo are taken as 1 tablespoon twice a day, between meals. If
      desired, the supplement or placebo can be stirred into, or washed down with, water, coffee or
      tea without milk or sugar, or the soft drink TAB. Patient visits to the Burke Medical
      Research Institute will be once a month, after the screening and baseline visits.

      The supplement is taken as one tablespoon of a fluid, between meals. Since other sugars or
      citrate can be expected to interfere with the actions of the supplements, food or drinks
      containing sugar or citrate and diet drinks containing citrate are to be avoided for 1 1/2
      hour before and 1 1/2 hour after taking the supplement. No significant adverse events have
      been associated with this supplement. However, standard precautions for patient safety are
      being taken, including medical examination and clinical laboratory tests at screening and at
      the completion of the double-blind and open-label phases.
    
  