
    
      Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) displays an average 4% annual increase in incidence in most Western
      countries, particularly in children and young adults. As it requires life-long treatments and
      it carries significant risks of hypoglycemic and long-term micro- and macrovascular
      complications, it is a leading cause of disability and public health expenditure.

      T1D is an autoimmune disease which comprises humoral responses (antibody-producing B
      lymphocytes) and cellular responses (T lymphocytes). However, antibodies are merely disease
      markers and do not play any major pathogenic role. Rather, T1D is caused by an abnormal
      recognition of beta-cell epitopes by T lymphocytes. This recognition leads to destruction of
      pancreatic insulin-secreting beta cells, hence the need for lifelong insulin treatment.
      However, beta-cell destruction is rarely complete at the time of T1D onset.

      The hypothesis under testing is that the residual beta-cell mass may represent not only the
      endogenous insulin secretory capacity, but also the antigenic load capable of maintaining
      activation of autoreactive T lymphocytes. In other words, the disappearance of
      beta-cell-reactive T-cell responses over time may be correlated with beta-cell loss.
      Measurement of these T-cell responses may thus provide surrogate immune markers of residual
      beta cells.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the correlation between residual insulin secretion and
      T-cell responses directed against beta-cell antigens.

      The secondary objectives are to evaluate the correlation between residual insulin secretion
      estimated by serum and urine C-peptide measurement; and to evaluate the correlation between
      residual insulin and glucagon secretion.

      The ImMaDiab study is a cohort-based investigation with blood sample collection. Both
      new-onset T1D children and adults will be recruited. Insulin secretion will be stimulated by
      a standardized meal test. Following T1D diagnosis, blood and urine samples will be collected
      every 6 months during 30 months in order to measure serum and urine C peptide, glucagon and
      T-lymphocyte responses against selected beta-cell antigens.
    
  