
    
      Patients who are admitted to the emergency unit for decompensated heart failure at the three
      largest clinics in Stockholm, Sweden, are screened for recruitment. For patients to be
      eligible for study participation, they shall be discharged from the hospital to the general
      practitioner without being referred to a nurse led heart failure clinic, which is considered
      the gold standard in terms of improving patients' self-care behaviour. At the point of
      discharge, patients are approached about study participation and those who accept will be
      provided study information and forced to provide a written consent to participate. Continuous
      sampling is employed. Baseline characteristics are noted, as well as baseline data collected
      for the following end-points: Self-care, using the European Heart Failure Self-care Behaviour
      Scale (EHFScB), general quality of life using the SF-36 questionnaire, disease-specific
      quality of life using the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) and knowledge about
      heart failure using the Dutch Heart Failure Knowledge Scale (DHFKS). After this data is
      collected patients will be randomized, using sealed envelopes, to either receive standard
      care or receive the home-based tool that constitutes the intervention investigated. Within
      one week after discharge, the patients randomized to the intervention group will have he tool
      installed in their home.

      The tool consists of a tablet computer locked to a specialized software, and a Bluetooth
      connected weight scale. Every day the patient is encouraged by the tablet computer to step up
      on the weight scale. The weight is wirelessly transferred to the tablet computer and today's
      dose of diuretics is shown on screen together with a short tip about how to improve living
      with heart failure. Every five days the patient assess their self-perceived symptoms, as
      prompted on the tablet computer. For every patient equipped with the tool, a patient-specific
      normal dose of diuretics, as well as a high dose is input in the tool at the point of
      randomization. If the weight increases by 2kg or more in 3 days or less, the high dose is
      recommended for two days, after which the effect on the weight is assessed. If the weight was
      decreased back to where it was prior to the rapid weight gain, the dose is returned to normal
      and if it is still elevated, the patient will be encouraged to call his/her health care
      provider at the number presented on the table computer. If the self-assessed symptoms
      deteriorate, the same type of warning will appear on screen, urging the patient to contact
      the health care provider. Both the intervention patients and the control patients will be
      given the same discharge information in writing, describing the most important parts of
      self-management for heart failure patients. The data collected at baseline will be collected
      again after 3 months and 6 months after randomization. After 6 months data about
      hospitalizations will be retrieved from the medical records and adjudicated as either heart
      failure-hospitalization or not. The adjudication will be done by the cardiologists
      participating in the study and as the focus of the study is in estimating the net/marginal
      incidence rate ratio of in-patient hospitalization, absorbing competing events (e.g. death)
      will be handled by censoring.
    
  