
    
      Cholera is caused by infection of the human intestine with Vibrio cholerae O1 or V. cholerae
      O139. It is a major health problem in many developing countries including Bangladesh.1 The
      importance of cholera as a worldwide public health problem is evident from the large number
      of countries affected by cholera epidemics.2 Data of the Diarrhoeal Disease Surveillance
      system of the Dhaka Hospital demonstrated that V. cholera O1 was the most frequently isolated
      pathogens (617/2,068 i.e. 30%) in patients attending the hospital with diarrhoeal illnesses
      in 2006. By extrapolating the number of patients enrolled in the surveillance system we
      estimate that over 30,000 out of the total 106,531 patients attending the hospital in 2006
      had cholera- a huge number of patients indeed.

      Like other diarrhoeal illnesses, prevention and management of dehydration using appropriate
      oral and/or intravenous fluids is the mainstay in the management of cholera, irrespective of
      severity. However, appropriate antimicrobial therapy is a very useful adjunct therapy that
      reduces the duration of diarrhoea, the volume of diarrhoeal stools (thus the amount of oral
      and intravenous fluids), and also the duration of faecal excretion of the pathogen, V.
      cholerae O1 and O139 by about 50%. 3-6 Based on these observations made in numerous clinical
      trials, routine use of an appropriate antimicrobial therapy is recommended in the management
      of severe cholera, both in adults and children. All three benefits, as described above, are
      very important in resources-constraint settings where cholera is endemic and also during
      epidemic outbreaks.

      Nosocomial transmission of cholera has also been increasingly recognized as an important
      problem,7 and reducing the duration of excretion of Vibrio cholerae in the stool associated
      with appropriate antimicrobial therapy will presumably decrease the rate of nosocomial
      infection. Lastly, by shortening the course of illness, patients and their families' can more
      quickly return to their normal life, lessening their financial burden, which is of particular
      relevance to socio-economically disadvantaged population who disproportionately share the
      most of the disease burden from cholera.

      From the time of the initial controlled trials of antimicrobial therapy for cholera, almost
      four decades ago,3 a number of antimicrobial agents have been evaluated to be useful in the
      treatment of cholera. Tetracycline, chloramphenicol, doxycycline, furazolidone and
      trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole have all been found to be effective in the treatment of cholera
      when given in multiple doses for 3 days.8-14 Tetracycline and it's long-acting congener
      doxycycline are also effective when administered in a single 1 or 2 g and 200 or 300 mg oral
      doses respectively in adults.13, 14 Vomiting is a common problem in association with
      doxycycline therapy and the problem is greater when doxycycline is used in 300 mg dose (39%)
      compared to when 200 mg dose is used (30%); however, the therapeutic efficacy is better with
      the higher dose (mean duration of diarrhoea were 32h vs. 40h respectively.14

      Antimicrobial resistance has now become an important problem in the clinical management of
      cholera. For example, in 2006 virtually all of the 683 clinical strains of V. cholerae O1
      isolated from patients attending the Dhaka Hospital were multiply drug resistant with 100%
      resistance to ampicillin, furazolidone and co-trimoxazole, 83% to erythromycin and 85% to
      tetracycline.15 All V. cholerae strains remained susceptible to ciprofloxacin by
      disc-diffusion testing, but in E-test their MIC were noted to have increased from 0.002 µg/ml
      during 1993-2003 to 0.250-0.380 µg/ml in 2006

      Resistance of V. cholerae to commonly used drugs such as tetracycline, doxycycline,
      furazolidone and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole have also been reported from Asia, Africa and
      Latin America,17-20 In the early 1990's increasing prevalence of V. cholerae resistant to
      antimicrobials commonly used in the treatment of cholera (tetracycline, ampicillin,
      co-trimoxazole) prompted our group and others to conduct series of trials to identify newer
      affective agents for treatment of cholera. We evaluated ciprofloxacin in both adult and
      children infected with V. cholerae O1 and O139, and observed very good rates of both clinical
      and bacteriological response when used in multiple doses or in a single dose administered
      only once.11, 21, 22

      Ciprofloxacin, is a member of the class of drugs called fluoroquinolones, which act by
      blocking the action of bacterial DNA gyrase.23 This enzyme, which is not present in human
      cells, is responsible for supercoiling of bacterial DNA, an essential element for DNA
      functions.24 Without the three-dimensional DNA structure the cell is unable to replicate, and
      thus bacterial growth is rapidly halted. Ciprofloxacin is the most active of the fluorinated
      4-quinolones (ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, ofloxacin) against bacterial diarrhoea pathogens
      in-vitro as assessed by MIC. It has a relatively long serum half-life.25 Due to its multiple
      mechanisms of excretion toxic levels of quinolones do not usually accumulate in the body.
      Experience suggests that resistance against ciprofloxacin develops much more slowly than
      against the older quinolone agent such as nalidixic acid, as the rate of spontaneous mutation
      is much lower and multiple mutations are required to confer frank resistance.26, 27 Increases
      in the MIC, however, can occur with single mutation, and this is the likely sequence that has
      occurred among currently circulating V. cholerae isolates in Bangladesh.

      Because of resistance to other agents and susceptibility of the isolates to ciprofloxacin
      in-vitro, disc diffusion tests, Dhaka and Matlab Hospitals of ICDDR, B changed their
      treatment policy (early 2005) to single-dose ciprofloxacin therapy for treatment of cholera
      irrespective of patients' age, except for cholera in pregnant women. However, experienced
      physicians at the Dhaka Hospital quickly noted sub-optimal clinical response to ciprofloxacin
      therapy- higher stool output and longer hospitalisation. A quick review of the clinical study
      that we recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine confirmed these findings.28
      In that study only 26 (27%) of 98 patients who were infected with V. cholerae O1 experienced
      an optimal clinical response to single-dose ciprofloxacin, while only 10 (10%) of the 98
      patients had a bacteriologic cure, as defined in the protocol. Eventual determination of MICs
      of the V. cholerae strains from that study revealed that the inferior clinical and
      bacteriological response to ciprofloxacin was associated with an increase in MIC values.29
      Table 1 below shows the increase in ciprofloxacin MIC values that were observed during
      1993-1994 when we first conducted clinical trials with ciprofloxacin to subsequent years
      including in 2005 when ciprofloxacin was first introduced for routine use in the treatment of
      cholera at the Dhaka Hospital. We can see, the median MICs has increased approximately one
      hundred folds between 1993 and 2006.
    
  