
    
      PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE Exploration of the inhibition of anti-ficolin-3 antibodies purified
      from the serum of 14 patients with active lupus nephritis in ficolin-3-dependent necrotic
      cells recognition.

      The criterion used is the shift of MFI (Mean Fluorescence Intensity) measured after addition
      of these antibodies to necrotic Jurkat cells incubated with ficolin-3.

      The study has a single visit approach with serum collection, so every outcome is measured at
      T0, which is the only visit for the patient.

      SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES

        1. Investigation of ficolin-3 deposition in renal biopsy of the same 14 patients with
           active LN.

           Analysis: deposition of ficolin-3 will be evaluated by immunostaining on renal biopsy.

        2. Quantification of anti-ficolin-3 antibodies. Analysis: Anti-ficolin-3 antibodies are
           quantified by ELISA.

        3. Quantification of serum levels of ficolin-3. Analysis: Ficolin-3 is quantified by ELISA.

        4. Correlation between anti-ficolin-3 antibodies and serum levels of ficolin-3. Analysis:
           Anti-ficolin-3 antibodies and ficolin-3 are quantified by ELISA.

        5. Correlation between serum levels of anti-ficolin-3 antibodies and ficolin-3 deposition
           in the kidney.

        6. Correlation between serum levels of ficolin-3 and ficolin-3 deposition in the kidney.

        7. Exploration of the inhibition of anti-ficolin-2 antibodies purified from the serum of 14
           patients with active lupus nephritis in ficolin-2-dependent necrotic cells recognition.

           The criterion used is the shift of MFI (Mean Fluorescence Intensity) measured after
           addition of these antibodies to necrotic Jurkat cells incubated with ficolin-2.

        8. Investigation of ficolin-2 deposition in renal biopsy of the same 14 patients with
           active LN.

           Analysis: deposition of ficolin-2 will be evaluated by immunostaining on renal biopsy.

        9. Quantification of anti-ficolin-2 antibodies. Analysis: Anti-ficolin-2 antibodies are
           quantified by ELISA.

       10. Quantification of serum levels of ficolin-2. Analysis: Ficolin-2 is quantified by ELISA.

       11. Correlation between anti-ficolin-2 antibodies and serum levels of ficolin-2. Analysis:
           Anti-ficolin-2 antibodies and ficolin-2 are quantified by ELISA.

       12. Correlation between serum levels of anti-ficolin-2 antibodies and ficolin-2 deposition
           in the kidney.

       13. Correlation between serum levels of ficolin-2 and ficolin-2 deposition in the kidney.
    
  