
    
      JDM is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease with a predominance of muscle and skin
      inflammation of unknown etiology and varying prognosis. Children with JDM unresponsive to
      corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive medications face poor clinical and functional
      outcome and suffer various sequelae of the disease. Abatacept is a fully human soluble
      recombinant protein consisting of the cytotoxic T cell Lymphocyte Antigen-4 (CTLA4) fused
      with Fc region of human IgG1 that has been modified to prevent complement fixation and
      antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Abatacept binds specifically to the CD80 (B7-1) and
      CD86 (B7-2) molecules, those expressed on antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Upon engagement of
      CTLA4 to CD80 or CD86, the resultant inhibition of signal transduction inhibits T cell
      activation.. The rationale for use of Abatacept in the therapy of JDM includes the expression
      of CTLA4, CD28, CD86, and CD40 on inflammatory cells of muscle biopsies of patients with DM,
      as well as CTLA4 and CD28 on muscle cells.

      A patient's participation in this study will last approximately 24 weeks with possible
      extension to 48 weeks. At screening, participants will have a physical exam, muscle strength
      assessment, blood and urine collection, and chest x-ray; they will also be asked to complete
      several questionnaires. All participants will receive each week subcutaneous injection of
      Abatacept. Each injection will be given on an outpatient basis.

      There will be a total of 6 study visits. All participants will visit the outpatient clinic at
      selected time points for muscle strength testing, a physical exam, disease activity
      measurements, blood and urine collection, and muscle MRI; they will also be asked to complete
      several questionnaires. During the study, participants will be monitored closely for
      improvement or worsening of their disease and for serious drug related side effects.

      Eligibility Ages Eligible for Study: ≥ 7 years and older Genders Eligible for Study: Both
      Race/Ethnic Backgrounds Eligibility for Study: No restrictions
    
  