
    
      == Practical procedures & flowchart ==

      Patients included in this study are treated according to clinical routine. After inclusion,
      sampling of an arterial blood gas and a venous blood gas is performed simultaneously or as
      close in time as possible. Because the venous blood gas analysis sample can be taken directly
      from the patient's peripheral venous catheter, no additional venous puncture is usually
      required and the additional amount of blood that may be required is approx. 1 ml (the assay
      requires about 500 µl). In the very rare cases where it is not possible to establish a
      peripheral venous catheter within a reasonable time, the sample will be acquired from a new
      venous puncture together with other venous routine samples.

      Sampling can be carried out by doctors or nurses. The arterial and venous blood gas analysis
      is performed with a blood gas analyzer (ABL90) in the emergency department and is performed
      immediately after the sampling. Sampling times and analysis times are documented.

      Survey results are routinely stored in electronic form in patient health record and also
      locally on the device ABL90 with social security number as ID. The data is saved for
      statistical analysis.

      == Documentation ==

      The following parameters are documented during sampling:

        -  Chief complaint

        -  Indication for sampling

        -  The patient's current vital signs at the time of sampling

        -  Ongoing oxygen treatment (flow rate)

        -  Size of cannula, sampling location

        -  Sampling times and analysis times

        -  Number of puncture attempts

      After sampling, the following is documented:

        -  Analysis results of venous and arterial blood gas sample

        -  Final diagnosis at discharge from the emergency department

      The documentation will primarily be on worksheets, which will be marked with a patient label
      (name / social security number) and a serial number. The worksheet will be stored together
      with consent forms in a locked space of Akutkliniken US Linköping.

      The data will be archived in the local emergency department or at the Regional Archives in
      Östergötland according to applicable laws and regulations.

      The result of blood gas analysis is obtained from the digital lab system in the patient
      record (Lab-ROS) or directly exported from the internal memory of the analyzers at the
      emergency department. In both cases, the results will be used for digital compilation of
      study data. All electronic storage of study data will be pseudonymized by linking to patients
      serial number.

      == Statistics ==

      In previous studies, the correlation between arterial and venous samples has been evaluated
      using several different statistical methods:

      T-test, Pearson's and Spearman's R variable (Zeserson et al. 2018) Descriptive data are
      presented as mean and +/- from SD (Lemoël et al. 2013)

      Our intention in this study is to make a parallel comparison of previously published methods,
      as well as to examine, based on collected data, whether a new formula with better precision
      can be derived.

      == The potential significance of the project ==

      At present, arterial blood gas sampling is used as the standard procedure for assessing a
      critically ill patient in the emergency department.

      The project aims to clarify the feasibility of replacing routine arterial blood gas sampling
      in the emergency department with venous punctures without impairing test results and patient
      care. If feasible, such a change in sampling routines could potentially mean a great
      improvement for patients in terms of pain and complication risks. Also, workflow and lead
      times in the emergency department could be improved by the fact that venous samples may be
      drawn by all clinical staff, whereas arterial samples are normally reserved for doctors and
      nurses with dedicated training.
    
  