
    
      Trial design: The investigators propose a before/after quasi-experimental design with a
      non-equivalent control, which will be analyzed with an interrupted time-series analysis. This
      is the study design with the highest internal validity for population-level interventions
      when cluster-randomization is not feasible. Thus, this is the ideal design for a pilot study
      before seeking funding to complete a large multicenter cluster randomized trial.

      Participants: There will be 3 intervention VHA hospitals and 3 control VHA hospitals. To be
      eligible, a VHA hospital must perform the following 3 urologic procedures: transurethral
      resection of the prostate (TURP), transurethral resection of a bladder tumor (TUBRT), and
      ureteroscopy (URS).

      Interventions: The study team will conduct an audit-and-feedback intervention focused on the
      unnecessary use of prolonged antimicrobial therapy after common urologic procedures.

      The audit-and-feedback intervention will target the urology providers at the 3 intervention
      sites. Each site's antimicrobial stewardship team will also be a recipient of our feedback.
      According to VHA Directive 1041, each VHA hospital is required to have both an antimicrobial
      stewardship pharmacy champion and provider champion. While the stewardship team may be
      monitoring antimicrobial use at their hospital, data suggests that the stewardship team is
      often unaware of antimicrobial-prescribing related to urologic procedures. The
      audit-and-feedback intervention will address this gap.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome for this study will be the frequency of excessive
      post-procedural antimicrobial-prescribing in the 3 urologic procedures of interest. Secondary
      outcomes include several safety outcomes, such as late antimicrobial prescriptions, hospital
      re-admissions, mortality, C. difficile testing and C. difficile infection.

      For each site, the pretest period will be the 2-years prior to the intervention. The
      intervention itself will last 1-year.

      Selection of sites: Intervention sites will be randomly selected from the top quartile of all
      sites, as ranked on the frequency of excessive post-procedural antimicrobial-prescribing.
      Matching controls will be identified based on facility-level data. To qualify as a control
      site, a hospital's baseline rate of excessive post-procedural antimicrobial use must be
      comparable to that of its matching intervention site. Matching on the outcome of interest
      will minimize selection bias and will make the study less subject to regression to the mean,
      which is the key threat when selecting poor performers. To further ensure that intervention
      and control sites are as similar as possible, the study team will match on additional
      facility-level factors: academic affiliation (yes/no), VHA-defined hospital complexity,
      urologic procedural volume, antimicrobial stewardship resources, and location (rural versus
      urban).

      Statistical methods: At the conclusion of the pilot trial, a quasi-experimental interrupted
      time-series (ITS) analysis will be performed to assess the change in monthly antimicrobial
      use for the 3 intervention sites combined and the 3 control sites combined. The time frame
      for this ITS analysis will be the two-years prior to the pilot trial's initiation through the
      trial's 1-year intervention period for a total of 36 months.
    
  