
    
      The study is an open-label, randomized, three-way crossover and single-dose study.Subjects
      with newly onset T2DM are enrolled. They are assigned to take a single dose of sitagliptin
      (100 mg), saxagliptin (5 mg), or blank control in a randomized order separated by a washout
      period of 7-14 days.Then the two-step hyperglycemic clamp is initiated.

      On each experimental day, the subject will take the given dose of Sitagliptin, Saxagliptin
      and nothing for blank control two hours before the clamp experiment starts.

      The hyperglycaemic clamp will be performed after an overnight fast. Subjects will be placed
      in a recumbent position and cannula will be inserted in a dorsal hand vein. The hand will be
      placed in a heating box (50℃) throughout the experiment to allow frequent sampling of
      arterialized blood. A second cannula will be inserted in a contralateral cubital vein for
      glucose infusion.

      At time zero (0 min), a 50% glucose bolus will be injected during 1 min to increase PG to
      15mM. The glucose bolus will be calculated as:(15mM-FPG)×35 mg glucose × body weight (kg). PG
      will be measured bedside every 5 min and maintained at 15mM by an adjustable continuous 20%
      glucose infusion. After 90min, PG will be lowered down to 7mM for the islet cells to rest,
      then the subject will be instructed to consume 75g glucose solution orally in 5min. 40min
      after the oral glucose consumption, the 90min-hyperglycaemic clamp experiment wil be
      restarted. The oral period of hyperglycaemic clamp process is the same as what's done in
      fasting period. Blood samples will be collected in -2h, 0min, 10min, 90min in both
      hyperglycaemic clamp experimental process for the measurement of insulin, c-peptide,
      glucagon, active GLP-1 and other incretin hormones.

      Thus we could evaluate the beta cell function represented by the first phase and the second
      phase of insulin secretion(C-peptide secretion) and alpha cell function represented by the
      change of glucagon concentration during the fasting period and oral period of hyperglycaemic
      clamp experiment and the change of active GLP-1.
    
  