
    
      Study Description: This study will characterize ongoing neurologic abnormalities in those who
      recovered from acute COVID-19 infection yet have persistent neurologic symptoms. Despite
      clinical recovery from the acute infection, some individuals continue to experience ongoing
      symptoms, at times several months after recovery, and many of these symptoms are neurologic.
      The NIH Clinical Center provides the breadth of expertise and resources to best investigate
      this patient group. This study will collect a broad array of specialized neurologic testing
      in this group who, despite recovering from the acute SARSCoV-2 infection, continue to
      experience neurological symptoms. It is hypothesized that this group will have abnormalities
      on neurologic testing that may identify discrete phenotypes of COVID-19 sequelae.

      Pre-screening for this study will be done under the study, 'Post-Coronavirus Disease 19
      Syndrome at the National Institutes of Health.' Potentially eligible participants will be
      identified under the screening arm of that study and will be referred to the study team. If
      deemed eligible for this study based on a review of available records and a telephone
      discussion with the potential participant, participants may enroll. Enrollment will include a
      visit to the NIH Clinical Center for informed consent and completion of the study procedures.
      We anticipate that the baseline study procedures will take approximately 2-3 outpatient
      visits to complete or the participant may be admitted as an inpatient. Participants may
      return for a repeat of some study procedures within 12 months if there are abnormalities
      noted on the baseline study procedures.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To investigate structural abnormalities by brain MRI in those with prior
      SARS-CoV-2 infection and persistent neurologic symptoms.

      Secondary objective: To investigate other components of neurologic function in those with
      prior SARS-CoV-2 infection and persistent neurologic symptoms.

      Endpoints: Primary endpoint: The number and character of brain MRI abnormalities on a
      dedicated research MRI protocol optimized to detect COVID-19-associated disease.

      Secondary endpoints: 1. Neurologic examination: The number and character of abnormalities
      associated with both central and peripheral nervous system disease. 2. Autonomic testing: The
      number and character of test results indicating autonomic nervous system or catecholaminergic
      dysfunctions as evidenced by abnormal physiological and neurochemical measures at rest or in
      responses to the Valsalva maneuver or head-up tilting.

      Study Population: This study will enroll 50 participants.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants: The NIH Clinical Center will be the
      site of all research studies done under this protocol.

      Study Duration: We anticipate that this study will begin enrollment September 2020 and will
      complete data analysis by December 2022.

      Participant Duration: Participants will complete all required study procedures within an
      approximately two-week time frame. Participants may return for optional follow up with a
      repeat of some study procedures and those participants will complete the study at that point.
    
  