
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To establish the anti-tumor activity of the combination of irinotecan hydrochloride,
           fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium (FOLFIRI) with zibotentan (FOLFERA) as measured by
           progression-free survival (time-to-event) in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer
           after failure of oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the toxicity profile of FOLFERA and of maintenance zibotentan in these
           patients.

        -  To determine the feasibility of use of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To collect tumor and blood samples for future translational work, including
           investigating endothelian A receptor (ETAR) expression, k-RAS/b-RAF status and
           alterations in relevant pathways such as Akt, MAPK/ERK.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to study site.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1 hour and leucovorin calcium
           IV over 2 hours on day 1; fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1; and an oral
           placebo tablet once daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 12 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving at
           least stable disease then receive oral placebo alone once daily in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV
           over 2 hours on day 1; fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1; and oral
           zibotentan once daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 12 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving at least
           stable disease then receive oral zibotentan alone once daily in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood and tissue samples are collected periodically for pharmacogenetic, translational, and
      biomarker correlative studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12
      weeks for up to 1 year.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  