
    
      Summary of Trial Design A two year, parallel, two group, open-label, real-world, RCT design
      for patients with severe and complex obesity who are referred to a Tier 3 obesity service
      (including patients who are referred to a Tier 3 service as part of the bariatric surgery
      pathway). The total duration of participation will be 104 weeks (+/-2 weeks).

      The first 52 weeks of the study (after randomisation) will determine whether using the
      targeted prescribing pathway in a Tier 3 setting will result in more participants attaining
      ≥15% weight loss compared with standard care. The second 52 weeks of the study will assess
      whether patients who lose ≥15% of their baseline weight by the first 52 weeks are more likely
      to maintain ≥15% weight loss for another 52 weeks in the targeted prescribing pathway
      compared with standard care. Further, budget impact, cost-effectiveness, improvement in
      obesity-related co-morbidities, complementary aspects of safety, effectiveness, adherence,
      and treatment satisfaction of both treatment groups will be assessed and compared.

      Participants will be randomised in a 2:1 fashion to either the intervention (targeted
      prescribing pathway + standard care) or control (standard care) group (2 intervention: 1
      control). The control group will receive standard care in a specialist obesity service (Tier
      3 or equivalent), according to the best practice in each site and can include total or
      partial meal replacement strategies. The intervention group will receive the same standard
      care as the control group (i.e. according to the best practice in each site) plus all
      participants will initially receive LIRA with pre-specified stopping rules. The targeted
      prescribing pathway: participants who do not meet the definition of a 'early and good
      responder' (defined as achieving ≥5% weight loss at 16 weeks, ≥10% weight loss at 32 weeks
      and ≥15% weight loss at 52 weeks) will have their LIRA 3mg treatment stopped. It is important
      to note that all participants will be analysed in the group to which they are randomised; in
      particular, participants in the intervention group who stop receiving LIRA 3mg will remain in
      the intervention group and will continue to receive standard care for the remainder of the
      study as per the targeted prescribing pathway (albeit, the part of the pathway where LIRA 3mg
      is not prescribed; see Figure 1).

      The study is intentionally designed to reflect a pragmatic "real-world" scenario and each
      Tier 3 provider may require a different number of visits for their programme. However, study
      appointments for data collection, titration reviews, application of the stopping rules of
      LIRA 3mg, and dispensing will be standardised for all of the five sites.

      Intervention (Targeted Prescribing Pathway)

      The NHS Weight Management pathway is divided into four distinct tiers:

      Tier 1: health promotion Tier 2: lifestyle interventions Tier 3: specialist multidisciplinary
      weight management services Tier 4: bariatric surgery

      Across the UK, each region has a specialist Tier 3 obesity and/or weight management service
      or equivalent, usually referred to as Tier 3. This includes a clinician led multidisciplinary
      team approach, potentially including a specialist physician, nurse, dietician, psychologist,
      physiotherapist, etc. From this point forwards, Tier 3 specialist weight management and/or
      equivalent services will be referred to as 'Tier 3' throughout the remainder of this
      protocol.

      Participants in the intervention group will receive the same standard care as those in the
      control group, i.e. the best medical practice delivered by the Tier 3 service at each site.
      Additionally, at baseline, LIRA 3mg will be prescribed to all of the participants in the
      intervention group at a starting dose of 0.6mg daily. Dose escalation of Liraglutide will
      occur according to a pre-specified titration protocol, from 0.6mg to a maximum of 3.0mg
      daily. Liraglutide dose will be initiated at 0.6mg and then increased to 1.2mg in Week 2,
      1.8mg in Week 3, 2.4mg in Week 4, and 3.0mg in Week 5. Participants in the intervention group
      will be aware that the LIRA 3mg treatment may be stopped at various time points throughout
      the duration of the study and that continued use of LIRA 3mg is based upon their response to
      the treatment in terms of them achieving pre-defined weight loss targets at 16, 32 and 52
      weeks.. Specifically, participants in the intervention group will continue to be prescribed
      LIRA 3mg for the 104 week duration of the study, unless one of the following stopping rules
      applies:

        1. st stopping rule: After 16 weeks (± 14 days) on the medication, only those participants
           who have lost ≥5% of their baseline weight will be offered further treatment with LIRA
           3mg for another 16 weeks. Participants who have not met this weight loss target will
           have their LIRA 3mg treatment stopped but will still continue in the targeted
           prescribing pathway but will receive standard care only during the remainder of the
           study.

        2. nd stopping rule: After 32 weeks (± 14 days) on the medication, only those participants
           who have lost ≥10% of their baseline weight and are still on treatment with LIRA 3mg
           will be offered another 20 weeks on LIRA 3mg. Participants who have not met this weight
           loss target will have their LIRA 3mg treatment stopped but will still continue in the
           targeted prescribing pathway but will receive standard care only during the remainder of
           the study.

        3. rd stopping rule: After the first year of treatment (week 52; ± 14 days), only those
           participants who have lost ≥15% of their baseline weight and are still on treatment with
           LIRA 3mg will be offered another 52 weeks on LIRA 3mg. Participants who have not met
           this weight loss target will have their LIRA 3mg treatment stopped but will still
           continue in the targeted prescribing pathway but will receive standard care only during
           the remainder of the study.

      Participants who fail to reach the pre-defined weight-loss targets to continue LIRA 3mg
      treatment, or who choose to stop receiving LIRA 3mg, will continue to be offered the standard
      care provided by the Tier 3 service. These participants will still attend the Clinical Review
      Visits but not the additional visits for participants who are still on LIRA 3mg (e.g. Weeks
      65 & 91) because these visits will not be relevant to them; visits at Weeks 65 and 91 are
      intended to provide a new prescription of LIRA 3mg and to discuss adherence and any side
      effects;; see Appendices 2 & 3).

      Participants will remain routinely in the Tier 3 service in-line with NICE guidance
      throughout the duration of the research study. Participants may be offered treatment options
      within the duration of the study, including bariatric surgery, as per NICE guidance and
      according to the decision of the local Tier 3 Multidisciplinary Team. Participants who have
      undergone bariatric surgery after randomisation will only be included in the intention to
      treat (ITT) analysis. This decision was made because the proportion of participants
      undergoing bariatric surgery is likely to be unbalanced between the treatment groups (i.e.
      more participants in the control group are expected to have bariatric surgery than in the
      targeted prescribing pathway treatment group), and thus weight loss in these individuals
      could unduly influence the study results. Participants who have been prescribed and start
      anti-obesity medication (such as Orlistat) will be ineligible for LIRA 3mg treatment.

      Control (Standard Care) Participants in the control group will follow the best medical care
      provided by the Tier 3 service at the relevant site. This typically involves dietary advice
      to reduce energy intake (and may include a period of partial or total meal replacement),
      accompanied - if available - by a physical activity programme, both supported by behavioural
      change techniques with regular professional contacts. The nature of the standard care will
      vary between the different Tier 3 services at each site, as this is a pragmatic 'real-world'
      study. Clinician input will include the medical assessment of participants for severe and
      complicated obesity and the prescription of anti-obesity drugs (such as Orlistat) as per
      local Tier 3 service policy. As with the LIRA 3mg group those patients taking
      antihypertensive or antidepressant medication will be assessed and it will be at the
      clinician's discretion as to whether these medications are changed. Participants will remain
      routinely in the Tier 3 service in-line with NICE guidance throughout the duration of the
      research study. Participants may be offered treatment options within the duration of the
      study, including bariatric surgery, as per NICE guidance and according to the decision of the
      local Tier 3 Multidisciplinary Team.
    
  