
    
      The overall objective of this project is to analyze physiological factors that impact immune
      response and effect of immunosuppression across different pediatric age groups, to develop
      age-appropriate medical and health care strategies that can improve graft survival and reduce
      complications in a pediatric and young adult population. There are 3 primary aims of this
      study:

      Aim 1: Develop age-appropriate calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) dosing for pediatric SOT patients:
      We hypothesize that physiologically-based (PB) modeling will enable personalized CNI dosing
      for infants, children and youth based on age, pharmacogenotype and immune maturity. Aim 1
      deliverables include 1) a personalized physiologically-based CNI dosing algorithm in SOT; 2)
      validation of pediatric sensitive immunosuppression monitoring tools and their therapeutic
      targets; and 3) validation of immunologic assays for assessing age-specific immune responses.
      We anticipate that personalized CNI dosing will result in early attainment and maintenance of
      therapeutic drug concentrations, reduce the frequency of out-of-range concentrations
      post-transplant, improve safety and efficacy of immunosuppression, and reduce dependence on
      therapeutic drug monitoring to guide drug dosing. Standardized assessment of immune function
      may also monitor immunosuppression more reliably and eventually reduce the need for invasive
      monitoring like biopsies.

      Aim 2: Develop risk prediction tools based on viral-host interactions that predispose young
      SOT and hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients to Epstein-Barr virus
      disorders/post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (EBV disorders/PTLD): We hypothesize
      that susceptibility to EBV disorders/PTLD is influenced by the interaction of high-risk EBV
      subtypes with host factors like age, immune maturation and intensity of immunosuppression. In
      the above context, "EBV disorders" refers to non-malignant EBV disease as well as sustained
      elevation of viral loads in the absence of PTLD. We will identify high-risk viral subtypes
      and age-related differences in host immunity that interact to increase susceptibility to EBV
      disorders/PTLD in young patients. Important clinical applications are: 1) knowledge of host
      susceptibility factors (age and immune maturation) at the time of transplant may assist
      choice of less intensive immunosuppression to reduce risk of developing EBV (e.g., avoidance
      of T cell depletion therapies, primary prevention) and promote use of EBV prophylaxis in at
      risk patients (secondary prevention); 2) an EBV genotype panel will be developed as a
      clinical tool for detecting high risk subtypes in patients with EBV. This will help identify
      patients exposed to EBV who should receive aggressive therapy for EBV and/or PTLD
      (personalized therapy). This innovative risk stratification will enable personalized
      immunosuppression strategies and strategies to prevent and treat EBV/PTLD.

      Aim 3: Develop health care systems strategies to enhance medication adherence in adolescents
      and young adults: Medication adherence is determined by factors at a variety of different
      "levels": patient-level (patient-, condition-, and therapy-related factors), "micro"-level
      (social factors and interactions with the care team), "meso"-level (organization and
      expertise of the healthcare team and care processes), and "macro"-level (high-level
      healthcare systems factors, including care and medication cost coverage, and overall care
      environment). We hypothesize that there are significant differences in modifiable meso- and
      macro-level systems factors between pediatric programs, between adult programs, and between
      pediatric and adult programs. Furthermore, we hypothesize that modifiable meso- and
      macro-level systems factors are independently associated with medication adherence. This aim
      has two primary objectives:

      Objective 1: To characterize differences between Canadian solid organ transplant programs in
      potentially modifiable meso- and macro-level systems factors.

      Objective 2: To identify potentially modifiable meso- and macro-level factors that are
      determinants of adherence, adjusting for potential confounders.
    
  