
    
      Adolescents with eating disorders have debilitating cognitive disturbances that impact on
      their social, educational and physical health. One cognitive trait that is found to form core
      cognitive disturbances in AN is superior working memory (WM). WM is the ability to ruminate
      on a cognitive strategy while attending to the details of another task, excluding
      non-relevant stimuli, and is linked to activation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC). By administering functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) we have recently found
      that females with AN have increased activation in the DLPFC and reduced appetitive brain
      responses when thinking about eating food shown in visual images. This suggests that the
      increased WM capacity in AN may serve to suppress food intake, but this has not yet been
      clarified. In line with this assumption, we have also shown that restraint of appetite in
      those with AN was linked to greater plasticity in the DLPFC. Furthermore, Transcranial
      Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) of the DLPFC reduces appetitive responses to food stimuli in
      adults with eating disorders. Conversely, we have shown that being obese is linked to reduced
      structure and abnormal function in the DLPFC, as well as reduced attentional control/WM
      performance. Therefore, it is likely that DLPFC-related WM function is associated with eating
      disorders, particularly cognitive restraint of appetite.

      It is likely that the interaction between appetitive brain regions and specific prefrontal
      cortex (PFC) cognitions determines whether an adolescent develops anorexia nervosa. We aim to
      provide neuropsychological and brain imaging measures showing how a specific cognitive
      function is linked to early-onset disordered eating behaviour, and we will do this before and
      after standard clinical treatment. We suggest that such understanding could enable school
      nurses to use the unique paradigm we use in our fMRI study, to detect illness before it
      damages the child's life and becomes difficult to treat.

      The study has now been increased to include genetic components to examine the genetic and
      epigenetic variation for genes found to be linked with eating disorders.
    
  