
    
      The term central sensitization (CS) was first used by Wolf in 1988 and was explained as the
      increase in pain sensitivity with the amplification of neuron-derived signals in the central
      nervous system. With the development of CS, a decrease in the pain threshold and an increase
      in generalized sensitivity occur. There is no method for the diagnosis of CS is accepted as a
      gold standard. Clinical scales and quantitative sensory testing (QST) is used for this
      purpose widely. In addition, the well-known scale used for the evaluation of CS is the
      Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI), developed by Mayer et.al in 2011 for detect CS in
      chronic pain patients. The use of CSI, which is more practical to use, is becoming widespread
      because QST takes time, is costly and requires experienced practitioners. The prevalence of
      chronic pain is reported as 30% in Europe and has an important place among diseases that
      cause disability worldwide. Until this time, the relationship between CS and many diseases
      that cause chronic pain has been revealed, and an increase in pain intensity, duration and
      prevalence has been detected in patients accompanied by CS. In addition to all these changes,
      the decrease in the treatment response of these patients makes the clinical management of
      individuals with pain sensitization even more difficult. Although the increase in the
      frequency of CS in patients with chronic pain is known, data on the incidence of this
      condition in various diseases with chronic pain is limited.In the study conducted by
      Roldan-Jimenez et al., the frequency of CS was mostly reported in patients with low back
      (37.8%) and neck pain (32.4%). Tanaka et al. reported higher rates of disability in patients
      with high CSI scores. Similarly, in this study, it was planned to show the relationship
      between CS and disability in patients with chronic musculoskeletal pain.
    
  