
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of motivational interview based on
      transtheoretical model to provide elderly with the exercise behavior.

      In this randomized controlled trial, research patterns with pre-test post-test experimental
      design have been used on control group and the intervention group. The population of our
      study consists of 1630 elderly people aged 65-74. This randomized controlled study took place
      in a Family Health Center in the central province of Yozgat between the years 2018 and 2019.

      The sample of the study consists of a total of 117 elderly intervention group (n=58) and
      control group (n=59) determined according to eligibility criterion and power analysis. The
      study population was randomly assigned to experimental group and control group after blocking
      some features. These characteristics are age (65-69, 70-74), gender (male-female) and
      exercise stages of change determined according to the exercise stage of change level short
      question form (pre-contemplation and contemplation).

      The data were gathered through face-to-face interview method at Family Health Center Nr. 5 by
      the researcher.

      The data of the intervention group is gathered as follows. The very first week (initial
      follow-up) pre-test was applied. (Personal information form, KATZ, PASE, TTM scales,
      height-weight and waist circumference measurement).

      The intervention group was given a pedometer and told to carry it for 1 week (the 1st week).
      The average number of weekly steps was calculated.

      Face-to-face motivational interviews were conducted in the 2nd week (the 2nd follow-up), the
      4th week (the 3rd follow-up), the 6th week (the 4th follow-up) the 8th week (the 5th
      follow-up).

      The intervention group was given a pedometer and told to carry it for 1 week (the 9th week).
      The average number of weekly steps was calculated.

      The 12th week (the 6th follow-up) mid test was applied. (Personal information form, KATZ,
      PASE, TTM scales, weight and waist circumference measurement).

      The intervention group was given a pedometer and told to carry it for 1 week (the 13th week).
      The average number of weekly steps was calculated.

      Motivational interview was done via phone call in the 16th (the 7th follow-up) and the 20th
      weeks (the 8th follow-up).

      Post test has been applied at the 24th week (ninth follow-up). (Personal information form,
      KATZ, PASE, TTM scales, weight and waist circumference measurement).

      The intervention group will be told to carry the pedometer for 1 week (the 25th week). The
      average number of weekly stephps was calculated.

      The data of the control group is gathered as follows. The very first week (initial follow-up)
      pre-test was applied. (Personal information form, KATZ, PASE, TTM scales, height-weight and
      waist circumference measurement).

      The control group was then given a pedometer and told to carry it for 1 week (the 2nd week).
      The average number of weekly steps was calculated.

      The 24th week (the 2nd follow-up) post test was applied. (Personal information form, KATZ,
      PASE, TTM scales, weight and waist circumference measurement).

      The control group has been told to carry the pedometer for 1 week (the 25th week). The
      average number of weekly steps was calculated.
    
  