
    
      Normally, cardiovascular function declines with age. Furthermore, cardiovascular function
      declines with immobility, promoting other adverse effects such as postural hypotension,
      impaired cardiac function, and thrombogenic events. Bed rest, a condition normally used in
      the management of many chronic pathologies in elderly people, leads to significant functional
      decline, reduction in physiologic reserve of most of the organ systems, including further
      cardiovascular decline. Fortunately, several studies have suggested interventions that may
      counteract immobility-induced cardiovascular dysfunction and ensure beneficial adaptations in
      the aging population. For example, passive mobilization of the limbs has been shown to
      improve cardiovascular function in bedridden oldest-old. However, the effect of passive
      mobilization on NO-mediated endothelial function have not been studied yet. Thus, the main
      aim of the study is to determine whether passive mobilization is an effective strategy to
      counteract endothelial dysfunction in bedridden oldest-old. For this purpose, bedridden
      individuals will be recruited and randomly assigned to two groups: one group will undergo
      passive mobilization treatment (PM) in addition to standard therapies, the other group (CTRL)
      will undergo standard therapies only. On the basis of preliminary data on a subgroup of ten
      participants, a sample of eighteen individuals will be allocated in each group so to reach a
      statistical power >0.80 and an alpha <0.05. The PM treatment will include knee
      flexion-extension and it will be performed for 30 minutes, 2 times a day, 5 days a week for 4
      weeks.

      Before, after the 4-week treatment, and 1 month after the end of the treatment NO-mediated
      endothelial function of all participants will be evaluated by means of flow-mediated dilation
      and passive limb movement tests.
    
  