
    
      In this study, aged 6-10 years, male, right hand dominant, diagnosed with ADHD, accepting to
      take part in the study and applying to the Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Department between
      October 1, 2018 - October 1, 2019 were included in the research group. A total of 106
      children with head trauma or known neurological disease, clinically diagnosed as comorbid tic
      disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, psychotic disorder, mood disorder, conduct disorder,
      mental retardation, or autism spectrum disorder, or children previously excluded from
      physical therapy program were evaluated according to the research method. As for the control
      group; 30 boys between 6-10 years of age with no mental symptoms described by their teachers
      or parents and showing healthy development were selected by convenience sampling method and
      snow ball methodHeight and weight measurements of all the children participated in the study
      were performed. The sociodemographic data form prepared by the researchers was completed by
      both the research and the control group families.

      In the sample, the Corners' Parent Scale- Revised Short Form (CPS-R:SF) was used to evaluate
      the severity of ADHD symptoms (Conners, 1997).

      The hand preferences of all participants in the research and control groups were evaluated
      with Edinburgh Handedness Inventory.

      Motor skills were evaluated with the 2nd Version of Bruininsky-Oseretsky Motor Competence
      Test (BOT-2). It is a standard test commonly used by physiotherapists to detect coarse and
      fine motor problems in children aged 4-21 years. It has both short and long form. The short
      form was used in our study. The short form of BOT-2 consists of 8 subtests: fine motor
      precision, fine motor integration, manual dexterity, bilateral coordination, balance, speed
      of movement and agility, upper extremity coordination and strength. Not only can the score of
      each subtest of the test be calculated separately but it can also be calculated as fine motor
      skill, gross motor skill, both fine and gross motor skill and total motor skill score.

      Hand skills were evaluated with the 9-Hole Peg Test. The nine-hole Peg Test is a quick,
      simple and manual skill test that is particularly sensitive to changes in upper extremity
      performance. The test material consists of nine small rods made of standard sizes and nine
      perforated boards into which they are placed. In our study, insertion and removal periods for
      both dominant and nondominant hands were recorded separately.

      Visual perception skills were evaluated with 3rd Version of Visual Perception Test without
      Motor Ability (MVPT-3). MVPT-3 is a fast, reliable test that tests visual perception without
      motor skills in children and adults (ages 4-65). The test consists of 65 questions and the
      first 40 questions were developed to test school-age children in terms of visual perception
      without motor skills as follows: visual discrimination (1-8), form constancy (9-13), visual
      memory-I (14-21), visual closure (22-34), visual differentiation (35-40). Total visual
      perception score and scores from each category were calculated separately. Pediatric Quality
      of Life Inventory Parent Form were filled by the parents of children in the research and
      control groups for quality of life. The scale has separate parent and child forms for the
      groups of 5-7 years, 8-12 years and 13-18 years. Scoring of the scale is done in 3 areas.
      Firstly, scale total score (STS) is calculated, and secondly, physical health total score
      (PHTS) is calculated. Thirdly, psychosocial health total score (PHTS) is calculated, which
      consists of calculating item scores evaluating emotional, social and school functionality. In
      the study, there are five groups: ADHD, ADHD + Specific learning disorders, ADHD +
      Oppositional defiant disorder, ADHD + Anxiety Disorder and children with typical development
      group.
    
  