
    
      This is an observational study, designed to assess the performance of a home pregnancy test.

      The study aims to recruit at total 120 volunteers, being approximately equal numbers of
      'pregnant' and not-pregnant' women. Volunteers will be recruited either via direct invitation
      or advertisement and will attend the study site for one visit lasting 30-40 minutes

      Written informed consent will be obtained from all volunteers prior to starting the study.

      All volunteers will be issues a unique study number on admission to the study. All data and
      samples collected will be anonymised throughout the study.

      Volunteers will be provided with one investigational home pregnancy test and instructions for
      use. They will be asked to conduct the test, following the product instructions to obtain a
      test result which will be recorded on the result sheet. Volunteers will be instructed the
      product is investigational and the results should not be relied upon to determine their
      pregnancy status.

      Study volunteers will then be interviewed by the study technician, with regards to their
      understanding of the product instructions and complete an ease of use questionnaire. The
      comprehension interview may be recorded.

      The study technician will then perform 2 further investigational home pregnancy tests on
      randomised urine standards and the volunteer will read the results.

      Finally, the study technician will test the volunteer's urine sample with a marketed
      pregnancy test and record these results on the results sheet. The results of this test will
      be used to provide the volunteer with her pregnancy status at the end of the study.

      Urine samples provided by the volunteers will be tested with the investigational HPT by an
      independent technician and also measured for hCG by quantitative immunoassay. Samples may
      also be measured for other hormones related to pregnancy and fertility.

      With participant permission, the samples may be retained frozen within the SPD BioBank and
      used for future product evaluation or research purposes.
    
  