
    
      The determination of arterial blood pressure is a basic monitoring measure during spinal
      anaesthesia in obstetrics for the operative delivery of the child via the caesarean section.
      Adequate arterial blood pressure is essential to ensure adequate placental perfusion,
      sufficient cerebral perfusion pressure of the mother and is the basis for any hemodynamic
      optimization to significantly improve patient outcome.

      Up to now, two standard methods for determining blood pressure have always been the
      oscillating non-invasive, intermittent blood pressure measurement (NIBP) and the invasive
      continuous blood pressure measurement (IBP). The NIBP derives blood pressure values using
      upper arm cuffs at defined intervals. As a result, no continuous measurement is possible and
      nerve damage and pain are risks of this method. The indication for the establishment of IBP
      is often not given due to potential side effects such as aneurysm formation, infections,
      thrombosis and circulatory impairment of the hand. The application of a novel non-invasive,
      patch-clamp-based continuous blood pressure measurement system (ClearSightTM, Edwards
      Lifesciences Corporation, Irvine, California, USA) promises to combine the advantages of
      NIBP, namely non-invasiveness and IBP, the continuous pressure measurement. So far, there
      have been no randomized, controlled trials for application. Spinal anesthesia is a widespread
      anaesthetic procedure for performing Caesarean sections. Within the clinical standard, an
      intermittent blood pressure measurement is used at intervals of 2 to 5 minutes. Continuous
      invasive blood pressure measurement is not a standard procedure.

      Standard procedure: The standard procedure corresponds to the SOPs of the Clinic for
      Anaesthesiology and intensive care medicine. After admission to the operating room, the
      patient is monitored by means of a 3-channel ECG and pulse oximetry. The NIBP measurement by
      means of an upper arm cuff is carried out intermittently with a measurement interval of 2
      minutes according to SOP (standard operating procedure) and is continued until the umbilical
      cord of the fetus is removed. Subsequently, a peripheral venous access is applied and 500 ml
      of full electrolyte solution are infused. Subsequently, the spinal anesthesia is applied in a
      seated position. Size-adapted 1.6 - 2.0 ml hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5%, 0.1 mg morphine and 5
      µg sufentanil are used. According to SOP, local skin infiltration with lidocaine 1% is
      carried out. After application of the spinal anaesthesia, the patient is positioned in a
      supine position with the operating table tilted 15° to the left. If the systolic blood
      pressure drops below 100 mmHg or by more than 20 % of the initial value, 100 µg phenylephrine
      is applied. After a sufficient entry into action (target height according to SOP TH4) the
      Caesarean section is performed. After birth, APGAR values are recorded after 1,5 and 10
      minutes, and umbilical cord blood gas analysis is performed.

      Study procedure: Randomisation of patients based on a randomisation list drawn up by an
      independent statistician in either NIBP or ClearSight group. In both groups, the
      above-mentioned standard procedure according to SOP and also the non-invasive continuous
      blood pressure measurement to improve blood pressure monitoring with the ClearSight? system,
      so that all patients are monitored by both monitoring systems. In the NIBP Group,
      anaesthetists are blinded against the ClearSight measurement. In the ClearSight group,
      anaesthetists are blinded against the NIBP measurement. Blinding is achieved by completely
      covering the measured values of the other method. (please describe in detail). The
      installation of the measuring sensors does not involve any risks for patients.
    
  