
    
      This study is a single institute prospective study with patients undergoing artificial
      urinary sphincter placement by the operating surgeon, Dr. Joshua Lohri at Charleston Area
      Medical Center in Charleston, WV. Any male patients with moderate to severe urinary
      incontinence who have been treated for prostate cancer (radical prostatectomy, External Beam
      Radiation therapy or brachytherapy, or Incontinence related to trans urethral resection of
      the prostate (TURP) or simple prostatectomy undergoing artificial urinary sphincter placement
      at Charleston Area Medical Center by Dr. Joshua Lohri, D.O. will be offered the chance to
      participate in this study. The investigators aim to enroll 25 patients, which is anticipate
      to be accrued within 3 years from the start of the study. Patients will be excluded if: 1)
      the have previously undergone artificial urinary sphincter placement and presents for
      revision or additional cuff placement, 2) has had combined artificial urinary sphincter and
      inflatable penile prosthesis placemen and 3) are a poor candidate for early activation due to
      poor condition at presentation or signs of infection.

      All patients agreeing to participate will have the urinary sphincter activated 3 weeks after
      surgery. If there are patients that later choose not to have early activation or are found to
      be poor candidates for three week activation based upon post op exam, the investigator will
      proceed with activation at a 4-6 week time period. While there is no comparison group in the
      study, patient satisfaction and adverse events for study patients will be compared to
      historical literature.

      Before the procedure is performed all eligible patients will be informed about the study at
      the regularly scheduled pre-operative office visit and if the patient would like to
      participate will be offered to sign the consent document. The participant will receive a copy
      of the signed consent form and be asked to an SF-8 quality of life survey and Incontinence
      Impact Questionnaire. Once consented, the patient will undergo the procedure without any
      changes to the normal routine. The patient's device will be deactivated at the conclusion of
      the procedure.

      After the procedure, the patient will be discharged post-operatively (same day) and follow-up
      will be arranged in 3 weeks to activate the device (up to 3 weeks and 3 days after the
      procedure) which includes a post-operative evaluation of incisions, degree of bruising,
      tissue induration, tenderness and accessibility of the pump. If these factors are acceptable
      and pump mechanics are normal, the artificial sphincter will be activated and the patient
      will be educated on its proper use. Additional follow up will include the regular 6 week
      visit, a visit at 3 months, and then every 6 months for a total of 1 year unless issues arise
      that necessitates deviation. At each visit, patients will complete the Incontinence Impact
      Questionnaire and the SF-8 quality of life survey.
    
  