
    
      Patients who present with metastatic liver disease following treatment of the primary (termed
      metachronous disease) receive care focused on this new metastatic disease. In contrast, the
      management of patients who present with colorectal cancer and concurrent liver metastases
      (synchronous metastasis) is more complex. These patients may have less favourable cancer
      biology and thus may be less likely to become long-term survivors. Logically, the management
      of patients with colorectal cancer with synchronous metastases can be dichotomised into those
      with hepatic disease together with extra-hepatic metastatic disease and those with
      liver-limited metastatic disease. In the first category, systemic chemotherapy is the
      mainstay of treatment advocated in current guidelines for patients with advanced multi-site
      metastatic (liver and systemic metastatic) disease of colorectal cancer origin.

      The second category of patients with liver-limited synchronous metastases represents a
      complex and common clinical management problem. Traditional management (referred to variously
      as the classical or staged approach) comprised resection of the colorectal primary tumour
      followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with liver resection being undertaken as a subsequent
      operation. Advances in surgery, anaesthesia and critical care have made two alternative
      options feasible for patients with synchronous disease. The first is synchronous resection of
      the liver metastases and the colorectal primary. This has the attraction of removing the
      macroscopic tumour burden with a single operation. However, the morbidity of complex liver
      resection combined with major bowel resection may be considerable and there is some evidence
      of a negative effect on progression-free survival. The second option in the management of
      synchronous disease is resection of the liver metastatic disease as the first step, termed
      the reverse or liver-first approach. Liver-first surgery to manage synchronous colorectal
      cancer and liver metastatic disease has become more widely utilised because of oncological
      and technical developments. Oncologically, evidence of improved outcome in locally advanced
      rectal cancer treated by pre-operative chemo-radiotherapy prior to surgical resection creates
      a potential "window" in which liver resection may be undertaken. The technical development of
      colonic stenting permits symptoms associated with rectal cancer such as partial obstruction
      to be palliated without recourse to urgent bowel surgery. The liver-first strategy may be
      oncologically advantageous if liver metastatic disease rather than the primary cancer gives
      rise to systemic metastasis - although this is not established. A further potentially
      important benefit of the liver-first approach is that pelvic surgery may be either avoided or
      less extensive in patients with rectal tumours with a complete endoscopic, radiological and
      clinical response to chemo-radiotherapy.

      Currently, evidence is inadequate to inform the selection of treatment for patients with
      colorectal cancer with synchronous liver-limited hepatic metastases. Specifically, in these
      patients, optimal pathways are not defined and there is a dearth of prospectively recorded
      cohort- defining factors influencing treatment selection or outcome. Given the treatment
      permutations to be understood, an inception cohort study would allow us to understand patient
      outcomes as a function of clinical decisions and patient/disease characteristics. By limiting
      care available to patients to a common evidence-informed pathway, sources of treatment
      variation can be minimised and, within a prospective design, data quality be optimised with
      respect to patient and treatment characteristics.

      Following informed consent and recruitment, data will be collected on patients with
      colorectal cancer with liver-limited hepatic metastases including patient variables,
      treatment selection, factors influencing treatment, treatment-related morbidity and outcome.
      Regression modelling of findings will permit influences of patient and treatment factors upon
      outcomes to be quantified. Patterns of clinical decision making will help to understand the
      characteristics of patients for whom equipoise exists or is absent.
    
  