
    
      Cardiorespiratory arrest is associated with high mortality and morbidity rates. The direct
      consequence of a cardio-circulatory arrest is the absence of blood flow allowing oxygenation
      of the organs and consequently formation of ischemic lesions. Anoxic cerebral lesions are
      common in the aftermath of a cardiac arrest and often lead to the death of patients when
      active therapies are stopped after a multimodal prognostication that indicates that a poor
      outcome is very likely.

      It is of paramount importance to optimize the sensitivity of the prognostication strategy in
      detecting good neurological outcome. A multimodal approach to the prognostic assessment is
      essential, and must include at least clinical examination, electrophysiology exploration
      (electroencephalography and/or evoked potentials) and biomarker analysis.

      Although the most reliable predictors did not give false positives in most studies, none of
      them, considered individually, can establish an unfavorable prognosis with an absolute degree
      of certitude. For these reasons it is interesting to evaluate new prognostication tools.

      The videopupillometry allows precise, reproducible and repeated measurement of changes in
      pupil diameter in response to a painful or a luminous stimulus. Pupillary pain reflex
      analysis is usually used to assess the degree of analgesia in a non-communicative patient
      during general anesthesia and neuromuscular blockade. The PPI score is determined at the
      bedside by recording pupillary dilatation after a calibrated and incremented nociceptive
      stimulus (electrical current between 5 and 60mA) applied to a skin metamere with two
      electrodes.

      Automated pupillometry measurement has been recently developed to help support
      prognostication, with a quantitative pupillary light reflex measurement. The aim of this
      study is to evaluate the Pupillary Pain Index in the neurological prognosis after a cardiac
      arrest by correlating the PPI at 48h from the patient's arrival to the CPC score at 3 months.
    
  