
    
      Anorexia nervosa is a disorder that causes people to maintain an unhealthily low body weight,
      often through eating too little or exercising too much. Treatment for anorexia nervosa often
      begins with a supervised program for raising a person's weight to a healthy level. This study
      will monitor activity levels during inpatient treatment and for 1 year after hospital
      discharge in order to determine the impact of physical activity on weight gain during
      anorexia treatment.

      Participation in this study will last until 1 year after participants are discharged from
      inpatient treatment for anorexia nervosa. Discharge is based on each person's progression in
      treatment and may vary among participants. During the study, participants will have their
      activity monitored two or three times-at low weight, at 90% of ideal body weight (IBW), and,
      if the participant is living near the study clinic, within 6 weeks after discharge from the
      hospital. Two monitoring devices will be attached to participants continuously for 48 hours
      for the first two assessments and for 72 hours for the third. The first device is a SenseWear
      armband, which is a wireless monitor strapped to the back of the upper arm that measures body
      movement and body temperature. The second is an Intelligent Device for Energy Expenditure and
      Activity (IDEEA) monitor, which consists of five sensors that will be taped to each
      participant's feet, thighs, and chest. The device measures activity levels and energy
      expenditure. Participants will complete a blood draw within 1 week of completing activity
      monitoring assessments. Participants will also complete a computer "work" task at two time
      points-at 75% of IBW and at 90% of IBW. This task will last 40 minutes and will involve
      tapping a keyboard in order to earn rewards. Adult participants will also complete a dual
      X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) test to assess body composition when 90% IBW is reached.

      Follow-up assessments will occur 1, 2, 4, and 8 months after discharge. These will involve a
      phone call or in-person visit in which health, body weight, and eating disorder symptoms are
      discussed. One year after discharge, participants will attend an in-person assessment that
      will involve completing questionnaires and an interview. Healthy participants will be
      recruited as a control group, and these participants will complete one session of activity
      monitoring, one blood draw, and self-rating forms without follow-up measurements.
    
  