
    
      Biomarkers to identify responder It is known that about one fifth of patients have a systolic
      BP reduction less than 10 mmHg after the renal denervation, and the failure of the HTN-3
      study may be partly attributable to this point. Therefore, it is critical to identify a
      biomarker in order to screen patients who would benefit from this catheter-based therapy.
      Some investigators indicated that impaired cardiac baroreflex sensitivity may predict
      response to renal denervation therapy [13]. In addition, we also have several other
      candidates.

        1. Arterial stiffness As indicated by Mitchell GF, it was proven that, in the Framingham
           study, arterial stiffness is a major contributor to the onset and development of high
           BP, but not the consequence [14]. Furthermore, from a physiological viewpoint,
           age-related arterial remodeling was closely associated with elevation in sympathetic
           activity [15], and it was reported that renal denervation lead to a decrease in
           patients' arterial stiffness [16]. However, it remains unclear whether patients with
           severe arterial stiffening would better benefit from this treatment.

        2. Endocrinic biomarker Theoretically, renal denervation decreased patients' BP mainly
           through decreasing local and systematical sympathetic tone and
           renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAS) activity. However, it remains unclear if patients
           with high renin level or other biomarkers would have improved response from this novel
           therapy.

      Other BP-related parameters Based on the published data from the HTN-1/2 and considering the
      worldwide marketing of this catheter-based device, clinical investigations need to be
      continued and not limited to efficacy on BP reduction or its safety. Several BP-related
      parameters are of great interest to be investigated with the novel denervation therapy.

        1. Blood pressure variability In 2010, Rothwell and colleagues indicated that increased BP
           variability was significantly associated with cardiovascular mortality and stroke [17].
           We found in the XCELLENT study that, rather than other antihypertensive agents,
           amlodipine was the only agent significantly decreasing patients' BP variability in both
           24-hour and beat-to-beat settings, partly through ameliorating the autonomic nervous
           system (ANS) [18,19]. Renal denervation therapy is to denervate sympathetic nerve
           surrounding bilateral renal arteries by radiofrequency, so theoretically, this treatment
           many potentially have impact on patient's ANS, and further on patients' BP variability.
           With the development of 24-hour aortic ABPM named MOBIL-O-GRAPH, which is now
           commercially available and validated by invasive methods [20], we may investigate the
           impact of renal denervation not only on 24-hour brachial BP variability but also on
           24-hour aortic BP variability.

        2. Aortic blood pressure Several investigations indicated the superiority of central BP to
           brachial BP in the association with target organ damage [21,22], so it is interesting to
           investigate the efficacy of renal denervation not only on brachial BP but also on
           central BP. Some investigations indicated that renal denervation also reduced patients'
           aortic BP and augmentation index [15,23]. However, with the development of 24-hour
           aortic ABPM as mentioned before, it makes more sense to investigate the influence of
           renal denervation on ambulatory aortic BP.

        3. Asymptomatic target organ damage As indicated by the HTN-1/2, even evaluated by 24-hour
           ABPM, the renal denervation therapy decreased patients' BP by 20/12 mmHg for
           systolic/diastolic BP, respectively [6]. Many asymptomatic target organ damages (TOD)
           were actually BP-related, so if this novel treatment would have impact on patients' TOD,
           including pulse wave velocity (PWV), echocardiograph-diagnosed and
           electrocardiograph-diagnosed left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), carotid intima-media
           thickness (IMT) and plaque, and microalbuminuria, is still unknown, or even involving
           some not established target organ damage, such as cardiac remodeling or left ventricular
           diastolic dysfunction. Some investigators indicted the effect of renal denervation on
           PWV [16], left ventricular mass and diastolic dysfunction [24], but a systematic
           investigation on the efficacy of renal denervation on those BP-related target organ
           damage is still warranted.

      REFERENCE 13. Zuern CS, Eick C, Rizas KD, Bauer S, Langer H, Gawaz M, Bauer A. Impaired
      cardiac baroreflex sensitivity predicts response to renal sympathetic denervation in patients
      with resistant hypertension. J Am Coll Cardiol 2013. In press.

      14. Kaess BM, Rong J, Larson MG, Hamburg NM, Vita JA, Levy D, Benjamin EJ, Vasan RS, Mitchell
      GF. Aortic stiffness, blood pressure progression, and incident hypertension. JAMA 2012; 308:
      875-881.

      15. Dinenno FA, Jones PP, Seals DR, Tanaka H. Age-associated arterial wall thickening is
      related to elevations in sympathetic activity in healthy humans. Am J Physiol Heart Circ
      Physiol 2000; 278: H1205-H1210.

      16. Brandt MC, Reda S, Mahfoud F, Lenski M, Böhm M, Hoppe UC. Effects of renal sympathetic
      denervation on arterial stiffness and central hemodynamics in patients with resistant
      hypertension. J Am Coll Cardiol 2012; 60: 1956-1965.

      17. Rothwell PM, Howard SC, Dolan E, O'Brien E, Dobson JE, Dahlöf B, Sever PS, Poulter NR.
      Prognostic significance of visit-to-visit variability, maximum systolic blood pressure, and
      episodic hypertension. Lancet 2010; 375: 895-905.

      18. Zhang Y, Agnoletti D, Blacher J, Safar ME. Effect of antihypertensive agents on blood
      pressure variability: the X-CELLENT study. Hypertension 2011; 58: 155-160.

      19. Zhang Y, Agnoletti D, Blacher J, Safar ME. Blood pressure variability in relation to
      autonomic nervous system dysregulation: the X-CELLENT study. Hypertens Res 2012; 35: 399-403.

      20. Weber T, Wassertheurer S, Rammer M, Maurer E, Hametner B, Mayer CC, Kropf J, Eber B.
      Validation of a brachial cuff-based method for estimating central systolic blood pressure.
      Hypertension 2011; 58: 825-832.

      21. Zhang Y, Li Y, Ding FH, Sheng CS, Huang QF, Wang JG. Cardiac structure and function in
      relation to central blood pressure components in Chinese. J Hypertens 2011; 29: 2462-2468.

      22. Roman MJ, Okin PM, Kizer JR, Lee ET, Howard BV, Devereux RB. Relations of central and
      brachial blood pressure to left ventricular hypertrophy and geometry: the Strong Heart Study.
      J Hypertens 2010; 28: 384-388.

      23. Hering D, Lambert EA, Marusic P, Ika-Sari C, Walton AS, Krum H, Sobotka PA, Mahfoud F,
      Böhm M, Lambert GW, Esler MD, Schlaich MP. Renal nerve ablation reduces augmentation index in
      patients with resistant hypertension. J Hypertens 2013; 31: 1893-1900.

      24. Brandt MC, Mahfoud F, Reda S, Schirmer SH, Erdmann E, Bohm M, Hoppe UC. Renal sympathetic
      denervation reduces left ventricular hypertrophy and improves cardiac function in patients
      with resistant hypertension. J Am Coll Cardiol 2012; 59: 901-909.
    
  