
    
      Diverticulosis and diverticular disease present a high prevalence rate in the world
      population, especially in the Western world. Diverticulosis of the colon is an extremely
      common condition in industrialized countries and its prevalence rate increases with age, and
      exceeds 60% in patients aged over eighty. Although the course of diverticulosis is normally
      free of symptoms and complications, about 15% of patients develop symptoms often
      undistinguishable from those of the irritable bowel syndrome, such as abdominal pain, bowel
      disorders and bloating. About 5% of patients with diverticular disease develop an episode of
      uncomplicated acute diverticulitis with abdominal symptoms accompanied in some cases by
      systemic symptoms, such as fever or malaise and laboratory evidence of activation of the
      inflammatory process. In a minority of these cases, the patient suffers major complications
      such as the development of abscesses, fistulae, haemorrhage or stenosis (1).

      The pathogenesis of diverticulosis and diverticular disease remains unclear. Genetic
      predisposition, risk factors (2), relationships with the irritable bowel syndrome (3-5), a
      low-fibre diet, involvement of intestinal microbiota and the mucosal immune activation (6-7)
      remain elements whose significance is yet to be confirmed. The management, medical and
      surgical approach and the prevention of relapses of diverticular disease remain above all
      empirical and supported by few controlled clinical studies (8-9). This scenario of
      uncertainty may result in waste and diagnostic/therapeutic pathways not always suitable for a
      disease with such a high prevalence rate. On the basis of these considerations, there is a
      need to collect systematic information useful for determining aetiopathogenetic aspects and
      outcomes with greater accuracy.

      OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY

      The purpose of the study is to structure a national register on an IT platform useful for
      determining:

        1. The clinical aspects of diverticulosis/ diverticular disease

        2. The risk factors of diverticulosis/ diverticular disease

        3. The risk of complications of diverticular disease and the factors of risk and protection
           against complications.

        4. The management of medical and surgical treatments
    
  