
    
      Type: Randomized controlled trial

      Selection of Patients: All pregnant women, undergoing a primary (their first) cesarean
      delivery at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital will be offered randomization regardless of
      indication for cesarean delivery. Patients will be excluded from the study if they have a
      history of a previous cesarean delivery, history of a previous Pfannensteil skin incision for
      an indication other than for a cesarean delivery (i.e. myomectomy, laparotomy), or a planned
      vertical skin incision prior to randomization.

      Randomization:

      Patients will be randomized to skin closure with either the standard staples or the Insorb™
      absorbable staple using a computer-generated random number sequence in blocks of six and ten.
      Allocation will be concealed in opaque, sealed study envelopes that are held on labor and
      delivery until after consent is obtained. Patients will not be masked as to the type of
      stapler used however, the investigator obtaining outcome data at six months will be masked.

      Procedure:

      The cesarean delivery should be performed in the usual fashion according to the surgeon's
      preference.

      We recommend:

        -  Skin is prepped with a suitable antibacterial agent

        -  Appropriate prophylactic antibiotics

        -  Bladder flap should not be routinely created or closed

        -  Uterus may be closed in 1 or 2 layers

        -  Peritoneum should not be routinely closed

        -  Skin wound should be irrigated after fascia closure

        -  Subcutaneous drains or sutures at surgeon's discretion

        -  Steri-strips will be placed prior to dressing placement in the OR

        -  Dressing removal on POD #1

        -  Metal staple removal prior to discharge from hospital preferred, but ultimately up to
           surgeon's discretion

      Skin incisions will be closed with the assigned stapling device. Addison tissue forceps will
      be used to evert the skin edges. The recommended distance between staples is 8 to 10mm;
      however this can be altered at the discretion of the operating physician.

      Follow Up:

      The subject's age, race, gravidity, parity, reported weight, indication for cesarean
      delivery, medical co-morbidity, delivery associated complications and findings, charted pain
      medication and clinic status will be assessed by chart review. Pain, time of placement,
      patient satisfaction, and cosmetic outcome will be assessed by data sheets filled out by the
      OR staff, physicians, and patients.
    
  