
    
      -  Type of trial: Open label

        -  Study population: Female patients with androgenetic alopecia (FPHL)

        -  Phase: II

        -  Number of study arms: Single-arm

        -  Number of centers: Single center

        -  Name of study agent: Hairstetics™ hair anchoring system

        -  Changes in scheduling: maximal number of implants may not be modified throughout the
           trial.

      ENDPOINTS

      Primary Endpoint:

      Percent of subjects with at least 70% of the hair extensions remaining in place at the
      6-month follow-up visit.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  Proportion of hair extensions remaining at place at the different visits.

        -  Subject aesthetic satisfaction based on a satisfaction questionnaire (on a scale of
           1-10).

        -  Investigator aesthetic satisfaction based on a satisfaction questionnaire on a scale of
           1-10).

        -  Pain rating during procedure, based on a visual analogue numeric pain rating scale (on a
           scale of 0-10).

      Exploratory Endpoints:

        -  Ease of use, based on a user questionnaire responses (on a scale of 1-10).

        -  Implant retrieval rate.

      Safety Endpoints:

      Adverse events both expected and unexpected, related or unrelated to study device or
      procedure, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.03.

      STUDY PROCEDURE - After signing informed consent, patients will be screened for study
      eligibility by assessment of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Screening procedures will
      include collection of demographic data, medical history, physical examination, vital signs,
      and laboratory evaluations.

      Unless the patient's participation in the trial is terminated, subjects will then be
      implanted with Hairstetics™ anchoring system cartridges holding up to a total of 360 of the
      Hairstetics™ prosthetic hair units. Complete blood count (CBC), biochemistry and coagulation
      panel and a quantitative β-HCG, as specified in the eligibility criteria, will be required
      before treatment and the test requirements specified in the inclusion criteria must be met.

      Patients will be followed a week after the study implantation procedure, to ensure proper
      monitoring of safety events.

      Hair extensions will be attached four weeks after the implantation. Patients will be followed
      at 3 and 6 months after the attachment of hair extensions.

      This protocol will allow excision of implants.

      This protocol does not provide arrangements for long-term follow-up of study participants
      beyond primary endpoint.

      SUBJECT POPULATION - Female patients with androgenetic alopecia (female pattern hair loss;
      (FPHL))

      STUDY DURATION - 13 months.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS - General -

      No separate Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) document is planned. Nevertheless, if during the
      study, modifications to the statistical considerations will be deemed necessary, a SAP may be
      issued.

      The study is planned as a prospective, single-arm study to assess safety and preliminary
      efficacy data on the treatment of female subjects affected with androgenetic alopecia (FPHL)
      with the Hairstetics™ anchoring system. The analysis of the endpoints is descriptive in
      nature; no formal statistical hypotheses will be tested.

      Primary Endpoint:

      The number and proportion of subjects with at least 70% of the hair extensions remaining in
      place at the 6-month follow-up visit, will be presented.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      The proportion of hair extensions remaining in place at the different visit will be presented
      in a tabular form.

      The aesthetic satisfaction as assessed by the subjects and the investigators will be
      presented in a tabular form by visit, once as continuous variables, and once as categorical
      variables.

      The pain during the procedure will be presented in a tabular form, once as continuous
      variable, and once as categorical variable.

      Exploratory analyses:

      The ease of use will be presented in the same manner as the pain. The number and proportion
      of subjects for whom the implants are removed will be presented in a tabular form.

      Safety endpoint:

      The cumulative incidence (and 95% CI) of adverse events observed during procedure and
      throughout the follow-up period, will be presented in tabular format. A detailed list of all
      adverse events will be presented. The adverse event rate will be compiled with respect to
      seriousness, severity, and relationship to procedure and device. In addition, listings of all
      safety measures will be produced.

      Baseline descriptive statistics:

      Demographic, medical and clinical history variables will be tabulated. Continuous variables
      will be summarized by a mean, standard deviation, minimum, median and maximum, and
      categorical variables by a count and percentage.

      Interim analysis:

      No interim analysis is planned for efficacy and/or safety review.

      Sample size:

      No formal sample size calculations were performed. A sample size of ten subjects will provide
      safety and performance preliminary assessment.
    
  