
    
      1. Primary research question Does Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) alter the fracture
           repair process?

        2. Aim To establish whether HIV is a risk factor for the development of delayed bone union
           or nonunion following a fracture.

        3. Study

             1. Setting Orthopaedic and Trauma Department, Groote Schuur Hospital (GSH), Cape Town,
                South Africa.

             2. Study design Case-cohort study of patients undergoing fracture surgery at GSH, Cape
                Town, South Africa.

             3. Study population Adult patients > 18 years with fresh (within 2 weeks of injury),
                closed and open, tibia and femur fractures who undergo intramedullary (IM) nailing
                for fracture fixation.

             4. Study summary Adult patients > 18 years with fresh (within 2 weeks of injury),
                closed and open, tibia and femur fractures who undergo intramedullary (IM) nailing
                for fracture fixation will be potentially eligible for inclusion in the study.
                Participants will undergo a baseline questionnaire, assessment of their HIV status
                and measurement of their bone mineral density (BMD) using a Dual Energy X-ray
                Absorbometry (DEXA) Heel Scanner.

      Participants will be followed up at 2 weeks, and 3, 6 and 12 months. X-rays will be performed
      at 3, 6 and 12 months. Bone healing will be assessed using a validated X-ray scoring system -
      the Radiological Union Scoring system for the Tibia (RUST scoring system).(19), (20) An
      independent observer blinded to HIV status will assess radiological fracture union.
      Participants will be recruited over 24 months.

      All adult patients treated at GSH with IM nailing of the tibia or femur and develop delayed
      bone union at 6 month follow up will be considered cases. Adult patients who show evidence of
      radiological union at 6 months or less will be considered controls.
    
  