
    
      Crohn's disease is characterized by inflammation and ulceration of the small intestine and
      colon. Patients commonly experience abdominal pain, diarrhea，malnutrition and malaise which
      result in decreased quality of life and an increased risk of chronic disability and
      unemployment. Surgical resection is required in approximately 70% of the patients at some
      time. However, recurrence of the disease after operation occurs in the majority of patients
      and is a serious limitation of surgical management. Patients' quality of life is often
      severely diminished. Currently available therapeutic options for the maintenance of remission
      in Crohn's disease are inadequate. A clear need exists for well-tolerated drugs that can
      reliably reduce the risk of a disease relapse.

      AZA is classical immunomodulator,often applied to hematologic diseases and immune-related
      diseases,also the most commonly used drug in the maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease,
      it is indicated in steroid resistant or dependent patients, in those whose frequency of
      relapse is >1 per year, in patients after induction of remission with IFX, and in patients
      whose remission were induced by surgical resection. However, AZA may cause some adverse
      effects,the most serious adverse effect is leucopenia, which can develop suddenly and
      unpredictably, though it is rare (around 3%).

      T2 is a chloroform/methanol extract Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TWHF), the traditional
      Chinese medicine,used in rheumatoid arthritis and nephritis. It has both immunomodulatory and
      anti-inflammatory activities.Our previous animal studies have revealed that the major
      component of T2, triptolide, could prevent the development of chronic colitis in
      interleukin-10 deficient mice. The phase I clinical trial in our institute also demonstrated
      that T2, or combined with enteral nutrition, is efficient for induction of remission in
      patients with active Crohn's disease.The common adverse effects of T2 are leucopenia,liver
      renal toxicity,oligospermia and amenorrhea.
    
  