
    
      In Mexico, cervical cancer (CC) is the second most frequent cause of death among women, with
      a mortality rate of 4000 women/year. Concerning the treatment of these patients, there is
      evidence about the benefit of addition of chemotherapy to radiotherapy in patients with
      locally advanced CC, with an absolute benefit of 10% in overall survival and a significant
      reduction in local recurrence. Cisplatin is currently the standard treatment for CC. Evidence
      supports that the benefit of chemotherapy is achieved in those patients who receive at least
      3 cycles of cisplatin at a dosage of 40mg/m2 weekly. The side effects of cisplatin include
      nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity, nausea and vomiting, ototoxicity, electrolyte disturbance, and
      hemolytic anemia. For this reason, the choice of using cisplatin as a radiosensitizer
      requires careful consideration of the renal function of the patient, prior to the initiation
      of treatment. The glomerular filtration rate deteriorates with age and many patients have
      comorbid medical illnesses that further compromise the kidney. Gemcitabine has been tested as
      a single agent in CC for its radiosensitizing properties. Clinical profit has been reported
      along with reasonable tolerance to gemcitabine during radiotherapy. So it can be considered a
      good alternative treatment for the management of patients with ureteral obstruction and
      possible renal failure. Even though gemcitabine is well tolerated, the dosage for these
      patients should be considered with caution, since a specific dosage has not yet been
      recommended for cancer patients with renal dysfunction.

      Our aim is to evaluate the safety of chemo-radiotherapy (QT-RT) concomitant with gemcitabine
      in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer IB2-IVA and renal deterioration. Our
      particular objectives are the following:

        1. Evaluate the renal function before, during and after treatment with QT-RT concomitant
           with gemcitabine.

        2. Assess the safety of concomitant QT-RT with gemcitabine, according to the common
           toxicity criteria in CTCEA v4.0.

        3. Determine the objective and clinical response rate after treatment with QT-RT
           concomitant with gemcitabine.

        4. Determine the incidence of percutaneous nephrostomy procedure.

        5. Evaluate the clinical and cabinet criteria established by the protocol for the
           application of percutaneous nephrostomy or double J catheter and its impact on renal
           function.

        6. Evaluate the patients' quality of life.

        7. Determine the frequency of complications during and after treatment with QT-RT
           concomitant with gemcitabine.

      Our aim is based on the following hypothesis. Patients with locally advanced CC IB2-IVA and
      renal dysfunction, that receive concomitant QT-RT with gemcitabine, tolerate the combination
      with a glomerular filtration rate of >60ml/min/1.73m2, show limited toxicity (Grade l-lll)
      and a response rate of at least 70%.

      Methods.

      Study design. It is a Phase II clinical trial, open, single-arm, national, nonrandomized,
      single-center; to evaluate the safety of gemcitabine in patients with locally advanced CC
      (IB2-IVA) and renal dysfunction, referring to the National Institute of Cancer in Mexico
      (INCAN). 18 patients will be included, with cervical malignant tumors of epithelial origin in
      the neck of the uterus, with renal impairment; candidates for QT-RT. Recruitment of patients
      will be performed in the first 12 months, with a follow up of 12 months, including 3 patients
      per month, to complete the total sample in one year (2017-2018).

      Treatment. Based on treatment evidence the best dosage of gemcitabine in patients with
      adequate renal function is 300 mg/m2, prepared in 0.5 liters of sodium chloride 0.9%, IV
      administered in 30 minutes weekly for a maximum of 6 weeks, starting in the first week of
      radiotherapy or as soon as the blood count has recovered after blood transfusion. In our
      study design, patients will receive concomitant radiotherapy using an external beam releasing
      40-50.4 Gy in 20-28 fractions: 1.8 Gy/day for 5 days/week, during 4 to 6 weeks. Intracavitary
      brachytherapy will be added to reach a total EQD2 dosage (α/β=10) of 78-86 Gy. In case
      retroperitoneal or para-aortic lymphnodes appear, patients will be treated with extended
      fields of radiotherapy at conventional doses. Dose will be adjusted up to 75% of the complete
      dosage in case of grade 3 (G3) leucopenia, G3 neutropenia, G3 thrombocytopenia, G3 diarrhea,
      radioepithelitis, or other G3 non hematological toxicity.

      In case toxicity is not resolved within a week, treatment application may be delayed up to
      two weeks. If toxicity persists, subsequent doses will be suspended and the patient will
      receive only radiation therapy. Acute toxicity will be evaluated according to CTCAE (v. 4.03)
      toxicity criteria. When possible, chemotherapy treatment will coincide with radiotherapy. We
      will make every reasonable effort to ensure that radiotherapy treatment continues without
      interruption. Use of colony stimulating factor is allowed at the discretion of the
      researcher, it should not be administered within 24 hours prior or after treatment with
      chemotherapy. During each cycle, in all cases, creatinine clearance will be measured.

      When an anaphylaxis or hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, gemcitabine infusion will be
      immediately stopped and replaced by saline solution. A physical examination including vital
      signs will be performed every 15 minutes, until the the patient's condition improves. Airways
      will be kept free. If a local reaction occurs (hives and angioneurotic edema), epinephrine
      and diphenhydramine should be administered. In case of bronchospasm, epinephrine,
      diphenhydramine, hydrocortisone, methylprednisolone and oxygen will be administered. In case
      of fever, antipyretic maneuvers will be performed and if the patient presents trembling,
      dipyrone will be administered. Emergency treatment will be evaluated and individualized by
      the immediate attention medic, who will administer the treatment that he deems pertinent to
      stabilize the patient.

      The administration of other drugs will be performed if the physician considers it
      appropriate, however patients will not receive any other anti-cancer therapy under research,
      while participating in this study.

      Sample size calculation. A sample space of 18 patients will be included if prior consent is
      acquired and if they meet the inclusion criteria.

      This study will consider patient replacement in the following situation: if an adverse event
      occurs that prevents the patient to start the treatment previously described in the protocol
      after she has signed the informed consent.

      Statistical analysis. A univariate analysis will be performed to describe the study
      population. Descriptive statistics will be used to obtain measures of central tendency and
      dispersion, as well as frequency of distribution for qualitative variables. A Bivariate
      analysis will be performed to observe the influence among variables. Kruskal-Walliss test
      will be used to evaluate variables of interest for different time points, before, during and
      after treatment. To assess differences in clinical response, we will use Zarah Fisher's exact
      test for categorical variables, and Mann-Whitney U test for quantitative variables. All
      confidence intervals will be constructed with a confidence of 95% (α=0.05). The
      interpretation of the study results will be responsibility of researchers. An interim
      analysis and a final report are planned; the first analysis will be made once the first 17
      patients are included, and the final analysis is planned at 12 months after the last patient
      is included. Data processing and analysis will be performed with the SPSS package (version
      19.0®) for Microsoft.

      Safety analysis. Safety will be assessed in all patients who have received at least one
      chemotherapy application. To determine the safety of gemcitabine the following will be
      evaluated: to assess the safety of renal function, glomerular filtration rate will be
      evaluated; to assess systemic safety, number of required blood transfusions, clinical adverse
      events (including laboratory abnormalities), severity of each adverse event according to the
      toxicity criteria of CTCEA version 4.0, complications presented, and chronic toxicity
      according to RTOG criteria (Acute Radiation Morbidity Scoring Criteria). These will be
      evaluated 3 months after completing concomitant QT/RT treatment, in follow-up visits.

      Procedures.

        -  Patients inclusion. Patients may start treatment within 21 days after being enrolled in
           the study. During the first seven days prior to the inclusion of the patients in the
           study, clinical history, complete physical examination including vital signs, weight,
           and general condition according to the ECOG scale, will be performed. Laboratory data
           (hematic biometry, serum electrolytes, glucose, serum creatinine, BUN, arterial blood
           gas, liver function enzymes, general urine test, urine culture, creatinine clearance in
           24 hours, pregnancy test and HIV), will be measured within the first 14 days, prior to
           inclusion. Serum Cystatin C and urine albumin will also be determined at the National
           Institute of Cardiology in Mexico, within 21 days prior to inclusion. Imaging studies
           (PET-CT) will be performed to assess the tumor. To evaluate renal function, a bilateral
           renal ultrasound and a renal gammagraphy will be performed within 28 days prior to
           inclusion in the study. Additionally, thorax radiography will be required. If the
           patient presents hydronephrosis G3-4, a double J stent will be used for continent
           diversion, or a percutaneous nephrostomy procedure, and the patient may start treatment
           within the first 24-48 hours. Patients who meet the selection criteria will be included
           in the study to start treatment. Before initiating QT-RT, quality of life questionnaires
           will be applied. To have a more accurate nephrological examination, the results of all
           the laboratory tests previously mentioned for each patient, will be initially evaluated
           by nephrologists from the National Institute of Cardiology and the National Institute of
           Nutrition in Mexico.

        -  Visits during the study. After signing the informed consent, the patient will be
           informed when she will begin participating in the study (screening visit). If the
           patient complies with the inclusion criteria, a total of 21 visits will be scheduled. Of
           these, 8 visits will be given during treatment (an initial visit, 6 visits for QT-RT, 2
           to 5 visits for brachytherapy), and 8 follow-up visits.

        -  Monitoring. Patient visits after QT-RT will be every 3 months during the follow-up year.
           Laboratory tests will be performed every visit (hematic biometry, serum electrolytes,
           glucose, serum creatinine, BUN, liver function enzymes, and general urine test). In case
           of clinical suspicion of progression, image studies (PET-CT), bilateral renal ultrasound
           and creatinine clearance calculation will be requested. The information obtained during
           this period will be limited physical examination, performance status assessment (ECOG),
           weight, measurement of tumor lesions by imaging studies, and date of progression or
           recurrence. Late adverse events will be evaluated at each scheduled visit. EORTC QLQ-30
           and QLQ Cx-24 questionnaires will be applied during follow-up every 3 months for the
           first two years, and every 6 months for the following 3 years.

        -  Sample collection. No tissue or additional blood samples will be obtained, other than
           the blood samples used as part of the routine clinical laboratory tests.

        -  Informed consent acquisition. In the first visit, the consent will be read and explained
           to the patient, clarifying the risks and benefits involved in the study. Two witnesses,
           independent from the study, will be present when the consent is read and explained to
           the patient. The patient will have the choice to not participate or withdraw from the
           study at any time, her decision will not affect the quality of care and treatment that
           the attending physician will provide. The researcher will be governed by the ethical
           principles established in the Helsinki Accord. The physician will adequately respond all
           the matters of interest to the patient.

      Ethical considerations. The Research Committee and the Ethics Committee of the National
      Institute of Cancer in Mexico has approved the protocol and the informed consent document.
      The approval will be valid for one year with the possibility of re-approval. Authorization
      from the national regulatory authority, the Federal Commission for the Protection against
      Health Hazards (COFEPRIS), will be requested.

      Patients participating in this study will be informed, through the informed consent, of all
      the details concerning this trial. The patients who agree to participate in the trial will
      express their willingness by signing the informed consent document, being clarified that they
      can leave the trial at any time, if they wish to do so.

      Regulatory considerations. This study abides by the ethical principles established by the
      international community, in accordance to the Good Clinical Practices, the Nüremberg Code,
      the Helsinki Accord, the Statement of Compliance with International Conference on
      Harmonization Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice, and the Regulations of the General Law
      of Health in the matter of research for health.
    
  