
    
      For many years, the link between mental processes and physical health has remained obscure.
      Yet, over time, studies have begun to shed light on the intimate relationship between one's
      physical condition and mental state. One body of research aimed at elucidating the mind-body
      relationship is the study of the placebo effect. Placebo effects result mainly from conscious
      expectations to become healthy in therapeutic settings, and from unconscious conditioned
      responses to therapeutical settings that predict beneficial outcomes. Both processes are
      asociated with the neuronal reward system, which mediates reward processing, reward valuation
      and value based-learning. However, it remains unclear how do these processes mediated by the
      reward system promote therapeutic effects?

      A recent study established a causal relationship between mesolimbic activation (VTA) and a
      measurable immunological response in mice. Stimulation of the VTA increased anti-bacterial
      immune functioning, an effect that was mediated by sympathetic nervous system, which is
      regulated by the brain and innervates all immune organs.

      In light of these findings, the current study aims to assess the relationship between
      reward-related brain activation and immune functions in humans. fMRI Neurofeedback, a task
      that allows individuals to self modulate specified neural patterns in real-time, will be used
      to induce mesolimbic activation, following which healthy individuals will vaccinate against
      Hepatitis B. Immunological effects will be assessed by comparing immunological measures with
      respect to Hepatitis B prior and following mesolimbic activation and Hepatitis B vaccination.

      The long-term goal of this study is to demonstrate a causal link between reward activation
      and an objective measurable physiological response of great significance, and to develop the
      means for individuals to exploit such mechanism for boosting immune functioning. i.e. to
      harness endogenous reward-related brain activation to strengthen the immune system, for
      clinical pathologies such as autoimmune diseases, maleble pathogens, cancer, etc.
    
  