
    
      A. Specific Aims

      Aim 1: To assess the usability of successive versions of our EHR genetic display screens and
      variant-based patient search functionality.

      Formal usability studies will be conducted with each new release of the GeneInsight Clinic
      (GIC) application in order to maximize its effectiveness and efficiency, and user
      satisfaction. Results from these studies will be used along with functional and technical
      requirements in designing enhancements to each successive version of the software.

      Hypothesis: The usability of GeneInsight Clinic and the application's effectiveness,
      efficiency, and user satisfaction will improve with each successive version.

      Aim 2. To assess the decision-making process associated with issuing alerts relating to new
      knowledge on germline variants.

      Changes to cardiomyopathy and hearing loss variant level information will be placed in a
      queue for evaluation. A board-certified clinical laboratory geneticist will determine which
      changes should be released as an "alert" resulting in an update to the GIC and a notification
      to the clinician. This decision-making process will be evaluated.

      Hypothesis: Evaluation of decision-making regarding release of genetic variant update alerts
      will identify patient and physician characteristics, and levels of significance of genetic
      variant updates that influence alerting decisions.

      Aim 3. To measure the impact on efficiency of new genetic knowledge being incorporated into
      clinical care as a result of improved genetic IT infrastructure support.

      Currently, clinicians learn of germline genetic variant updates when they choose to call the
      genetic laboratories to check for any possible new information on genetic tests of interest.
      With the GIC alerting system, treating clinicians will proactively receive genetic variant
      updates relevant to their patients. For cancer genotyping tests, once an associated variant
      is determined to have clinical significance, treating oncologists are interested in
      identifying all their patients with this variant to evaluate whether the patient's care plan
      should be modified. With the GIC patient search functionality, treating clinicians will be
      able to identify all their patients with the genetic variant of interest.

      Hypothesis: The availability of the GIC tool will greatly reduce the time delay associated
      with distributing updated variant information to treating clinicians and will reduce the
      number of calls the Laboratory of Molecular Medicine (LMM) receives requesting variant
      updates. The efficiency of identifying all patients with clinically significant variants will
      be improved through use of the PGE tool.

      Aim 4: To evaluate the satisfaction of treating clinicians, perceived impact on clinical
      care, and net effect on clinician workload associated with deploying genetic infrastructure.

      Hypothesis: The introduction and subsequent revisions of the PGE tool will result in improved
      satisfaction, a perceived reduction in clinician workload, and a perceived improvement in
      clinical care.
    
  