
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare disease-free survival of patients with previously untreated de novo acute
           myeloid leukemia treated with induction therapy comprising cytarabine and daunorubicin
           with vs without gemtuzumab ozogamicin followed by consolidation therapy comprising
           high-dose cytarabine and post-consolidation therapy comprising gemtuzumab ozogamicin vs
           no additional therapy.

        -  Compare the complete remission rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the frequency and severity of the toxic effects of these regimens in these
           patients.

      Other objectives (if funding allows):

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of CD33 expression on the response rate in
           patients receiving gemtuzumab ozogamicin.

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of FLT3 mutations in these patients before
           treatment with these regimens.

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of minimal residual disease in remission specimens
           from these patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of the flow cytometric detection of minimal
           residual disease in specimens collected from these patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified during induction
      therapy according to age (< 35 years vs ≥ 35 years) and during post-consolidation therapy
      according to preinduction cytogenetic risk group.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive daunorubicin IV on days 1-3, cytarabine IV continuously on
                days 1-7, and gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 4. Patients receive
                filgrastim (G-CSF) or sargramostim (GM-CSF) IV or subcutaneously once daily
                beginning on day 15 and continuing until blood counts recover.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive daunorubicin, cytarabine, and G-CSF or GM-CSF as in arm I.

      Patients in both arms undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy on day 14 (and on day 19, if
      applicable) and then proceed to reinduction therapy.

        -  Reinduction therapy: Patients receive daunorubicin IV on days 1-3 and cytarabine IV
           continuously on days 1-7. Patients also receive G-CSF or GM-CSF as in induction therapy.

      Patients who achieve A1 bone marrow, B1 peripheral blood, and C1 extramedullary disease
      status proceed to consolidation therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive high-dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours twice daily
           on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who maintain A1 bone marrow, B1 peripheral blood, and C1 extramedullary disease
      status after consolidation therapy proceed to post-consolidation therapy.

        -  Post-consolidation therapy: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment
                repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive no additional therapy. Patients are observed at days 30
                and 60 after randomization.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually
      for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 684 patients (342 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4.5-5 years.
    
  