
    
      Chronic cerebral ischemia (CCI) refers to a prevalent pathophysiological condition in which
      cerebral hypoperfusion is caused by a reduction in cerebral blood flow over a long period of
      time. CCI, as a consequence of intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) has been
      identified as one of the major culprits that are responsible for occurrence/recurrence of
      acute cerebrovascular accidents such as ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack, as
      well as vascular cognitive dysfunction. The prevalence of ICAS related CCI among stroke
      patients is remarkably higher in the Chinese population than in the whites, and there are no
      quite effective therapies for the general patient population with ICAS up to now.
      Endovascular intervention appears to be a promising option for a group of patients with
      severe ICAS, but may not be applicable for those with certain vascular risk features that are
      supposed to increase the rate of complications or result in unsatisfactory clinical outcomes.
      In addition, high cost and adverse effects of medications pose huge burdens to patients,
      their families and even the whole society as well.

      RIC is a novel therapeutic approach whereby repetitive, transient, non-lethal ischemia
      intervened by reperfusion employed on a distant organ or tissue confers protection to
      targeted organs against subsequent major ischemic attack. Preclinical experimental studies
      have demonstrated the neuroprotective effects of RIC in ischemic stroke models. Meanwhile,
      small-scale, proof of concept clinical trials revealed that long-term RIC was able to lower
      the stroke recurrence and enhance the cerebral reperfusion, without inducing adverse events
      in patients with ICAS. Nevertheless, current protocol of RIC utilited in this scenario was
      mainly based on previous animal studies or cardiovascular clinical trials. Whether modifying
      the ischemic pressure, numbers of cycles, duration of ischemia as well as the method for
      application can lead to different outcomes remain to be settled. In this study, 600 patients
      satisfied with the inclusion criteria will be recruited and randomly allocated into four
      substudies to receive RIC treatment (Doctormate®) under different algorithms. The most
      optimal algorithm of RIC on patients with ICAS related CCI would be determined according to
      clinical endpoints. Other medical managements are guaranteed based on the best medical
      judgment from clinical practitioners.
    
  