
    
      Background In Sweden, approximately 3,900 people are diagnosed with colon cancer and 1,900
      with rectal cancer annually, split almost equally between women and men. The primary
      treatment for colorectal cancer (CRC) is surgery. A particular challenge in CRC care is
      meeting patients' information needs over time in order to improve their recovery. There is a
      need for comprehensive considerations and person-centred communication supporting patients to
      be prepared for the surgery and the following recovery.

      Aim An overarching aim is to create prerequisites for person-centred information and
      communication. The specific aim is to evaluate if an intervention with a written information
      and communication support tool and person-centred dialogues can increase patients'
      health-related quality of life and preparedness and well-being pre-surgery and during
      recovery in connection to colorectal cancer surgery. The hypothesis is that person-centred
      information and communication supported by an interactive patient information and education
      material (PEM) for patients undergoing CRC surgery will lead to improved preparedness for
      surgery and recovery during recovery 6 months following surgery. Secondary outcomes were
      decreased length of stay at hospital in relation to surgery, changed behaviour pertaining
      when and how to seek health care for recovery support, and improved emotional, role and
      social function, general health status and distress. Further, the aim is to explain
      variations in patients' recovery trajectories during the six months following CRC surgery in
      order to identify particularly vulnerable sub-groups of patients.

      Communication in consultations will be supported by a innovative written interactive PEM with
      the goal to enhance the patient's knowledge seeking in order to be prepared for "the next
      step" in his/her care process. Here, person-centred communication refers to the
      patient-provider conversations where the patient is encouraged to tell about personal
      experiences, perceptions and worries in a dialogue format. An assumption is that dialogues
      unfolds when the two partners together are seeking to make sense of what is shared to each
      others.

      Method Three hospitals. The study is performed at three surgical departments; university,
      regional and local hospitals; including public and private non-profit. Health care providers
      and patients from the three hospitals will be included in the development and evaluation of
      the intervention. A combination of quantitative and qualitative methods will be applied.

      Initial analyses before the development of the intervention The project started with analysis
      of existing patient written information and education materials aimed for the patient group
      at Swedish surgical departments and analyses of conversations between patients and providers
      in consultations occurring over time before and following surgery. These results provided the
      basis for the development of the person-centred communication intervention developed in
      collaboration between people who had undergone CRC surgery, professionals from CRC surgery
      clinics and researchers with expertise in patient education, person-centred care and CRC
      surgery.

      Evaluation in a quasi-experimental design

      The design of the clinical intervention study is quasi-experimental and longitudinal; one
      group of patients before the introduction of the intervention will be compared to one group
      who have been part of the intervention (consecutively sampled). For the evaluation several
      types of data will be used:

        -  patient reported answers in validated questionnaires

        -  clinical and treatment data obtained from patients' records

        -  recorded consultation conversations with patients between patients and health care
           providers

        -  narrative interviews with patients 6 months following discharge regarding their recovery
           after surgery

        -  focus group discussions and individual interviews with professionals regarding how they
           have perceived using the intervention and how it has functioned

      Expected result The project will contribute a model for the enabling of person-centred
      communication in connection to CRC surgery. There are many people who will benefit of
      improved support for the specific group of patients, since CRC is a common type of cancer
      affecting women and men and where surgery is the most common treatment. Evaluations with a
      combination of methods increase the possibility to explain the significance of the
      intervention and how it can be implemented. The design of the intervention model, including a
      video and workshop outline for the introduction of the intervention model to health care
      professionals, facilitates direct clinical implementation if the evaluation will be proved
      effective. The written interactive PEM developed and tested is general for the Swedish
      context and include a generic approach for how to design the interactive PEM to other groups
      of patients.
    
  