
    
      Objective: To screen and create a list of adult volunteers in good health for participation
      in research studies conducted at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in Bethesda,
      Maryland. Develop a normative set of structural and functional brain MRI scans that are
      linked to healthy research volunteer characteristics. Maximize scientific impact of data from
      volunteers by broadly sharing with other researchers.

      Study Population: Adult males and females in general good health who are 18 years of age and
      older.

      Design: Adult individuals who are interested in participating in NIMH IRP clinical studies as
      a healthy research volunteer can directly visit or be directed to visit the study website
      where they will first consent electronically and then complete a set of online self-report
      measures. Items may include: demographic information, mental health symptoms, disability
      status, substance use patterns, handedness and clinical/family history. Individuals who are
      flagged based on predetermined responses to survey items will be further screened by a member
      of the study clinical team. If found to be ineligible for the study because of a clinically
      significant or unstable medical or mental health condition, these individuals will be
      referred back to the community and/or given information about NIMH clinical studies for which
      they may be eligible. Respondents with no flags or who pass through additional screening will
      be scheduled for an in-person assessment. During the outpatient appointment and after
      in-person informed consent, participants will receive a brief clinical interview to screen
      for current medical and mental conditions, and risk for self-harm. They will complete
      assessments of psychological, emotional, physiologic, biological and cognitive functioning.
      Participants will undergo a physical exam and be asked to provide blood and urine samples for
      routine clinical labs as well as additional blood samples for future secondary analysis that
      could include genetic or biomarker assays. Participants can separately consent for an
      optional baseline brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan and an optional
      magnetoencephalography (MEG) exam. All consent forms will explicitly inform participants that
      if enrolled in the study, their de-identified data will be broadly and publicly shared
      through NIH-approved data repositories. Participants in this recruitment and characterization
      study will then be placed on a list of healthy research volunteers from which other NIMH IRP
      studies may recruit according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria in their respective
      IRB-approved protocols.

      Outcome Measures: Outcome measures may include demographic data, mental and medical history
      and symptoms, results of psychological, emotional, physiologic, biological, and cognitive
      testing, physical exam and MRI findings.
    
  