
    
      "• Context: Oral anticoagulation is recommended for prevention of stroke and thrombo-embolic
      events in people aged 80 years and over (octo+) suffering from non valvular atrial
      fibrillation (nv AF) and without contraindication to anticoagulant therapy. Two drug classes
      are available to achieve this oral anticoagulation: the vitamin K antagonists (VKA, warfarin,
      fluinione and acenocoumarol) or the Direct Oral Anticoagulants (DOAC, dabigatran, rivaroxaban
      and apixaban). The data of evidence-based and post-marketing literature on the benefit/risk
      ratio of DOAC comparatively to VKA are limited, conflicting, potentially biased and finally
      inconclusive in this population. Nevertheless, this population is the most at risk for nv AF
      and the population with the highest risk of both AF-related thrombotic events and
      anticoagulant-related major bleedings.

        -  Objectives: The aim of the study is to assess and compare the real benefits and harms of
           the two therapeutic strategies available in routine practice, for the anticoagulation in
           patients 75 years old or more suffering from nvAF. The main objective is to estimate and
           compare DOAC and VKA in terms of major bleeding, thrombotic events (TE) and death of all
           cause in 75 years old or more suffering from nv AF. The secondary objectives are to
           identify factors associated with the occurrence of these events, taking into account the
           type of anticoagulant, to identify factors associated with the occurrence of these
           events, taking into account switches from VKA to DOAC or DOAC to VKA, and to describe
           the utilization patterns of oral anticoagulants.

        -  Design and statistical analyses: An observational study will be conducted in the French
           administrative database (SNIIRAM). The SNIIRAM database contains anonymous and
           prospectively recorded data about all beneficiaries' medical reimbursements including
           age, gender, long-term chronic disease (LTD), date of death, all out-hospital
           health-spending reimbursements and all patients' hospitalizations. We will include all
           octo+ patients they care for, newly treated ("new users") with an oral anticoagulant
           (VKA or DOAC) for nv AF, at the date of first prescription of oral anticoagulant. From
           the date, patients data will be collected during at least 2 years. To assess the
           principal endpoint, we will estimate the time between the date of inclusion and the date
           of occurrence of a major thromboembolic event, major bleeding event, or death from any
           cause, whichever comes first. Exposure will be considered as time-dependant. The total
           number of patients expected is 150 000."
    
  