
    
      Post-operative bed rest and immobility has a negative effect on morbidity and mortality after
      colorectal surgery.To prevent immobilization early mobilization is a well established part of
      Enhanced Recovery Programs. This facility uses protocols developed by the ERAS (Enhanced
      Recovery After Surgery)-society. However not all patients can reach the level physical
      activity needed to be in compliance with the ERP. This being more frequent in the elderly
      frail patient. This may contribute to longer hospital stay and increase the risk of
      complications. The aim of this trial is to investigate if a very early mobilization
      intervention will lead to a higher lever of physical activity after surgery compared with
      standard-care.

      The aim is to include 150 patients scheduled to undergo colorectal surgery. Patients will
      receive written and verbal information about the trial before written consent is obtained.
      The patients will undergo an extended pre-operative assessment during which a baseline for
      patients physical activity level will be established before surgery. For this purpose the
      patients will be evaluated by a physiotherapist with the following tools; 6-minutes walk
      test, Timed up and go-test (TUG), mini modified Functional Independence Measure (mFIM), WHO
      disability assessment score (WHODAS) and activity measurement with accelerometry for up to 7
      days. (Actigraph GT3X device)

      The randomization will take place on the day of the surgery and the patients will be assigned
      to either intervention (very early mobilization) or control group (standard post-operative
      care). A stratified randomization will be performed to ensure an even spread within three
      patient categories: Laparoscopic surgery, Open surgery and Rectum amputation. The
      randomization is performed using concealed allocation where envelopes are prepared externally
      using a randomization list prepared by a statistician.

      After surgery the patients will be transferred to the post-operative care unit where the
      patients included in the intervention group will be mobilized with the help of a
      physiotherapist and post-operative unit staff. The intervention will begin as early as 30
      minutes after arrival in the post-operative unit. The intervention will follow the Surgical
      ICU Optimal Mobilization Score (SOMS) which includes four steps of mobilization from movement
      in bed up to walking. Progress from each step to the next will be conditioned with patient
      fulfilling criteria for a safe mobilization including stable physiological parameters and
      adequate pain situation. The patients in the standard care group will not receive the
      intervention.

      All patients will receive information about early mobilization. The patients will not receive
      information on the timing of the mobilization intervention in an effort to remain blinded to
      the intervention. The patient in the standard care group will be mobilized accordingly to the
      ERP protocol, which also includes early mobilization in the surgical ward. Upon transfer from
      the post-operative unit to the surgical ward all study patients will be again fitted with the
      activity monitor to measure their physical activity during the post-operative phase.

      During hospital stay all study patients will be subject to routine mobilization within the
      existing ERP protocol. To determine the physical activity level the patient will be wearing
      the activity monitoring device until discharge from the surgical ward. The study patients
      will also be evaluated by blinded physiotherapists with mFIM and 6 minutes walk-test. In
      addition information will be gathered regarding routine documentation on patient mobilization
      progress to measure adherence to ERP goals.

      After four to six weeks the patients are scheduled for a standard post-operative follow-up
      visit. The study patients will then also meet a blinded physiotherapist that previously was
      not participating in the intervention who will repeat the following tests: 6 minutes
      walk-test, WHODAS, TUG. All study patients will also be instructed to wear the activity
      monitor for additional seven days to again measure their physical activity level. All
      patients who have undergone the intervention will be scheduled for a semi-structured
      telephone interview about their perception of the SOMS intervention.

      Follow-up questionnaire with WHODAS self-reported questions will be gathered through a
      telephone interview with the patients three, six and twelve months after surgery.
    
  