
    
      In order to assess whether tDCS treatment associated with a reduced caloric diet can improve
      weight loss, overweight or obese subjects will be recruited by advertisement on the web page
      of Porto Alegre Clinical Hospital, local newspaper and television, or referred by a doctor or
      nutritionist, from external to HCPA services. After screening and selection, patients will
      undergo a clinical, laboratory and nutritional evaluation. There will be a standard
      assessment protocol that includes: a complete clinical evaluation and socioeconomic status,
      assessment of physical activity, questionnaires of quality of life, sleep, depression and
      anxiety and body composition assessment.

      In the laboratory evaluation the biochemistry exams include an oral glucose tolerance test
      (OGGT 75g), a meal tolerance test (MTT), serum glucose, Cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol,
      triglycerides, glycated hemoglobin and glycated albumin. The resting metabolic rate will be
      determine by indirect calorimetry. Besides, a 100-mm visual-analog scales will be used to
      measure a self-reported ratings of appetite, hunger, satiety and food craving.

      Patients will also be prescribed a low caloric diet and individual counseling from a
      dietician in order to reduce 3% of their initial weight over 4-week treatment. Moreover, they
      will do one tDCS session a day (active or sham stimulation as previous randomization) for 5
      consecutive days, during these four weeks of treatment (20 sessions).

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive method of brain stimulation
      in which a small current is applied to the scalp. This technique uses a weak safety current
      of 2 milliampere (mA) for 20 minutes which may increase (anodal tDCS) or decrease (cathodal
      tDCS) cortical excitability.

      During all of tDCS sessions, a film with images of food that usually elicit craving will be
      presented and after the end of each session, visual analog scales will be applied to assess
      hunger, satiety and presence of food craving. Finally, attention and mood scales will be
      applied periodically in addition to a questionnaire of adverse effects and use of tDCS.

      At the end of the 4-week diet and tDCS, all patients will be submitted to the same clinical,
      laboratory, nutrition and feeding behavior exams applied at baseline.

      Finally, participants should come in 3 and 6 months after the end of the protocol for
      reassessment weight, body composition by bioelectrical impedance and answer questionnaires.

      An interim analysis will be performed when 12 patients will be included.
    
  