
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the clinical benefit in patients with plateau phase multiple myeloma treated
           with interferon-gamma vs aldesleukin in combination with idiotype-pulsed autologous
           dendritic cell vaccine APC8020.

        -  To describe response rates in patients who are in plateau phase status post-chemotherapy
           or status post-peripheral blood cell transplantation treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  To obtain data regarding the ability of this approach to produce an anti-idiotypic
           immunologic response.

        -  To obtain information about the effects of interferon-gamma and aldesleukin on the
           number, function, and activation state of immune effector-cells including T-cells and
           B-cells.

        -  To perform detailed analyses of lymphocyte phenotypes and T-cell repertoires before and
           after idiotype-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine APC8020.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to gender (male vs female) and prior treatment
      (post-chemotherapy vs post-peripheral blood stem cell transplantation). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      In both arms, patients undergo apheresis for collection of peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      for generation of dendritic cells (DC) on days 0, 14, and 28. APC8020 is generated by loading
      DC with immunoglobulin idiotype prepared from the patient's serum.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive interferon-gamma subcutaneously (SC) once daily on days 1-5,
           15-20, and 29-34 and idiotype-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine APC8020 IV over
           30-minutes on days 2, 16, and 30.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive aldesleukin SC once daily days 1-5, 15-20, and 29-34 and
           idiotype-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine APC8020 as in arm I.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression.

      Peripheral blood samples are collected at baseline and on day 5 of courses 1 and 4 for
      cytokine immunomodulatory studies, including immunophenotyping for lymphocyte phenotypic
      markers (CD69, CD40L, CD25, CD30, CD71, CDW137, CD134, and HLADR) by flow cytometry and
      immunofluorescence; T-cell spectratyping by PCR and RT-PCR; T-cell proliferation to idiotype
      protein; and CTL and T-helper response by flow cytometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  