
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central
      nervous system (CNS). Clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) is often a sign of multiple
      sclerosis and the term refers to the first episode of neurologic symptoms experienced by a
      patient. Possible presentations of CIS include optic neuritis, a brain stem and/or cerebellar
      syndrome, a spinal cord syndrome, or occasionally cerebral hemispheric dysfunction. An
      accurate diagnosis at this time is important because people with a high risk of developing MS
      are encouraged to begin treatment in order to delay or prevent a second neurologic episode
      and, therefore, the onset of MS.

      The innate and adaptative immune systems play an important role in pathophysiology of MS,
      acting in interaction with environmental, genetic, and epigenetic factors.

      Epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation and histone modification, alter DNA
      accessibility and chromatin structure, thereby regulating patterns of gene expression. These
      processes are crucial to normal development and differentiation of distinct cell lineages in
      the adult organism. Histone acetylation, through the family of histone acetyl transferase
      (HAT), is most consistently associated with promoting transcription. Deacetylation of
      histones correlates with CpG methylation and the inactive state of chromatin. There are 4
      classes of histone deacetylase enzymes (HDACs), with members capable of deacetylation of
      histones and/or other protein targets. Acetylation homeostasis is a key regulator of both
      immune cell activation. Of note, potent histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) endowed with
      antiinflammatory and neuroprotective properties have been identified. Efficacy of HDACi in
      experimental models of MS has been reported consistently. This study could provide
      information on the mechanisms involved.
    
  