
    
      Lichen planus (LP) is an idiopathic inflammatory dermatosis of the skin and mucous membranes.
      Cutaneous lesions present as pink polygonal papules on the flexor wrists, trunk, thighs, shin
      and the dorsal hands. Oral lichen planus (OLP) represents a unique subset of LP and is often
      the sole manifestation of this disease. Clinically, the lesions can be reticulate,
      erythematous, atrophic or erosive, with the erosive form being the most common. Lesions can
      be found anywhere in the oral mucosa and are associated with burning pain which is worsened
      while eating. The risk of development of squamous cell carcinoma has been estimated to be as
      high as 5%. Treatments for oral lichen planus involve high potency topical steroid, systemic
      steroids, oral/topical retinoids and immunosuppressants. However, the long term side effects
      of steroids (e.g. striae, skin atrophy, telangiectasias, tachyphylaxis, secondary candidiasis
      and perioral dermatitis) prevent more extensive utilization except in the most severe cases.
      Given the debilitating nature of OLP, risk of malignant transformation, and long term side
      effects associated with current therapies, a safe intervention is needed for this disorder.

      Tacrolimus and pimecrolimus may have fewer side affects than topical steroids. Recently, in
      an open label trial of 19 patients with recalcitrant erosive lichen planus, tacrolimus
      decreased the area of ulceration by 73% after an eight week course. Local irritation was the
      most common side effect. However, tacrolimus comes in an ointment base, a poorly tolerated
      vehicle for oral lesions. Topical treatment of oral lesions has also been compromised by
      problems with maintaining sufficient contact time between poorly adherent cream and ointment
      preparations and moist mucous membrane surfaces.

      This study is designed to evaluate the topical application of pimecrolimus 1% cream when
      applied twice daily with occlusion in the treatment of oral lichen planus.
    
  