
    
      The aim of the study is to compare between primary health care unit and university family
      planning clinic in discontinuation rate among copper IUD users.

        1. The Research Hypothesis: (Null hypothesis)

           • In women using copper IUD, discontinuation rate in primary health care unit and
           university clinic may be similar.

        2. The Research Question:

           • In women using copper IUD, Does discontinuation rate in primary health care unit and
           university clinic differ?

        3. METHODOLOGY:

      Patients and Methods

      • Study setting:

        -  Family planning Outpatient clinic of Ain Shams Maternity Hospital, (ASUMH)

        -  primary health care unit in ain shams area

           • Study population:

        -  Study period: 1 year

        -  Sample size: was calculated using Sample size computer program 11. After review of
           literature, no previous similar study was done before, so assume a discontinuation rate
           of 50% among Cu-IUD users in primary healthcare unit and 25% among Cu-IUD users in
           university clinic. Based on these values; the study will include 170 Cu-IUD users;
           equally selected as 85 subjects from each clinic. But due to the expected drop outs,
           recruitment will start by 200 women from each clinic.

             -  Statistics:

                  -  Descriptive statistics for measured variables will be expressed as range, mean
                     and standard deviation (for metric data); range, median and interquartile
                     range (for discrete data); and number and proportions (for categorical data).
                     Cu-IUD discontinuation findings in each clinic will be compared using the
                     t-test or the Mann-whitney U test depending on whether the measured parameters
                     are guassian variables. A P-value of 0.05 or less will be considered
                     statistically significant.
    
  