
    
      Exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN) is an effective induction therapy in pediatric Crohn's
      disease (CD). Compared to corticosteroids, EEN has equivalent rates of clinical remission and
      significantly higher rates of mucosal healing and weight gain. There is a paucity of
      literature on the role of EEN in ulcerative colitis (UC). Some have postulated that colonic
      disease will not respond to EEN, yet two series found no difference in rates of clinical
      remission between small intestinal and colonic CD. The mechanisms underlying the
      effectiveness of enteral nutrition in colitis remain unclear. A microbiome-mediated
      pathogenesis is possible. Two studies have shown how EEN produces profound changes in
      microbial community structure within as little as 24 hours. These changes correlated with
      improved disease activity scores. Active inflammatory bowel disease also carries distinct
      microbial signatures. Baseline differences in taxonomy between IBD phenotypes may account for
      differences in EEN efficacy between CD and UC.

      The purpose of the pilot study is to investigate if EEN can be used for induction of
      remission of ulcerative colitis, and compare its usage to a) corticosteroids for UC and b)
      EEN or corticosteroids for Crohn's disease. The goal is to eventually characterize the
      clinical, biochemical and microbial changes that occur with each. However, given that EEN is
      a challenging commitment, as a sole source of nutrition for 8 weeks, investigators first have
      to evaluate feasibility in terms of participant recruitment, compliance and safety of this
      treatment. Both EEN and corticosteroid treatment require proper compliance to be effective,
      which can be a significant burden for the patient and his/her family. Investigators will
      therefore also determine satisfaction with the induction therapies and effect on quality of
      life. Further, since frequent follow up is being requested, investigators need to assess
      recruitment and retention rates, as well as compliance with completing bloodwork and
      providing stool samples. Investigators hypothesize that these induction therapies will be
      both feasible and safe. However, it is anticipated that, while patients will be satisfied
      with the treatment, it may have a significant impact on quality of life during those 8 week.
    
  