
    
      It is unclear whether bacterial colonization in hidradenitis suppurativa/acne inversa (HS)
      comprises a primary cause, triggering factor or secondary phenomenon of the disease
      pathogenesis. Studies imply that aberrant immune responses play a role involving both the
      innate and adaptive immune system, however the clinical picture of HS lesions appears
      reminiscent of bacterial infection, e.g. due to intense inflammation and malodorous
      discharge. Recent microbiological studies indicate certain bacterial species are associated
      with mature HS lesions. It is demonstrated a significant high occurrence of large bacterial
      biofilms (aggregates > 50 μm in diameter) in tunnels. In total, an array of studies point to
      a potential involvement of a specific microbiota in the pathogenesis of HS.

      The antimicrobial effect of LTX-109 can reduce or eradicate bacterial growth and thus also
      the inflammatory stimulus of hidradenitis. The antiinflammatory effects of LTX-109 through
      inhibition of bacterial colonization or infection can prevent rupture and proliferation of
      follicular material in the dermis. Hidradenitis in more advanced stages can be targeted with
      this investigational drug. However, it is not reasonable to expect that chronic, longstanding
      inflammation and sinus formation will heal in six week of intervention. Therefore, patients
      with most severe activity (Hurley stadium III) or with widespread disease (>5 palm units)
      will not be included in the study.

      The investigator wishes to document whether LTX-109 is an effective compound on hidradenitis.
      Evidence-based medical treatment of mild disease consists of topical antibiotics
      (Clindamycin). Systemic antibiotics (Tetracycline) is used for disease that is more
      widespread. In other parts of Europe, but not recommended in Norway due to the fear of
      over-usage of Rifampicin, patients who fail to exhibit response to treatment or have a
      moderate-to-severe disease, systemic Clindamycin 300 in combination with Rifampicin can be
      given.

      Patients failing to exhibit response to treatment options mentioned above or for
      moderate-to-severe disease, biologic therapy (Adalimumab) can be administered.

      Interestingly, Bacterial growth in HS patients has shown a high level of resistance to
      antibiotics, including rifampicin, clindamycin and tetracyclines, cited as an empiric choice
      in HS therapeutic guidelines.

      Therefore, other treatment options targeting bacteria in HS is warranted.

      It would be important to demonstrate whether the lytic peptidomimetic LTX-109 may be
      effective in the condition as the treatment has apparent benefits, such as a good safety
      profile, easy self-administered application and no known risk of development of resistance to
      the Investigational Medicinal Product.

      The study will be open label on 16 patients. Treatment will be twice daily application on
      affected lesions for 6 weeks. Followup after end of treatment will be 3 months.
    
  