
    
      Despite greatly increased utilization of pacemaker and internal cardioverter-defibrillator
      (ICD) therapy for various indications in recent years, there are relatively few published
      studies on bleeding complications associated with the implantation of these devices. The
      purpose of our study is to assess the incidence and severity of hemorrhagic complications
      resulting from pacemaker and ICD implantation in patients treated with oral anticoagulant
      warfarin or acetyl salicylic acid.

      There are no unified guidelines regarding warfarin use during pacemaker implantation. A case
      by case approach is commonly employed regarding whether to interrupt or to continue
      anticoagulant therapy prior to the procedure. Interrupting the therapy may expose the patient
      to thromboembolic complications, whereas continuing it can increase the risk of perioperative
      bleeding. Thus, either approach could potentially increase patient morbidity and prolong the
      hospital stay. Therefore, an evidence based choice of an appropriate approach in preparing
      the anticoagulant-treated patients for pacemaker implantation could have significant impact
      on both patient safety and over-all procedural cost.

      We intend to assess the rate of hemorrhagic and thrombotic complications as well as the
      length of hospital stay associated with pacemaker or ICD implantation in patients randomized
      either to continue or to interrupt their warfarin treatment. One control group will be formed
      of pacemaker-receiving patients on acetyl salicylic acid as well as one group of patients on
      no medications affecting the coagulation system or thrombocyte aggregation. Potential risk
      factors for bleeding or thromboembolic complications will be searched.

      A total of 400 patients will be recruited into this multicenter study conducted at five
      hospitals in Finland. Warfarin users (n=200) will be randomly allocated into two groups: A.
      uninterrupted warfarin therapy maintained at accepted intensity (INR 2 to 3), and B.
      interruption of warfarin 2 days prior to device implantation. Control groups will comprised
      as described above with one hundred patients in each. The end-points of the study are:
      occurrences of major bleeding, haemorrhages and hematomas at pacemaker pocket, utilization of
      adjunctive therapies to control bleeding (e.g. Vitamin K or Fresh frozen plasma), need for
      surgical wound revision and thromboembolic complications. The duration of hospital stay will
      also be recorded. At two of the centres (Turku University Hospital and Satakunta Central
      Hospital) all patients will also be randomly assigned into two groups in which the
      implantation procedure will either be or not be guided by venous angiography.

      Patients willing to participate in the study will receive both verbal and written information
      on the study and they will be asked to sign an informed consent. All devices will be
      implanted in a normal fashion according to generally accepted clinical guidelines. A variety
      of clinical and laboratory variables will be recorded in each study group to identify risk
      factors for bleeding and thromboembolism.

      The aims of our study are to establish among patients implanted with pacemakers (1) whether
      uninterrupted warfarin therapy will increase the rate and severity of bleeding complications,
      (2) whether interruption of warfarin results in increased thromboembolic events, (3) whether
      aspirin treatment increases bleeding complications compared, and we also seek to identify
      factors predisposing to haemorrhagic complications.

      Our main hypothesis is that a cardiac pacing device can be safely implanted without
      discontinuation of the anticoagulant therapy.
    
  