
    
      Echocardiogram:

      Because of the heart-related side effects of chemotherapy and trastuzumab, your regular
      doctor will monitor your heart's function as part of your routine care. You will have
      echocardiograms performed before you begin treatment, and then every 3 months. An
      echocardiogram uses sound waves to check your heart's health.

      If you decide to take part in this study, researchers will take several additional pictures
      of your heart during each of your regularly scheduled echocardiograms. The additional
      pictures will make the procedure take about 5-10 minutes longer than the regular
      echocardiogram. These pictures will be viewed in a different way than the standard
      echocardiogram pictures. Researchers hope viewing the pictures this way can help researchers
      to find heart problems earlier than the usual tests.

      Blood Tests:

      Blood (about 4 teaspoon each time) will be drawn during the routine blood draw that occurs
      closest to the regularly scheduled echocardiograms.

      The heart produces hormones called BNP and NT-proBNP. These hormones can be measured in the
      blood. BNP and NT-proBNP levels can be higher when the heart is not working as well.
      Researchers will measure these hormones at the time of each echocardiogram. Researchers hope
      to learn whether measuring these hormones can help identify the heart-related side effects of
      chemotherapy and trastuzumab earlier than the usual tests.

      Researchers will also measure metabolic proteins (such as sugars and acids) in the blood.
      Researchers hope to learn whether measuring these metabolic proteins can help identify the
      heart-related side effects of chemotherapy and trastuzumab earlier than the usual tests.

      Because protein, sugar or acid levels may be temporarily changed after you eat, you will be
      asked not to eat overnight before having your blood drawn.

      Study Visits:

      You will have 6 study visits around the time that you have an echocardiogram. These visits
      will occur before you take Herceptin, when you begin Herceptin, and 3, 6, 9, and 12 months
      later. These study visits will be scheduled on days when you are already making a visit to
      your regular doctor. You will not have to make any special visits to the hospital for this
      research study.

      During each study visit, you will be asked about any symptoms you may be experiencing, and
      any medications you may be taking. Your blood pressure and heart rate will be measured.

      You will also take a quality of life questionnaire at each study visit. This questionnaire
      asks you how the cancer may have interfered with your daily life. It should take about 15
      minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      You will be considered off-study once you complete the 6 study visits.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 100 patients will take part in this multicenter
      study. Up to 20 patients will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  