
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the activity of brivanib (brivanib alaninate) for patients with recurrent or
      persistent endometrial cancer with the frequency of patients who survive progression-free for
      at least 6 months after initiating therapy or have objective tumor response..

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival. II. To
      determine the nature and degree of toxicity of brivanib as assessed by Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)3.0 in this cohort of patients.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether activating mutations in fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2)
      are associated with progression-free survival status > 6 months following brivanib treatment,
      objective tumor response following brivanib treatment, or endometrioid histology.

      II. To explore the associations between select biomarkers and response to brivanib
      (progression-free survival status > 6 months and objective tumor response), measures of
      clinical outcome (progression-free survival and overall survival) or disease status including
      histologic cell type: i) mutations in FGFR2 or phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) in
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor or normal
      blood cells; ii) immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of the FGFR family and ligands, steroid
      receptor isoforms or phosphorylated (p) v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT)
      in FFPE tumor; iii) concentration or the change in the concentration of vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF) or type IV collagen in pre-cycle 1, pre-cycle 2 and/or pre-cycle 3
      plasma.

      III. To explore the relationship among the panel of biomarkers evaluated in this cohort: i)
      mutations in FGFR2 or PTEN; ii) IHC expression of the FGFR family and ligands, steroid
      receptor isoforms or pAKT; iii) concentration or the change in the concentration of VEGF or
      type IV collagen.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive brivanib alaninate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  