
    
      Hospital readmissions are estimated to cost $17.4 billion per year in the Medicare population
      alone. Readmission rates may be as high as 30% for patients undergoing complex abdominal
      surgery. In this study, investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to
      assess the effect of a novel mobile technology platform, MobiMD, on hospital readmission in
      complex abdominal surgery patients. Data from a 50-patient MobiMD pilot study supports the
      RCT design and mobile platform's feasibility in this study population. Investigators
      hypothesize that the MobiMD app can facilitate better information transfer between surgeons
      and patients in the high-risk postoperative time period, thereby reducing hospital
      readmissions, emergency department visits, complication severity, and overall resource
      utilization.

      Investigators will conduct a parallel, single-blinded, 2-arm randomized controlled trial
      investigating the effect of a novel mobile health app on hospital readmissions for adults
      undergoing complex abdominal surgery. Three hundred participants (150 patients per arm) will
      be randomized to compare standard postoperative care alone versus plus MobiMD app. This study
      is powered to detect a clinically meaningful difference of 11% in readmissions. Participants
      will be eligible if they undergo any of the following procedures: pancreaticoduodenectomy,
      cytoreductive surgery/ hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC), gastrectomy, distal
      pancreatectomy, liver transplant, pancreas transplant, simultaneous kidney and pancreas
      transplant, low anterior resection, and any bowel resection requiring an ostomy. The MobiMD
      app collects important clinical data points and patient-reported outcomes with associated
      push notifications sent directly to the patient's smart device. Clinical data collected via
      the MobiMD app include vital signs, red flag symptoms, daily wound and surgical drain images,
      ostomy output, drain output, medication compliance, and wound care compliance.

      The primary outcome of the RCT will be 30-day hospital readmission. The secondary outcomes
      will include 90-day readmission, emergency department and urgent care visits, complication
      severity, and total readmission cost. Exploratory outcomes will include length of stay and
      patient-reported outcomes in patient satisfaction, pain, and physical function. All
      participants will be followed for 6 months.
    
  