
    
      AIDS patients with toxoplasmic encephalitis who receive the standard therapy combination of
      sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine experience a high frequency of severe toxicity. Atovaquone, an
      antibiotic that has demonstrated efficacy against toxoplasmosis in animal models and in
      preclinical testing has been well tolerated, is now available as a suspension, which is more
      readily absorbed than the tablet form of the drug. The efficacy and safety of atovaquone in
      combination with sulfadiazine or pyrimethamine will be studied.

      Seventy patients are randomized to receive atovaquone with either pyrimethamine or
      sulfonamides for up to 48 weeks. Additionally, three cohorts of 10 patients each who have a
      history of treatment-limiting toxicity to pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine, or both drugs receive
      atovaquone plus the alternate drug or atovaquone plus clarithromycin. All patients receiving
      pyrimethamine also receive leucovorin protection.

      PER AMENDMENT 4/3/96:

      The open treatment groups are: Atovaquone plus pyrimethamine for patients with acute
      toxoplasmic encephalitis who have no treatment limiting toxicity to pyrimethamine, and
      Atovaquone plus clarithromycin for patients with acute toxoplasmic encephalitis who have
      treatment limiting toxicity to both pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine. The following arms closed
      on 12/22/95: Randomization to the atovaquone plus sulfadiazine arm for patients with acute
      toxoplasmic encephalitis who had no treatment limiting toxicity to pyrimethamine or
      sulfonamides, and Atovaquone plus sulfadiazine for patients with acute toxoplasmic
      encephalitis who had treatment limiting toxicity to pyrimethamine. The following arm closed
      on 9/26/95: Atovaquone plus pyrimethamine for patients with acute toxoplasmic encephalitis
      who had treatment limiting toxicity to sulfonamides. NOTE: Any patients enrolled in previous
      versions will continue to be treated with that same drug treatment and followed under their
      previous version guidelines.
    
  