
    
      Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) is a novel medical imaging method in which tomographic
      images are rapidly produced using electrodes placed around the body. The principal
      applicant's group has demonstrated that EIT can rapidly image functional brain activity in
      stroke, epilepsy and normal activity in animal models and has developed instrumentation and
      image reconstruction algorithms which work well in head-shaped tanks.

      The principal aim of this research is to optimise and assess accuracy of Electrical Impedance
      Tomography (EIT) using scalp electrodes in imaging stroke/head injury in human participants.
      EIT could provide a unique new imaging modality which could provide continuous monitoring at
      the bedside after head injury or diagnosis in the back of an ambulance or GP surgery and so
      permit rapid deployment of thrombolytic therapy. If successful, EIT would become a standard
      imaging technique available in all ambulances and A&E departments for this purpose. It would
      be used in all cases of suspected stroke which present except to dedicated acute stroke
      centres. Imaging could be undertaken at presentation by paramedical staff if in an ambulance,
      or nurses or radiographers if in A&E. Images would be reported by radiologists remotely who
      could then sanction administration of thrombolytic agents by physicians, nurses or
      paramedical staff. EIT would allow neuroimaging to be undertaken significantly earlier in all
      situations where a dedicated stroke centre with available urgent CT was not available. This
      would benefit clinical staff who could provide an improved service and patients, who would
      enjoy improved outcome and greater access to thrombolytic therapy.

      The recording will take place with scalp electrodes while the patient sits comfortably in a
      chair or lies on a bed. Recording takes for 10 minutes to 1 hour. In some subjects, EIT can
      be used to image changes in the brain over hours following head injury. In this case,
      recording will take place over hours or days with scalp electrodes according to the clinical
      situation. Stroke patients could also be recorded in this study, as similar changes in the
      injured brain could also occur after stroke. Following completion of the recording, scalp
      electrodes and any paste will be removed. Collected data will be analysed and compared to
      other imaging data.
    
  