
    
      With a globally growing number of smokers, up to about half of men and one tenth of women are
      becoming smokers and relatively few stopping, especially in Mainland China.

      It has been proved that tobacco is responsible for even more deaths and diseases. Smokers
      have two to three times mortality in middle age among otherwise similar persons who had never
      smoked. According to the literature review, smoking has been confirmed to be an important
      risk factor to most chronic diseases and cancer.

      For the male smokers at their reproductive ages, who is preparing to have a baby, smoking may
      negatively influence their reproductive capacity. Sufficient studies found that the quantity
      and duration of smoking, especially the current smoking is positively associated with the
      risk of erectile dysfunction. Smoking may increase the risk of a higher risk of developing
      oligospermia, asthenozoospermia and teratozoospermia for man in the reproductive years, which
      may lead to the inefficiency of fertilization and even give birth to abnormal fetus. Besides,
      secondhand Smoking (SHS) exposure also have further and longer negative effects on their
      female partner and their baby born in the future. The non-smoking population is much more
      sensitive to the nicotine in the passive smoking than smokers. The SHS may increase the risk
      of respiratory infections, ear problem, immediate adverse effects on cardiovascular system,
      lung cancer and so on to adults. For the children, the passive smoking make children have a
      higher chance to get severe asthma, slow lung growth. Hence, children and women live with
      smokers may have a higher risk of premature death and disease. Besides, newborns whose
      mothers were exposed to secondhand smoke showed significantly lower scores in the habituation
      cluster and motor system cluster, as well as the delay of neurobehavioral development
      regardless of socio-demographic, obstetric and pediatric factors. Conclusively, smoking has
      direct and indirect negative effect to male smokers in reproductive ages themselves and their
      family members.

      Based on the official statistic figures in 2010, about one third of people in China were
      current smokers, and the number of young smokers is increasing. While most current smokers
      (83.9%) report having no intention to quit smoking (WHO, 2011). On average, between 60% and
      70% of Chinese men continue to smoke into middle age, which is different with the western
      countries. Hence, finding out a solution to decrease the married reproductive male smoking
      rate is extremely crucial.

      Overall awareness of the health hazards of tobacco has improved in the last 15 years in
      China, but is still relatively poor. Even there were several patterns of propaganda and
      education applied in China, the efficiency is not very satisfactory. Hence, an effective
      education interventions that delivery the health hazards of tobacco to male smokers and
      secondhand smoking to their wives and baby born in the future should be developed and
      implemented for reproductive male smokers in China.

      Different patterns of interventions, such as counselling, advertising, leaflets and so on
      have been implemented, however the effect is not so well as we expected. Thus, a more
      efficient intervention should be developed. As the high usage rate of smart phone,
      interventions implemented by cellphone can be considered as a new approach. Watching video
      has been proven to be significantly associated with prevalence abstinence. Video, combining
      with the advantage of text, image, and tones, will take visual, auditory and reading
      stimulation to the brain, consequently, enhance the delivery and memory of information for
      people. Hence video is an efficient intervention medium for smoking cessation.

      Given that, a video-led intervention will be applied to help male smokers whose partner got
      pregnant in Mainland China to quit or reduce the cigarette smoking.
    
  