
    
      Up to 20 patients ≥ 1 year of age or ≤ 30 years of age with recurrent pediatric solid tumors
      will be enrolled. During the first cycle of treatment, each patient will receive 4 daily
      doses of VAL-413 and one daily dose of the intravenous preparation of irinotecan taken orally
      (IRN-IVPO), together with 5 days of concurrent temozolomide. During all subsequent cycles,
      only VAL-413 will be given with temozolomide in 5 day courses administered every 21 days as
      tolerated.

      The dosing regimen in this study will be Temozolomide at 100 mg/m2/day with VAL-413 at either
      90 or 110mg/m2/day, administered orally for 5 consecutive days at the beginning of every
      21-day cycle. A single dose of IRN-IVPO will be substituted at the same dosage as VAL-413
      during Cycle 1. Up to 17 cycles of treatment may be administered on this study.

      Data collected from this study will allow for an assessment of VAL-413 safety and efficacy.
      Interval medical histories, targeted physical exams, complete blood counts, and other
      laboratory and safety assessments will be performed at Day 1 of each treatment cycle for all
      study subjects. At baseline and during study, disease status will be assessed by appropriate
      clinical and imaging evaluation (CT, MRI, or PET) and using Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST), or for patients with neuroblastoma, using International Neuroblastoma
      Response Criteria. In addition, a palatability survey will be conducted on Day 1 or Day 4 of
      the first cycle, which will allow patients to evaluate the taste of VAL-413. Serum samples
      will be collected at various time points on Days 1 and 4 during Cycle 1 to characterize and
      compare the pharmacokinetic profiles of VAL-413 and conventional irinotecan given orally.

      Assessment of first-cycle toxicity will be used to identify the recommended phase II dose for
      VAL-413. Toxicity will be evaluated and documented using NCI CTCAE guidelines. The
      recommended Phase II dose will be identified as the highest dose at which no more than 1 of 6
      patients experiences a first cycle dose limiting toxicity (DLT).
    
  