
    
      Investigators will evaluate the acute effect of CA-flavored e-cigs on MCC and IS immune cells
      in up to 22 healthy, young adults who are current e-cig users with a total of less than 10
      pack-years cigarette smoking history. MCC will be measured by gamma scintigraphy at baseline
      and following controlled vaping of e-liquids with and without cinnamon flavoring. Two
      different e-liquids (one completely devoid and one containing at least 30mM CA similar to
      "Hot Cinnamon Candies" which is commercially available) will be used for two separate
      randomized vaping sessions.

      The randomization scheme for the two different e-liquids (e-liquids with and without CA) will
      be generated by using the Web site Randomization.com (http://www.randomization.com), assigned
      treatment Regimen A and B by an assigned study team member, and provided to the study team.
      This individual will also be responsible for loading the e-cigarette with the appropriate
      solution for that session prior to the vaping sessions.

      Participants will undergo baseline testing during the screening visit, which will occur 2-3
      weeks prior to the first controlled vaping session. Investigators will also recruit
      non-vaping control subjects (n=22), who will only undergo the baseline testing and thus serve
      as a non-exposed/non-vaping control group. will aim to recruit similar numbers of males and
      females in both cohorts. While investigators cannot guarantee age-matching and sex-matching
      in these cohorts, based on our previous studies, investigators do not expect to find
      significant age and sex differences in the two cohort. In addition, potential confounders,
      such as age, sex, and BMI will be included as covariates in our multivariate analysis.

      Observations obtained from the non-vaping control group will provide necessary information on
      potential baseline differences in the two cohorts (i.e. current vapers versus non-vaping
      controls). These data from the non-vaping control group are important to provide a reference
      for any potential CA-induced changes in the vaping group. Hence, there are two stages of the
      study:

      Stage 1. A cross sectional observational cohort comparison of baseline MCC and IS immune
      cells in a reference cohort of n=22 non-vaping control subjects and E-cig cohort of n=22
      currently vaping subjects (confounding based on other variables such as BMI, sex, age is
      possible for this stage).

      Stage 2. A randomized comparison of changes in MCC and IS immune cells after Regimen A (e-cig
      us without CA) and Regimen B (e-cig use with CA). The cohort of e-cig users will undergo a
      randomized 2-treatment, 2-period, 2-sequence crossover study of CA exposure.

      For stage 1, baseline measurements of Tc99m-SC clearance will be used to measure each
      subject's normal baseline MCC and IS immune cell characteristics. For both stages, subjects
      will be asked to complete a vaping diary to record information on the device and e-liquids
      (name/vendor/e-liquids/puffs/device settings) used during their normal vaping sessions for
      the entire duration of the study. In addition, for stage 2, participants will be asked to
      maintain their current habits for the duration of the study, not to significantly increase or
      decrease their vaping patterns, including the nicotine concentrations of their e-liquids.

      For stage 2, for each e-cig vaping session (Training and MCC Test Days), subjects will be
      asked to follow a laboratory-based protocol involving 6, 5-minute paced vaping segments (1
      puff/minute) over a 1 hour time period, vaping the e-liquid with and without CA provided by
      us. On each Test Day, participants will undergo the vaping protocol immediately prior to
      inhalation of the Tc99m-SC (10 min between end of vaping and inhalation of Tc99m-SC). An
      initial deposition scan of Tc99m-SC will then be obtained followed by dynamic imaging of the
      lung with subjects seated in front of the gamma camera to determine potential changes in MCC
      induced by acute exposure to CA-flavored e- cigarettes. Induced sputum samples will be
      collected at baseline, and after each MCC scan.

      24 hours after completion of the MCC scans. The two randomized vaping sessions will be
      separated by 2-3 weeks. While there are no data providing specific information on the
      duration needed to washout the effects of CA on MCC, previous studies examining changes in
      MCC following inhalation of other aerosols have shown that this washout period is sufficient
      to prevent potential carryover between the two treatments.
    
  