
    
      Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) has taken a prevalent place in medical literature over the past
      decades. In an attempt to decrease its impact on hospitalized patients, multiple trials have
      tried to better define its frequency and consequences on a very broad range of patients. The
      differences between these sub populations of ill individuals influence greatly the occurrence
      of venous thrombotic events (VTE).

      Critically ill patients are predisposed to VTEs. The nature of the disease may have an
      important impact on the risk for DVT. Mechanical ventilation, central line placement,
      surgery, vasopressors and immobilization are some of the realities of ICU patients. They
      contribute to the enhanced chance for thromboembolic complications in this population, either
      by venous stasis (immobilization), endothelial injury (surgery…) or hypercoagulability.
      Trauma patients represent a subclass of critical care patients with a high incidence of DVT.
      It has been evaluated as high as 44,1% even in patients with thrombotic prophylaxis with
      low-dose unfractioned heparin.

      Burn patient are also at increased risk of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolisms.
      Recent prospective trials in burn patients have described an incidence of thromboembolic
      complications in the range of 6 to 60%. Autopsy evaluations are also in favor of an elevated
      incidence of thrombotic events in thermally injured patients(37 to 60%).

      At the present time, no trial has evaluated the efficacy of the pharmacologic methods used
      for thromboprophylaxis in burned patients. Comparative efficacy between different patient
      populations (including thermally injured patients) has never been undertook. Thus, the
      investigators have to question the adequacy of present thromboprophylactic measures in burn
      patients? Are the actual method of DVT and PE prophylaxis sufficient in severe burns?

      The physiology of moderate to severe burns makes us believe it is not. In the early post burn
      period, a massive fluid reanimation is initiated. The Starling forces are destabilized in
      favor of an increased capillary leak to the interstitial space. The net effect is the
      increase in free water in the interstitium and formation of important edema. The distance
      between the epithelium and the vascular space is then potentially increased. Furthermore, the
      central intravascular compartment of such individuals becomes very difficult to access. This
      leads us to reconsider the efficiency of the subcutaneous route. In cases of severe
      accumulation of interstitial fluid, can the subcutaneous administration of medications lead
      to the desired therapeutic effect?

      The investigators plan to compare the levels of anti-Xa levels between 3 patient populations:
      severely burned patients (> 20%), medical ICU patients and general medical ward patients.
    
  