
    
      UCLA is in charge of the evaluation of the H3 project, including evaluation design and
      overseeing data collection by project sites. UCLA will receive data collected by each site
      and perform the analysis of the data for the sites to be shared with the Illinois Children's
      Healthcare Foundation and clinic sites. This study will evaluate an existing intervention,
      meaning that participation in the evaluation is not required in order to receive H3 services.

      The information below is included in the evaluation design document attached in 10.1, 1.0:

      The overarching goal of the Healthy Minds, Healthy Children, Healthy Chicago Initiative (H3)
      is to develop a community-based integrated care model to improve the prevention, early
      detection and treatment of child mental health problems that is replicable, effective, and
      sustainable.

      The final study design is a longitudinal cohort study of 400 children ages 0-17 years and
      their families served at the two intervention clinic sites (n=200/site) The study time points
      are baseline, 3-, 6-, and 12-months.

      The data sources are parent and youth report, and clinic administrative data when feasible
      for the programs to transfer these data following IRB-approved procedures. The unit of
      analysis is the child. The main proximal (or short term) clinical outcomes are related to the
      H3 intervention care processes (e.g., brief mental health interventions, referral to
      specialty mental health care, co-located child psychiatrist). The time period will likely
      vary by child depending on clinical need, but it is anticipated that most of these care
      processes will be provided during the early phase when the child and parent is introduced to
      the new care model. The main distal outcomes (or more long-term) are clinical improvement
      (e.g., child symptom reduction, improved functioning) and some correspond to the care process
      delivered (e.g., if parent receives parent training, improvement parenting skills are
      assessed). The time points for tracking clinical improvement are 3, 6 and 12 months after the
      baseline interview that is done when the parent and child are enrolled in the evaluation. The
      independent variables (or factors that may influence care processes and clinical outcomes)
      are child sociodemographic characteristics (e.g. age, sex, race/ethnicity), psychosocial
      complexity, and primary caregiver characteristics that the clinic team or Community Advisory
      Board deemed relevant (e.g., parenting stress, probable depression). Embedded within the
      description of a child's psychosocial complexity are indicators of social determinants (e.g.
      exposure to trauma) that may adversely impact a child's development and well-being.

      Findings from this evaluation will provide data on the acceptability and feasibility of the
      H3 care models, as well as early indicators of whether these care models are promising.
    
  