
    
      Patients with severe ventricular dysfunction and coronary artery disease have high morbidity
      and mortality but may benefit from revascularization. However, there is also significant
      peri-operative morbidity and mortality among these patients. This accounts for the variable
      approach to these patients in different cardiac centres. Clearly this patient group has the
      most to gain when coronary revascularization is beneficial, but also the most to lose when it
      is not helpful. There is a need for an approach that can better define patients with severe
      ventricular dysfunction due to ischemia, who will be more likely to benefit from
      revascularization. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with F-18-Fluorodeoxyglucose
      (FDG) has been used to evaluate patients with ventricular dysfunction, to detect ischemic but
      viable myocardium more likely to recover from revascularization. Recently retrospective
      studies have shown that FDG PET can identify patients at high risk for cardiac events if they
      do not undergo revascularization. However, these studies did not evaluate whether FDG PET
      actually directed therapy decisions and because of their study design, could not determine
      whether FDG PET altered patient outcome. Our recent studies have shown that FDG PET can have
      important impact on therapy decisions and that patients with ischemic but viable myocardium
      are at increased risk. However it remains unclear whether an approach which utilizes FDG PET
      to define ischemic but viable myocardium can have a beneficial effect on patient outcome. It
      is also important to consider the potential clinical impact of FDG PET balanced against its
      limited availability. In addition, despite the cost of the technology, preliminary data from
      our group and others suggest a potential cost savings. Accordingly, a prospective randomized
      study is needed to evaluate whether FDG PET directed therapy has a beneficial effect on
      patient outcome and is cost-effective.
    
  