
    
      Total joint arthroplasty of the hip and knee is a procedure growing substantially in number
      in the United States. Projections approach 2 million combined total hip and total knee
      arthroplasty procedures by the year 2021[1, 2]. With the incidence of post-arthroplasty
      infection ranging from 1-2% of primaries and 3-5% of revisions, the number of cases of
      periprosthetic infection will be significant[1, 3-7]. The associated economic burden is
      projected to exceed $1.62 billion[2]. With these numbers in mind it is our responsibility in
      the orthopaedic community to do what we can to reduce the social and economic impact that
      this devastating complication creates.

      While all surgical procedures carry the risk of bacterial contamination, those that implant
      prosthetic material are particularly high risk for future problems due to the development of
      biofilms and difficulty eradicating such infections. The most common time of inoculation of
      the implant is at the time of surgery. Whyte et al.[8] showed that the source of infection
      was the operating room personnel in 98% of cases while only 2% of the time it was the
      patient's own skin. The transfer of contaminants occurred via direct transfer through the
      hands or instruments 70% of the time. Knobben et al.[9] reported transfer of bacteria between
      biomaterial surfaces at a rate of 17%-71% demonstrating the ability of bacteria to spread to
      all types of materials in the operative field. The direct contact of these surfaces with the
      patient or prosthetic implant makes early contamination during surgery a likely cause of
      periprosthetic infection. Maathuis et al.[10] suggested that at least 30% of patients leave
      the operating suite with bacterial contamination.

      The splash basin has been used for many years in the operating room as a place to wash
      instruments and clean them of debris for potential re-use during the surgical case. This
      often places multiple instruments within the bath of washings or in direct contact with
      previously used tools. Several studies have shown evidence of bacterial contamination of
      these basins[11-14]. Rates of 2.17% to 74% of contamination of the splash basin have been
      reported. In a study by Anto et al.[11] an average of 45.7 instruments were placed in the
      splash basin per case. The opportunity for bacteria to be transferred to the surgical wound
      upon re-use of an instrument from the basin is therefore concerning.

      Given that the splash basin is a potential source of surgical wound contamination we have
      sought to eliminate the bacterial colonization of this source through the addition of an
      antimicrobial solution to the normal sterile water bath. To compare potential interventions,
      a prospective study comparing a 0.05% chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) antimicrobial solution to
      the current standard of sterile water as a control is proposed. This concentration of CHG
      followed by a saline rinse has been shown to decrease the risk of infection during wound
      irrigation without increasing the risk of adverse effects[15, 16].

      Given our expertise in the area of total joint arthroplasty and experience with treating
      periprosthetic infections as well as familiarity with various antimicrobial solutions we feel
      well qualified to perform this study. The results of this study could improve patient
      outcomes by potentially eliminating a source of infection in the operating room.
    
  