
    
      This is a study of otelixizumab, a monoclonal antibody (MAb) directed against the human
      lymphocyte antigen CD3 (a protein found on a certain type of white blood cell). This will be
      an open-label, comparator-controlled, two part study to evaluate the safety and tolerability
      of otelixizumab in patients with Graves' ophthalmopathy (GO). It will also look to see if
      otelixizumab affects GO and how it works compared to methylprednisolone (the standard
      treatment for active GO).

      In Part A, between one and four groups of 5 patients will receive doses of otelixizumab
      administered over 8 days. The first dose level will provide a low cumulative dose, this low
      dose level has been safely administered in previous studies. Safety and clinical response
      data will be reviewed after 8 weeks, if no clinical response is seen and there are no safety
      concerns, the dose of otelixizumab will be increased and a new group of subjects will enter
      Part A. In subsequent groups cumulative medium low, medium high, and high doses of
      otelixizumab may be investigated. However if a clinical response is seen at the lowest dose
      the study will move directly to Part B.

      In Part B, patients will receive either otelixizumab at the dose set from Part A, over 8 days
      (5 patients) or methylprednisolone weekly for 12 weeks (5 patients). All dosing will be by
      intravenous infusion. All participants will undergo long term safety evaluation for 48
      months.

      Key assessments include vital signs, 12-lead ECG, liver function tests, thyroid function,
      viral monitoring, monitoring of cortisol and ACTH levels, laboratory safety tests and adverse
      event (side effect) data. Assessment of GO severity will be evaluated using recommended
      assessments including clinical activity assessments and quality of life questionnaires.
      Measurements of exploratory biomarkers (proteins found naturally in the blood) are also
      included in this study.
    
  