
    
      The main objective of the current study is to evaluate the efficacy, safety and
      utility/reliability of a novel automated overnight closed-loop glucose control system in
      children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes. This will inform the future development of
      closed-loop systems in children and adolescents aged 6 to 18 years with type 1 diabetes.

      This is an open-label, randomised, 2-period cross-over study, using the Medtronic Android
      closed loop platform or similar, comparing the safety and efficacy of overnight closed loop
      glucose control on day 1 compared with day 3 to 4 of CGM sensor life. Participants will be
      randomised to undergo two overnight studies in a clinical research facility, during which
      glucose levels will be controlled by the computer-based closed-loop algorithm on day 1 of CGM
      sensor insertion or day 3 to 4 after sensor insertion.

      A total of 16 children and adolescents with T1D between 6 and 18 years of age will be
      recruited through the Outpatient Diabetes Clinic in the Department of Paediatrics,
      Addenbrooke's Hospital and Paediatric Diabetes Centres in London, Norwich, and Ipswich, to
      allow for 12 available for assessment. All participants will be on insulin pump treatment
      with a good knowledge of insulin dose adjustments. The study will take place at the Wellcome
      Trust Clinical Research Facility (WTCRF), Cambridge. Participants will be admitted at the
      clinical research facility in the evening and stay until the following morning. During the
      two closed-loop visits, automated closed-loop glucose control with wireless data transmission
      will be performed. A Model-Predictive-Control algorithm will determine the insulin infusion
      rate based on interstitial glucose measured by a continuous subcutaneous glucose monitoring
      (CGM) system. Intravenous sampling for glucose and insulin levels will also be carried out on
      both study visits for post hoc validation of glucose sensor data and for future modelling
      purposes.

      The primary efficacy endpoint is the time spent in the target plasma glucose range from 3.9
      to 8 mmol/L. Safety evaluation is focused on the frequency and duration of episodes of
      hypoglycaemia.
    
  