
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, double - blind study of 200 male and female volunteers
      with gastritis diagnosed at the Oswaldo Cruz University Hospital Gastroenterology Outpatient
      Clinic from October 2019 to July 2020. .

      Hypothesis:

      As a non-inferiority study, the hypothesis is that the use of oral Aroeira (Schinus
      terebinthifolius raddi), associated with amoxicillin and clarithromycin, for the treatment of
      patients diagnosed with gastritis and dyspeptic symptoms has similar efficacy and safety
      (non-inferior) and/or superior efficacy and safety to traditional therapy based on the use of
      omeprazole-associated antibiotic therapy.

      Phase 3, double-blind, randomized, unicenter, clinical trial for patients who are diagnosed
      with H pylori gastritis and have associated dyspeptic symptoms seen at the Oswaldo Cruz
      University Hospital Gastroenterology Outpatient Clinic in Recife / PE, Brazil. October 2019
      to July 2020.

      In order to verify the hypothesis that treatment with oral Aroeira, amoxicillin and
      clarithromycin has similar (not inferior) and/or superior efficacy and safety than treatment
      with omeprazole, amoxicillin and clarithromycin, a sample of 200 patients was defined,
      keeping the proportion 1: 1, which will be divided into two groups:

        1. Test group with 100 patients undergoing treatment with:

           oral Aroeira (Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi, 640mg / tablet) 1 tablet every 12 hours +
           amoxicillin 2 500mg tablets every 12 hours + clarithromycin 1 tablet 500mg every 12
           hours for 14 days.

        2. Control group with 100 patients undergoing treatment with:

      omeprazole 1 20mg tablet every 12 hours + amoxicillin 2 500mg tablet every 12 hours +
      clarithromycin 1 tablet 500mg every 12 hours for 14 days.

      At the beginning of the study, patients will answer the sociodemographic questionnaire, which
      includes identification data, concomitant presence of chronic diseases and time of onset of
      symptoms. Patients will also respond to the symptom questionnaire. At the time of upper
      digestive endoscopy and pathological examination, which will be performed before and after
      treatment completion, patients will have their results graded endoscopically, using the
      Sydney criteria and according to the Sydney Histological Classification. After performing the
      second upper digestive endoscopy and pathological examination, professionals will be
      instructed to answer questionnaires to evaluate the endoscopic and histological response to
      treatment. At the end of treatment, patients will respond to a specific treatment response
      questionnaire.
    
  