
    
      The current study seeks to demonstrate how integrative ovarian rejuvenation program called
      SEGOVA influence the restoration of hormone stability and increase in the number of follicles
      in ovarian failure patients. The recruitment of patients and data collection would be
      performed at three sites: The Special Hospital Jevremova Belgrade, Saint James Hospital
      Malta, and Remedica Skopje Hospital, Macedonia. A 50-100 of Infertile women with ovarian
      failure will be included in the period between July 2019 - December 2021. The patients would
      be coded when entering the program, and all personal information would be protected.
      Information about medical treatment and background will be held on both paper and electronic
      case report forms.The result of the procedure will be maintained in the research database
      with blinding to clinical physician that will perform post procedure follow-up of those
      patients. In case of a complication, possibly related to treatment, the case will be
      unblinded.

      The first day of procedure, autologous platelet rich plasma (PRP) is obtained from 100-120 mL
      of whole blood. After separation 4 mL of PRP is obtained. Concentration of platelets is
      optimised on 6-8x baseline and 2-3x leucocytes baseline. For activation of PRP autologous
      thrombin is used in ratio 1:10.

      On the same day the laparoscopic cortical resection of the ovary is performed in standard
      technique. Ovarian cortex sample is minced in a petri dish.The volume of activated PRP (4 mL)
      is mixed with ovarian fragments and incubated for the next 48h at 37℃ and 5% CO2. After 48h,
      the bone marrow sampling from tibia under general anesthesia is performed to obtain bone
      marrow. After centrifugation the Bone Marrow Aspirate Concentrate (BMAC) with nucleated cells
      is obtained (3 +/- 1,5 mL).

      Finally, after the 48h has passed from ovarian cortex tissue incubation, fragmented tissue of
      the ovary with 4 mL of PRP will be injected together with 3 +/- 1.5 mL BMAC into the
      subcortical region of the both ovaries as transvaginal ultra sound guided injection.

      After the procedure, during one year follow up, hormone levels of follicle stimulating
      hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH),estradiol (E2), progesterone (PG) and anti-mullerian
      hormone (AMH) would be measured and the follicle numbers would be monitored to provide
      insight regarding the ovarian function.To investigate the changes in hormone levels,
      comparisons of the levels detected prior to the intervention, and 3, 6 and 12 months
      post-intervention, would be performed using Wilcoxon's rank test. Descriptive statistics will
      be provided for each variable as mean or median number, frequency, percentage, table or
      graph.

      In patients with oocytes retrieved after SEGOVA procedure, standard In Vitro Fertilization
      protocol would be performed,and fertilization, cleavage and clinical pregnancy rates will be
      monitored.
    
  