
    
      This is an open, prospective, observational, clinical study to be performed in two University
      Hospitals (Naples and Genova, Italy). The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of
      the ATG 120 mg on control of GH and IGF-I excess in acromegaly according with the currently
      accepted criteria (12) and on tumor shrinkage. The secondary objectives are to assess
      improvement of clinical symptoms and safety profile. The study population will consist of at
      least 20 patients, enrolled in the two centers from Jan 1st 2003 to June 30th 2007. Patients
      give their written informed consent prior to entering into the study. The study was performed
      according to the principles defined by the declaration The safety population, as defined by
      the protocol, consists of patients who received at least one study drug dosing.

      Hormonal evaluation GH levels are assessed as a mean value of 5 samples at 30-min intervals
      (starting between 08:00 and 9:00 in the morning) taken at each visit before the injection of
      ATG. IGF-I levels are assessed as a single sample taken at each visit at the same time as the
      first GH sample. All hormonal parameters were assessed in a central laboratory (University of
      Genoa).

      Improvement in clinical symptoms is considered on the basis of a semiquantitative scale for
      asthenia, hyperhidrosis, headache, swelling of extremities, arthralgia, paraesthesia, carpal
      tunnel syndrome: symptoms were graded as 0 = absent, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, 3 = severe.

      Any adverse event (AE) during the study is monitored and reported by the investigators.
      Safety, evaluated by local laboratory data, is assessed at inclusion and at the final visit
      by: hematology: erythrocytes, leukocytes, platelets, haemoglobin, hematocrit; biochemistry:
      glucose, creatinine, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
      aspartate aminotransferase (AST), electrolytes (sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphorous)
      glycosylated haemoglobin, triglycerides, total and high density lipoproteins (HDL)
      cholesterol, blood amylase, iron, transferrin, prothrombin; glucose and insulin
      concentrations; hormonal evaluation: thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free triiodothyronine
      (FT3), free triiodothyronine (FT4), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing
      hormone (LH) levels. Safety related to gallbladder is assessed by ultrasound examination
      performed at inclusion and at the end of the study.
    
  