
    
      Open surgery remains basic surgery for patients requiring radical or partial nephrectomy and
      is associated with a high incidence of intense immediate postoperative pain and chronic pain
      the months following surgery [1]. The physiopathology of acute pain is explained as it is
      mediated by inflammatory cell infiltration, activation of the pain pathways in the spinal
      cord, and also reflexive muscle spasm. All of these three mechanisms of acute pain are
      typically ameliorated during the postoperative recovery [2].

      Regional anesthesia techniques are commonly enhanced for pain management in open nephrectomy
      as they decrease parenteral opioid requirements and improve patient satisfaction [3].

      Erector Spinae Plane block (RSPB), first described by Forero et al.,[4] for analgesia in
      thoracic neuropathic pain, has also been reported for the management of other causes of acute
      and postoperative pain [5,6,7]. In this ultrasound-guided (USG) technique, a local anesthetic
      (LA) is applied between the erector spinae muscle and the transverse process of the thoracic
      vertebra leading to the spread of LA cephalad, caudally and through the paravertebral space
      [4,5,8].

      Quadratus Lumborum block (QLB) was initially described by R.Blanco as an abstract at the
      annual European Society of Regional Anaesthesia (ESRA) congress in 2007, where the LA was
      injected at the anterolateral aspect of the QL muscle (type 1 QLB) [9]. Later, J. Børglum
      used the posterior transmuscular approach by detecting Shamrock sign and injecting the LA at
      the anterior aspect of the QL (type 3 QLB) [10]. Recently, R. Blanco described another
      approach by injecting the LA at the posterior aspect of the QL muscle (type 2 QLB), which may
      be easier and safer as the LA is injected in a more superficial plane, so the risk of
      intra-abdominal complications and lumbar plexus injuries is less [11]. Finally, the
      intramuscular QLB (type 4 QLB) was done by injecting LA directly into the QL muscle [12].

      The investigators hypothesize that performing ultrasound-guided ESPB block will be more
      superior to or equal to QLB in providing postoperative analgesia for patients undergoing open
      nephrectomy under general anesthesia.
    
  