
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the time to neutrophil engraftment (absolute neutrophil count [ANC] >= 500) in
      patients receiving a standard of care myeloablative cord blood transplant (CBT) augmented
      with an off-the-shelf pre-expanded and cryopreserved cord blood product to those who do not
      receive the product.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Provide initial data on clinical and economic benefit, such as time to platelet
      engraftment, duration of initial hospitalization, transplant-related mortality (TRM), death
      without engraftment, and incidence of severe infections in the first 100 days
      post-transplant.

      II. The kinetics of immune system recovery will also be evaluated in both arms.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Standard of Care Arm:

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: One of two possible conditioning regimens is chosen by the attending
      physician: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days
      -8 to -6, cyclophosphamide IV on days -7 to -6., and undergo high dose total-body irradiation
      (TBI) twice daily (BID) on days -4 to -1 OR, patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over
      30-60 minutes on days -6 to -2, cyclophosphamide IV on day -6, thiotepa IV over 4 hours on
      days -5 to -4, and undergo middle intensity TBI once daily (QD) on days -2 to -1.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo single-unit or double-unit unmanipulated umbilical cord blood
      (UCB) transplant on day 0.

      GRAFT-VERSUS-HOST DISEASE (GVHD) PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 1 hour
      BID (adults) or thrice daily (TID) (children) or orally (PO) on days -3 to 100 with taper
      beginning on day 101. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) IV TID on days 0-7
      then may receive MMF PO TID. Patients remain on MMF TID for a minimum of 30 days, and then
      may begin taper if there is no evidence of GVHD and are well-engrafted from one donor unit.

      Experimental Arm:

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive the conditioning regimen chosen by the attending
      physician as in Standard of Care Arm.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo single-unit or double-unit unmanipulated UCB transplant on day
      0. Patients also receive an infusion of ex vivo-expanded cord blood progenitors at least 4
      hours after completion of UCB transplant.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive cyclosporine IV or PO and mycophenolate mofetil IV or PO
      as in Standard of Care Arm.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 2 years.
    
  