
    
      Chronic wounds (CWs) are common and carry out an important and often neglected burden not
      only to the individual, the family but also to the society as a whole. A wound becomes
      chronic when they fail to progress through a timely sequence of repair resulting in anatomic
      and functional integrity within a period of approximatively three months. CWs affect a large
      segment of the world population (3) with a prevalence of mixed aetiologies of 2.21 per 1000.
      The annual costs of care of patients with CWs is estimated to be £6 billion for 2.2 million
      in the United Kingdom (UK).

      In CWs a massive production of matrix molecules resulting from underlying cellular
      dysfunction and dysregulation can be found. Fibrinogen and fibrin are also common in chronic
      wounds and it is thought that these and other macromolecules scavenge growth factors and
      other molecules involved in promoting wound repair. Chronic wound fluid is also biochemically
      distinct from acute wound fluid; it slows down, and can block the proliferation of cells,
      which are essential for the wound healing process. The therapeutic approach to enhance the
      wound healing process include wound bed preparation or wound dressing management. Wound bed
      preparation as a concept allows the clinician to focus systematically on all of the critical
      components of a non-healing wound to identify the cause of the problem, and implement a care
      programme so as to achieve a stable wound that has healthy granulation tissue and a well
      vascularised wound bed. Debridement is an integrated part of wound bed preparation, achieving
      certain goals and, thus, creating a healthy wound bed, margins and peri-wound skin with the
      objective to promote and accelerate healing (8). Debridement is defined as the removal of
      foreign material and necrotic tissue from a wound and it can also help to stimulate wound
      healing (8). However, not all methods of debridement are the same. Each method has advantages
      and disadvantages that must be clearly understood.

      In the present clinical practice, there are several methods of wound debridement: autolytic,
      enzymatic, mechanical, surgical (sharp) and biologic. The most common method is the
      mechanical debridement. Autolytic, chemical, and surgical methods are considered to be
      selective techniques, whereas mechanical methods are considered to be nonselective. Selective
      modalities remove mainly necrotic tissue, whereas nonselective modalities remove both
      necrotic and viable tissue. In practice, selective modalities can also remove or damage
      healthy tissue. The most selective modalities are autolytic and biologic techniques.
      Instrument debridement is the most used debridement method from many years. It has been shown
      to improve wound healing and its main advantages are the low cost of treatment and the speed
      of dead tissue removal. This method is done with the intention of removing small amounts of
      visible devitalized tissue. However, residual nonviable tissue may remain at the microscopic
      level resulting in slowing healing process. On the contrary, the risk of exaggerated /
      mismanaged excision is not non-existent and can lead to damage to healthy tissue or even
      damage to deeper structures (blood vessels, nerves, tendons or even bones), resulting in
      delayed healing too. Instrument debridement can be painful. Patient's fear about this
      approach is a reality that can also be problematic. Autolytic or enzymatic debridement, which
      are more selective and less prone to patient's reluctance could remediate to this situation.
      However, time for complete dead tissue removal is considerably increased, requiring multiple
      applications and stringent patient compliance. While this type of debridement does not damage
      healthy tissue and causes little or no pain, it can cause contact sensitization. Water-jet
      debridement systems seems to pose a valid alternative to other methods. The approach is based
      on mechanical and homogenous wound cleansing and stimulation by a micro-jet of water. It uses
      an ultra-fine, powerful and adjustable micro-jet of water that precisely removes soft to
      fibrous deposits from the wound. It is usually fast. Softness of the treatment depends on the
      speed and intensity of the water jet according to wound condition. Adequate pain control
      should be performed and surface anaesthesia may be required. Water jet debridement promotes
      natural wound healing by inducing micro-bleeding from the wound bed and minimizes scarring.
      While there is ample anecdotal evidence about the efficacy of such method to preserve healthy
      tissue, the investigators propose here to document this ability by measuring precisely wound
      depth before and after debridement using Debritom+ micro water jet technology. The
      investigators propose to systematically assess patient's apprehension regarding this
      technique too.
    
  