
    
      THE RATIONALE OF THE STUDY

      It is widely reported in literature that ultrasound can identify the presence of interstitial
      and pulmonary alveolar syndrome by comet tail artifact with good sensitivity and specificity.
      This is an easy technique to perform and interpret, readily available and repeatable over
      time and executable bedside even in emergency situations. The execution of this investigative
      technique in the ED and also in a pre-hospital setting would provide additional and reliable
      information for patients with dyspnea, so favoring rapid identification of the etiology.

      Accepting these observations, lung ultrasound (LUS) could have a central role in the
      evaluation of patients with shortness of breath in ED. Even the LUS in many studies has been
      considered useful for detecting pulmonary alterations, there are few data regarding its
      utilization in clinical practice and there is a lack of evidences concerning validated
      operative protocols. On this basis, it was decided to evaluate the employment of LUS in the
      ED with a structured and practical protocol.

      ETHICAL ASPECTS

      This study will be conducted according to Helsinki Declaration and i twill be approved by our
      Local Ethics Committee.

      AIMS OF THE STUDY

      The main aim of this study was to analyze if lung ultrasound (LUS) could be a useful tool for
      the early identification of heart failure in patients presenting to ED for dyspnea.

      The secondary objective was to identify a protocol model for the management of acute dyspnea
      on the basis of lung ultrasound pattern when added to other validated diagnostic tools.

      INCLUSIONS CRITERIA

      All the patients admitted to our Emergency Department from January 2011 to February 2013 with
      acute non-traumatic dyspnea. We included patients carried by ambulance and patients who came
      autonomously.

      EXCLUSIONS CRITERIA

      Age <18 years

      Post-traumatic dyspnea

      METHODS

      After triage, standardized diagnostic work-up included: 1) brief patient history (age,
      gender, symptoms, medical history); 2) Vital Parameters (Blood Pressure, Heart Rate, Arterial
      Oxygen Saturation, Respiratory Rate, Body Temperature); 3) 12 lead EKG; 4) Standard
      laboratory assessment (NT-proBNP - ECLIA, Roche Methodics®, Creatinine, BUN, C-Reactive
      Protein, Full Blood Count, Electrolytes); 5) Blood Gas Analysis. Data were collected and
      stored in a database.

      An independent operator performed LUS right after the admission (unaware of patient history
      and vitals), then the attending physician acquired full medical history, Physical Examination
      (according to Boston Criteria for Heart Failure) and requested Chest X-Ray. Echocardiography
      was performed in order to validate heart failure diagnosis even if it was not considered in
      our protocol because not available 24h/day in our Emergency Department. All LUS operators
      were emergency physicians trained in LUS.

      Lung Ultrasound We used Esaote MyLab30™ and MyLab70™ Ultrasound with Variable-Band Convex
      Array (3,5-5 MHz). Six transversal scans for each hemithorax (second and fourth intercostal
      space on the hemiclavear line, anterior axillar line, middle axillar line, see Figure 1).
      Basal scans of the lung were sampled in order to identify pleural effusions.

      We chose this anterior approach for the difficulties related to a complete evaluation of the
      chest in case of severe dyspnea and non-collaborative patients.

      B-lines are defined as vertical, hyperechogenic, reverberation artifacts that arise from the
      pleural line to the bottom of the screen and moving synchronously with lung sliding; a
      positive region is defined by the presence of three or more B-lines in a longitudinal plane
      between two ribs. Acute interstitial pulmonary syndrome was defined, according to the
      International Consensus Conference on LUS, as the presence of two or more positive regions in
      each hemithorax.

      Diagnostic Outcome (Reference Standard) Since a uniform reference test is lacking for acute
      heart failure, we chose to use a consensus diagnosis as formal reference standard, in analogy
      with earlier studies and as recommended by recent diagnostic research guidelines. An
      independent panel of experts (made up of two cardiologists and one senior emergency
      physician) judged all the collected data for each patient to determine the final diagnosis.

      The panel of experts assessed acute heart failure diagnosis following the criteria and
      approach outlined by the ESC Heart Failure Guidelines.

      LENGHT OF THE STUDY

      From January 2011 to February 2013

      DATA COLLECTION

      Data collection form included:

      Personal data Medical hystory VItals signs; ECG; BGA; Medical Examination; Standard Blood
      Test plus NT pro-BNP; Chest X-ray; Echocardiography; Lung Ultrasound

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Edited to Prof. Cevenini.
    
  