
    
      This is a 6-month randomized controlled trial. After the initial baseline screening and
      assessments, 60 overweight adolescents will be randomly assigned (30 subjects per group) to a
      standard weight-reducing diet with the advice to consume 8 cups of water per day
      (experimental group) or the same standard weight-reducing diet without additional advice
      (control group). The interventions will consist of nutrition education and behavioral
      counseling by a registered dietitian, during individual sessions and telephone calls. Mobile
      text messaging will be used to reinforce information presented at the individual sessions and
      thereby foster adherence to dietary advice. Diet prescriptions will differ only in regard to
      the specificity of recommendations regarding water consumption and physical activity
      recommendations will not differ between groups. The frequency and content of text messages
      will be consistent between the experimental and control groups, with the exception that the
      experimental group will receive an additional phrase with each message to encourage the "8
      x8" water recommendation.

      A registered dietitian will communicate with each participant one time per month, either
      during an individual session or by telephone. Individual sessions will include nutrition
      classes, taste testing, hands-on activities, and opportunities for questions and answers.
      Text messages will be sent on a daily basis.

      Study outcomes will be assessed at baseline and at regular intervals throughout the 6 months
      of the study.

      ANALYSIS PLAN:

      The blinding of the randomization will be broken on or after July 28, 2014 and the data will
      be analyzed according to the following plan. All analyses will follow the intention-to-treat
      principle, attributing each subject to his or her assigned diet regardless of compliance.
      Baseline characteristics will be compared between the diet groups using the Fisher exact test
      for categorical variables and t-test for continuous variables. The 6-month change from
      baseline in the primary and secondary outcomes will be compared between groups using a
      general linear model, adjusting for baseline covariates that are potentially correlated with
      the outcome. These include demographics, socioeconomic status, anthropometrics, physical
      activity, and beverage consumption. We will further test covariates for potential
      interaction, i.e., differential effect on outcome in the two trial arms. The null hypothesis
      is that the 6-month change from baseline will not differ between diet groups.
    
  