
    
      Most of our patients use a standard dose of Gatorade (64 oz) and a tasteless laxative powder
      called MiraLAX (306 g) to clean their colons out for a colonoscopy. Occasionally, patients
      have chosen to use other FDA approved solutions to clean their colons including NuLYTELY,
      GoLytely, MoviPrep and SuPREP. Rarely patients choose to use high doses of MagCitrate.

      Despite drinking all their liquid to clean their colon, a few patients have difficult to
      clean out colons and the quality of their colonoscopy preparation was not good. No one has
      ever studied what liquids to give these patients when they have another colonoscopy. Most
      doctors recommend using higher than standard doses of bowel cleaning liquids, but the safety
      and effectiveness of these higher doses has never been studied.

      Patients will already have been assigned a higher than standard dose of a bowel cleaning
      liquid of their choice for their planned colonoscopy. This is our standard of care for
      cleaning out the colons of patients who previous had colonoscopies with colons that were not
      adequately cleaned. If the patient chooses to participate in this study, the plans to clean
      their colon will remain unchanged.

      Before and during the study: The subject will clean out thier colon in the days before their
      colonoscopy just as they would have if they were not part of the study. They will be asked to
      fill out a short questionnaire before the colonoscopy about their experience with the liquid
      and the clean out process.

      We would like to obtain a blood test (basic metabolic profile) that looks at each subject's
      kidney function within 3 months before their colonoscopy and before the IV is started for the
      colonoscopy. This involves a simple needle stick to draw 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of blood. If the
      subject had had blood tests done for other reasons within 3 months of their colonoscopy,
      these results can be used in place of the first blood sample.

      The only research activity is the collection of patient's blood and the questionnaire the
      subject will fill out before the colonoscopy. The preparation to clean their colon and the
      actually colonoscopy will be unaffected by this research.
    
  