
    
      To monitor the well-being of a fetus or for a clinical diagnosis, a challenge is to extract a
      fetal electrocardiogram (fECG) signal of high quality from a limited number of non-invasive
      sensors on the maternal abdomen.

      During childbirth, fetal monitoring is assessed by the fetal heart rate (FHR), classically
      from cardiotocography (CTG). The aim is to monitor FHR variability anomalies that reflect a
      too high fetal malaise. It is very common to have difficulties to reliably record FHR due to
      confusion of rhythms of the mother and the fetus that can lead to unnecessary caesareans.
      With 800000 childbirths in France per year, improving the reliability of FHR estimation by
      fECG analysis is therefore of high clinicalinterest.

      To deal with, the proposed approach aims at coupling two complementary cardiac information
      acquired at the best-located position. Therefore, the proposed solution is (i) to combine the
      use of electrophysiological sensors ECG and acoustic sensors of microphonic type that can
      register phonocardiographic signals (PCG), (ii) to assist by computer the clinical expertise
      to choose the best sensors location. Several methodological aspects will be considered: to
      improve the robustness of the FHR estimation with degraded signals based on multimodality, to
      overcome some practical limitations to extract the fECG waveforms by enhancing the process
      extraction with PCG and to assist the user in the sensors choice and placement by predicting
      their best locations and their kinds (ECG or PCG).

      The SurFAO project proposes then an original approach of computer-assisted fetal monitoring
      and thus differs from previous published works of fECG extraction solutions, only based on
      algorithmic performances mostly in well-controlled situations. The original aspects of the
      investigator's proposal are the innovative methodological choices based on multimodality and
      informed recording process, the consideration of the medical uses and of the necessity to
      help the clinical monitoring to design the algorithms, the new reference multimodal database,
      and the academic-clinical consortium, that will guarantee the relevance of all proposed
      parts.
    
  