
    
      Rationale: Testicular cancer (TC) survivors have an increased risk of hypogonadism (decreased
      testosterone and/or increased luteinizing hormone levels) and cardiovascular disease (CVD).
      Metabolic syndrome develops early after chemotherapy in 20-30% of long-term TC survivors and
      is associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic disease in the general population. TC
      survivors who develop the metabolic syndrome have a higher body mass index (BMI)
      pretreatment, a larger BMI increase during follow-up, and lower total testosterone levels
      than patients without the metabolic syndrome. Testosterone replacement therapy as a
      short-term intervention during a limited time period may be an important strategy to reduce
      body weight and fat mass, restore cardiometabolic balance, and decrease the prevalence of the
      metabolic syndrome in TC survivors.

      Objective: to assess the effects of testosterone replacement therapy on fat mass and other
      components of the metabolic syndrome.

      Study design: randomized double-blind placebo controlled intervention study, followed by an
      open-label treatment phase. Results of this pilot study will be used to design a multicenter
      randomized controlled study in a large group of TC survivors

      Study population: 40 TC patients, aged 18-55 years, at least 12 months after completion of
      curative treatment with unilateral orchidectomy and platinum-based chemotherapy, and having a
      fasting total testosterone level ≤12 nmol/l and a BMI ≥25 kg/m2.

      Intervention: Patients will be randomized to treatment with transdermal testosterone gel
      (Androgel) or placebo gel once daily during 20 weeks, followed by 20 weeks of active Androgel
      treatment in all participants. The treatment dose will be 50 mg daily, adjusted to 25 mg in
      case of increased testosterone concentrations (average of 2 measurements >25 nmol/L) or signs
      of overdosing. Patients will be stratified according to testosterone level (8-12 nmol/L
      versus <8 nmol/L) and BMI (25-30 kg/m2 versus 30-35 kg/m2).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoint is the change in fat mass as measured by
      Dual-Energy X-ray Absorption (DEXA) scan after 20 weeks of Androgel compared to placebo.
      Secondary endpoints are changes in fat mass between 20 and 40 weeks, and changes in abdominal
      visceral fat, BMI, adipocytokines, metabolic syndrome parameters, bone mass density, semen
      quality, sexual function, and quality of life between Androgel and placebo-treated patients.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The study will provide an answer to the question whether testosterone
      replacement therapy as a short-term intervention has significant effects on obesity and fat
      metabolism and may, thus, reduce the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in this population
      of young men with excellent long-term cancer-related prognosis, but an increased CVD risk. At
      various time points during the intervention, patients will be subjected to history taking and
      physical examination. Furthermore, blood will be drawn to: measure hormone levels,
      adipocytokines, lipids, glucose, insulin, and bone markers; to extract DNA for determination
      of gene polymorphisms; and to measure hematocrit and PSA as safety parameters. Semen analysis
      and a full body DEXA scan will be performed at 0, 20 and 40 weeks only. Patients will be
      asked to fill out questionnaires regarding quality of life, sexual health, and androgen
      deficiency symptoms at various time points during the intervention.
    
  