
    
      Effective treatment strategies for chronic depression are urgently needed since it is not
      only a common and particularly disabling disorder, but is also considered treatment resistant
      by most clinicians. There are only a few studies on chronic depression indicating that
      traditional interventions are not as effective as in acute, episodic depression. In addition,
      most of the studies had methodological weaknesses, such as the very short courses of
      psychotherapy. Usually, chronic depression begins early in life, is often associated with
      early interpersonal trauma, and results in an even more substantial human capital loss than
      the late-onset group. Furthermore, it shows a weak response to medication and a high rate of
      relapse after an initial response. With the present multicentre study, the efficacy of the
      only specific psychotherapy for chronic depression (Cognitive Behavioural Analysis System of
      Psychotherapy/CBASP) is compared with a non-specific System of Supportive Psychotherapy/SYSP
      in early onset chronically depressives. CBASP faired very well in one large trial but has
      never been directly compared to a non-specific psychotherapeutic control. Another innovative
      aspect of the study is the use of an extended course of psychotherapy (32 sessions). Primary
      hypothesis: CBASP is more effective in reducing depressive symptoms than SYSP.

      A naturalistic study following up the patients of the trial up to two years after termination
      of the study treatments is performed in order to investigate the long-term effectiveness of
      CBASP compared to the System of Supportive Psychotherapy. The primary outcome of this
      follow-up study is the rate of well-weeks (weeks with no or minimal depression symptoms)
      during the two years after termination of the study treatments as measured with the
      Longitudinal Interval Follow-up Evaluation (LIFE) Interview
    
  