
    
      Regular participation in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) is related to
      decreased risk of morbidity and mortality. Among working populations, lack of MVPA may also
      be a risk factor for absenteeism and presenteeism. Both traditional workplace-based and
      web-based interventions have been suggested as being effective in promoting participation
      MVPA, health-related outcomes, and work-related productivity. However, several challenges
      limit their application in real world contexts. A 'blended' intervention approach combining
      the two intervention strategies is proposed to overcome these limitations. The proposed
      intervention aims to utilize the blended approach to increase participation in MVPA,
      health-related outcomes, and work productivity among inactive workers.

      Methods: The study will comprise of a three group cluster randomized controlled trial
      (cluster-RCT), comprising a three-month actual intervention and a nine-month behavioral
      follow-up period. The three groups will be: a web-based intervention group, a blended
      intervention group combining the web-based components with face-to-face workshops and
      posters, and a control group. Physically inactive office employees (N = 495) from 33
      companies (i.e., clusters) will be recruited and randomly assigned to the three groups by
      cluster randomization. The intervention mapping (IM) framework will be used for selecting and
      applying effective health behavioural theories and behavioural change techniques (BCTs) to
      the development, implementation and assessment of the intervention, which will be personally
      tailored. The primary outcome variable will be objectively-measured MVPA using an
      accelerometer. Secondary outcomes will consist of indices of health including adiposity,
      blood pressure, blood sugar, blood lipids, self-reported depression, anxiety, stress, and
      health-related quality of life, and work-related variables including absenteeism and
      presenteeism.
    
  