
    
      Fibromyalgia (FM) affects 2-4% of the general population with typical symptoms such as
      generalized and widespread pain, sleep disturbances, problems in memory and attention,
      anxiety and depression. Pharmacological treatment and psychotherapeutic interventions have
      produced limited effects so far. Interestingly, lifetime psychosocial adversities are
      substantially elevated in FM but no interventions are currently offered. Given the complex
      etiology of FM, combining a psychotherapy with other treatment options can maximize the
      potential benefit of this intervention. The investigators will test in a marginalized
      catchment area in Barcelona, whether a trauma-oriented therapy, Eye Movement Desensitization
      Reprocessing (EMDR), in combination with a non-invasive brain stimulation technique,
      Multifocal transcranial Current Stimulation (MtCS), can improve typical FM symptoms.

      Outcomes

      Primary outcomes:

        1. To test whether EMDR plus MtCS or EMDR plus sham-MtCS in comparison to TAU group,
           improve pain intensity, depressive and anxious symptoms and trauma associated symptoms
           after therapy and follow-up.

        2. To test whether an improvement in pain intensity, depressive and anxious symptoms and
           trauma associated symptoms can be augmented by simultaneous MtCS comparing EMDR plus
           MtCS with EMDR plus sham-MtCS after the intervention and whether this is maintained at
           the follow-up visit.

           Secondary outcomes:

        3. To test whether the EMDR plus MtCS or EMDR plus sham-MtCS incomparison to TAU group,
           improves more in subjective wellbeing after the treatment, and whether this is
           maintained at the follow-up visit.

      Indicators to monitor clinical changes will be performed via various standard self- and
      hetero-applied scales by blind-to-treatment raters and information provided by patients and
      the medical chart IT system of our catchment area at baseline (visit 1), post treatment at 6
      months (visit 2), and follow-up evaluation at 12 months (visit 3).

      This multicenter collaborative project will involve the participation of the Psychiatric
      Department of the Parc de Salut Mar responsible for coordinating the study, the
      Rheumatologist Department of the Parc de Salut Mar responsible for patient recruitment, the
      Institut d'investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS) responsible for
      randomization and data base management, and the Cognitive Neuro-Lab responsible for the MtCS
      stimulation.

      Design

      Within a double-blind randomized controlled design, patients will be randomized to one of the
      following three treatment arms:

      EMDR with MtCS (20 sessions) vs EMDR with sham-MtCS (20 sessions) vs TAU. Psychotherapists,
      raters, and patients will be kept blind for MtCS treatment conditions until the end of the
      trial.

      Participants

      The patient sample will consist of 45 females fulfilling the 2016 American College of
      Rheumatology criteria for FM based on clinical interview (Wolfe et al, 2010).

      Interventions

        -  EMDR therapy

        -  Multifocal transcranial Current Stimulation (MtCS)

        -  Treatment as Usual

      Randomizations

      The main analysis will be the comparison between patients assigned to EMDR vs not assigned to
      EMDR, and the secondary analysis will be, among patients assign to EMDR, the comparison
      between patients with FM assigned to active MtCS vs patients with FM assigned to sham MtCS.
      Therefore, the investigators will not randomly assign the individuals to one of the three
      arms but, rather, will randomize patients meeting the inclusion criteria twice: they will
      first randomize them to EMDR vs non-EMDR, and then will randomize those in the EMDR group to
      active MtCS or sham MtCS. For the sake of brevity, the investigators describe here only the
      randomization to EMDR vs non-EMDR, because the randomization to active MtCS vs. sham MtCS is
      identical. The first two patients will be randomly allocated to EMDR with p=2/3. For each
      subsequent patient, the following biased coin algorithm will be applied. If a group includes
      at least two more patients than it would have to have to maintain the ratio 2 EMDR / 1
      control, the patient will be randomly assigned to the other group with p=0.6. Otherwise, the
      researchers will simulate that the new patient is allocated to EMDR and calculate the
      between-group standardized difference in pain intensity variable, will then simulate that the
      new patient is allocated to non-EMDR and recalculate the difference, and finally randomly
      allocate the patient to the group associated to the smallest difference with p=0.6. This
      strategy decreases prognostic imbalances between groups because it decreases differences in
      potential confounders but it still includes randomization.

      Computation of sample size

      The main tests of the study will consist in assessing whether patients assigned to EMDR show
      different levels of pain intensity variable using standard formula, the total sample size
      required to detect large to very large effect size differences (Cohen's d ≥ 1) between two
      groups with a significance level of 0.05 is 13 and 26. Assuming 15% dropouts, the researchers
      will aim to randomize 45 patients, i.e. 15 and 30 per arm.

      Statistical Analysis

      The distribution of socio-demographic and clinical characteristics between groups at baseline
      will be summarized using descriptive statistics. The change in clinical and functional
      variables from the baseline evaluation to post intervention will be analyzed using linear
      model t-tests, including as regressors of no interest the potential confounders (age, pain
      score, anxiety and depression severity, and number of years in education). The statistical
      software used for the analysis will be the latest available version of R. The investigators
      will conduct an intention to treat (ITT) analysis, and will use the "Last Observation Carried
      Forward" (LOCF) method for losses at follow-up.
    
  