
    
      The prospective portion of study will utilize investigational PET acquisitions in addition to
      standard of care PET imaging to develop and optimize PET acquisition post-processing
      techniques as well as to generate preliminary and comparative data for potential clinical
      trials. These post-processing techniques include but are not limited to visual inspection of
      lesions, normal tissue, sentinel nodes and imaging artifacts, semi-quantitative analysis
      including the use of rating schemes, and using various published methods for image
      post-processing. The PET methodologies we plan to use as part of this study will allow us to
      obtain morphological, functional and molecular information. Patients receiving a standard of
      care PET will be asked by study personnel if they are interested in undergoing additional
      investigational acquisitions before or after their standard of care imaging. If the patient
      agrees, he/she will remain on the same PET scanner for up to an additional 30 minutes while
      more images are obtained. Each patient will be imaged for no longer than 2 hours (standard of
      care imaging and additional investigational imaging). A routine clinical report will be
      generated for the clinically indicated PET by a nuclear medicine physician. Once this routine
      clinical PET scan is dictated and finalized, a study team member will obtain the report via
      IHIS and manually remove all identifiers. This report is being obtained for comparative
      purposes. All the data being compared will be coded using a unique study number. The
      retrospective portion of this study will involve the review of pre-existing data from January
      1, 2001 through December 5, 2017. The data to be reviewed/analyzed includes PET imaging data
      that has been previously collected in the course of standard clinical care. The PET imaging
      acquisitions obtained from the retrospective review will be utilized as a comparison to the
      investigational images obtained during the prospective portion of this study. The criteria
      that will be utilized to determine how the retrospective data will be utilized includes the
      following parameters: type of imaging study, diagnosis, age in decades, gender, and
      availability of data in the imaging archive.
    
  