
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To examine the safety and tolerability profile of the combination of rintatolimod
      celecoxib +/- interferon alpha-2b, when given as CKM along with chemotherapy in the
      neoadjuvant setting in early stage triple negative breast cancer.

      II To identify the appropriate dose level of CKM and paclitaxel for future clinical
      exploration.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      II. • Evaluate the effect of neoadjuvant CKM + paclitaxel on pathological response and breast
      MRI response in early stage triple negative breast cancer patients.

      III. • Evaluate the overall and recurrence-free survival in early stage triple negative
      breast cancer patients that received neoadjuvant CKM + paclitaxel.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I• To evaluate longitudinal changes of blood biomarkers such as peripheral T-cell subsets,
      myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC), expression of chemokine and other immune genes,
      circulating immune mediators and correlate them with the clinical course post surgery.

      II• Comparison of response assessment criteria for a prospective analysis using RECIST 1.1.
      and irRECIST

        -  Evaluate changes in the intratumoral levels of biomarkers, such as, peripheral T-cell
           subsets, myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC), chemokines, and immune-regulatory
           factors (pre- vs post-CKM + paclitaxel treatment).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of recombinant interferon alfa-2b.

      Patients receive celecoxib orally (PO) twice daily (BID), recombinant interferon alfa-2b
      intravenously (IV) over 20 minutes (omitted in lowest dose level), and rintatolimod IV on
      days 1-3 of weeks 1-3, as well as paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly on day 1. Treatment
      continues for a total of 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. 1-3 weeks after last dose of paclitaxel, patients receive doxorubicin IV over 10
      minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 cycles
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      . After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks.
    
  