
    
      This is a pilot, multi-center, open-label study evaluating selinexor's ability to overcome
      resistance for multiple myeloma patients who are refractory to lenalidomide-containing
      therapies.

      Enrollment:

      The study will enroll up to a total of 22 Multiple Myeloma (MM) patients with progressive
      disease.

      Study Assessments:

      The study will consist of:

        1. screening period;

        2. study treatment until disease progression or intolerable toxicity;

        3. a final assessment to occur up to 28 days after the end of the last treatment cycle; and

        4. follow-up period.

      The screening period will be conducted within 14 days before baseline (baseline being day 1
      of cycle 1, before study drug administration). During this period, a medical history will be
      obtained along with complete physical examination including vital signs measurements, height,
      weight, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, and 12-lead
      electrocardiogram (EKG). MM assessments will be performed, including β2 microglobulin (β2M),
      serum free light chain (SFLC) serum and urine protein electrophoresis, quantification of
      serum immunoglobulins, urine and serum immunofixation, and 24-hour total protein. An
      additional serum sample will be obtained for evaluation of biomarkers. In addition, a
      postero-anterior and lateral chest radiographs, skeletal survey, and a bone marrow aspirate
      (BM) and biopsy will be performed within 28 days of baseline. Clinical laboratory tests
      including hematology, clinical chemistry (blood urea nitrogen [BUN], serum creatinine, uric
      acid, lactate dehydrogenase [LDH], total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate
      aminotransferase [AST] and alanine aminotransferase [ALT]), electrolytes (potassium, sodium,
      chloride and calcium), random glucose, total protein, amylase, albumin, and urinalysis as
      well as serum pregnancy tests for females of child-bearing potential (FCBPs). Subjects will
      also be asked to fill out quality of life assessments at several time points during this
      study.

      Subjects eligible for this study will receive treatment with study drug until disease
      progression or intolerable toxicity does not allow ongoing treatment.

      Assessments:

      Schedule of assessments: Subjects that meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria during the
      screening period will continue to Day 1 of Cycle 1, when baseline evaluations will be
      conducted. Subjects who continue to meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled in
      the trial and study drug will be administered. During Cycle 1, subjects will also have study
      visits during which assessments will be performed on Days 8, 15 and 22. MM assessments will
      be performed on Day 22 during all subsequent cycles. Starting with Cycle 2, study visits will
      take place on Days 1 and 22. See Table 1

      Assessment overview: During the treatment period, each subject will have clinical laboratory
      tests performed to monitor for potential toxicity. Additional procedures performed at these
      visits will include monitoring for adverse events (AEs), review of concomitant medications
      and other support therapies (e.g. growth factors and transfusion), MM disease assessments,
      ECOG performance status, vital signs measurements, and physical examination. Subjects will
      remain on study until documentation of progressive disease (PD) as defined by the
      International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. Subjects with stable disease will remain
      in the study. For subjects who show disappearance of urine and serum M-protein by protein
      electrophoresis and immunofixation on 2 consecutive assessments and the subject shows no
      other signs of disease activity, a bone marrow (BM) aspirate and biopsy will be required to
      confirm their CR. A BM aspirate and biopsy will not be required for subjects in any other
      response group categories.

      Up to twenty-eight days after the last dose of study drug, subjects are to complete a final
      assessment (herein referred to as the End-of-Study treatment visit). Procedures to be
      conducted at this visit include a MM disease assessment, measurement of vital signs and
      weight, a complete physical examination, assessment of adverse events, a review of
      concomitant medications, assessment of ECOG performance status, hematology and clinical
      chemistry laboratory tests including electrolytes, total protein, amylase and albumin, and an
      assessment of response to treatment with the use of SFLC assay and ratio, serum and urine
      protein electrophoresis, quantification of serum immunoglobulins, urine and serum
      immunofixation, 24-hour total urine protein, and serum β2M. Subjects who withdraw from the
      study before the completion of the eight 28-day cycle evaluation periods will have all End-
      of-Study treatment assessments performed at their final visit.

      Following the End-of-Study treatment visit, subjects will be monitored for PD and survival by
      clinic visits every 3 months and every 6 months, respectively, until alternate therapy needs
      to be started or death intervenes.

      Dosing Regimens:

      All subjects enrolled will receive (Dose Level 0) 1) selinexor, PO, at 60 mg once weekly on
      days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of a 28-days cycle, 2) lenalidomide, PO, 10 mg daily on days 1-21 of a
      28-day cycle and 3) steroids at the same dose and schedule as the last
      lenalidomide-containing regimen if it contained steroids that they had failed to meet
      eligibility for this study.

      Recommended Concomitant Therapy:

      Subjects may receive full supportive care, including hydration prophylaxis, treatment with a
      5-HT3 antagonist and/or other anti-nausea agents, antibiotics, antivirals, vitamins, and
      supplements as appropriate. Patients should receive anti-platelet therapy with baby aspirin
      or other agents if they have additional risk factors for developing thrombotic events.

      Number of Patients (planned): 22

      Study Population: Multiple myeloma patients who are refractory to a lenalidomide-containing
      therapy
    
  