
    
      1. Risk and burden for patients

           Patients in this study have cancer that often proves hard to control with standard care.
           The early phase nature of this study means that the intervention may not have any
           benefit for patients who take part in the study. However, they will still receive the
           standard treatment of radiotherapy. Throughout the study, any patients who have
           significant side effects from the trial drug will be withdrawn from the trial and will
           still be eligible to receive standard care. The study itself carries a number of
           potential burdens:

             -  Experimental nature of the study drug. The drug stimulates the immune system to
                produce more proteins that will attack the tumour cells. It is thought that this
                will be selective for tumour cells; however it is possible that effects on normal
                tissues may cause side effects. These risks will be managed as much as possible by
                regular (3 weekly) clinical assessments as a hospital outpatient, by experienced
                clinicians while having the study treatment. Comprehensive assessments for safety
                will be carried out including more intensive monitoring with blood tests.

             -  Burden of frequent hospital visits and tests. Participants in this study must
                attend hospital frequently for safety reasons to check for any toxicity of the
                study treatment. Blood tests (more than usual), clinical examination and urine
                tests are part of the safety assessment.

             -  Additional investigations may be carried out as part of the study, for research
                purposes for which consent will be sought form the patient, such as additional
                blood samples and additional scans (CT thorax, abdomen and pelvis).

        2. Phase 1 trial of Pembrolizumab: Patients will be carefully monitored for toxicity
           throughout the trial. A phase I trial has already been conducted to determine the
           maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pembrolizumab in bladder cancer. To date no MTD has been
           defined and the maximum dose tested showed acceptable toxicity and positive effects on
           reducing tumour size. This study will assess two dose levels of pembrolizumab: 100mg and
           200mg and differing radiotherapy doses (24-30Gy in 4-6f). Dose escalation will only
           occur if the current cohort have shown no signs of unacceptable toxicity at 6 weeks
           after completing radiotherapy.

        3. Recruitment

           Participants will be offered information about this study by their clinical teams if
           they are considered to meet the entry criteria and express interest in taking part in an
           experimental study. It will be made clear that the study is experimental in nature and
           that there will not necessarily be a therapeutic benefit from taking part in the study.
           It will also be made clear that, should patients decide not to take part their future
           care will not be affected. Patients will be given sufficient time and information to
           make an informed decision about entering the trial, and not less than 24 hours; all
           patients entering the trial will give written informed consent. Inclusion and exclusion
           criteria for this study are standard for a phase 1 trial of a new oncology drug.

        4. Confidentiality

           Patients will be linked to a unique identifier the code for which will be held on a
           password protected database held only by the study team. Blood samples, tumour sample
           processing and other data analysis will take place at the laboratories of Royal Marsden
           and Institute of Cancer Research in London or Sutton. Sample processing will take place
           using the study number only. No other patient identifiable information will be available
           on study samples. Investigators will have access to patient identifiable information on
           password protected NHS hospital notes and databases only.

        5. Conflict of Interest

           Patients may be recruited to the study by those involved in their prior clinical care.
           The investigators do not expect conflict of interest between research and healthcare
           duties for a number of reasons: patients must give their full informed consent before
           entering the study, specifically regarding the unknown efficacy of the study drug and
           the intensive nature of the study. Those patients who do not continue in the study will
           maintain a relationship with the clinical team if required for symptom control. At the
           end of the study, patients will be able to access the results if they wish, through the
           Royal Marsden Website or contact the study team directly.

        6. Use of tissue samples in future research

      If participants give their consent, any leftover blood or tissue samples which are not
      required for this study will be stored for future unspecified research in line with the human
      tissue act regulations. Access and use of samples for research purposes will require
      appropriate ethical approval. Future researchers will not be able to identify individual
      patients from their biobank data, demographic and clinical information will be available.
    
  