
    
      Participants of syringe exchange programs routinely suffer from untreated or under-treated
      substance use disorder, a situation that is associated with significant individual and public
      health costs. These individuals are also routinely embedded within social networks that
      reinforce continued drug use and related HIV-risk behaviors. The welfare of these individuals
      and the public's health can be improved by interventions directed toward reducing drug use
      risks and expanding drug-free support . Previous work by the investigators has demonstrated
      that an intervention combining an HIV risk reduction/treatment readiness group with
      behavioral contingencies is highly associated with increased rates of treatment enrollment
      and re-engagement, and reduced rates of drug use and HIV-injection risks, for up to one year.
      This protocol extends this work by adding a new component to the HIV risk reduction/treatment
      readiness group designed to expand social support and facilitate social network change. This
      intervention requires syringe exchange registrants to attend the group with a drug-free
      family or friend from their personal network that can provide stable support and encourage
      harm reduction and treatment seeking. This intervention uses an alteration network change
      model and posits that repeated exposure to drug-free community support collaterally reduces
      exposure to network members that support risk behaviors. This model also provides a pathway
      to modifying existing social networks by facilitating interaction with the personal social
      networks of drug-free family and friends. The intervention is supported by research showing
      that substance users report substantial pockets of drug-free family or friends in their
      social networks. It is also supported by community reinforcement principles that have shown
      efficacy in treatment samples, but have not been applied to out-of-treatment drug users. The
      present study has four primary aims. The first is to characterize natural drug-free support
      in the social networks of syringe exchangers. The second is to develop a Community Supported
      Risk Reduction group for syringe exchange participants and their community support. This
      group teaches skills for HIV risk reduction, treatment seeking, and healthy network
      expansion. The third and fourth aims are to obtain new data on the feasibility and efficacy
      of this intervention. Primary outcomes include changes in: 1) perceived social support, and
      2) HIV risk behaviors.
    
  