
    
      Study Design and Duration FiiRST-2 is a multicenter, randomized, parallel-control,
      superiority trial, utilizing a conventional two-armed, two-stage design, with an adaptive
      interim analysis, performed at Level 1 Trauma Centers in Canada. The study is designed to
      examine the effect of replacing fibrinogen and clotting factors via FC and PCC following
      activation of the massive hemorrhage protocol (MHP) on the number of ABP units transfused in
      trauma patients with severe hemorrhage versus the current standard of care (ratio-based
      plasma resuscitation).

      Test Products, Dose, and Mode of Administration:

      Patients will be randomized if the MHP is activated according to the MHP activation criteria
      at each study site. Once eligibility is confirmed, the blood bank medical laboratory
      technologist will randomize the patient to one of two groups: the intervention group or the
      control group.

        -  Intervention group: 4 g Fibryga and 2000 IU Octaplex will be released as part of the
           first and second MHP packs.

        -  Control group: 4 U FP will be released as part of the first and second MHP packs.

        -  Concomitant therapy: In both groups, 4 U RBC will be included as part of the first and
           second MHP packs, and 1 dose of platelets (4 U of pooled random donor or single donor
           apheresis) will also be included as part of the second MHP pack. Both RBCs and platelets
           will be administered according to the clinical situation and/or lab results as per the
           discretion of the clinical team. The second MHP pack will be released at the request of
           the clinical team, but clinicians will be instructed to administer all of the
           investigational product (Fibryga/Octaplex or FP) in the first pack before moving onto
           the second pack. Similarly, if the second pack is opened, clinicians will be instructed
           to administer all of the investigational products contained within, before moving to the
           third pack. Not administering all of the investigational products in the first pack,
           once started, will be a protocol deviation.

      Administration of all non-investigational products will be at the discretion of the clinical
      team according to the hemodynamic status of the patient and/or laboratory results (standard
      and/or point-of-care as per institutional practice). While platelets will be routinely
      included in the second pack, clinicians can request platelets outside of the packs (e.g., for
      patients on antiplatelet therapy or with marked thrombocytopenia). In the control group, FC
      may be administered if hypofibrinogenemia (fibrinogen level below 1.5-2.0 g/L or FIBTEM A10
      below 8-12 mm) is identified as part of routine testing, at the discretion of the clinical
      team. Patients in the intervention group can receive additional FC if hypofibrinogenemia (as
      per above criteria) is identified after the full dose (4g) in the first pack is administered
      (if the second pack is not opened). If the second pack is opened, additional doses of FC will
      be permitted after the full dose (4g) in the second pack is administered..

      Patients in the control group will not be permitted to receive PCC during the study. Patients
      in the intervention group may receive FP in the third and subsequent MHP packs. If a third
      MHP pack is required, and thereafter, MHP packs will contain ABPs (RBCs, platelets and
      plasma) according to guidelines at each participating site or revert to laboratory-guided
      transfusion as per the local guidelines once bleeding is controlled. The MHP should be
      terminated once bleeding is controlled and the MHP criteria are no longer met. Termination of
      the MHP may occur at any time based on the discretion of the clinical team.

      The maximum time frame for administration of the second MHP pack (if required) for both
      groups is 24 hours from arrival to the trauma bay/ED or termination of the MHP (whichever
      comes first).

      We anticipate for the trial to begin in June 2020 and be completed over a 3 year period.

      Sample Size The study will enroll up to 350 trauma patients with approximately 175 assigned
      to each of the two treatment groups.

      Due to the inherent variability in the primary endpoint and a yet substantial uncertainty
      about the effect size, an adaptive design approach will be used. For this, a planned interim
      analysis will be performed after 120 patients have completed the study at up to four hospital
      sites. Primary aim of this interim analysis is to calculate the p-value and conditional power
      of the test statistic and perform a sample size re-assessment. This will be done in an
      unblinded interim analysis performed by an independent statistician who will report the
      results only to the independent data safety monitoring committee (IDSMC) which will make
      recommendations to the sponsor without revealing the treatment groups. Hence, the final
      number of enrolled patients will depend on the sample size re-calculation.
    
  