
    
      The objective of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of an
      immunosuppression-minimizing regimen consisting initially of Thymoglobulin induction in
      combination with tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, and rapid steroid withdrawal. The
      protocol will minimize long-term calcineurin inhibitor exposure and toxicity by weaning
      tacrolimus starting at 3 months after transplantation. Patients will be eligible to
      participate in this study only if they have already consented to participate in another study
      entitled "The use of urinary PCR test to help detect rejection in kidney transplant
      patients". In "The use of urinary PCR test to help detect rejection in kidney transplant
      patients", kidney allograft status (ie. whether or not there is any immunologic activity in
      the transplant kidney)is characterized with the use of protocol biopsies, diagnostic
      biopsies, and urinary PCR profiles. At 3 months after transplant, these patients are on an
      immunosuppression regimen consisting of tacrolimus (Prograf) and mycophenolate mofetil
      (CellCept). Prograf dosing is managed through the measurement of trough levels. For the first
      3 months after transplant, patients are maintained at a trough level between 8 to 10 ng/ml.
      After 3 months, this target level is lowered in order to minimize long-term exposure to
      immunosuppressive agents. However, there is no consensus as to what the proper level should
      be after the first 3 months. Therefore, this study will randomize patients to 2 groups, one
      group will have their trough level targeted between 6 to 8 ng/mL while the other group will
      have their trough targeted between 3 and 5 ng/mL. By doing this study, we hope to determine
      which trough level is best, both for protecting the patient from rejection and protecting the
      patient from the adverse effects of the immunosuppressive medications.

      At New York Weill Cornell Center, we are in a unique position to attempt immunosuppression
      minimization due to our ability to non-invasively monitor patients using their urine.
      Previous investigations performed at this center have demonstrated the diagnostic accuracy of
      mRNA levels of cytotoxic attack molecules in urinary cells. Preliminary data has shown that
      during acute rejection, Granzyme B and Perforin are strongly expressed in the urine. The
      sensitivity of the uPCR test was 88% with a specificity of 79%. All kidney transplant
      recipients at our center are invited to participate in the research study entitled "The use
      of urinary PCR test to help detect rejection in kidney transplant patients". In this
      protocol, serial analyses of urinary cells are performed to determine 1) if changes in mRNA
      levels will predict clinical acute rejection and 2) if these levels correlate with the
      presence of subclinical acute rejection. Kidney transplant recipients have serial urinary PCR
      measurements. In addition, patients undergo protocol biopsies of the transplant kidney at 3,
      15, and 36 months after transplant. The biopsies help to show the correlation between the PCR
      results and the pathology of the kidney. It may also serve to detect rejection when the blood
      tests or urinary PCR do not show it. In a small subset of patients, urinary gene expression
      profile of cytotoxic attack molecules was able to predict acute rejection prior to clinical
      diagnosis by renal allograft biopsy.

      Because we have the ability to monitor our transplant recipients using the urinary PCR
      protocol, we can safely minimize tacrolimus exposure over time by monitoring patients
      non-invasively on a real-time basis. Minimization of immunosuppression over time in a kidney
      transplant recipient is important in order to prevent or minimize some of the leading causes
      of kidney graft loss (defined as return to dialysis). Although immunosuppressive medications
      are excellent at preventing rejection, they do have detrimental effects on the cardiovascular
      system as well as to the transplant kidney itself. One major cause of kidney graft loss today
      is chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN). Formerly known as "chronic rejection", CAN has been
      described as the progressive decline in allograft function that occurs months or years after
      transplantation, and it is the second leading cause of kidney graft loss. Biopsies of kidney
      allografts with CAN may show inflammation, fibrosis, glomerulosclerosis, tubular atrophy, and
      vascular smooth muscle proliferation. The scarring and fibrosis associated with CAN is
      generally irreversible. A new goal within the modern transplant arena is to prevent CAN from
      occurring by:

        1. decreasing early acute rejection episodes

        2. decreasing calcineurin inhibitor-related nephrotoxicity

      With the use of modern immunosuppressive agents and induction therapy, we have already
      decreased early acute rejection episodes significantly. At this time, we now want to begin to
      study the potentially beneficial effects that calcineurin inhibitor withdrawal may have on
      kidney function as well as long-term graft survival.
    
  