
    
      This is a single blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled, 2-cohort clinical study in healthy
      volunteers. Cohort 1 will be comprised of 8 active (RZL-012) and 4 placebo subjects. Cohort 2
      will be comprised of 16 subjects wuth at least 4 placebo subjects. All subjects will receive
      a single dose of RZL-012 or vehicle into the submental area, after which they will be
      monitored for safety and efficacy during 84 days of follow-up.

      Subjects will be blinded to study treatment while physicians will not be blinded.

      The study will be composed of 2 treatment cohorts, 12 in cohort 1 and 16 in cohort 2.

      The study will be conducted in 2 clinical sites. Per each study cohort, subjects will be
      randomized to receive active or placebo treatment according to a randomization program that
      will be prepared prior to study initiation. Each clinical site will have at least one active
      and one placebo treatment subject per each study cohorts. In case of slow enrollment in one
      of the sites, other sites may complete the enrollment of subjects in each cohort.

      Cohort 1 (N=12) - Each subject will be dosed with up to 120 mg RZL-012 (depending on
      submental fat area) or vehicle.

      Cohort 2 (N=16) - Each subject will be dosed with up to 240 mg RZL-012 (depending on
      submental fat area) or vehicle.

      Treatment of cohort 2 will start following cohort 1 day 28 data. An independent Data Safety
      Monitoring Board (DSMB) will review safety and tolerability data for cohort 1 subjects, 28
      days after injection, and decide whether it is safe to increase the dose for the next study
      cohort. The decision to proceed to the cohort 2 will be made within 30 days (28 days + 2
      days) after injection of the last dosed subject in cohort 1.

      The DSMB will be comprised of two independent MDs with expertise in the aesthetic area and in
      conduction of clinical trials.

      In case of serious safety concerns (e.g. prolonged severe swelling or severe pain following
      injection) among cohort 1 subjects receiving the 120mg dose, sponsor and DSMB may decide to
      reduce or stay with the 120mg/subject dose level for cohort 2 subjects.
    
  