
    
      Low back pain (LBP) is a significant health problem for both young and geriatric individuals.
      Of particular concern is that conditions associated with LBP, such as impaired strength and
      flexibility, can have very serious consequences for an older individual's independence and
      overall health.

      The broad, long-term objective of this research is to identify effective therapies for low
      back pain (LBP) and to discover the best methods for enhancing health and functional capacity
      in the elderly population. This study is a multi-methods clinical trial consisting of a
      randomized clinical trial (RCT), a cost-effectiveness study alongside the RCT, and a
      qualitative study nested in the RCT.

      This trial builds upon a previous study of chiropractic and exercise funded by HRSA, and
      focuses on elderly patients with sub-acute and chronic low back pain.

      PRIMARY AIMS

        -  To determine the relative clinical effectiveness the following treatments for LBP
           patients 65 years and older in both the short-term (after 12 weeks) and long-term (after
           52 weeks), using low back pain as the main outcome measure

             1. chiropractic manual treatment plus home exercise

             2. supervised rehabilitative exercise plus home exercise

             3. home exercise

                SECONDARY AIMS

        -  To estimate the short- and long-term relative effectiveness of the three interventions
           using:

        -  Patient-rated outcomes: low back disability, general health status, patient
           satisfaction, improvement, and medication use measured by self-report questionnaires

        -  Objective functional performance outcomes: spinal motion, trunk strength and endurance,
           and functional ability measured by examiners masked to treatment group assignment

        -  Cost measures: direct and indirect costs of treatment measured by questionnaires, phone
           interviews, and medical records.

        -  To describe elderly LBP patients' perceptions of treatment and the issues they consider
           when determining their satisfaction with care using qualitative methods nested within
           the RCT.
    
  