
    
      The WBH procedure proposed in this protocol has been rigorously researched in subjects with
      Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), and there are little to no preliminary data pertaining to
      WBH use in populations outside of depression studies. In preliminary studies in Europe and a
      rigorously tested clinical trial being conducted at the University of Arizona (NCT01625546),
      a single exposure to WBH resulted in a decrease in depressive symptoms as measured using the
      German version of the CES-D depression scale 5 days later (in the study in Switzerland) and
      using the HamD rating scale 7 days later in the UA study. All research applications thus far
      have resulted in minimal adverse effects to study subjects.

      During the conduct of research protocol 12-0147-04/NCT01625546 (WBH in subjects with Major
      Depression) our research site has been contacted by numerous individuals across the country
      asking if they can participate in our clinical trial. However due to the rigorous
      inclusion/exclusion criteria necessary for data collection, these individuals cannot be
      offered the research treatment. This protocol is intended to become a secondary resort for
      these individual's interested in receiving a Hyperthermia treatment for potential beneficial
      gain related to symptoms stemming from other comorbidities (i.e. Fibromyalgia, Perimenopausal
      symptoms, arthritis, etc). In fact, over the course of this study, several individuals who
      suffer from fibromyalgia, rheumatoid arthritis and other similar afflictions have, in
      discussions with study staff at screening, indicated that they have previously researched
      infrared heating and whole body hyperthermia and found that it was helpful to many people
      with these afflictions. As such, they are interested in being a part of the study in order to
      receive treatment that might help ease their pain from these afflictions in addition to the
      depression symptoms they are experiencing, given that depression is often a co-morbidity of
      these illnesses. Due to the fact that no external research funding has been acquired for this
      broad application, this protocol intended to charge a fee for cost covering purposes only.

      The registry trial will not be limited to only include individuals with MDD, however this
      protocol will allow for an expanded use in all populations (while still excluding subjects
      based on safety parameters). We will monitor subject's physiological and clinical outcomes
      (if applicable) from a single Whole Body Hyperthermia treatment in an open fashion (no
      placebo/control condition). This registry study will include safety assessments 5 days prior
      to WBH, the day of WBH and 1 week following WBH.

      Costs for Participating in the Study:

      The WBH session is an investigational procedure, one approved for limited testing by the Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) but not in general use. In addition to your time, you will be
      charged a fee of $800 for cost covering purposes only. The cost for this open treatment
      hyperthermia session will cover departmental staff time, clinical space, research materials,
      and overhead fees. You may pay with cash, check, or credit card. If you wish to pay with a
      credit card, a 3% fee will be assessed to cover credit card processing fees. All payments
      will be made to the Department of Psychiatry and will be processed by our Departmental
      business office.

      The payment may be broken into 2 tiers:

      Screening: $200 WBH Procedure: $600 If you qualify for WBH procedure the remaining $600 will
      be due prior to completion of the procedure.

      If you pay in full and it is determined you do not qualify for the study, you will be
      reimbursed less any amount needed to cover procedures performed (i.e. screening).

      Future WBH Treatment Sessions:

      If you wish to undergo another WBH procedure, you may do so without have to repeat screening
      bloods and EKG's within 1 year of the original screen, so long as you report no significant
      changes in your health history to the study staff. You will not be charged for screening
      procedures for subsequent WBH procedures. Those individuals who have participated in previous
      WBH protocols will be considered eligible without need for a re-screen within 1 year of their
      original screening procedures.
    
  