
    
      Postoperative ileus (POI) and anastomotic leakage (AL) are important clinical determinants of
      short-term morbidity and mortality following colorectal surgery. Importantly, AL is also a
      risk factor for local recurrence of colorectal cancer and has a significant impact on
      disease-free and overall survival. It is therefore believed that improving postoperative
      outcome following colorectal surgery will also improve long-term oncological outcomes
      regarding overall survival and tumour recurrence. POI is a common complication after
      colorectal surgery that causes discomfort for the patient but also leads to a prolonged
      hospital length of stay and increasing health care costs. For POI it is believed that
      formation of an inflammatory infiltrate in the muscular layers of the intestine following
      bowel manipulation during surgery leads to a decreased gastrointestinal motility. In recent
      years the investigators have demonstrated in experimental models that administration of
      enteral nutrition modulates the inflammatory response via the autonomic nervous system by
      release of cholecystokinin (CCK). Composition of the enteral nutrition and timing of
      administration are both essential for the magnitude of effect. For the most optimal effect,
      nutrition is given with a higher fraction of lipids and protein and is administered just
      before, during and directly after the inciting event. In this way, the inflammatory response
      is optimally dampened via release of CCK. In an experimental study has been shown that such a
      lipid-enriched enteral nutrition reduces systemic inflammation and postoperative ileus in a
      CCK-dependent manner when given just before and directly after bowel manipulation. Next, the
      investigators performed a study in healthy volunteers in which the effect of continuous low
      volume enteral nutrition was investigated on inflammatory parameters in a human endotoxemia
      model. In this study was shown that lipid enriched nutrition reduced the inflammatory
      response upon endotoxemia in man. Also in a clinical setting the investigators have shown
      that enteral nutrition reduces inflammation and postoperative ileus. In a randomized
      controlled trial the investigators have shown that enteral nutrition early after colorectal
      surgery reduced POI. Furthermore, in a model of sham-feeding using chewing gum was shown that
      inflammation and postoperative ileus were reduced following colorectal surgery.
      Interestingly, both clinical studies with sham feeding and early enteral nutrition revealed a
      yet unaccountable effect on anastomotic leakage. Evidence on the relation between POI and
      anastomotic leakage is scarce but has great impact. It seems that an early intervention with
      enteral nutrition shortly before, during and early after colorectal surgery may reduce
      inflammation and reduce important determinants in postoperative morbidity as POI and
      anastomotic leakage.

      All patients will receive a self-migrating nasojejunal tube one day before surgery. The
      position of the nasojejunal tube is verified by means of an X-ray at the night before
      surgery. Preoperatively, patients receive standard of care with a fast for solid (oral) food
      of 6 hours and a (oral) fluid fast for 2 hours before administration. Three hours before
      surgery the pump is started to administer nutrition in standardized amounts. Enriched enteral
      nutrition (produced by Danone research) is administered via a programmed Flocare enteral
      feeding pump. The pump is connected to the opaque branched system that is connected both to
      the nasojejunal tube and to a sealed container. Patients are either allocated to the
      experimental group, in which the blinded branched system leads the enteral nutrition via the
      nasojejunal tube to the patient. Via this route, the patients in the experimental group will
      receive the enteral nutrition just before, during and directly after surgery. In patients
      allocated to the control group, the blinded branched system leads the enteral nutrition to
      the container. Consequently, when the feeding pump starts just before surgery, patients in
      the control group do not receive the nutrition. In both groups, the pump with enteral
      nutrition is stopped 6 hours after surgery and normal intake is resumed.

      Based on previous results a power calculation is performed. For POI a sample size of at least
      91 patients per group is needed based on a power of 0.8 and an alpha of 0.05. For AL a
      reduction of AL of at least 75% was observed in the previous clinical studies. Using a power
      of 0.8 and a drop-out percentage of 5% a total of 140 patients are needed per group. Since
      perioperative nutrition is a new concept, a safety analysis is performed after inclusion of
      40 patients in which feasibility and safety of preoperative nutrition are assessed. The
      effect size is determined based on previous studies and is substantial. Considering the size
      of the effect, an interim-analysis will be performed after inclusion of 140 patients.

      All analyses will be done according to the intention-to-treat approach in which all
      randomized patients are included, regardless of adherence to the study protocol. Occurrences
      of the primary and secondary endpoints are compared between the treatment groups. Results are
      presented as risk ratios with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. A two-tailed P < 0.05
      is considered statistically significant. To compare the groups, the data will be tested for
      normal distribution and an unpaired T-test will be performed when appropriate, otherwise the
      Mann-Whitney U or Chi-square tests. SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences version
      20) will be used to analyze the data.

      The investigators respect the Dutch Scientific Code of conduct with regard to collection and
      storage of our data. The investigators hereby mind the criteria of retrievability,
      accessibility and interchangeability of the data. The investigators will obtain written
      informed consent from all patients, in which is stated that their records will be used and
      saved for research purposes for a minimum of 15 years. Anonymity and confidentiality of data
      will be guaranteed compliant with CBP (Commission Protection of Personal Data) guidelines.
      Thus, all variables will be registered anonymously, but via a secured code, personally
      identifiable information can be retrieved. The investigators verified completeness of patient
      Data Management Strategy via the Data Archiving and Networked Services checklist. Rough data
      will be stored in a digital archive, with appended description, to interpret the data.
    
  