
    
      Background / Rationale The participation in sedentary behaviors is high among the older
      population and increases with age co-morbidities and cognitive decline. 60% of older adults
      world-wide reported sitting for more than four hours per day and when device-measured, 67% of
      the older population were sedentary for more than 8.5 hours in their waking day (Harvey et
      al., 2015). Further, recent policies of confinement and restriction stipulated by various
      governments in response to the global COVID-19 pandemic is likely to encourage greater
      participation in sedentary behavior (Ricci et al., 2020). There is evidence of deleterious
      health implications of sedentary behaviors, with possible independent associations with
      all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease mortality, cardiovascular disease incidence,
      cancer mortality, and type 2 diabetes incidence(Biswas and Alter, 2015). However, the
      associations between sedentary behaviors and cognitive health are less clear and
      inconclusive. A recent systematic review of 18 studies found inconclusive evidence on the
      overall and independent associations between sedentary behaviors and cognitive function in
      older adults (Olanrewaju et al., 2020). The review highlighted the lack of quality and
      intervention studies of effect as one of the limitations of existing evidence.

      There is some evidence that non-exercise and physical activity interventions could be
      effective in reducing sedentary behaviors in older adults. A review of strategies to reduce
      sedentary behavioural among adults found that the most promising interventions used
      behavioural change techniques such as self-monitoring and problem solving(Gardner et al.,
      2016). A recent meta-analysis of digital behavior change interventions (DBCI) in older adults
      suggested that using platforms such as mobile applications, websites, wearable devices
      reduced sedentary time by 58 minutes per day (SMD = -0.45; 95%CI -0.69, -0.19; p < 0.001)
      (Stockwell et al., 2019). A separate systematic review of interventions to reduce sedentary
      behavior in non-working older adults found that interventions which incorporated goal
      setting, individualized feedback, motivational sessions reduced objectively measured sitting
      time by 3.2%-5.3% of waking time or up to 54 minutes per day (Aunger et al., 2018).

      The WALC intervention (Walk; Address sensations; Learn; Cue) was originally designed to
      motivate community-dwelling older adults to increase physical activity and is based on Social
      Cognitive theory (Resnick, 2001). The WALC intervention is not a walking/physical activity
      group, rather, a forum where the concept of sedentary behavior and strategies to reduce these
      behaviours are coached. The WALC intervention has been validated in several studies for use
      in the older population and people living with schizophrenia and more recently with serious
      mental illness (Beebe and Smith, 2010; Resnick et al., 2007; Williams et al., 2019). This
      study proposes to adopt the WALC intervention, which incorporates elements of the COM-B
      behavioral change model to address capability, opportunity, and motivational barriers to
      reduce sedentary behavior (Michie et al., 2011). Unlike original and previous versions of the
      WALC intervention, we propose to deliver our intervention (WALC-R) remotely via the internet.
      The WALC-R will consist of a group initial education session, fortnightly health coaching
      sessions, and self-monitoring of daily activity levels using pedometer and diary. There is no
      evidence on the effectiveness of non-exercise, sedentary behavior-reducing intervention on
      cognitive function in the older population. Therefore, we propose to test the feasibility of
      a remotely delivered health coaching intervention in older adults at risk of cognitive
      decline with a view to test for effectiveness on cognitive function in a later study.

      Aim To test the feasibility, acceptability and costs of delivering a virtual health coaching
      intervention via the internet in community dwelling older people. This present proposal aims
      to pave the way for a future randomized controlled trial by resolving key uncertainties in
      its planning. The purpose of the future trial will be to test whether WALC-R intervention
      compared with providing information about physical activity can improve cognitive function in
      older adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment.

      Objectives

        1. To determine the acceptability of intervention to participants

        2. To determine feasibility of study with respect to the following:

             1. Number of eligible patients

             2. Recruitment and retention rates

             3. Adherence / compliance rates

             4. Collection of potential outcome measures for future trial (completion rates and
                time)

        3. To determine the costs associated with delivering intervention

        4. To determine rate of adverse events in both groups.

      Methods- Randomized Feasibility Study

      Study design This will be a 13 week unblinded, single-centre randomized feasibility study.
      The intervention is comprised of an initial group education session, fortnightly coaching
      sessions and the provision of a pedometer and diary to enable participants monitor their
      daily physical activity. Participants in the control group will receive information leaflets
      which outlines the benefit of being physically active. The design will adhere to the
      Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials statement (CONSORT).

      Setting and Participants The study will be conducted remotely in the community settings of
      service users from Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust (CPFT). Prior to
      starting permissions will be sought from local Research Ethics Committees (REC), CPFT
      Research and Development team and the National Research Authority.

      Sampling Strategy Eligible patients who attend the memory clinics and / or receive support
      from the older people mental health and healthy ageing services in Cambridgeshire and
      Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust will be invited to participate.

      Recruitment / Screening Potential participants would be primarily sought from the community
      mental health, living well, memory services and general practitioners in Cambridgeshire and
      Peterborough. A member of the clinical team will screen for potential participants for
      initial eligibility (from medical notes, clinic records and/or clinical consultations) and,
      if appropriate, given information about the trial. The clinician will then arrange an
      appointment to discuss the trial, along with the opportunity to ask any questions. The
      researcher will give people 24 hours to decide if they would like to participate. If they are
      happy with the information they receive, they will be contacted by a member of the research
      team to give informed consent. This study proposes to recruit patients with mild cognitive
      impairment. Therefore a mental capacity test will be conducted during the process of consent
      to ensure that participants understand, retain and weigh up the information available to make
      a decision about consenting. Participants' general practitioners will be informed about their
      enrolment onto the study. Once enrolled, participants will be asked to wear an accelerometer
      for 7 days. Each participant will be reimbursed £10 for wearing the accelerometer. After
      completion of the baseline measures, the participants will be informed of their allocation
      status.

      Proposed sample size and Justification Total sample sizes between 24 and 50 have been
      recommended for feasibility studies. (18-20). Based on these recommendations, the study
      proposes to enroll 40 participants, a target sample of 24 (12 per group) after factoring a
      40% drop-out rate.

      Randomization, Post-randomization withdrawals and exclusions This study proposes a simple
      randomization of participants into intervention and control arms. Randomization process will
      be overseen by the researcher using freely available software from Sealed Envelope:
      https://www.sealedenvelope.com/help/simple-randomiser/students/. Participants will be
      randomly allocated to receive either 'WALC-R' (intervention group) or information on
      recommended physical activity for older adults (control group). Approximately 5 participants
      will be randomized each month over 8 months. Subjects may discontinue participation in the
      trial intervention and/or the trial at any time. Unless a subject explicitly withdraws their
      consent, they will be followed-up wherever possible and data collected as per the protocol
      until the end of the trial. Documentation will be completed on withdrawal to confirm the date
      and reason for withdrawal.

      Summary of Intervention Initial group education session (online) Participants assigned to the
      WALC-R intervention will attend a virtual baseline educational group session which will
      include a maximum of five people. The aim of the sessions will be to introduce the basics of
      the benefits of walking for exercise and why exercise is beneficial, as well as to give
      information, support and motivation to help participants to independently walk more in their
      daily routines. In the group sessions, we will also introduce the concept of sedentary
      behaviour and the harms and strategies to sit less and move more, including disrupting
      prolonged periods of sitting. At the educational session, researchers will have information
      on the participants' habitual levels of physical activity obtained from baseline data
      collection. The group session will also include goal setting, in which participants will be
      encouraged to set their own daily walking targets to increase their habitual levels of
      walking. All participants will be given a pedometer to self-monitor how far they walk and a
      diary to record activity context throughout the intervention daily.

      Continuing support and coaching (online) Participants will meet briefly (20-30 minutes) via
      the internet with an assigned worker (i.e., their coach) every 2 weeks. The participant and
      coach will review the participant's walking calendar and address any barriers to and
      facilitators of engaging in physical activity and reducing sedentary behaviour.

      Control condition Participants in the control group will complete baseline measures, and then
      they will receive written information on the benefits of increasing activity levels. This
      advice will be given in accordance with NHS guide on physical health.

      Follow-up assessment The follow-up assessment will be undertaken at the end of the
      intervention after 13 weeks. At follow-up, all measures will be repeated (apart from
      sociodemographic information). Each participant will receive a £10 voucher for wearing an
      accelerometer. These assessments will be done by a research worker who is blind to allocation
      status.
    
  