
    
      The aims of the present study are:

        1. primary objective: To investigate the changes in physical activity after a 12-month tele
           coaching intervention (including individualized goal setting, feedback, motivational
           contacts with coach and a step counter providing direct feedback), compared to a sham
           group receiving a light coaching intervention (feedback from step counter and static
           goal setting, without additional motivation or contact with the coach).

        2. secondary objectives: A. Investigate the effect of a 12-month tele coaching intervention
           on exercise capacity, muscle force, quality of life, physical activity from a patient's
           perspective, dyspnea-related fear and comorbidities.

      B. Confirming previous findings on short-term effects (or lack of effect) of the tele
      coaching intervention on physical activity, exercise capacity and quality of life, assessed
      at 6 months.

      C. Identifying possible baseline characteristics that are determinants of the change in
      physical activity after the 12-month tele coaching intervention.

      D. Investigating the association between the physical activity pattern and the onset of an
      exacerbation.

      E. To explore the relation between dynamic hyperinflation as measured during the six-minutes
      walk test, physical activity measured at baseline and change in physical activity as result
      of the intervention.

      Therefore, the study will include stable patients with COPD (post bronchodilator FEV1/FVC <
      0.70) with no moderate or severe exacerbations in the past month, across all disease
      severities.

      The study will consists of a total 4 visits clinical visits:

        -  Visit 1 screening visit

        -  Visit 2: randomization visit, scheduled 1-2 weeks after visit 1

        -  Visit 3: short term follow-up visit, scheduled 6 months after visit 2

        -  Visit 4: long-term follow-up visit, scheduled 12 months after visit 2

      All patients included in the study will be randomized in either the intervention group or
      sham group:

        -  A multicomponent tele coaching intervention that consists of 1) education about the
           importance of physical activity and a one-to-one interview with the coach discussing the
           motivation and barriers to be active, 2) a step counter providing direct feedback, 3)
           application installed on a smartphone providing an adaptive goal and daily and weekly
           feedback and 4) contact with the coach if the patient is not compliant with the
           intervention, not increasing physical activity or when the patient reports a change in
           medication. The patient is asked to have a daily interaction with the smartphone
           application.

        -  A sham intervention that consist of 1) education about the importance of physical
           activity and a personal (fixed) goal expressed in terms of steps. The patient is asked
           to try to reach this goal, 2) a step counter providing direct feedback, 3) application
           installed on a smartphone only displaying a graph with the activity of the present week
           and the personal (fixed) goal, 4) contact with the coach if the patient reports a change
           in medication. The patient is asked to have at least a weekly interaction with the
           application.
    
  