
    
      More than 140,000 new cases of cancer are diagnosed annually in Canada, with nearly half of
      which metastasize to bone. The skeletal system is one of the most common sites for metastatic
      spread of many visceral malignancies, especially cancers originating from breast, prostate,
      lung, thyroid and kidney. Hematologic malignancies, such as multiple myeloma and lymphoma,
      also primarily manifest with multiple aggressive lytic lesions in the bone. A Skeletal
      Related Event (SRE) is the term given when a metastatic lesion arises in bone. With advances
      in effective systemic treatment and supportive care, the duration of survival of patients
      with bone metastases has improved substantially. This improvement in survival can be
      accompanied by significant morbidity and reduction in quality of life secondary to pain,
      pathologic fracture, and spinal cord compression from SREs. Pain and impaired mobility occur
      in approximately 65%-75% of patients with bone metastases. SREs are also associated with high
      economic burden secondary to increased costs of treatment and high rates of hospitalizations.
      It is estimated that a single episode of SRE can cost the medical system 36,462 USD. The
      current literature reflects significant diversity in the approach of diagnosing and treating
      MBD. Therefore, numerous studies have advocated the need for a multidisciplinary clinic to
      co-ordinate the diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of patients with MBD patients. This
      strategy has also been proposed to improve the delivery of early and multimodal palliative
      management for patients in a cost effective approach.

      Aims and Objectives: The aims of this project are: 1) Assess feasibility of establishing and
      integrating a multidisciplinary Rapid Access Metastatic Bone Disease Program (RAMP) at the
      Investigator's institution to improve the delivery of care to patients presenting with pelvic
      and lower extremity MBD. 2) Centralize referrals and streamline clinical care pathways for
      patients diagnosed with MBD to pelvis and lower extremity. 3) Assess improvement in outcome
      and patient experience. The objectives of this project are: 1) Establish a core
      multidisciplinary RAMP team to develop a patient-centered clinical care pathway for diagnosis
      and treatment. 2) Establish a standardized and rapid referral process for RAMP. 3) Triage
      consults and coordinate their integration into pre-existing weekly "musculoskeletal oncology"
      clinic at the cancer center. 4) Develop a centralized registry for patients presenting to
      RAMP to assess provider performance and evaluate the success of established clinical care
      pathways.
    
  