
    
      Background:

        -  Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is the most common soft tissue sarcoma of childhood. The annual
           incidence in the United States is 4-7 cases per million children under 15 years, which
           represents 250 new cases per year. Two major histologic subtypes exist: embryonal
           rhabdomyosarcoma (ERMS) and alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (ARMS), the latter of which
           carries a particularly poor prognosis.

        -  Over-expression of both the type 1 IGF receptor (IGF-1R) and its ligands has been
           observed in multiple malignancies, including pediatric sarcomas, and abnormal activation
           of this pathway contributes to sarcoma development and progression. Downstream signaling
           cascades of IGF-1R further regulate tumor cell proliferation, survival, and metastasis
           through the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/mTOR pathways. In the majority of RMS, IGF-1R is highly
           expressed.

        -  Monoclonal antibodies targeting IGF-1R interfere with ligand binding and decrease the
           expression of the receptor on cell surfaces by internalization and degradation of the
           receptor. A number of these have been tested in the clinical setting. Results from a
           phase II trial using monotherapy with monoclonal antibodies against IGF-1R resulted in
           clinically meaningful responses in about 10-15% of patients with RMS. However, the vast
           majority of these responses were short-lived with a rapid onset of resistance.

        -  YES is a member of the SRC family tyrosine kinases (SFKs), non-receptor tyrosine kinases
           that function in a number of signaling pathways necessary for cell growth,
           differentiation and survival. Preclinical work suggests involvement of YES in a number
           of solid tumor types, including colon carcinoma, oral squamous cell carcinoma, glioma,
           pancreatic cancer, mesothelioma, and RMS.

        -  Recently, the Helman lab published preclinical work showing that in both embryonal and
           alveolar RMS models, blockade of IGF-1R results in YES activation and that YES
           activation is associated with resistance to IGF-1R blockade. In addition, combination
           blockade of IGF-1R and YES in vitro results in downregulation of phospho-AKT in some
           cell lines. Treatment blocking both IGF-1R and YES results in enhanced growth inhibition
           of multiple cell lines of both embryonal and alveolar RMS in vitro and in vivo.

      Objectives:

        1. Phase I: To determine the safe dose of dasatinib when given with ganitumab in patients
           with relapsed or refractory embryonal or alveolar RMS.

        2. Phase II: To determine if the use of ganitumab plus dasatinib is able to be associated
           with a modest fraction of patients who experience an objective clinical response (CR and
           PR) as defined by RECIST criteria. In addition, a second primary objective will estimate
           the fraction that is without progression at 4 months.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have a diagnosis of relapsed or refractory embryonal or alveolar RMS, be
           able to swallow tablets, have archival tissue available.

        -  Patients must have adequate performance status and adequate major organ function and
           have recovered from acute toxicity of all prior therapies.

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, multi-site, phase I/II study designed to determine if ganitumab
           given in combination with dasatinib in children and adults with relapsed or refractory
           embryonal or alveolar RMS for whom no curative options exist.

        -  In the phase I portion, using a standard 3 + 3 design, limited dose escalations will be
           performed to define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or the highest safe dose tested of
           dasatinib when given in combination with ganitumab in this patient population.

        -  In the phase II component, sixteen (16) evaluable patients, including up to 6 patients
           from the phase I portion treated at the selected phase II dose, will be enrolled to rule
           out a 5% fraction with a clinical response in favor of a 30% fraction with a clinical
           response, using a one sided 0.10 significance level exact test for a binomial
           proportion. In practice, the fraction of the 16 patients that have objective responses
           will be determined and reported along with 80% and 95% confidence intervals. If there
           are 3 objective responses in 16 evaluable patients, the lower one-sided exact 90%
           confidence interval is 7.1%, thus ruling out 5%.

        -  It is anticipated that approximately 10-15 patients per year may be accrued onto this
           trial. Thus, 2 to 3 years is expected to completed accrual.

        -  In all patients, mechanisms of response and resistance will be assessed by analyzing
           archival tissue for expression of IGF-1R, insulin receptor, IGF-2 expression and
           phospho-YES expression, and through genomic sequencing (on protocol 10-C-0086). Genomic
           sequencing of tumor cells from tissue relative to non-tumor cells from whole blood will
           be profiled to identify the genomic variances that may contribute to response or disease
           progression and provide an understanding of molecular abnormalities. RNA sequencing will
           be conducted to provide expression data and give relevance to DNA mutations;
           Quantitative proteomics analysis will be conducted on all patients to determine the
           exact amounts of specific proteins and/or to confirm expression of genes that are
           correlative of response and disease progression. Genomic and transcriptomic analysis
           will be conducted on patients who consent to protocol 10-C-0086, Comprehensive Omics
           Analysis of Pediatric Solid Tumors and Establishment of a Repository for Related
           Biological Studies.All genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic molecular analyses will be
           retrospective and exploratory.

        -  In patients who agree to undergo biopsy of their tumor, provided the tissue is easily
           accessible and can be biopsied safely with minimal morbidity, mechanisms of response and
           resistance will be assessed by analyzing biopsy tissue expression of IGF- 1R, insulin
           receptor, IGF-2 expression and phospho-YES expression, and through genomic sequencing.
    
  