
    
      All residents and staff members who do not opt out of the study by July 1, 2019 will be
      included as the final study population. The planned duration of the study is 12 months
      starting from July 2019 - June 2020. The total time period will be further divided into three
      phases.

      Phase 1 (Observational phase): All residents and staff physicians rotating through the
      inpatient medicine services during the initial 3 months who agreed to be a part of the study
      will be provided with Hill Rom tracking devices to quantify the time spent at the patient's
      bedside by each member as part of the daily practice.

      Phase 2 (Intervention phase): Following the initial observational phase, the interventional
      phase will be 6 months in duration . During this period, the recorded time spent by the
      individual study participants at the patient's bedside will be compared to their respective
      peers (e.g. intern to intern, senior resident to senior resident and staff physician to staff
      physician), and percentile scores will be generated. Time spent by each member of each team
      at the patient's bedside will be abstracted from the tracking software daily and added on a
      weekly basis to generate cumulative values by the research coordinator. Patients not assigned
      to a particular team member will not count towards the denominator. Data will be collected
      individually for the staff physician, senior resident and intern in each team and compared to
      peer members in the other teams and converted to percentiles. Based on these percentile
      scores, the study participants will receive emails and text pages notifying them of the
      results. The participants whose scores fall in the lower 50th percentile, will be encouraged
      to increase patient interaction times to reach a target of at least 50th percentile. Striving
      to stay in the top 50th percentile will provide continuous reinforcement. The participants
      with scores in the top 50th percentile will receive congratulatory emails to encourage them
      to keep up the performance. In case of scheduling changes or absences, team members can
      notify the study coordinator to exclude their data for the said number of days. The
      percentile scores will be used solely for the purpose of this study and will neither impact
      trainee evaluation nor their learning objectives for the rotation. Similarly for staff
      physicians, the scores generated will not be a part of their annual performance reviews.

      Phase 3: (Post Intervention observation phase): The final phase of the study will be 3
      months. The intervention of feedback emails and text pages will be discontinued and the study
      participants will only be monitored to see if the past intervention made an impact on their
      daily clinical practice in terms of time spent with the patients.

      At the end of the rotation the study participants will be assessed for their well-being and
      burnout by surveying them using the standard, validated, IRB-approved, anonymous
      questionnaires provided by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME),
      during each of the above phases
    
  