
    
      The Role of Supplementary Material in Journal Articles is a research collaboration between
      the BMJ, University of Oxford, and Queen's University Belfast where the research team aims to
      explore the usage patterns of supplementary materials for journal articles by authors, peer
      reviewers, and readers and to compare authors, peer reviewers and readers responses to these
      materials. The large cohort provides a unique opportunity to conduct methodology research
      with online participants using a nested cohort study defined as a study within a trial
      (SWAT). The nested study "The Role of Supplementary Material in Journal Articles
      Questionnaire Study " will explore the effects of recruitment and survey completion when a
      prize draw for participants is included in the invitation letter.

      Large research populations can struggle to recruit participants and to obtain complete data.
      This can have a direct effect on the robustness of the findings and can undermine the often
      substantial investment, participants, researchers, and sponsors have made in the research.
      This research waste may undermine public trust and community enthusiasm for the research
      process. It may seem logical to offer a prize-winning draw as an incentive but only a trial
      can give objective information about how well this intervention works. It is cost effective
      to embed this research at the beginning of an existing large cohort study as funding may not
      be available to test the intervention as a stand alone question. The additional question of
      interest addressed will be asking whether one survey reminder or two is more effective in
      terms of recruitment and survey completion rates. The question is practical as ineffective
      reminders use researcher resources, increase the burden of participation on the participant
      and could build resentment if the respondent feels "spammed" whereas the ideal balance of
      reminders will result in increased recruitment and survey completion rates.

      Participants in this cohort are drawn from a convenience sample of BMJ Publishing Group's
      journals that have a spread of Impact Factors, including the BMJ. Included journals have a
      website and publish supplementary material.

      Devoting time and resources to understand what strategies will mobilize participants to
      remain motivated to join a study and complete the conditions is good planning and contributes
      to robust methods that other researchers can replicate. To the investigators' knowledge, no
      similar work has been conducted solely within the online population of readers, peer
      reviewers and authors of an academic journal group.

      The aims of the study are to test the effect of:

        1. Being told you will be entered into a prize draw versus not being told on survey
           recruitment and completion rates across three surveys (authors, readers, reviewers)

        2. Entering participants into a prize draw with different values of monetary incentives on
           survey recruitment and completion rates across three surveys (authors, readers,
           reviewers)

        3. Sending two survey reminders to each of these incentive groups on survey recruitment and
           completion rates across three surveys (authors, readers, reviewers)

      The research question(s) this research explores is, what effect does the knowledge of being
      entered into a prize draw have on the rates of recruitment and completion in the study and
      does varying the value of the incentive influence the outcomes. The study will describe how
      or if these rates differ between authors, reviewers, and readers. The second question is how
      does one v two reminders influence recruitment and completion rates.

      Participants (authors, reviewers ,and readers) will be invited to take part in the study and
      will be randomized into one of five trial arms:

      All potential participants who are non-responders will receive one reminder to complete the
      survey (Group A), For those who are still non-responders the initial reminder will be
      followed by an additional reminder 14 days later (Group B)

      Group one will receive information within the invitation letter that they will be entered
      into a prize draw to win a 100% of an Amazon gift certificate or the currency equivalent.

      Group two will receive information within the invitation letter that they will be entered
      into a prize draw to win a 75% of an Amazon gift certificate or the currency equivalent.

      Group three will receive information within the invitation letter that they will be entered
      into a prize draw to win a 50% of an Amazon gift certificate or the currency equivalent.

      Group four will receive information within the invitation letter that they will be entered
      into a prize draw to win a 25% of an Amazon gift certificate or the currency equivalent.

      Group five will not receive any information about the prize draw for an Amazon gift
      certificate in the invitation letter.
    
  