
    
      INTRODUCTION

      1.1 Rationale for the study

      There is a significant relation between postoperative cognitive dysfunction and increasing
      age, increasing duration of surgery. But, up to now, the effect of the depth of anesthesia on
      POCD remains controversial. This study is designed to investigate whether the depth of
      anesthesia affects the incidence of POCD, we will use propofol for total intravenous
      anesthesia in elderly patients whose depth of anesthesia was monitored and adjusted by
      bispectral index (BIS). The early and long-term incidence of POCD will be compared between
      deep and light-anesthesia groups.

      1.2 Background

      We hypothesize that depth of anesthesia may exert an influence on the early postoperative
      cognitive dysfunction. One reason that deep anesthesia might protect cognitive function is
      the prevention of the stress response to noxious stimulation. The noxious stimulation of
      surgery can induce stress responses whose severity correlates with the intensity of surgery
      (major versus minor).Light anesthesia with a serious stress response to noxious stimulation
      may increase the incidence of POCD. Furthermore, major surgery causing a serious stress
      response can give rise to a higher incidence of early postoperative cognitive dysfunction
      than minor. This may also prove our hypothesis on the other hand. The elderly patients who
      received major surgery had a higher incidence of early POCD than those who received minor
      surgery. A deleterious stress response can be associated with major surgery or light
      anesthesia, and it can cause excessive production of corticosteroids that target receptors in
      the cerebral cortex and subcortical nucleus, eventually resulting in neuron injury. This may
      explain why the elderly has a higher incidence of early POCD after surgery. However, the
      effect of the depth of anesthesia on POCD remains controversial. Farag E et al. randomized 74
      patients to either a low Bispectral Index (BIS) regimen or a high BIS regimen during the
      surgical procedure. Preoperatively and 4-6 week after surgery, the patients' cognitive status
      was assessed with a cognitive test battery consisting of processing speed index, working
      memory index, and verbal memory index. Processing speed index was higher in the low BIS group
      versus the high BIS group. But no difference was observed in the other two test battery
      components. Certainly one of the limitations of their data is that the observed difference in
      cognitive ability occurred in only one of three assessments. Recently, we have made a
      randomised, double-blind, controlled study to demonstrate that deeper general anesthesia, as
      defined by a median BIS of 38, when compared with a median BIS of 58, was associated with a
      reduced incidence of early POCD(at 1 week postoperationly). This study has been published in
      J Neurosurg Anesthesiol , Volume 23, Number 1, January 2011. as it was just a small
      sample(n=40) study without considering incidence of long-term POCD, we hope to obtain more
      reliable data from a multi-center study to investigate whether the depth of total intravenous
      anesthesia using propofol affects the early and long-term incidence of POCD.

      The bispectral index（BIS）can reflect the depth of anesthesia of propofol combined with
      opioids. In our study, BIS will still be used to provide a reference for the selection of a
      suitable depth of anesthesia.
    
  