
    
      Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) as a worldwide significant cause for morbidity and mortality,
      especially affecting young population, accounts for 4%-10% of all strokes. About 25% of SAH
      patients die and 50% left with significant disability, which according to the relative youth
      of the affected individuals means that this event is responsible for a quarter of all years
      of life lost as a result of stroke. Cerebral vasospasm, as the most feared complication after
      SAH leading mostly into ischemia, associated with delayed deterioration, continues to be both
      a difficult entity to treat and a leading cause of morbidity in patients. A high number of
      investigators focused on vasospasm research to develop effective therapy strategies to treat
      this entity, however, results of experimental studies and clinical trials about calcium
      channel blocker nicardipine and the endothelin-1 antagonist clazosentan as sources of hope in
      vasospasm treatment did not reveal an improvement in patient outcomes. Recently, there is a
      renewed interest in looking for other potentially targets for therapy.

      Vitamin D, especially the aktive hormone 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25VitD3), has been
      suggested to limit inflammation, cancer, development of heart failure and myocardial
      infarction through the nuclear vitamin D receptor (VDR) by balancing the gene expression.
      Thus, vitamin D deficiency is linked to increased risk in many clinical settings including
      cardiovascular disease, stroke and critically ill patients. Furthermore, low vitamin D status
      has been associated with autoimmune disorders such as multiple sclerosis or neoplastic
      diseases, increased rates of infections and increased mortality. In case of ischemic stroke,
      a higher rate of vitamin D insufficiency has been suggested in patients associated with
      poorer outcomes. Nevertheless, these observations still remain controversial.

      However, current data attracted considerable attention in neurovascular research to study the
      effects of this hormone on SAH. Recently, a few experimental and clinical studies have
      already worked on this topic. A rat model of SAH confirmed that vitamin D pretreatment
      attenuates cerebral artery remodeling and vasospasm as well as blood-brain barrier (BBB)
      disruption mainly through endogenous upregulation of osteopontin. Clinical data proved the
      fact that there is an increased incidence of hypovitaminosis D among patients requiring
      treatment for cerebral aneurysms and a high prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency among SAH
      patients. Contrary to expectations, an association between vitamin D deficiency and outcomes
      in SAH patients could not be detected. However, in view of recent limited research data on
      this topic a final statement could not yet be made. Therefore, the investigators aimed to
      determine the effect of vitamin D on vasospasm discussing mechanistic evaluations of
      inflammation in SAH based on a translational study design including patient data to underline
      our experimental findings.
    
  