
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluate the efficacy of primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBL) patients treated
      brentuximab vedotin (A)and nivolumab (O) alone and then combined with rituximab,
      cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone (R-CHP).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluate the antitumor activity, safety, tolerability, patient reported quality of life
      and survival of brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab (A-O) alone and then combined with R-CHP in
      patients with untreated PMBL.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the baseline and therapy induced changes in the profile of mutations and gene
      expression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patient will receive an immune lead-in of 2 cycles of Brentuximab vedotin and Nivolumab (A-O)
      (cycles 1 and 2), which has an appropriate futility rules in place to close early if efficacy
      targets are not met. At cycle 3 and 4, patients will receive A-O with R-CHP. Patients who
      will have achieved complete response (CR) at PET/CT before cycle 5 will receive 2 more cycles
      of A-O-R-CHP (cycle 5 and 6) and A-O only for cycle 7 and 8. If these patients still present
      CR at PET/CT after cycle 8, they will have completed therapy and will be followed up. In case
      of stable disease or progressive disease at PET/CT after cycle 4, the patient will be taken
      off the trial. Patients who present further response but no CR, at PET/CT before cycle 5 will
      receive 4 more cycles A-O-R-CHP (cycles 5-8). If they reach CR at PET/CT after cycle 8, they
      will have completed therapy and will be followed up. All patients will receive a total of 8
      cycles of A-O. The cycle duration is 21 days. Brentuximab vedotin will be given intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. R-CHP: rituximab IV will be
      administered over 4-6 hours, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour, and doxorubicin IV over 1 hour
      on day 1, and prednisone orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, and
      then every 4 months for 1 year.
    
  