
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether initial treatment with either combination ipilimumab + nivolumab
      (with subsequent dabrafenib mesylate [dabrafenib] in combination with trametinib dimethyl
      sulfoxide [trametinib]) or dabrafenib in combination with trametinib (with subsequent
      ipilimumab + nivolumab) significantly improves 2 year overall survival (OS) in patients with
      unresectable stage III or stage IV BRAFV600 mutant melanoma.

      SECONDARY CLINICAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the impact of initial treatment on median OS and hazard ratio for death.

      II. To determine whether initial treatment choice significantly improves 3 year OS.

      III. To evaluate the anti-tumor activities (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      [RECIST]-defined response rate, median progression-free survival [PFS]) and safety profiles
      of ipilimumab + nivolumab and dabrafenib-trametinib in a Cooperative Group trial of patients
      with V600 mutant melanoma.

      IV. To evaluate the activity (RECIST-defined response rate, median PFS) and safety of
      dabrafenib + trametinib in patients who have had disease progression on ipilimumab +
      nivolumab and in comparison to its activity and safety in ipilimumab + nivolumab naive
      patients.

      V. To evaluate the activity of ipilimumab + nivolumab (RECIST-defined response rate, median
      PFS) and safety in patients who have had disease progression on dabrafenib + trametinib and
      in comparison to its activity and safety in dabrafenib + trametinib naive patients.

      VI. To assess the feasibility of crossover to the alternative treatment strategy (percentage
      of patients who are able to crossover from one arm to the other and complete at least an
      initial course [12 weeks] of treatment after cross-over without intervening symptomatic
      disease progression or treatment limiting toxicity).

      SECONDARY LABORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Association of inherited variation with immune mediated adverse events and response to
      ipilimumab + nivolumab.

      Ia. To determine the association of inherited genetic variation and immune-associated adverse
      events in patients with metastatic melanoma treated with ipilimumab containing regimens by
      completing candidate-based gene and pathway analyses of genes involved in lymphocyte
      activation, cytokines, cytokine receptors and within the major histocompatibility complex
      (MHC) region and an agnostic genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based approach.

      Ib. To investigate the association between inherited genetics and survival in patients with
      metastatic melanoma treated with ipilimumab containing regimens by completing candidate-based
      gene and pathway analyses of genes involved in lymphocyte activation, cytokines profile,
      cytokine receptors and within the MHC region and an agnostic genome-wide SNP-based approach.

      Ic. To replicate genomic markers identified in the above aims in an independent sample set of
      patients treated with ipilimumab containing regimens and preliminarily characterize their
      potential functional role by completing replication of variation as associated with
      immune-related adverse events (irAEs) and survival and bio-informatic assessment of genomic
      markers.

      II. To determine the utility of circulating BRAF levels in determining the response and
      resistance to either BRAF/MEK directed and/or combination immunotherapy in patients with BRAF
      mutant melanoma.

      IIa. To determine if changes in blood BRAF levels utilizing peripheral blood BRAFV600
      mutational testing in patients with stage IV BRAF mutant melanoma correlate with response and
      resistance to combination BRAF/MEK directed therapy.

      IIb. To determine if changes in blood BRAF levels utilizing peripheral blood BRAFV600
      mutational testing in patients with stage IV BRAF mutant melanoma correlate with response and
      resistance to combination immunotherapy.

      IIc. To compare the kinetics of peripheral blood BRAFV600 levels during response and
      resistance in groups of patients receiving BRAF targeted therapy or combination immunotherapy
      as initial therapy.

      IId. To compare the kinetics of peripheral blood BRAFV600 levels during response and
      resistance to combination BRAF targeted therapy or combination immunotherapy in individual
      patients (initial treatment versus [vs] crossover treatment).

      SECONDARY PATIENT REPORTED OUTCOMES OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate differences in overall health between initial treatment arms (dabrafenib +
      trametinib vs. ipilimumab + nivolumab immunotherapy) at 2 years, accounting for toxicities
      and overall survival. (Primary) II. To assess differences in overall function over 2 years
      between initial treatment with dabrafenib + trametinib vs. ipilimumab + nivolumab.
      (Secondary) III. To document the effects of treatment crossover and treatment administration
      sequence on symptom burden and overall function. (Secondary) IIIa. To compare differences in
      function and symptoms by treatment sequence for ipilimumab + nivolumab (arm A vs. D), and
      dabrafenib + trametinib, (arm B vs. C) at baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and 6 months after the
      initiation of each treatment.

      IIIb. To describe the frequency and severity of treatment toxicities at baseline, 6 weeks, 12
      weeks, and 6 months after initiation of each treatment.

      EXPLORATORY TOBACCO USE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other
      forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported
      cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events [both clinical and hematologic] and dose
      modifications).

      II. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and
      psychological symptoms.

      III. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication
      utilization.

      IV. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose
      intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

      EXPLORATORY CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess serum based biomarkers of efficacy and adverse events due to treatment with
      immune checkpoint inhibitors.

      II. To monitor tumor response by comparing changes in circulating cell-free mutant tumor
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) as a readout of tumor burden (a) at week 12 relative to
      baseline before treatment in responders and non-responders; (b) before and during
      immunosuppressive treatment to control irAEs.

      III. To monitor organ-specific adverse events (irAEs) using circulating cell-free,
      tissue-specific methylated DNA (cmeDNA) as a readout of tissue-specific toxicity (a) at the
      time of grade 3-4 irAE relative to baseline and control patients without irAEs; (b) during
      immunosuppressive treatment for irAEs.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (Arm A or Arm B).

      ARM A:

      IMMUNOTHERAPY INDUCTION (CYCLES 1-2): Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over
      30-60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 22. Treatment repeats every
      6 weeks for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      IMMUNOTHERAPY MAINTENANCE (CYCLES 3-14): Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30-60 minutes on
      days 1, 15, and 29. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 12 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Upon disease progression, patients re-register
      and cross over to Arm C.

      ARM C: Patients receive dabrafenib mesylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and trametinib
      dimethyl sulfoxide PO daily on days 1-42. Cycles repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive dabrafenib mesylate PO BID and trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide PO daily
      on days 1-42. Cycles repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Upon disease progression, patients re-register and cross over to Arm
      D.

      ARM D:

      IMMUNOTHERAPY INDUCTION (CYCLES 1-2): Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30-60 minutes and
      ipilimumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 22. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 2
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      IMMUNOTHERAPY MAINTENANCE (CYCLES 3-14): Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30-60 minutes on
      days 1, 15, and 29. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 12 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  