
    
      Advances in cancer detection and treatment over the last few decades have led to a marked
      increase in survival rates in children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer. As a result,
      the number of CCS has burgeoned and continues to grow. Unfortunately, damage to multiple
      physiological systems often occurs when many of these effective, yet toxic, cancer therapies
      are used. In particular, radiation and chemotherapy are thought to promote an environment
      favorable to obesity, atherosclerosis, and impaired glucose metabolism. More specifically,
      the cardiometabolic risk factor profile in CCS is characterized by abdominal obesity,
      dyslipidemia, hypertension, and impaired glucose metabolism/insulin resistance. Excess
      adiposity in adolescence and young adulthood, even in otherwise healthy individuals who have
      not had cancer, is associated with increased risk for CVD and T2DM. Moreover, longitudinal
      data uniformly implicate obesity early in life as a strong predictor of future risk factor
      clustering and vascular abnormalities in later adulthood. Therefore, obesity in adolescence
      and young adulthood, even in those without a history of cancer, is associated with greatly
      increased risk of CVD and T2DM. The risk is likely further compounded when obesity is present
      in the context of cancer survivorship.

      Lifestyle modification is the preferred approach for reducing the risk of developing CVD and
      T2DM in CCS. However, few studies have been conducted in this area and none have assessed
      multiple physiological outcomes. Furthermore no studies have evaluated the response to
      lifestyle modification in overweight/obese CCS vs. overweight/obese non-CCS. It is possible
      that because the cancer therapies are responsible for the increased risk in CCS (and not
      necessarily behavioral habits), CCS may respond less-favorably to lifestyle modification
      compared to overweight/obese non-CCS. Therefore, the purpose of this pilot study will be to
      evaluate the effect of a 10-week family-based lifestyle modification program on
      cardiovascular and metabolic health in overweight and obese children who have survived
      childhood cancers of all types and overweight and obese children who have not had cancer.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      The following specific aims will be addressed in this pilot study:

        1. Evaluate the effect of a 10-week family-based lifestyle modification program on physical
           fitness in overweight/obese children who have survived childhood cancer and
           overweight/obese children who have not had cancer.

           We hypothesize that compared to overweight/obese non-CCS children, overweight/obese CCS
           who engage in a 10-week family-based lifestyle modification program will have an
           attenuated improvement in peak V02.

        2. Evaluate the effect of a 10-week family-based lifestyle modification program on body
           weight, waist circumference, blood pressure, lipids, artery health, and quality of life
           in overweight/obese children who have survived childhood cancer and overweight/obese
           children who have not had cancer.

      We hypothesize that compared to overweight/obese non-CCS children, overweight/obese CCS who
      engage in a 10-week family-based lifestyle modification program will have attenuated
      improvements in body weight, waist circumference, blood pressure, lipids, artery health, and
      quality of life.
    
  