
    
      Patients meeting the inclusion criteria and giving their informed consent will be enrolled in
      this prospective randomized controlled study. In total 60 patients will be randomized to
      either surgical or conservative management of rib fractures. 3D reconstructions of computed
      tomography images of the Thorax done at admission to hospital will be used in order to
      evaluate injury according to Lung Injury Scale and Chest wall Injury Scale and for
      calculating radiological lung volumes and plan surgical procedure in the intervention group.
      Surgery will be performed as soon as possible after randomization. MatrixRIB® (DePuy Synthes)
      Fixation system is used for stabilizing rib fractures with plates and angular locked screws.
      Unless there is a medical indication or the patient has a chest tube pre-operatively,
      thoracotomy will be avoided. In cases where thoracotomy is done the patients will receive an
      anterior and posterior chest tube and wound drain with active suction. All patients, both in
      the intervention and in the control group will be offered thoracic epidural anaesthesia.
      Broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy iv is given as long as the patient has chest tubes.
      Thrombotic prophylaxis with LMWH is given until the patient is mobilized but for a minimum of
      7 days. Patients will be followed-up 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year post-operatively by surgeon
      and physiotherapist. A low-dosage computer tomography of the thorax will be done after 6
      months in order to evaluate healing of the rib cage, possible non-union or dysfunction of
      osteosynthetic material and measure remaining lung volume. This examination will be compared
      to the initial computer tomography image done when the patient was admitted. At follow-ups
      complaints, possible late complications, usage of analgesia and return to work will be
      recorded. Evaluated instruments, EQ-5D-5L, VAS with Pain-O-Meter (POM) and Disability Rating
      Index (DRI) will be used to evaluate quality of life, pain and physical function. Range of
      motion in the thorax, thoracic spine and shoulders will be evaluated for every patient.
      Breathing movements will be measured by using a Respiratory movement measuring instrument
      (RMMI, ReMo Inc) and lung function tests will be performed in a standardized manner.
    
  