
    
      Patients referred with gallstone disease necessitating surgery (laparoscopic cholecystectomy)
      will be invited to engage with our on-line interactive website. This will allow a two-way
      exchange of information in a secure environment (N3 compliant) to inform the patient about
      the risks, benefits, alternatives to surgery (cholecystectomy), and post- operative
      expectations. Furthermore, it will inform clinicians about the patient's symptoms and
      history, and record a pre-operative Patient Reported Outcome Measure (PROM). The patient's
      understanding of the facts required for informed consent will be measured and a "Patient
      Health & Understanding Report" generated for hospital clinicians. This will form part of the
      electronic patient record, and will be a medico-legal document.

      As with current practice patients will still attend their initial outpatient clinic
      appointment where they will meet a surgeon who will determine the appropriateness of surgery.
      Informed consent for surgery (cholecystectomy) will be obtained at this initial consultation
      facilitated by the information obtained from the "Patient Health & Understanding Report". The
      patient will then continue to interact with the on-line platform before and after their
      operation to ensure they are well informed and to monitor their post-operative progress.

      7 days after surgery the patient will be prompted to interact with the website to answer
      questions about their progress and recovery. This will replace the existing telephone
      follow-up interaction. Any problems identified will trigger a protocol driven interaction
      between the hospital and the patient.

      At 1, 3 and 6 months after surgery a post-operative PROMs questionnaire will be answered by
      the patient allowing comparison of pre- and post-operative PROMs. This study will lead to the
      largest PROMs assessment of the effectiveness of laparoscopic cholecystectomy, will study the
      feasibility of our Website as a multimedia application in assisting with the process of
      informed consent, and will determine whether telephone follow-up can be safely replaced by a
      protocol driven online system.
    
  