
    
      Overall Objective The main objective is to understand the impact of an evidence-based best
      practice model for wounds and pressure injuries that follows a patient through the continuum
      of care.

      Specific Aims The specific aim is to measure the rates of healing using tissue analytics and
      the rates of pressure injuries.

      The secondary aim measured is patients understanding of their health and the impact on their
      wound healing, prevention of wound re-opening and pressure injury.

      Once we identify the rates we can translate the impact of rates into healthcare dollars and
      begin to understand the fiscal impact of evidence based practice.

      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Over the past decade researchers published the benefit of advanced wound care and the need to
      implement pressure injury prevention. To date there is very little literature connecting the
      acute care and post-acute care as a continuum by following a patient. Little is known about
      what the outcomes for wound care and pressure injury would be if a patient were followed
      through the trajectory of care. The medical home model suggests that placing the patient at
      the center of care is the best practice for best outcomes. However, at times in the hustle of
      the healthcare system the patient is lost. Implementing evidence-based best practice that
      follows the patient through the continuum of care is one approach to keeping the patient at
      the center of care. Currently wound care and pressure injury care or prevention is practiced
      in silos between acute-care and post-acute care. There is little literature that links the
      impact of continuing care throughout the continuum.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS Overview This quantitative study will utilize both primary and
      secondary data. The secondary data source will come from chart review and be the comparison
      group for outcomes. Patients will be enrolled upon admission as they are identified as
      meeting criteria, which includes either having a chronic wound that is not followed by a
      vascular team or an acute wound or a pressure injury. The fourth group of individuals to be
      enrolled into the study are those patients who are immobile and are expected to remain
      immobile at the time of discharge. Patients will be identified by admitting clinical staff
      and then enrolled and consented by the study coordinator or principal investigator. Once
      enrolled in the study, patients will have evidence based best practice interventions
      implemented based on their needs while in the acute care setting. For patients with wounds
      this will include that their cover dressing will be an antimicrobial foam bordered dressing
      that minimizes dressing changes. For immobile patients they will have the evidence based best
      practice pressure injury prevention bundle implemented. During the acute care admission, the
      patient will receive education regarding their wound care and or pressure injury prevention.
      Once the target post-admission site is identified, education for the caregiver at the
      receiving site will be provided. The patient will continue to be followed in the post-acute
      setting until the wound is healed or six months has passed on a weekly basis for a maximum of
      time frame of one year. The wounds will be measured weekly using tissue analytics.
      Re-education and coaching will be provided to the post-acute care facility. As patients are
      discharged from the study, they will be asked to complete an evaluation survey of their
      satisfaction with the care and the impact on their lives. The caregivers in the post-acute
      care will be asked to complete a survey to evaluate the education and support provided.
    
  