
    
      Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma tumors can be difficult to visualize intraoperatively.
      Most primary oral cavity cancers and previously irradiated head and neck cancers require
      surgical resection for definitive treatment. Currently, tumor margins are determined
      intraoperatively by a combination of palpation, visual inspection, and microscopic assessment
      frozen tissue sections. Difficulty in assessing intraoperative tumor margins of primary head
      and neck cancers makes resection inexact -the incidence of involved or close surgical margins
      in head and neck cancer patients approaches 40% on histopathological review. Failure to
      obtain a complete tumor resection results in significantly worse outcomes in head and neck
      cancer patients. With the exception of previously untreated tongue cancers, assessment of
      tumor margins by intraoperative palpation is limited because tumors are adjacent to bone or
      cartilage (larynx), in deep structures, or in previously irradiated tissues. More accurate
      assessment of tumor extent could limit the ablative defect size and improve outcomes.

      Intraoperative frozen sections are used to confirm complete resection of tumors.
      Unfortunately, these have significant deficiencies. Frozen sections 1) require resection of
      additional normal tissue for assessment, 2) add between 30 and 60 minutes to the operative
      time, 3) are difficult to interpret in patients with field cancerization or previous
      irradiation, 4) cannot be performed on bone or calcified cartilage, 5) are reversed on
      permanent section in approximately 5% of cases and 6) fail to detect close margins (> 5 mm).
      Finally, and perhaps most importantly, frozen sections are highly accurate if the right
      tissue is biopsied and sent; however, less than 5% of the wound bed can be assessed by frozen
      section and this significantly limits the sensitivity of this technique. This sampling error
      consistently plagues surgeons and pathologists alike.

      Identification of margins during resection is difficult because tumors cannot be palpated and
      the surgeon must rely only on subtle tissue changes when using the operating microscope.
      Optical imaging is ideally suited to endoscopic and robotic operative approaches since the
      surgeon is operating from the video monitor and fluorescence can be easily incorporated into
      the surgeon's view. Importantly, optical imaging is being incorporated into the newest
      robotic platforms made especially for surgical procedures.

      This is a Phase II study of panitumumab-IRDye800CW, which has emerged as the frontrunner in
      optical imaging. This study will be performed in the context of collaborating, completed, and
      ongoing dose-escalation Phase 1 clinical trials evaluating the safety of cetuximab-IRDye800
      (NCT01987375) and panitumumab-IRDye800 (NCT02415881), respectively, in the same patient
      population. This study design is the same as our approved Phase I trials, except there will
      be no dose-escalation. This study design is the standard for Phase II clinical trials in the
      field of fluorescence-guided surgery.

      The investigators saw a limited number of mild side effects with no serious side effects in
      patients receiving this drug (no infusion reactions, no Grade 2 or higher adverse events, and
      one Grade 1 adverse event in human patients). In 21% of cases, fluorescence imaging was able
      to improve surgical decision-making and lead to resection of tumor-containing tissue that
      would likely not have otherwise been resected. Given that positive margins are the single
      most important prognostic factor for patients with HNSCC, the potential for this technology
      to improve margin status has the potential to improve outcomes and survival.
    
  