
    
      Pterygium is a dysplasia of the bulbar conjunctiva extending onto the corneal surface. The
      prevelance of pterygium ranges from 0.7% to 31% in various populations according to the
      location, altitude, and race. It has a higher prevelance in areas which have increased
      exposure to direct sun with ultraviolet (UV) B light. Patients with pterygia present with
      variety of complaints ,ranging from asymptomatic to significant redness ,swelling ,itching
      ,irritation and blurring of vision associated with elevated lesions of the conjunctiva and
      contiguous cornea in one or both eyes.The induction of astigmatism due to the invasion of the
      pterygium into the cornea as well as changes in corneal curvature and refractive status has
      been reported by numerous studies.

      Multiple different procedures have been advocated in the treatment of pterygia. These
      procedures range from simple excision to sliding flaps of conjunctiva with or without
      adjunctive external beta radiation therapy and/or use of topical chemotherapeutic agents,
      such as Mitomycin C.

      Pentacam is a rotating Scheimpflug camera which measures Scheimpflug images of the anterior
      eye segment. With the pentacam, topographic analysis of the corneal front and back surfaces
      is based on the true elevation measurement from one side of the cornea to the other (limbus
      to limbus). Pentacam also describes the true thickness of the cornea across its entire
      breadth and width.

      Type of the study: prospective observational longitudinal study

      Study Setting: Assuit University Hospital ( ophthalmology Department ) Assuit Police Hospital
      ( ophthalmology Department )

      Study subjects:

        1. Inclusion criteria:

             -  The study will include 30 eyes of adult subjects.

             -  All eyes have primary pterygium and seeking for surgery due to Cosmetic problems,
                ocular irritation, and, or visual impairment.

             -  All selected patients will undergo complete ophthalmological examination including
                refraction, best corrected visual acuity, keratometry, and pentacam (scheimpflug
                imaging) preoperatively then will be followed up 2 and 6 months post pterygium
                excision.

        2. Exclusion criteria:

             -  patients with recurrent pterygium.

             -  Patients with media opacities:

                  -  Dense cataract. - Corneal opacities.

             -  Patients with a history of intraocular surgery ,ocular trauma ,and contact lens
                wear.

             -  Patients with severe ocular surface disorders as Stevens-Johnson syndrome.
    
  