
    
      Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are heterogeneous
      haematological malignancies associated with guarded long-term outcomes. In AML, 5-year
      overall survivals is approximately 40% even in young patients. Relapsed or refractory state
      is seen in up to 40% of patients with AML is associated with a poor outlook especially in
      patients in-eligible for intensive treatment. MDS is rarely curable except in young patients
      eligible for allogeneic haematopoietic stem transplantation (HSCT). MDS failing initial
      treatment have median survivals of less than 6 months. Most patients with AML and MDS are
      diagnosed after the age of 65, making them physically-ineligible for intensive curative
      treatment such as HSCT. In addition to inferior survivals, most patients with relapsed or
      refractory AML and MDS have profound cytopenia resulting in increased risk of infections and
      need for frequent blood product support. Quality of life (QOL) is affected due to significant
      symptom burden, treatment side-effects and repeated admission. Furthermore, an increased
      caregiver burden could be anticipated. Patients with blood cancers, especially those with AML
      and MDS experience significant physical and psychological symptoms that are comparable to or
      exceeding that seen in patients with solid organ cancers.

      Well-designed randomized controlled trials have clearly demonstrated the benefits of
      integrating early palliative care concurrently with standard care in cancer patients. Most of
      these trials demonstrated improved QOL and mood as well as reduction in the utilization of
      healthcare services. It is now recommended that in-patients and out-patients with advances
      malignancies should receive dedicated palliative care services early during the course of the
      disease. Caregivers may also be referred for palliative services to reduce caregiver burden.

      Despite the need for specific palliative care services, growing literature suggests that
      patients with blood cancer are less likely to receive palliative care services early. We have
      also shown that most patients with AML receive palliative care late and spend most the
      end-of-life periods in acute hospitals. In addition, there is a lack of studies examining the
      impact of early dedicated multidisciplinary palliative care services on blood cancer
      patients' QOL, mood and caregiver burden.

      In this study, investigators designed an open-label randomized controlled-study comparing
      early enhanced palliative care serviced versus usual care in patients with myelodysplastic
      syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukaemia (AML).
    
  