
    
      In the bone marrow, a reservoir of EPCs does exist, which can be mobilized into circulation
      when needed, for example during ischemia, a situation which may occur in sickle cells
      disease. These cells are able to reach distant targets and to participate to the
      neovascularisation processes necessary for tissue and vascular healing. Conversely,
      abnormalities of the maturation, mobilization or homing processes would contribute to the
      thrombotic and ischemic risks associated to ischemia. Furthermore, vascular stress such that
      encountered in SCD leads to the detachment of endothelial cells from the vessels. The number
      of detached mature circulating endothelial cells (CEC) seems to be related to vascular
      hurting. The balance between EPCs and CECs would thus be informative of the vascular
      condition in patients during the progression of the disease. A relatively high level of EPCs
      would indicate a prominence of a healing neoangiogenesis or vasculogenesis process, while
      increasing levels of CECs would be indicative severe progression of the disease. Our studies
      and those published by others indicate that the number of EPCs in peripheral blood is tightly
      regulated. Indeed, mediators of inflammation could participate to EPC mobilization and to
      their recruitment to the diseased areas by local activation of the vascular endothelium. In
      this context, sickle cells disease provokes transient occlusion episodes, leading to a
      situation of chronic ischemia in different organs, sometimes with acute episodes. This
      suggests defect of the maintenance of the vascular integrity in these target organs.Within
      this project, we will compare the number of EPCs and CECs in 25 SCD patients and 25 normal
      individuals in search of a correlation with the severity of the disease. SCD patients with
      potential confounding factors that may alter endothelial physiology (drugs, blood
      transfusions, hydroxyurea therapy) are excluded. In addition, we will analyse and compare in
      culture and in vivo the phenotypic and functional characteristics of EPCs obtained from
      patients and controls. We have a working bilateral hypothesis, since we do not know whether
      SCD subjects have appropriate angiogenic balance (high EPCs/CEC ratio with functional EPCs)
      to face the situation of endothelial activation and tissue hypoxia induced by SCD. Therefore,
      we will quantitatively and qualitatively study several distinct biological steps:1. Evaluate
      the number of colonies generated by the EPCs in culture and their kinetics of appearance in
      patients (major end point)2. Enumerate EPCs and CECs by flow cytometry using a specific set
      of markers (CD133, CD146, KDR).3. Measure of the plasma concentrations of PlGF, VEGF, EPO,
      ET-1, modulators of angiogenesis.4. Test of correlations between these respective
      characteristics of EPCs with clinical vascular abnormalities of the disease (retinopathy
      assessed by angiography, nephropathy, leg ulcers) and severity of vaso-occlusive crisis
      assessed by number and length of hospitalizations during the previous year and during the
      study.
    
  