
    
      While the nation's overall health status has improved over the past decade, disparities
      persist among racial/ethnic minorities, low-income whites, the medically under-served, and
      rural residents. The disparities in disease morbidity and mortality are a compelling crisis
      and the elimination of such disparities is a national priority. With an aging population, the
      changing demographics are increasing the disease burden attributable to chronic diseases.

      The broad goal of this project is to evaluate the potential value of using THC technology in
      chronically ill patients in rural Maryland, within the broad context of social determinants
      of health. This builds upon a completed pilot research study in Garrett County on a small
      scale THC program in rural Garrett County Maryland funded by the Maryland Cigarette
      Restitution Fund (CRF) supported Other Tobacco Related Diseases (OTRD grant) (CBaquet PI) in
      collaboration with the division of cardiology and department of family medicine. This
      research study will look at whether the THC equipment in the home for 60 days will make a
      difference in the health of the patients who get the unit in their home compared to the
      patients who will not receive the unit for 60 days. And we will look at whether this
      technology will support patient monitoring in the home. The use of the technology will be
      evaluated to determine whether patient monitoring using THC equipment will influence the
      hospitalization rates or emergency department visits for the patients. Evaluation of the
      influence of the THC equipment on medical resource utilization in rural and medically
      underserved communities will be studied.

      Telehome care (THC) may provide augmentation to current face to face monitoring through home
      visits (usual method for Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) billable home health
      services) of chronically ill patients and may provide an innovative and potentially
      cost-effective solution to improving patients' outcomes and health care resource utilization
      in rural areas. THC can support the coordination of care by assessing and monitoring patients
      in their homes and giving health care providers appropriate feedback to assure patient
      compliance with discharge instructions such as medication, home care and other aspects of
      recommended treatment regimens. Further, THC may improve service coordination at discharge
      and provide ongoing monitoring/engagement of patients, which is considered essential to
      prevent re-hospitalizations and emergency department visits. Demonstration of the potential
      benefits on care pathways, and patient and provider acceptance and satisfaction with the
      technology requires systematic larger scale and scientifically rigorous studies.

      Purpose The project's broad goals are to evaluate the effects of telehome care (THC), a form
      of remote patient home monitoring,(within the broad context of social determinants of health)
      for chronic disease management among rural residing minority, low-income white, and medically
      underserved patients by: (a) providing an innovative telehome care (THC) capacity and
      infrastructure in two Maryland rural and medically underserved communities; and (b) using the
      THC infrastructure to generate scientifically rigorous and high quality evidence on whether
      the THC technology improves patient monitoring, influences clinical outcomes, and has an
      impact on medical resource utilization. [NOTE: THC uses telecommunication technologies to
      enable home health agency clinical staff at a rural home health agency to monitor their
      patients in the home.]

      The major aim for this study are: 1) To evaluate the impact of the 60-day in home THC
      monitoring on medical resource utilization (emergency department visits; re-hospitalization
      rates) and Quality of Life related to the management of Metabolic Syndrome/Diabetes Mellitus
      (DM), Chronic Heart Failure (CHF), Hypertension (HTN), and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Disease (COPD) compared to those patients that receive only an educational pamphlet.
      Secondary aim hopes to support patient education to enhance acceptability, patient
      independence and satisfaction.

      In this study, remote in-home patient monitoring using a THC system from VitelNet (telehealth
      equipment vendor) will provide patient monitoring remotely or non billable services for the
      experimental study arm for this project in addition to routine billable home health services.
      This project does not substitute billable in-home monitoring of patients which is a
      prerequisite for enrollment into this study(conventional home health services) but provides
      remote monitoring for the study arm in addition to conventional/billable services delivered.

      Patients are randomized to either THC use for 60 days with 60, 90 day follow up or "usual
      care" with 60, 90 day follow up.

      In addition, new knowledge will be generated by this study on methods for conduct of health
      disparities research and training of non-research clinical personnel who are community based
      in data collection and research ethics.
    
  