
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among children in developing
      nations. Symptom-based diagnostic criteria are non-specific and culture confirmation is
      challenging, as sputum samples are often believed to be to too cumbersome to obtain from
      small children and specimens typically have low yield due to the paucibacillary nature of
      pediatric TB. Culture confirmation may be obtained in as few as 10% of cases of suspected
      pediatric TB. For these reasons, the true extent of the (drug-resistant) TB epidemic in
      children is unknown. Thus, either clinicians begin empiric treatment without diagnosis or no
      treatment is given at all. Current laboratory methods, if available at all in resource poor
      settings, employ smears from expectorated sputa or gastric aspirates which have low
      sensitivity in children. While more rapid diagnostic techniques such as PCR based tests have
      been developed, there is still poor sensitivity in children. Improving the diagnosis of
      pediatric TB must focus on better efforts, including more aggressive strategies to uncover
      disseminated disease.

      Culture confirmation of disseminated disease can be obtained from blood, urine, cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF), peritoneal and pleural fluid, or purulent material from lymph node aspirates,
      abscesses or otorrhea. Unfortunately, little is known about the overall yield from these
      various specimens in children. From pilot data collected among children at NHP, we know that
      it is feasible to collect and test various bodily fluid specimens for TB culture.

      Although WHO guidelines encourage body fluid collection in order to make a diagnosis of TB in
      children, at present in NHP, blood and urine cultures are not obtained for mycobacterial
      culture. However, this study seeks to demonstrate that routine investigation of blood and
      urine will augment the yield of traditional sputum culture for children in whom disseminated
      disease is more likely. Improved culture confirmation will allow DST and a more accurate
      description of the drug-resistant TB epidemic for children in the region.
    
  