
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma
      treated with lenalidomide plus low dose dexamethasone versus bortezomib plus lenalidomide and
      low dose dexamethasone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess response using the new international response criteria. II. To bank specimens for
      future translational medicine research. III. Follow patients to assess overall survival and
      other long-term outcomes stratified by intent to transplant at progression.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate custom and genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms in correlation with
      biology, prognosis and outcome for both treatment regimens combined; to verify the findings
      recently obtained with the custom Bank on a Cure program (BOAC) single nucleotide
      polymorphism (SNP) chip on Total Therapy 2 (TT2) data with respect to bone disease in the
      cooperative group setting.

      II. To use baseline gene expression profiling as a tool to evaluate the biology, prognostic
      and risk factors, and response to therapy for both treatment regimens combined. To validate
      John Shaughnessy's 70 gene risk model developed for Total Therapy 2 (TT2) in the cooperative
      group setting.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive dexamethasone orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22
      and lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, and 12;
      lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-14; and bortezomib intravenously (IV) over 3-5 seconds on days
      1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In both arms, patients who intend to undergo transplantation at relapse undergo peripheral
      blood stem cell collection, preferably after course 2.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: After the completion of at least 4 courses (Arm I) or at least 6 courses
      (Arm II) of induction therapy, patients receive maintenance therapy comprising dexamethasone
      PO QD on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 6 years.
    
  