
    
      Kidney problems associated with lupus nephritis range from asymptomatic protein in the urine
      to rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis, leading to end-stage renal disease. The goal of
      therapies is to control kidney manifestations in order to avoid kidney failure, the
      occurrence of other medical problems and death.

      The treatment of lupus nephritis remains problematic. Despite the use of currently available
      therapies, patients experience disease relapse. Over time, patients develop significant
      morbidity from the disease as well as from medications used for treatment.

      Etanercept, a TNF inhibitor, is proposed as a potential treatment for lupus nephritis. TNF
      increases the number of reactive B and T cells. TNF levels can be elevated in lupus.
      Etanercept is believed to work by blocking inflammation, and it is hoped that it will lessen
      the signs and symptoms of lupus-related kidney disease.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of etanercept compared
      to placebo in combination with standard therapy to treat individuals with mild or moderately
      active lupus nephritis.

      This study will last 1 year. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either
      etanercept or placebo in addition to their regular medications. Participants will
      self-administer 50 mg etanercept or placebo injections once a week. They will continue
      receiving their usual treatment with corticosteroids and either MMF, Mycophenolic Acid, or
      AZA. Treatment with study medication will occur for 24 weeks.

      There will be a screening visit followed by a randomization visit, where subjects will
      receive and learn how to administer the study drug. Subjects will come to the clinic for 9
      study visits. A physical exam and blood and urine collection will occur at most study visits.
      Participants will also be asked to complete a questionnaire on their health at most study
      visits. Subjects will be contacted by phone 5 times during the 24-week period to assess for
      adverse events and worsening disease status.
    
  