
    
      Subject will be enrolled in one of four planned cohorts (Main Study Group, Expansion Cohort
      1, Expansion Cohort 2 or Expansion Cohort 3).

      Main Study Group. Three initial subjects with either HCC or cancer metastatic to the liver
      will receive 0.25 mL PV-10 per cc lesion volume (Lv) to a single lesion (up to a maximum dose
      of 7.5 mL PV-10). If none of the initial three subjects experiences a new and persistent
      CTCAE Grade 3 or greater non-hematological or any Grade 4 hematological toxicity over a
      28-day follow-up interval, an additional three subjects will be enrolled and similarly
      treated with PV-10 administered at 0.50 mL per cc Lv (up to a maximum dose of 15 mL PV-10)
      provided no new and persistent Grade 3 or greater non-hematological or any Grade 4
      hematological toxicity occurs.

      Expansion Cohort 1 (EC1: PV-10 plus/minus Checkpoint Inhibition). Following demonstration of
      safety and tolerability in the Main Study Group, up to 48 additional subjects with cancers
      metastatic to the liver or with HCC will be enrolled into Expansion Cohort 1 (EC1). Subjects
      will be treated with PV-10 administered at 0.50 mL per cc Lv (up to a maximum dose of 15 mL
      PV-10). Subjects may receive injection of up to two lesions in any PV-10 treatment cycle.
      Enrollment will continue provided no new and persistent Grade 3 or greater non-hematological
      (excluding fatigue) or any Grade 4 hematological toxicity occurs.

      Expansion Cohort 2 (EC2: PV-10 plus Checkpoint Inhibition). Following demonstration of safety
      and tolerability in the Main Study Group, up to 12 additional subjects with HCC on a
      background of standard care checkpoint inhibition therapy (i.e., anti-PD-1 therapy) will be
      enrolled into Expansion Cohort 2 (EC2). Subjects will be treated with PV-10 administered at
      0.50 mL per cc Lv (up to a maximum dose of 15 mL PV-10). Subjects may receive injection of up
      to two lesions in any PV-10 treatment cycle. Enrollment will continue provided no new and
      persistent Grade 3 or greater non-hematological (excluding fatigue) or any Grade 4
      hematological toxicity occurs.

      Expansion Cohort 3 (EC3: PV-10 plus Checkpoint Inhibition). Following demonstration of safety
      and tolerability in the Main Study Group, up to 12 additional subjects with hepatic
      metastases of uveal melanoma (mUM) on a background of standard care checkpoint inhibition
      therapy (i.e., anti-CTLA-4, anti-PD-1 or combination anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 therapy) will
      be enrolled into Expansion Cohort 3 (EC3). Subjects will be treated with PV-10 administered
      at 0.50 mL per cc Lv (up to a maximum dose of 15 mL PV-10). Subjects may receive injection of
      up to two lesions in any PV-10 treatment cycle. Enrollment will continue provided no new and
      persistent Grade 3 or greater non-hematological (excluding fatigue) or any Grade 4
      hematological toxicity occurs.

      Concomitant therapy with immune checkpoint inhibition is allowed in Expansion Cohort 1 and
      required in Expansion Cohort 2 and Expansion Cohort 3. This concomitant therapy must commence
      at least 7 days prior to initial PV-10 administration.

      Subjects in each Expansion Cohort one or more additional injectable tumor ≥ 1 cm in diameter
      will be eligible for treatment of one or more additional injectable tumor 28 days to 6 months
      after prior PV-10 administration provided that any prior treatments with PV-10 were well
      tolerated. This may be repeated until all injectable tumors ≥ 1 cm in diameter have received
      PV-10.
    
  