
    
      Cellular lysates from purified protein derivative-positive donors have been reported to
      transfer tuberculin reactivity to na(SqrRoot) ve recipients, but not diphtheria reactivity;
      similarly, cell lysates from diphtheria-reactive donors appear to transfer diphtheria
      reactivity without impacting responses to tuberculin. A historically controversial topic, the
      terms transfer factor and dialyzed leukocyte extract were used to characterize the
      reactivity-transferring properties of lysates. We found that the cellular extract derived
      from antigen-specific memory CD8+ T cells induces interleukin (IL)-6 from antigen-matched
      antigen-presenting cells. This ultimately elicits IL-17 from bystander memory CD8+ T cells.
      We identified that dialyzable peptide sequences, S100a9, and the TCR <= chain from CD8+ T
      cells contribute to the molecular nature of this activity. We further showed that extracts
      from antigen-targeted T cells enhance immunity to Staphylococcus aureus and Candida albicans.
      The observed anti-Candida activity of lysates was enhanced when the cells were taken from
      individuals with higher-than-average exposure to Candida and correlated with increased
      numbers of Candida-reactive T-cells. These effects are sensitive to immunization protocols
      and extraction methodology in ways that may explain past discrepancies in the reproducibility
      of passive cellular immunity. Work by other groups has revealed that memory CD8+ T cells are
      also the only cell population enriched in breast milk as compared to an equal volume of
      peripheral blood. Taken together, it may be that the CD8+ memory T cells in breast milk serve
      as a mechanism of passive cellular immunity transference from mother to offspring. We thus
      aim to expand our analysis into the potential that lysates taken from sources with enriched
      immunity against a given microorganism will induce greater in vivo and mouse model activity
      compared to lysates from non-immune sources, and that this difference in lysate activity will
      be directly related to the CD8+ T cell enrichment.

      In this study, we will collect blood and/or breast milk samples from donors with known or
      suspected exposure to pathogens, and also from healthy non-exposed volunteers. Research
      evaluations of samples will be done for the relevant microbe(s) of interest. The volume of
      blood taken from lacting mothers will be limited to 20mL or less per visit. Cells may be
      proliferated, immortalized, lysed and dialyzed, and/or stored. Cellular lysates will
      subsequently be used in both in vitro and pre-clinical animal models to assess for
      therapeutic potential.
    
  