
    
      Combination strategies geared towards blocking the PD1/PD-L1 inhibitory pathway, such as with
      pembrolizumab, concurrent with stroma depletion (PEGPH20) may induce synergistic anti-cancer
      activity and immune responses in pancreatic cancer. Effective harnessing of the immune system
      and rational combinations with stroma-targeting biological agents (PEGPH20) is a novel field
      that needs to be explored in pancreatic cancer. This phase II trial will determine the
      efficacy of pembrolizumab plus PEGPH20 in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients who have
      HA-high tumor expression. Stroma and immune-related biomarkers will be tested prospectively
      in blood and tumor biopsies at baseline, after 6 weeks of therapy, and at time of cancer
      progression. A phase I study with pembrolizumab and PEGPH20 is ongoing in lung and gastric
      cancer patients (NCT02563548), and demonstrated safety and tolerability of this combination
      at the doses administered in this study (Halozyme data).

      Immunotherapies have the potential to induce durable therapeutic responses although this
      typically occurs in a small fraction of patients. Biomarker-guided patient selection can, in
      principle, identify those patients most likely to benefit. The investigators hypothesize that
      stroma remodeling with PEGPH20 will potentiate effector CD8 T cell lymphocyte infiltration
      and sensitize pancreatic cancer to immune therapy, and that immunologic, and/or genomic
      biomarkers will identify patient subsets most likely to benefit. As examples, MSI-high status
      and high tumor mutational burden (hypermutation) have been linked to sensitivity to immune
      checkpoint inhibitors (Le et al. 2015, Le et al. 2016).

      Assays may include but are not limited to: Immunohistochemical analysis, profiling of the
      immune transcriptome, circulating cytokine analyses, flow cytometric analyses of peripheral
      and intratumoral immune response.

      This is an open label non-randomized Phase II trial for patients with previously treated
      metastatic ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma with HA-high expression, to assess the
      progression-free survival rate (PFS) of patients treated with this combination therapy.
      Secondary endpoints will assess safety and tolerability, overall response rate (ORR), disease
      control rate (DCR= CR+PR+SD), duration of response and stable disease (DOR), and overall
      survival (OS).

      There will be an estimated 35 patients enrolled into the study, using 5 centers in the U.S.

      Overall response rates as well as individual categories of response (CR, PR, SD, and PD) will
      be determined using RECIST 1.1. Time-to-event endpoints, including PFS and OS will be
      assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Toxicity (adverse events) will be recorded using the
      NCI CTCAE, version 5.0 (published Nov 2017, Appendix B).

      All patients will start treatment with PEGPH20 3 microgram/kg IV weekly x 3, and
      pembrolizumab 200 mg IV every 3 weeks, in 3-week cycles.

      Patients may remain on treatment with PEGPH20 in combination with pembrolizumab as long as
      they are receiving clinical benefit, until disease progression per RECIST 1.1 criteria, or
      until untolerable toxicity develops, whichever comes first. If no disease progression,
      patients will be allowed to remain on study treatment for up to 24 months. If no disease
      progression, but with unacceptable toxicity from PEGPH20, patients will be allowed to
      continue on pembrolizumab alone for up to 24 months if deemed appropriate by the
      investigator. If pembrolizumab needs to be discontinued for toxicity, patients may continue
      treatment with PEGPH20 alone.

      The estimated duration for accrual is anticipated to be 12 months. Patients will be followed
      up for a minimum of 6 months. The overall study duration is estimated at approximately 18
      months.
    
  