
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the impact of 3 interventions (generic educational print intervention, tailored
           educational print intervention, or tailored educational print intervention plus
           telephone counseling) on colorectal cancer screening behaviors and intentions among
           siblings at increased familial risk for colorectal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether demographic factors, medical access, physician recommendation at
           baseline, and proband (patient) characteristics (e.g., stage of disease) moderate the
           impact of the interventions on colorectal screening.

        -  Evaluate whether knowledge, attitude, and physician recommendation variables mediate the
           association between the interventions and colorectal screening, and determine whether
           these variables are impacted by the interventions.

        -  Analyze the cost of each intervention.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, cohort, multicenter study. Participants are
      stratified according to study site. Participants are randomized to 1 of 3 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I: Participants receive generic educational print intervention approximately 1 week
           after completing the baseline survey.

        -  Arm II: Participants receive tailored educational print intervention within 10 days
           after completing the baseline survey and a tailored newsletter 1 month after completing
           the baseline survey.

        -  Arm III: Participants receive tailored educational print intervention approximately
           14-18 days after completing the baseline survey. Participants undergo a telephone
           counseling session within 2 weeks after receiving the tailored print intervention and
           receive a tailored newsletter 1 month after completing the baseline survey.

      After study completion, participants are followed at 6 months and/or 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 660 participants will be accrued for this study.
    
  