
    
      The main objective of the study is to investigate the effect of EEG-guided anesthesia aiming
      at reducing anesthetic administration and minimizing burst suppression on the EEG during
      general anesthesia on the incidence of NCD at postoperative day 1 in elderly patients (> 70
      years old) undergoing major (expected duration > 1h) non-cardiac surgery compared to standard
      care.

      Secondary objectives are to investigate the effect of EEG-guided anesthesia compared to
      standard care on:

        -  neurocognitive disorders at postoperative day 2, 7, 15, 30 and 90,

        -  perioperative cognitive trajectories,

        -  postoperative delirium,

        -  intraoperative consumption of volatile anesthetics, opioids and vasopressors,

        -  intraoperative hypotension (number of interventions to treat hypotensive events),

        -  cerebral hypoxemia (assessed by cerebral oximetry),

        -  cumulative burst suppression duration and cumulative low processed EEG values duration
           during anesthesia,

        -  awareness

        -  postoperative surgical and quality of life / recovery outcomes.

      Tertiary objectives are to:

        -  explore the effect of EEG-guided anesthesia compared to standard care across and within
           subgroups including different categories of surgical, duration of surgery, preoperative
           frailty, preoperative presence of depressive symptoms, age and patients with
           preoperative neurocognitive disorder.

        -  explore the effect of a possible imbalance in risk factors for postoperative NCD between
           the two groups on the incidence of postoperative NCD.

      Methods

      Participants 314 patients 70 years of age or older scheduled for elective major gynecologic,
      abdominal, urologic, thoracic or orthopedic surgeries via laparoscopy or laparotomy under
      general anesthesia and an anesthesia time of more than 60 minutes at the institution
      HMR-CEMTL, who are seen at the preoperative clinic (CIEPC) by internal medicine and/or
      anesthesiology.

      Exclusion criteria: patients with known diagnosis of dementia or other neurological,
      psychiatric, developmental or medical condition that resulted in severe documented cognitive
      impairment, emergency surgery, significant auditory or visual impairment that precludes
      participation in cognitive testing, known allergy or intolerance or other medical condition
      that precludes the use of prescribed general anesthesia protocol for this study, inability to
      communicate in French or English will not be included in the present study.

      Anesthesia Protocol All patients will undergo general anesthesia with the following:
      induction with IV slow boluses of lidocaine to numb the vein, propofol 1.5mg.kg-1,
      remifentanil 1µg.kg-1, rocuronium 0.8mg.kg-1. The maintenance of anesthesia will be based on
      sevoflurane to reach [0.8-1.2] minimal alveolar concentration (MAC adjusted to age) in the
      control group, and to achieve a Bispectral index (BIS) of [40-60] in the EEG-guided group
      (see below). The Nociception level (NOL) index (PMD200™ device, Medasense Biometrics Ltd,
      Ramat Gan, Israel) and the bilateral cerebral regional oximetry (rSO2) (Invos™, Medtronic,
      Canada) will be placed and available for both groups throughout the entire anesthesia.
      Remifentanil infusion will be set between 0.02 and 0.3 µg.kg-1.min-1 to achieve a NOL index
      of [5-25]. Phenylephrine will be started at 0.2 µg.kg-1.min-1 and adjusted to maintain +/-
      20% of the baseline values of the pre-anesthesia mean arterial pressure (MAP). No
      benzodiazepines or ketamine will be used intraoperatively. An epidural may be placed at the
      discretion of the anesthesiologist in charge of the patient in the OR. Patients will receive
      standard prophylaxis against postoperative nausea and vomiting. Hydromorphone PCA (or
      hydromorphone SC or PO if patient is not a candidate for PCA) for postoperative pain scores <
      4/10, or Patient controlled epidural analgesia if an epidural is started in Postoperative
      anesthesia care unit (PACU). All anesthesia related side effects and quality of analgesia and
      rehabilitation will be evaluated for 48h.

      Intervention Patients will be randomized (1:1) to receive EEG guided anesthesia versus
      standard of care. Information provided by the BIS (Medtronic, Canada) monitor will guide the
      volatile anesthetic administration in the EEG-guided group to maintain a BIS value between 40
      and 60, a Suppression Ratio (SR; % of time with suppressed brain electrical activity) at 0%
      or the closest, a direct EEG display without any suppression time and a spectrogram (DSA or
      density spectral array) with most of the EEG wave frequency within the Alpha (8-12Hz), Theta
      (4-8Hz) and Delta (0.5-4Hz) frequencies. In the standard of care group, the age-adjusted
      Minimum Alveolar Concentration (MAC-age) of sevoflurane will be kept at [0.8-1.2] MAC.

      Cognitive Assessment Participants will undergo cognitive assessment preoperatively to
      establish a baseline and then postoperatively to assess change from that baseline at
      postoperative days 1, 2, 7, 15, 30 and 90.

        -  The MoCA or the telephone version of the MoCA (T-MoCA) will be administered at each time
           point depending on patient location (hospital / home).

        -  Verbal fluency including phonemic and categorical fluency will be administered at each
           time point

        -  The Confusion Assessment Method (CAM) will be used to diagnose postoperative delirium at
           postoperative days 1 and 2.

        -  The Quality of Recovery-15 (QoR-15) questionnaire will be used at postoperative day 30
           and 90 to explore quality of life after anesthesia and surgery.

      Significance/Importance This study was designed to explore the effect of EEG-guided
      anesthesia on perioperative neurocognitive disorders with tight control of intraoperative
      blood pressure and nociception level. Understanding EEG patterns of anesthesia to
      individualize titration of hypnotic drugs may help in reducing the incidence of perioperative
      neurocognitive disorders, particularly in the elderly.

      Study Design Prospective monocentric randomized controlled trial.

      Subject Population Patients ≥ 70 years old scheduled for major non-cardiac surgery (expected
      duration ≥1h).

      Sample Size Three hundred and fourteen (314 total; 157 per group, 2 groups) will be included
      in the present study.

      Study Duration 2 years.

      Study Center Single centre study, at Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital (HMR), Centre intégré
      universitaire de santé et de services sociaux (CIUSSS) de l'Est de l'Ile de Montréal (CEMTL),
      Montréal, Québec, Canada.

      Adverse Events Non expected.
    
  