
    
      This study will be a prospective, randomized, double blind, crossover interventional design.
      The crossover allows for equality in number of subjects assigned to each treatment and for
      subjects to be their own controls. Baseline spirometry will be taken prior to exercise test.
      Subjects will be prepared for OEP. All exercise will take place on an electromagnetically
      braked cycle ergometer. Throughout the protocol heart rate, blood pressure, O2 saturation,
      ventilation, and metabolic data will be recorded. A modified exercise induced asthma protocol
      will be used. Unlike prior studies, ventilatory kinematics (with isolated diaphragmatic
      function) will be monitored throughout exercise using biomechanical motion analysis (OEP).
      This OEP analysis involves compartmentalization of the chest into three sections; 1)
      pulmonary rib cage, 2) diaphragmatic rib cage, and 3) abdomen to determine the contribution
      of each component to total lung volume. By measuring the percent contribution of compartment,
      we are able to better understand its impact on respiration. OEP will be able to quantify and
      assess the distortion effects of dynamic hyperinflation and obstruction.

      Twenty moderate to severe COPD patients will be recruited. Subjects will refrain from their
      usual inhaled medications for 24 hours prior to the testing session. All subjects will be
      asked to verify that this is acceptable with their pulmonologist prior to participation.
      Subjects will also be asked to have their short acting bronchodilators and other regular
      medications available to be taken if symptoms should occur. During the initial screening,
      subjects will be familiarized with all procedures. Then baseline pulmonary function testing,
      and baseline resting OEP measurements will be performed. The subjects will then be randomized
      to receive either budesonide/formoterol fumarate dihydrate (Symbicort) or a placebo of
      budesonide only (Entocort EC). At that time, they will receive treatment with either placebo
      or budesonide/formoterol fumarate dihydrate and after 45 minutes, they will repeat spirometry
      and OEP and submaximal exercise testing with OEP. After one week, subjects will be tested
      again and switched to the opposite treatment (i.e. if on budesonide/formoterol fumarate
      dihydrate initially then switch to placebo and vice versa). The one week washout period
      between tests will include a resumption of the usual medications. The subjects will refrain
      from their inhaled medications for 24 hours before the second testing session, but use all of
      their other usual medications.
    
  