
    
      Background

      One of the major limitations of psychiatric research is the necessity to use indirect methods
      to study neuronal functions. Among these, studies of transformed lymphocytes are an
      invaluable tool. Epstein Barr virus (EBV) transformed lymphoblasts can be used for a variety
      of purposes including in vitro studies of gene expression and investigations of cellular
      responses to pharmacological treatment. They can be kept and re-grown as needed and can often
      serve as a backup supply for DNA for genetic analyses. For these reasons, lymphoblasts cell
      lines (LCLs) have been collected and used by a number of research groups, including our own.

      Most investigators work with the implicit assumption that such transformed cells represent
      trait characteristics of the person and their illness. In other words, the cell
      transformation and repeated passages are assumed to reduce the impact of any confounding
      factors present at the time of blood sampling and lymphocyte isolation. These factors may
      include, among others, the clinical state, the actual treatment, or time of the day.
      Surprisingly, we could not find any published data supporting or contradicting this
      assumption.

      Here we propose to investigate the effects of one particular factor that may influence
      various cellular measures, namely in vivo drug treatment. Specifically, we are interested in
      assessing the effect of treatment with lithium, an ion that possesses mood-stabilizing
      properties. Indeed, lithium is the most effective treatment in bipolar disorder, with
      approximately 30% of patients achieving complete illness remission and prevention of episode
      recurrence (Baldessarini and Tondo, 2000; Garnham et al., 2007).

      Rationale

      Lithium has well established regulatory effects on the expression of specific target genes.
      Gene expression studies on LCLs from patients characterized for response to lithium treatment
      have identified a series of molecular target directly modulated by this drug. A microarray
      study (Sun et al., 2004) on LCLs of patients with BD characterized for full response to
      lithium demonstrated its effect in decreasing the expression of seven genes: somatostatin
      receptor type 2 (SSTR2), nuclear factor kappa-B DNA binding subunit (NF-kB),
      alpha1B-adrenoceptor (1B-AR), acetylcholine receptor protein alpha chain precursor (ACHR),
      cAMP-dependent 3', 5'-cyclic phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D), substance-P receptor (SPR), and
      ras-related protein (RAB7), the latter five being validated by Northern blotting analysis.
      Recently, using LCLs from three healthy subjects, Sugawara and coworkers (2010) identified 44
      genes whose expression was regulated by lithium. Among the ten genes most down-regulated by
      lithium were Bax, zuotin related factor 1 (ZRF1) and thioredoxin domain containing 13
      (TXNDC13), while platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase, isoform Ib, beta subunit 30 kDa
      (PAFAH1B2), Synovial sarcoma translocation, chromosome 18 (SS18) and peroxisome biogenesis
      factor 1 (PEX1) were the most up-regulated. Moreover, Washizuka et al. (2009) showed that
      valproate, but not lithium, significantly increased the expression of the gene encoding for a
      subunit of mitochondrial complex I (NDUFV2) in LCLs from Japanese BD patients. In regard to
      other psychiatric phenotypes, unpublished data from LCLs of BD patients characterized for
      different risk of suicidal behaviour are showing that in vitro lithium treatment
      significantly perturbed the expression of the gene coding for the rate limiting enzyme
      spermidine/spermine N(1)-acethyltransferase (SAT1) (Squassina et al., in preparation).

      Besides gene expression studies, LCLs have also been used to investigate the effect of
      lithium on protein levels in BD subjects. The study from Tseng et al. (2008) revealed that
      basal BDNF protein levels are decreased in LCLs from lithium responsive BD patients when
      compared with both their unaffected relatives and with healthy control participants.
      Interestingly, in vitro treatment with lithium of the LCLs decreased BDNF levels in all
      participants, but the difference between BD patients and healthy controls remained.

      In addition, the pleiotropic effect of lithium on gene and protein expression has been deeply
      investigated in a series studies using animal (Bosetti et al., 2002; McQuillin et al., 2007;
      Chetcuti et al., 2008; Chen et al., 1999) and human (Sun et al., 2007; Seelan et al., 2008)
      cell tissues.

      Specifically: 1) Lithium has been shown to increase the expression of the anti-apoptotic gene
      BCL2 with reduction of the expression of the pro-apoptotic genes p53 and Bax (Chen et al.,
      1999) clearly indicating a role in influencing the molecular cascade regulating the
      programmed cell death. This evidence acquires particularly interest in light of recent
      findings on BCL2. Two recent studies (Machado-Vieira et al., 2011, Uemura et al., 2011)
      demonstrated that, in individuals with BD, BCL2 gene expression regulated by the single
      nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs956572 directly impacted intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis
      dysregulation, a molecular signalling pathway proved to play a significant role in the
      pathogenesis of BD. 2) Using a genome wide gene expression approach (GWGE) on multiple
      prostate human cancer cell lines that were incubated with lithium, Sun and coworkers 11
      showed a marked downregulation of genes involved in DNA replication. In another study, Seelan
      et al. (2008), in the attempt of profiling the lithium-modulated gene expression in human
      neuronal cells with microarray, identified peroxiredoxin 2 (PRDX2), an antioxidant enzyme, as
      the most upregulated gene, and tribbles homolog 3 (TRB3), a pro apoptotic protein, as the
      most downregulated, further suggesting a role of these pathways in the mood stabilization
      process.

      In summary, lithium has been proven to significantly modulate the magnitude of the expression
      of a number of genes, among which the most robust and replicated changes were for BCL2, BAX,
      p53, and SAT1. Thus, we can take advantage of the well-established property of lithium of
      regulating the expression of these genes, and proteins, in a significant and stable manner.
      Conversely, these genes could be used as markers of the effect on lithium on the gene
      expression, providing a measure for the investigation of the effectiveness of EBV
      immortalization and repeated passages in eliminating the in vivo treatment effects.

      Trial Objectives

      This proposal aims to validate the assumption that LCLs, via EBV immortalization and repeated
      passages, are not influenced by environmental conditions, and especially drug treatment, at
      the time of sampling.

      To do so, fresh lymphocytes and LCLs will be sampled in 20 healthy volunteers before (T0) and
      after (T1) four weeks of lithium treatment at a stable dose.

      First, a set of molecular studies in fresh lymphocytes will examine the expression levels in
      target genes (namely BCL2, BAX, p53, SAT1) and protein (BDNF), and the activity of Complex I
      (all biological measures already known to be up-/down- regulated by lithium) at T0 and T1.
      These biological measures will serve as an assay sensitivity. We expect them to be regulated
      by in vivo lithium treatment and consequently to be significantly different between T0 and T1
      in fresh lymphocytes.

      Only the biological measures showing significant difference in fresh lymphocytes (not
      transformed with EBV) will be then analyzed in LCLs. Differential expression between LCLs
      sampled at T0 and T1 will indicate that the EBV transformation and repeated passages do not
      eliminate the environmental influences and, specifically, the effect of lithium treatment at
      sampling.

      Finally, by studying healthy volunteers, we expect to decrease the confounding factors given
      by the presence of illness status.
    
  