
    
      The patient will give blood to make TAA-specific cytotoxic T cells in the lab. These cells
      will be grown and frozen. If the TAA-specific cytotoxic T cells can be made, the time from
      collection of the blood to manufacture of T cells for administration to the patient is about
      1 to 2 months.

      There are 4 stages of this study: an antigen-escalation phase, a dose-escalation stage, aza
      stage and pediatric patients stage.

      The antigen-escalation phase will be first. Patients will receive TAA-specific T cells
      targeting first 1 and then 2 TAAs. Once this schedule proves safe, the next group of patients
      will receive TAA-specific T cells targeting first 2 and then 3 TAAs. This process will
      continue until all 4 levels are studied. This means that the final cohort of patients will
      receive TAA-specific T cells targeting first 4 and then 5 TAAs. If the side-effects are too
      severe, the number of TAAs being targeted will be lowered or the T cell injections will be
      stopped. Each patient will receive 2 infusions at the same dose 28 days apart

      After the antigen-escalation phase, the dose-escalation phase will begin. Patients will be
      started on the lowest dose (1 of 3 different levels) of T cells. Once that dose schedule
      proves safe, the next group of patients will be started at a higher dose. This process will
      continue until all 3 dose levels are studied. If the side-effects are too severe, the dose
      will be lowered or the T cell injections will be stopped. Each patient will receive 2
      infusions at the same dose 14 days apart

      After the dose escalation stage, adult patients will be enrolled on the aza stage where they
      will receive the drug aza followed by two infusions of T cells on dose level 2. Patients will
      be given 3 cycles of aza (administered daily through a vein for 5 days, every 28 days)
      followed by 2 doses of multiTAA-specific T cells administered 14 days apart. Before the
      patient is given the aza they will be given a drug to help prevent nausea and vomiting.

      On the pediatric stage, pediatric patients will receive 2 infusions of T cells on dose level
      2. The T cells will be given 14 days apart.

      The cells will be injected by IV over 10 minutes. The patients may be pre-treated with
      acetaminophen (Tylenol) and diphenhydramine (Benadryl). Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and
      diphenhydramine (Benadryl) are given to prevent a possible allergic reaction to the T cell
      administration. If after the second infusion there is a reduction in the size of the
      patient's lymphoma on CT or MRI scan as assessed by a radiologist, the patient can receive up
      to six (6) additional doses of the T cells at monthly intervals if they wish. All of the
      treatments will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Houston Methodist
      Hospital or Texas Children's Hospital.

      In between the first and second T cell infusions and for 6 weeks after the last infusion, the
      patient should not receive any other anti-cancer treatments such as radiation therapy or
      chemotherapy. If the patient does receive any other therapies in-between the first and second
      infusion of T cells, they will be taken off treatment and will not be able to receive the
      second infusion of T cells.

      MEDICAL TESTS BEFORE TREATMENT

        -  Physical exam.

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

        -  Measurements of your tumor by routine imaging studies. We will use the imaging study
           that was used before to follow your tumor: CT, MRI, or PET.

        -  Pregnancy test if you are a female who can have children.

      MEDICAL TESTS AFTER TREATMENT

      - Imaging study 6 weeks after the 2nd TAA-CTL infusion.

      To learn more about the way the T cells are working in the patient's body, an extra 20-40 mL
      (4-8 teaspoons) of blood will be taken before each cycle of aza (if applicable), 2 weeks
      after each cycle of aza (if applicable), before each T-cell infusion, and at Weeks 1, 2, 4
      and 6. One additional blood sample might be drawn 3 to 4 days post the T-cell infusion; this
      is optional. Afterwards, blood will be collected at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after the last
      infusion. The blood may be drawn from a central line at the time of the patient's regular
      blood tests. Investigators will use this blood to see how long the T cells last,and to look
      at the immune response to the patient's cancer.

      Study Duration: Patients will be on active study participation for approximately one year.
      Patients who receive additional doses of the T cells as described above will be actively
      followed until 1 year after their last dose of T cells. Investigators will then remain in
      contact with patients once a year for up to 4 additional years (total of 5 years follow-up)
      in order to evaluate disease response long-term.
    
  