
    
      During the last years the most widely used lipid emulsion for parenteral nutrition has been
      based on soybean oil. This first generation of lipid emulsions used in TPN contained w-6
      series polyunsaturated long-chain fatty acids (LCT) from soy, maize, sunflower and safflower
      oil. LCT contain an excess of linoleic acid which, when metabolised, produce large quantities
      of arachidonic acid and its metabolites. Although the generally used doses seem safe (1-2
      g/kg/day by continuous perfusion), alterations in pulmonary function in patients with acute
      adult respiratory distress syndrome have been described, as have alterations in platelet
      function, hepatic function and haemodynamics, which are attributed to the excess of said
      metabolites. However, the most important side effect of the LCT lipid infusions is its
      influence on the immune response. Experimental and clinical studies show that LCT can
      interfere with various stages of the immune response such as the production of antibodies,
      complement synthesis, granulocytic and lymphocytic activity and the reticuloendothelial
      system. Various hypotheses have been formulated to explain the modulator effect of the
      polyunsaturated fatty acids on immune function: changes in the permeability of the cellular
      membrane, modifications in the synthesis of eicosanoids and the presence of peroxides derived
      from the oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids.

      In summary, although linoleic acid as a dietary essential fatty acid is important, its
      excessive intake is associated with undesirable immunological and inflammatory events. Thus
      it is recommended that soybean oil should be partly replaced by other lipids.

      To avoid these side effects the second generation lipid emulsions were developed. These
      contain a combination of medium- and long-chain fatty acids (MCT/LCT) with lower w-6 fatty
      acid content. MCT/LCT lipid emulsions are safe and do not produce biochemical or metabolic
      alterations or gaseous exchange in patients with ARDS. MCT/LCT combinations seem to reduce
      the generation of eicosanoids and do not alter the immune response in in-vitro and
      experimental studies. The impact of these differences on the nosocomial infection and the
      clinical prognosis of the patients has not been studied sufficiently despite the fact that
      some studies show reduced mortality and morbidity using MCT/LCT emulsions when compared with
      the use of pure LCT emulsions. MCT/LCT emulsions are normally used in clinical practice on
      patients that have required parenteral nutrition for 20 years.

      Recently, the clinical use in artificial nutrition of omega-3 series polyunsaturated fatty
      acids, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) present in many fish oils
      has been significant. EPA is a precursor to certain eicosanoid series that compensate the
      proinflammatory effects of the eicosanoids in arachidonic acid (omega-6 series). The
      objective is immunomodulation to attenuate the inflammatory response of patients without
      negatively impacting on the immune function. The use of enteral diets enriched with omega-3
      series fatty acids (fish oil) in post-operation cancer patients showed a reduction in the
      number of days in hospital and infectious complications.

      The use of fish oil or fat emulsions enriched with fish oil (omega-3) in parenteral nutrition
      has already been the subject of various studies: where modulation of the inflammatory
      response markers has been shown, reduces the stay in hospital and the need for mechanical
      ventilation in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery, reduces the stay in hospital in
      patients undergoing digestive surgery… So, w-3 lipids exhibit strong immunologic properties.
      They offer the possibility to counterbalance the negative effects of conventional w-6 fatty
      acids. Recent studies exhibit positive effects of intravenous use of fish oil on immunologic
      functions and clinical parameters in surgical and septic patients

      The purpose of this study is to analyse the effect of two total parenteral nutrition diets
      with lipid emulsions of different compositions on the incidence of nosocomial infection in
      critical patients. One diet will contain an MCT/LCT emulsion concentrated to 20% (50:50
      ratio) (w3:w6 is 1:7) and the other will comprise an MCT/LCT/fish oil emulsion (50:40:10
      ratio) (w3:w6 is 1:2,7). The secondary objective of this study is to analyse mortality in
      hospital and up to 6 months after discharge.
    
  