
    
      There are around 650,000 ED syncope presentations a year in the United Kingdom (UK). Serious
      underlying conditions can present with syncope and one-month serious adverse outcome is
      around 7% with 50% being cardiovascular. The treating ED clinician is not always able to rule
      out serious pathology as the patient is commonly fully recovered on arrival in the ED,
      despite the underlying cause being potentially life threatening should it recur again. Whilst
      most patients do not have a serious underlying cause and therefore do not require
      hospitalisation, the concern of the ED clinician about missing a serious underlying cause
      (especially cardiovascular ones) means that 50% of syncope patients are admitted to hospital.

      Despite research identifying high-risk demographic, historical and examination variables,
      clinical decision rules have not been well adopted due to their lack of sensitivity and
      specificity probably due to the varied and heterogeneous nature of potentially serious
      causes. Rather than continued attempts at risk stratification of outcome based on
      presentation, more research is required into how we can better improve diagnosis and
      therefore treatment in order to provide improved patient benefit.

      Cardiovascular causes of syncope fall into two main categories, arrhythmia (e.g. ventricular
      tachycardia (VT), 2nd degree Mobitz II, 3rd degree atrioventricular block or symptomatic
      bradycardia) and structural (e.g. aortic stenosis). It is arrhythmia that is most difficult
      for the ED clinician to diagnose in the ED as examination and presenting Electrocardiogram
      ECG may both be normal. It is for this reason that arrhythmia makes up a large number of
      subsequent serious outcomes in syncope patients whose syncopal cause is unexplained after ED
      assessment.

      The current main method for establishing a cardiac arrhythmia as the cause of syncope rests
      on the correlation of the arrhythmia with symptoms (which will have resolved by the time the
      patient gets to the ED). The clinical challenge in the ED is therefore to identify the
      moderate and high-risk patients and refer them for further investigation and monitoring if
      appropriate. The logistics of arranging follow up within a timely period of the patient's ED
      visit is often problematic for a variety of reasons including availability of timely
      specialty outpatient appointments, a lack of consensus of the specialty to whom the syncope
      patient should be referred (cardiology, medicine, neurology, general practice) and
      availability of Holter and other monitoring devices. For this reason most high and medium
      risk patients are admitted to hospital.

      The investigation of cardiac arrhythmias is usually initiated with the Holter monitor which
      uses a continuous recording over a 24 or 48-hour period. The Holter allows detection of
      baseline rhythm, arrhythmia and conduction abnormalities. Holters however are bulky and
      inconvenient for the patient to wear, the transmission of data is not patient dependent and
      non-compliance with both device use and maintaining a written symptom log, limits its
      diagnostic utility. The lack of extended monitoring reduces diagnostic yield to typically
      less than 20%. Bass reported a diagnostic yield of 15% with 24-hour Holter monitoring that
      did not increase even if the device was applied for 72 hours.

      For these reasons, the use of Holter monitors is not universal in medium and high-risk
      syncope patients. In one UK ED study, only 158 of 540 (29%) admitted syncope patients
      underwent 24 hour monitoring (which in the majority comprised ward telemetry rather than
      Holter). There are other devices available to the Cardiologist to investigate syncope
      patients who are classified as European Society of Cardiology (ESC) medium and high-risk and
      whose Holter investigation is unrevealing. Event recorders do not record a continuous ECG but
      require patient activation at the time of symptoms and must be applied to the chest wall at
      the time of the event and must be activated by the patient. A brief, typically 90-second,
      single lead ECG recording is captured and stored. Because of limited data storage capability,
      data must be transmitted to a monitoring centre for validation and analysis. Event recorders
      can be used for cardiac monitoring over longer periods of time but the big drawback is that
      they must be activated following symptom onset, which may be difficult to achieve if the
      patient has suffered syncope or an injury related to the event. Finally, these devices cannot
      be used to document asymptomatic arrhythmias.

      External continuous loop recorders are attached to the patient by chest electrodes or a
      wristband. They continuously record the ECG but only save data if activated by the patient.
      The continuous looping memory feature allows the device to store a fixed length of
      pre-activation and post-event ECG data. Mobile cardiac telemetry systems provide up to 30
      days of real-time continuous cardiac monitoring without the need for patient activation or
      data transmission. These devices are expensive, require electrodes and bulky recording
      devices, and produce a large amount of data, which requires sifting. Implantable loop
      recorders are surgically implanted subcutaneous devices that continuously record single-lead
      ECG signal through 2 electrodes. They are very expensive and necessitate an invasive surgical
      procedure. For patients admitted to hospital and who are placed on telemetry, there is also
      lack of consensus on the optimal duration of monitoring. Typically higher risk patients are
      monitored for 24 hours and discharged without a diagnosis if their ECG tracing has been
      uneventful during this time period.

      In order to solve these problems, a novel ambulatory cardiac monitoring device that can
      easily be applied to ED patients has recently been developed. The ZIO®XT Patch (iRhythm
      Technologies, Inc. San Francisco, California; http://www.irhythmtech.com/zio-services.php) is
      non-invasive, water-resistant, has no leads or wires, is discrete to wear and has been
      approved for clinical use in the UK. It continuously monitors the heart for up to 14 days
      including during sleep, in the shower, and during moderate exercise and has a large button on
      top for patients to capture symptomatic events. When patients reach the end of their
      monitoring period, they simply mail the device back to the company where analysis is
      undertaken.

      The ZIO®XT Patch is well tolerated for prolonged monitoring and compliance is excellent with
      studies demonstrating a mean monitoring wear time of 10.8 days (range 4-14 days) and 10.9
      days (median 13.0 days). Barrett et al showed that 80% of patients who had worn a Holter
      monitor for 24 hours, and a ZIO®XT Patch for up to 14 days, preferred the ZIO Patch. Single
      channel ECG data quality is also excellent with one study showing more than 98% of the total
      recording time was analysable, and a second study showing a median analysable time of 99% of
      the total wear time. Compliance with returning the device is also good. In a study of 174 ED
      with indications for monitoring (syncope, dizziness and palpitations), all patients mailed
      back their devices.

      Several studies have shown that ZIO®XT Patch has a higher diagnostic yield for arrhythmias
      than traditional 24-48 hour Holter monitoring and importantly can also efficiently
      characterise symptomatic patients without significant arrhythmia. The absence of an
      arrhythmia during syncope, palpitations or a triggered event does not by itself provide a
      definitive diagnosis but does allow the clinician to exclude an arrhythmia as a potential
      cause and is thus clinically useful. Over half of patients (53.4%) in one study did not have
      an arrhythmia despite a triggered event. This allows the clinician to potentially exclude an
      arrhythmia as an etiology of the patient's symptoms and potentially avoid further cardiac
      evaluation.

      Camm et al showed in a study on patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia
      (ARVD), that over the total wear time of both devices, the ZIO®XT Patch detected more
      premature ventricular contraction events than a 24 hour Holter monitor. Barrett et al showed
      ZIO®XT Patch had a 57% greater diagnostic yield than a 24 hour Holter monitor, and Schreiber
      at al demonstrated an overall diagnostic yield of 63% in ED patients with indications for
      monitoring. This study also showed that 48% of patients had ≥1 arrhythmia and 10% were
      symptomatic at the time of their arrhythmia. Median time to first arrhythmia was 1.0 days
      (IQR 0.2-2.8) and median time to first symptomatic arrhythmia was 1.5 days (IQR 0.4-6.7). 54%
      of symptomatic patients did not have any arrhythmia during their triggered events.

      In a study looking at ZIO®XT Patch use in outpatients with clinical indications for
      monitoring (15% of whom had syncope), of the 60% of patients who had an arrhythmia detected,
      30% had their first arrhythmia and 51% had their first symptom-triggered arrhythmia occur
      after the initial 48-hour period. Mean time to first arrhythmia was 1.7 days (median 0.8) and
      mean time to first symptomatic arrhythmia was 3.0 days (median 2.1).

      This novel ambulatory cardiac monitoring device should allow much earlier arrhythmia
      detection in more patients allowing better diagnosis and subsequent treatment.
    
  