
    
      There is strong biologic plausibility and animal experimental evidence for protection against
      colorectal cancer by calcium and vitamin D, calcium significantly reduced adenoma recurrence
      in a large clinical trial in humans (yet the previously reported observational evidence,
      although generally supportive, is inconsistent), and the observational literature strongly
      supports protection from vitamin D. A close physiological relationship between calcium and
      vitamin D has long been known. Yet, other than a possible reduction of colorectal epithelial
      cell proliferation by calcium, the effects of calcium and vitamin D, individually or jointly,
      on the normal human colorectal epithelium remain unknown. There have been no clinical trials
      involving vitamin D individually or jointly with calcium related to colorectal cancer
      chemoprevention in humans. There are currently no generally accepted pre-neoplastic
      biomarkers of risk for colorectal cancer other than the possible exception of proliferation
      markers that, at best, have limited usefulness as individual markers. Based on recent
      advances in understanding the molecular basis of colorectal cancer, we developed a panel of
      newer, plausible, reliable, immunohistochemically detected biomarkers that provides molecular
      phenotyping of the normal appearing colorectal epithelium: 1) inflammation (COX-2), 2) the
      expression of genes involved in the normal structure and function of the colorectal
      epithelium that have been found to be altered early in the two major colorectal
      carcinogenesis pathways (APC, MSH2, MLH1), and 3) a more complete picture of the cell cycle
      events in colorectal epithelial crypt cells (short and long-term proliferation: MIB-1 and
      telomerase; differentiation: p21; apoptosis inhibition and promotion: bcl-2, bax, and bak)
      that has not yet been tested in a chemoprevention trial.

      To address these needs, we will conduct a preliminary, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, 2 x 2 factorial chemoprevention trial (n = 88) of calcium 2,000 mg/day
      and vitamin D3 800 IU/day, alone and in combination vs placebo over 6 months in patients with
      recent removal of sporadic adenomatous colorectal polyps, to investigate their effects on the
      individual components and aggregate profile of our colorectal cancer risk biomarker panel. We
      will also examine study results stratified by NSAID use and Bsm I vitamin D receptor
      genotypes. The preliminary estimates of treatment effect sizes and variabilities will be used
      to refine the biomarker panel and study design and to calculate the needed sample size for a
      potential full-scale study.

      We assert that using biological measurements of risk, as they have for ischemic heart
      disease, will result in a decline in colorectal cancer incidence and mortality. The proposed
      project is borne of this vision, and has intertwined missions of exploring the efficacy of
      two plausible and evidentially well-supported dietary agents, calcium and vitamin D, on the
      modulation of a plausible panel of molecular phenotypic biomarkers of risk for colorectal
      neoplasia.
    
  