
    
      Interstitial lung disease describes a condition in which the lung tissue has become scarred
      or inflamed. Interstitial lung disease caused by scleroderma, specifically seen as
      progressive pulmonary fibrosis, occurs in approximately 40 percent of patients with
      scleroderma and has emerged as the leading overall cause of death.

      In a previous study, the Scleroderma Lung Study I (SLS I), investigators evaluated a 1-year
      cyclophosphamide (CYC) treatment for people with scleroderma-related interstitial lung
      disease. The study results demonstrated statistically significant improvements in forced
      vital capacity, total lung capacity, dyspnea, Rodnan skin scores, and several measures of
      quality of life. However, when patients were followed for another year after completing their
      CYC therapy, the beneficial effects of CYC waned and were no longer significant by the
      24-month follow-up. Preliminary information suggests that an alternative immunosuppressive
      medication, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), may be effective in treating this disease, be given
      for longer periods, and result in fewer side effects.

      This study, the Scleroderma Lung Study II (SLS II), will compare the safety and efficacy of a
      2-year treatment with MMF versus a 1-year treatment with CYC. Specifically, investigators
      will determine whether MMF produces similar or better improvements in lung capacity and fewer
      side effects throughout the entire 2-year period.

      Participation will include about 21 study visits over a 2-year period. Eligible participants
      will be randomly assigned to receive either MMF twice daily for 2 years or CYC once daily for
      1 year, followed by placebo for 1 year. Blood and urine samples will be collected every 2
      weeks for the first 2 months and then once a month for the remainder of the study. Every 3
      months, participants will attend study visits that will include pulmonary function tests,
      blood and urine sampling, a physical exam, and questionnaires about current health and
      medications. At the final study visit, participants will also undergo a high resolution
      computerized tomography (HRCT) scan and possibly a punch biopsy.
    
  