
    
      Men who have sex with men (MSM) represent the largest group of new HIV infections. Rates of
      childhood sexual abuse (CSA) in MSM have been estimated to be higher than in the rest of the
      population, with some researchers estimating that 37% of all MSM have experienced CSA. CSA in
      MSM is associated with both higher rates of HIV risk behavior and higher rates of HIV
      infection. Treatments for preventing HIV are also less likely to be effective in MSM with a
      history of CSA, and these individuals tend to have higher rates of depression, anxiety,
      substance abuse, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms. This study will create
      and then test a new HIV prevention therapy that addresses both HIV risk behaviors and the
      co-occurring psychological health problems in MSM with a history of CSA.

      This study includes a pilot phase and an experimental phase. In the pilot phase, the
      therapeutic treatment will be developed based on elements of successful interventions for
      reducing sexual risk-taking behaviors and PTSD symptoms. Information-motivation-behavioral
      (IMB) skills training for sexual risk reduction will be the basis for one of two treatment
      components, and it is expected to last for two 50-minute sessions. This intervention will
      include addressing knowledge about issues surrounding sexual risk, using motivational
      interviewing to address goals and self-efficacy, and providing strategies for behavioral
      change. Cognitive processing therapy (CPT) for CSA will be the basis for the other component
      and is expected to last for eight 50-minute sessions. Elements of this intervention will
      include identifying sexual abuse events, learning how to identify cognitive distortions, and
      learning processes to challenge and process these distortions.

      During the pilot phase, approximately 10 participants will undergo the new treatment. After
      completing the treatment sessions, participants will undergo exit interviews, in which
      researchers will solicit feedback about the strengths and weaknesses of the treatment. This
      feedback will be used to fine tune the treatment.

      During the second phase of the study, approximately 50 individuals will be randomly assigned
      to receive either HIV testing with pre/post-test counseling alone or in combination with the
      newly developed treatment. The experimental, integrated treatment will be administered over
      10 individual therapy sessions comprised of sexual risk reduction counseling and cognitive
      therapy.

      All participants will undergo assessments at enrollment and after treatment (or approximately
      3 months after enrollment in comparator group), and at follow-up visits 6 and 9 months after
      enrollment. These assessments will measure sexual risk behaviors, PTSD symptoms, distress,
      social support, and substance abuse. Brief questionnaires about sexual behavior and measures
      of distress will be administered during the integrated treatment sessions.
    
  