
    
      tDCS is a non-invasive brain stimulation method that utilizes low intensity electrical
      current either to increase cortical excitability with an anodal electrode or to suppress
      cortical excitability with a cathodal electrode. tDCS produces its effects through long
      lasting changes in neuroplasticity: in animal studies, tDCS results in long-term potentiation
      and brain-derived neurotrophic factor secretion; in human studies, tDCS results in
      potentiation of neurophysiologic markers of neuroplasticity. Consistent with these
      preclinical findings, tDCS to the temporoparietal cortex or left DLPFC improves memory in
      patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer disease(AD). tDCS has also been tested among
      patients with depression - including by our group - but mainly as a treatment for depressive
      symptoms. In one recent large study one session of bilateral anodal tDCS was shown to enhance
      working memory among midlife participants with major depression prior to receiving any
      treatment. However, it is still not known (1) whether tDCS improves cognition beyond the
      partial improvement that is associated with resolution of depressive symptoms; or (2) whether
      it has a more fundamental and long lasting effect on cognition.

      This trial will assess the acute and long-term effects of a 2-week course of daily (5
      days/week) bilateral anodal tDCS of the DLPFC on cognition, and in particular working memory
      among 36 patients with LLD. We will recruit and randomize participants who have already been
      treated for LLD prior to consenting to the study and who still meet criteria for remission
      while on antidepressant medications.

      This trial will also be used as a platform to explore the effect of tDCS on neurophysiologic
      measures of plasticity during working memory performance. Working memory is supported by
      re-entrant circuits, some are local within the DLPFC and others are long-range connecting the
      DLPFC to more posterior cortices. These networks result in high and low frequency neuronal
      oscillations that can be captured by electroencephalography (EEG). Using novel
      neurophysiologic analyses, our group and others have demonstrated that the modulation of
      high-frequency (particularly gamma) oscillations by low-frequency (particularly theta)
      oscillations - "theta-gamma coupling" - is a neurophysiologic marker of working memory. Thus,
      we will explore the effect of tDCS on theta-gamma coupling.
    
  