
    
      This study is an add-on study ('adjunct study') to a clinical trial that is already being
      conducted (the 'parent study'). Study participants will be composed of persons who are
      already participating in the parent study, "Vitamin D/Calcium Polyp Prevention Study". In the
      parent study, a total of 1,964 people nationally are being randomly assigned to four
      different treatment groups: 1) calcium supplements, 600 mg twice a day; 2) vitamin D
      supplements, 500 IU twice a day; 3) both the calcium and vitamin D supplements twice a day;
      and 4) placebo tablets twice a day. The treatment period lasts three to five years at the end
      of which study participants undergo a follow-up colonoscopy to look for new polyps. The
      parent study began about a year prior to the start of this adjunct study, thus, there are
      already some patients in the trial who are receiving their study 'treatments' (i.e., have
      been 'randomized'), but more patients will be recruited into the parent study.

      Depending on whether someone has already been randomized, participants of the parent study
      will be invited to take part in the adjunct study in one of two ways: 'Aim 1' only, or 'All
      Aims'. First, patients who have already been randomized will be asked to allow biopsies to be
      made of their rectal tissue during their 3- or 5-year follow-up colonoscopy (Aim 1).
      Biopsies, which will be used for our biomarker measurements, are very tiny pieces of tissue
      that can be examined under the microscope. Second, patients who have not yet been randomized
      will be invited to participate more fully (All Aims) in the adjunct study. This involves
      having outpatient rectal biopsies taken immediately after their first phone call, their
      1-year follow-up visit, and 7 - 21 days before their 3- or 5-year follow-up colonoscopy.
      Finally, during their 3- or 5-year colonoscopy, biopsies will be taken from three areas of
      the colon: the rectum (same area as the outpatient biopsies), the sigmoid colon, and the
      ascending colon. From all of the biopsies taken from all of the visits and colon sites,
      biomarker measurements will be of normal proteins that occur in the surface cells lining the
      colon. Study researchers will then analyze whether calcium and/or vitamin D affect these
      biomarkers and whether the effects predict who gets new polyps.
    
  