
    
      Lumbar discectomy is the most common surgical procedure performed for back and leg symptoms
      in US patients, but the efficacy of the procedure relative to non-operative care remains
      controversial.

      Several studies have compared surgical and non-operative treatment of patients with herniated
      discs, but baseline differences between treatment groups, small sample sizes, or lack of
      validated outcome measures in these studies limit evident-based conclusions regarding optimal
      treatment.

      There is increasing emphasis on the use of health-related quality of life(QOL)outcome
      measures to determine the efficacy of treatment, particularly for diseases that are not life
      threatening but affect the patient's QOL. In the treatment of lumbar disc herniation, the
      Medical Outcomes Study Short Form (SF-36), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and Visual Analog
      Scale (VAS), are validated and common scales that are used to measure treatment outcomes.

      Information is routinely collected on activity limitations in the course of the doctor's
      assessment of the patient, however, the data may not always be collected in a standardized
      format that yields measurement with known reliability and validity. Standardized self-report
      questionnaires provide a convenient method of collecting and synthesizing a large amount of
      information on the pain, activity limitation and general health status of each patient.

      The objective of this prospective study is to evaluate the efficacy of surgery for lumbar
      intervertebral disc herniations using the SF-36, ODI and VAS as primary outcome measures.
      Patients experiencing acute or chronic lumbar spine pain in the Orthopedic practice will be
      given a choice to participate in this study. On patient's who wish to participate, the data
      will be collected and entered into the REMARK OMR 7 database, and evaluated for outcomes.

      This study is for current patients in the Upstate Orthopedic office.
    
  