
    
      Acne vulgaris is an under-studied common genetic disease with tremendous economic
      consequences. Acne vulgaris is one of the most common skin conditions treated by doctors. It
      affects 40-50 million people in the USA, with prevalence as high as 85% (recent study from
      Iran was 93%) in teenagers; 18% of woman have late onset (>25yr) acne vulgaris. Severe acne
      has a life-long psychosocial impact due to the significant scarring. Severe acne can also be
      associated with severe systemic inflammatory disease with fever, sterile osteomyelitis,
      inflammatory arthritis and other signs of systemic inflammatory responses. Some of these
      syndromes in Mendelian form (e.g. PAPA syndrome) have known genetic defects. Finally, while
      the data are inconclusive, there have been many suggestions that diet can exacerbate acne in
      some patients. The standard of care treatment for severe acne is systemic retinoid therapy,
      which, is usually, but not always effective. Unfortunately, systemic retinoid treatment is
      associated with significant toxicity, including common cutaneous adverse effects (dry lips,
      eyes, skin fragility), less common laboratory abnormalities such as elevated blood lipids,
      liver function abnormalities, and severe predictable teratogenicity. In addition, systemic
      therapy with retinoids has been associated with systemic diseases such as clinical
      depression, suicide, and inflammatory bowel disease, however the mechanisms and significance
      of these associations has not been determined. Given the frequency and severity of severe
      acne, the predictable severe toxicity of systemic retinoid therapy, and the already
      demonstrated genetic associations found in Mendelian forms of severe acne, it seems likely
      that significant genetic risk factors may be identified in patients with severe acne which
      would promote new and safer therapy, including dietary adjustment.
    
  