
    
      Motor training (MT) elicits formation of motor memories in the human primary motor cortex.
      Observing another individual perform motor training (Action Observation, AO) also results in
      formation of motor memories in M1. AO enhances motor training effects (MT+AO) on the
      formation of motor memories. Possible underlying mechanisms include long-term potentiation
      (LTP), a process influenced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation,
      gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), norepinephrine (NE), dopamine and acetylcholine (Ach), taking
      place at the confluence of inputs from PMv over the primary motor cortex (M1).

      The purpose of this protocol is to gain insight into the mechanisms underlying motor memory
      formation by MT+AO. We plan to perform two different types of experiments: In experiment 1,
      we will modulate activity in PMv using TMS to investigate the role of this cortical area on
      motor memory formation induced by MT+AO. In experiment 2, we will test the effects of single
      doses of (a) the NMDA receptor antagonist dextromethorphan, (b) the muscarinic receptor
      antagonist scopolamine, both known to disrupt LTP, and (c) the cholinesterase inhibitor
      rivastigmine, which enhances LTP.

      The primary outcome measure of motor memory formation will be the percentage of TMS-evoked
      movements that fall within the training target zone (TTZ) before and after MT+AO. The
      secondary outcome measure will be the percentage of TMS-evoked movements that fall within TTZ
      before and after MT alone and AO alone.

      Expected results are (1) upregulation of activity in PMv using 0.1 Hz TMS will enhance motor
      memory formation induced by MT+AO more than sham TMS and downregulation of PMv using 0.9 Hz
      TMS and (2) dextromethorphan and scopolamine will decrease but rivastigmine will increase
      motor memory formation induced by MT+AO with placebo. This study may provide useful
      information on the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of action observation on
      neuroplasticity.
    
  