
    
      -  Recruitment

             -  Recruitment of persons with diabetes through a community diabetes management center
                according to inclusion and exclusion criteria below.

             -  This is a three-armed study. Enrollees will be randomized to continue diabetes care
                with standard diabetes management in the Medication Management Clinic or the
                Intervention Group and compared to a matched cohort managed through their primary
                care physician (PCP) and standard of care.

             -  The Intervention Group will be standard diabetes management in the Medication
                Management Clinic plus the use of Diabetes+Me with a connected glucometer.

             -  Upon recruitment, PwD will be oriented to the Diabetes+Me application and
                instructed on how to complete a glucose profile and how to enter data into the
                application. Baseline hemoglobin A1C will be measured.

             -  Enrollees will complete a brief survey of satisfaction with their diabetes
                management.

        -  Study visits

             -  The first study visit will be 2 weeks following enrollment.

             -  Weight, number of medications, number of medication titrations, the presence of
                insulin and blood pressure will be measured at each study visit. Frequency of
                hypoglycemia in the preceding week will be documented at each visit. Adherence to
                medical prescription to be documented at each visit.

             -  If the PwD has not entered data into Diabetes+Me this will be done at the beginning
                of each study visit.

             -  At the first study visit, the HCP will review the glucose profile from the previous
                week, identify areas where the PwD is not meeting targets and model adjustments to
                their medications to achieve the desired anticipated effect. If indicated, a new
                prescription will be issued and the PwD instructed to collect a new glucose profile
                the week preceding the next visit.

             -  The second study visit will occur 5 weeks following the initial visit. The HCP and
                PwD will review the glucose profile from the previous week, identify areas where
                the PwD is not meeting targets and model adjustments to their medications to
                achieve the desired anticipated effect. If indicated, a new prescription will be
                issued and the PwD instructed to collect a new glucose profile the week preceding
                the final visit.

      The third and final study visit will occur 5 weeks following the second visit. The HCP and
      PwD will review the glucose profile from the previous week and identify if the PwD is meeting
      targets.
    
  