
    
      To examine how risk for colorectal cancer (CRC) is related to the microbes that inhabit the
      distal human intestine (the microbiota), we have proposed a large study that compares
      characteristics of the fecal microbiota in CRC patients and controls in the Shanghai
      population. In advance of that, we are proposing a small pilot study with the following two
      objectives: 1) determine participation rates among Shanghai adults, age 50-74 who are
      positive by fecal immunochemical test (FIT+); and 2) determine the suitability of fecal
      specimens provided by the participants for microbiome analyses. Each of two Shanghai
      community health centers, where CRC screening is ongoing, will recruit 25 FIT+ participants
      (half male; half age 50-64, half age 65-74). Each of the 50 participants will provide
      informed consent, brief questionnaire data, blood plasma and buffy coat, a urine specimen,
      and four samples of one stool, which will be frozen. Complete blood count and plasma glucose,
      cholesterol, and creatinine levels will be determined in real time and returned to the
      participant. Each participant s plasma, buffy coat, urine, and one pair of fecal samples will
      be stored frozen for future genetic or other assays. DNA will be extracted from the second
      pair of fecal samples from each participant (n=100 vials), amplified for 16S rRNA genes, and
      sequenced to determine fecal microbiome profiles. Participation will be deemed unsatisfactory
      if participation is <30% overall (95% confidence interval 17% - 43% for N=50 participants),
      or if there are <20 male, female, younger, or older participants. Specimen quality will be
      deemed unsatisfactory if the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) is <0.70 (95%
      confidence interval 0.53 0.82 for N=50 paired vials) for the Shannon index estimate of
      microbiome alpha diversity. As amended, the two community health centers will recruit up to
      600 additional adults presenting for CRC screening, irrespective of FITstatus, who will be
      asked to provide saliva as well as the other specimens.
    
  