
    
      ALS clinical presentation and pathophysiology

      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a group of rapidly progressive fatal neurological
      diseases involving the brain and spinal cord. Clinical presentation is phenotypically
      heterogeneous and depends on the type of onset. The pathophysiology mechanisms behind ALS are
      not clear and may include oxidative stress, protein misfolding and aggregation, skeletal
      muscle dysfunction, glutamate excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, neuroinflammation,
      and apoptosis. Whilst in the past ALS was considered distinctly a disorder of the motor
      system, current evidence suggests that some cognitive (ALSci) or behavioural (ALSbi)
      impairment occurs in up to 50% of cases, and co-morbid dementia (ALS-FTD) occurs in
      approximately 14% of patients with a new diagnosis of ALS. The notion that "pure" ALS and
      "pure" FTD may present two extremes of one disease continuum is reinforced by identification
      of transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) as a major pathological substrate
      underlying both diseases. Emotional lability (pseudobulbar affect), a symptom frequently
      correlated with bulbar involvement in ALS, may also be confusing and disruptive, especially
      when communicating with those who are not aware of the nature of the problem.

      Music therapy potential in multidisciplinary model of ALS care

      Considering the multiple and complex needs of people with ALS (PALS), the National Institute
      for Health and Care Excellence (UK) guideline [NG42] suggests coordinated care using a clinic
      based, specialist ALS multidisciplinary team approach. American Academy of Neurology
      recommends multidisciplinary team (MDT) model of care where patients are seen by a
      comprehensive team of health care professionals who each focus on specific health domains
      including walking, breathing, speaking, eating, activities of daily living, and psychosocial
      needs during one clinical visit. Multidisciplinary ALS care has been shown to increase
      survival of people with PALS and to improve their mental QoL.

      More rehabilitation options have to be considered for PALS, enabling them to reach their
      fullest potential, delaying the disease progression and prolonging lifespan. Music therapy
      (MT) is the clinical use of music and its elements to accomplish individualized health goals
      within a therapeutic relationship. Music engages vast network of regions located in both
      hemispheres of the brain and shares processing components with other functions, such as those
      involved in language, movement, reasoning and experiencing emotions. Application of MT
      principles in neurorehabilitation allow to treat cognitive, sensory, and motor dysfunctions.
      Professionally trained music therapists are well equipped to provide symptomatic care for
      people with neurodegenerative diseases, adapting to increasing and changing disability of
      each patient as the disease progresses, whilst maintaining and developing trusting
      therapeutic relationship established early in the disease course. Albeit currently underused,
      MT could be one of the modalities of supportive rehabilitation in ALS.

      Research on clinical MT applications for ALS is scarce and presents significant challenges
      due to heterogeneity of ALS clinical presentation and progression, poor scientific
      understanding of the disease mechanisms and the ethical issues of research involving
      terminally ill people. It has been suggested that MT could contribute to interdisciplinary
      ALS care. There is anecdotal evidence that MT increases mind-body connection, reduces
      distressing physical symptoms such as dyspnoea and pain, and associated feelings of
      loneliness, anxiety and sadness for patients with advanced ALS, is "pleasant and restorative"
      for PALS with tracheostomy and their families , and provides families affected by ALS with
      opportunities for shared meaningful activities. The first randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      of music therapy effect on people living with ALS found that active MT increased
      communication, improved QoL and decreased the physical symptoms of the disease for people
      with ALS during hospital stay. Music-assisted relaxation may be a useful strategy to optimize
      noninvasive ventilation (NIV) experience for people with ALS.

      It may be concluded that, firstly, in most cases, MT is available for PALS at the end of
      life, when natural communication and motor functions are lost or limited, that music
      therapists are normally not included into multidisciplinary model of ALS care and that the
      predominant type of music intervention being used for treatment is music listening. Secondly,
      little research has been done to understand the effects of MT interventions conducted with
      patients at earlier stages of ALS and no published research addressing the use of MT
      techniques for neurorehabilitation (e.g. supporting motor, cognitive, respiratory,
      swallowing, speech functions) of PALS has been found.

      Role of exercise in ALS treatment

      Prior to recently the exercise has been discouraged for people with ALS, the recommendation
      based on the assumption that exercise can lead to muscle fatigue and, hence, increase
      patient's disability. This assumption however is not supported by scientific evidence,
      whilst, to the contrary, there is evidence that physical inactivity secondary to ALS may lead
      to cardiovascular deconditioning, disuse weakness and consequential muscle atrophy. Existing
      literature reviews support evidence for moderate exercise in ALS, whilst highlighting
      importance of supervised, individualized training programs. Cochrane review concluded there
      was no solid evidence to deem exercise in ALS beneficial or harmful and emphasized the need
      for further research. Recent data suggests that exercise may be beneficial for cellular and
      morphological adaptations in motor neuron function and thus may help to maintain motor
      function. Finally, preliminary results of a new RCT suggest that strictly monitored exercise
      programs reduce motor deterioration in ALS. Thus, in current clinical practice regular
      moderate exercise is encouraged for people with ALS to prolong mobility and independence.

      MT for management of bulbar and respiratory symptoms in ALS

      Even more so than in case of the general physical exercise, there is lasting controversy in
      regards to the role of exercise in management of bulbar and respiratory ALS symptoms. 93% of
      people with ALS experience speech impairments and 85% present with swallowing dysfunction at
      some point during the disease progression. Loss of natural communication is regarded by the
      patients as one of the worst aspects of the disease. Respiratory failure has been cited as
      the leading cause of death, and weakening of the respiratory function and adherence to NIV as
      the leading causes of anxiety of people with ALS. Patients with dysphagia reported social
      isolation, fear and decreased mental health. Dysphagia and malnutrition contribute to 25.9%
      of ALS mortality and increase the risk of death by 7.7 times. Aspiration pneumonia and
      dehydration have also been cited among the leading factors contributing to mortality in ALS.

      Although there is lack of evidence supporting the use of strengthening exercises for
      improving speech in patients with ALS, there is no evidence of such exercises being harmful.
      Respiratory training may have positive effect on respiratory and swallowing functions of
      people with ALS. Whilst physical and psycho-emotional needs of people with ALS that MT can
      potentially attend to are many and varied, literature overview and empirical evidence suggest
      that researching the role of individualized, carefully monitored MT program to support
      respiratory and bulbar functions of people with ALS currently constitute the highest priority
      as these functions directly affect survival.

      Study aim and significance

      Applied MT research in multidisciplinary clinical context allows to systematically look at
      bulbar and respiratory functions support in ALS, which is important to do, since swallowing,
      vocalization and breathing are tightly coordinated, and close relationship exists between
      these processes, in terms of location and activation of the neurons.

      This study intends to determine feasibility of a MT protocol as intervention to support
      respiration, cough, swallowing and speech functions of persons with amyotrophic lateral
      sclerosis (PALS). Since MT constitutes a new treatment modality for bulbar and respiratory
      dysfunction in ALS, the study is focused primarily on safety and tolerability of the
      treatment protocol.

      Music therapy treatment protocol

      Upper motor neurons and lower motor neurons deterioration in ALS results in dysarthria and
      dysphagia of spastic-flaccid type, although actual presentation varies in each patient and
      changes with the disease progression. Generally, lower motor neurone (LMN) involvement,
      characteristic of bulbar onset, leads to flaccid presentation, whilst degeneration of upper
      motor neurone (UMN), characteristic of spinal onset, results in spasticity of bulbar muscles.
      Muscle relaxation and moderate exercise, as well as learning efficient breathing and voice
      production techniques, voice care techniques and ALS-specific communication strategies may be
      helpful, rather than rigorous strengthening oral motor exercises. The protocol serves the
      following primary therapy objectives:

        -  to increase breath support,

        -  to increase muscle relaxation,

        -  to increase speech rate,

        -  to prevent / decrease hypernasality,

        -  to maintain swallowing coordination.

      ALS-specific, individualized MT protocol was delivered to study participants in their homes
      twice weekly for the duration of six weeks by the researcher, who is a board certified music
      therapist and neurologic music therapist, with experience of working with this patient group
      and in this setting. Facilitating music structures have been composed by the researcher to
      support cueing, timing and intensity of breathing and vocalization exercises. These
      structures were regularly modified to suit the unique capabilities, current individual
      demands and progress of each participant. One familiar song, selected by the participant, was
      used for each participant in therapeutic singing exercise closing each session.

      Data collection

      Assessing bulbar dysfunction in ALS presents additional challenge to a researcher, as the
      existing tools may be not sensitive enough to reliably measure the change, given that ALS is
      a rapidly degenerating disease and that the rate of deterioration varies greatly from patient
      to patient. An array of subjective and objective measurements for bulbar and respiratory
      changes are used, including standard respiratory tools (FVC, MIP, MEP, PCF),
      videofluoroscopic swallow study, visual analogue scales for ease of speech and respiration,
      machine analysis of recorded vocal samples, semi-structured interviews and session
      descriptions, to explore the feasibility of systematic bulbar and respiratory assessment in
      ALS for future research.
    
  