
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of interferon alfa administered with imatinib
           mesylate in patients with chronic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia. (Phase I closed to
           accrual as of 7/9/03.)

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in this patient population.

        -  Determine the complete, major, and minor cytogenetic response rates and complete
           hematologic response rate in patients after 6 and 12 months of treatment with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the molecular response (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for
           bcr-abl) rate in patients who have a complete cytogenetic response after 6 and 12 months
           of treatment with this regimen.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

        -  Phase I (closed to accrual as of 7/9/03): Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate once
           daily beginning on day 1 and interferon alfa (IFN-A) subcutaneously once daily or 3
           times weekly beginning on day 14. Courses repeat every 35 days for up to 1 year in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 1 year of
           therapy, patients may receive additional therapy, provided that the patient is
           benefiting from imatinib mesylate. IFN-A is discontinued in patients who achieve a
           molecular remission that is confirmed on 2 successive bone marrow samples. Imatinib
           mesylate is discontinued in patients who achieve and maintain a molecular remission for
           2 years.

      Sequential dose escalation of IFN-A is followed by sequential dose escalation of imatinib
      mesylate. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of IFN-A and then imatinib
      mesylate until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination is determined. The MTD is
      defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting
      toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive imatinib mesylate and IFN-A as in phase I at the established
           MTD.

      Patients are followed for 30 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 3-15 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of
      this study. (Phase I closed to accrual as of 7/9/03.) A total of 40 patients will be accrued
      for the phase II portion of the study within 3-4 months.
    
  