
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Establish and bank cell lines and/or xenografts from pediatric patients with cancer.

      II. Establish continuous cell lines, under carefully controlled conditions, from pediatric
      patients with cancer.

      III. Establish transplantable xenografts in immunocompromised mice from tumor cells that are
      difficult to establish as continuous cell lines in vitro.

      IV. Create a bank of cell lines and generate sufficient vials of cryopreserved cells for
      distribution to investigators with approved COG biology protocols. V. Characterize cell lines
      from childhood cancers with respect to DNA short tandem repeat molecular profile as a
      "fingerprint" of original cell line identity.

      VI. Characterize cell lines for the ability for sustained growth in tissue culture and/or as
      mouse xenografts.

      VII. Characterize cell lines for mycoplasma contamination. VIII. Characterize cell lines for
      expression of molecular makers that confirm the tumor-type of the cell line and the immortal
      nature of the cells (telomerase) and the expression of molecular markers that may correlate
      with drug resistance.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Specimens are stratified according to disease (acute lymphoblastic leukemia vs acute myeloid
      leukemia vs lymphoma vs osteogenic sarcoma vs Ewing family of tumors vs rhabdomyosarcoma vs
      primitive neuroectodermal tumor vs glioma vs astrocytoma vs rhabdoid tumors vs hepatoblastoma
      vs retinoblastoma vs Wilms tumor vs germ cell tumors vs other diagnoses).

      Leftover tissue from diagnostic procedures and/or surgery is cryopreserved and banked. Blood
      and/or bone marrow are also collected and banked. Cell lines are established and
      characterized via reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and/or flow cytometry for
      biomarkers and by DNA fingerprinting. Markers to be identified may include the following:

      NEUROBLASTOMA: tyrosine hydroxylase, protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, GD2, HLA class I, and
      HSAN 1.2 antigens

      EWING FAMILY OF TUMORS: EWS-FLI1, EWS-ERG, and PGP 9.5

      RETINOBLASTOMA: interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein

      ACUTE LYMPHOBLASTIC LEUKEMIA: immunophenotype

      ALVEOLOR RHADOMYOSARCOMA: PAX3-FKHR, PAX7-FKHR, and MyoD1

      ALL CELL TYPES: telomerase expression including hTR and hTERTMutations of TP53 gene are
      detected by flow cytometry and/or immunocytochemistry.

      No results of these tests are provided to the patient, the patient's physician, or the
      patient's medical records.
    
  