
    
      Over the past 15 years, CDC-funded AzPRC researchers have strengthened collaborations with
      community partners while developing and implementing comprehensive diabetes prevention and
      control programs (1998-2019), and policy intervention research (2009-2014) in Southern
      Arizona border communities. The community health worker (CHW)-led diabetes programs were
      successful in terms of community perception and health improvements. Despite this success,
      disparities in chronic disease remained unacceptably high. The investigators developed and
      implemented an innovative intervention research project, Acción Para La Salud (Acción), which
      engaged CHWs in community-level advocacy to empower border communities to address root causes
      of chronic disease. This community-based participatory research (CBPR) project recognized the
      importance of addressing the social determinants of health to overcome health disparities in
      chronic disease. The investigators have published results and processes of Acción.

      Chronic disease and obesity health disparities continue to disproportionately affect Hispanic
      populations along the U.S. Mexico border in part due to barriers to healthful nutrition,
      adequate physical activity, and mental/emotional well-being as well as insufficient access to
      culturally appropriate health care services. In collaboration with our border-wide Community
      Action Board (CAB), the investigators are taking our intervention expertise one step further
      by developing and testing novel CHW-led interventions that will link community and clinical
      services.

      In recent years, federally qualified community health centers (FQHCs), a major backbone of
      the primary care system in reaching under-served populations across the US, have begun to
      involve the CHW model into various services, often with a focus on chronic disease prevention
      and control. While CHWs help improve the quality and cultural relevancy of health care,
      improve patient centered care, and improve linkages between primary care and community
      services, each clinic adapts practices within their clinic environment without clear
      guidelines about best practices, or concrete evidence regarding activities best shown to lead
      to improvement in health outcomes. In addition, there may not be clear linkages from the
      clinic to CHW programs in the community that have been shown to be effective in chronic
      disease control and prevention, and there are challenges in identifying mechanisms for the
      sustainability of effective clinical or community programs. Our intervention research
      proposes to fill these gaps by establishing clear guidance and best practices for CHW
      involvement in primary care and community settings to prevent and manage chronic disease, and
      to promote mental/emotional well-being.
    
  