
    
      Title: Effects of metronidazole plus intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in
      pregnancy on birth outcomes: a randomised controlled trial in Zambia.

      Short Title: The ASPIRE Trial - Aiming for Safe Pregnancies by Reducing Malaria and
      Infections of the Reproductive Tract

      Background and rationale: Current interventions in sub-Saharan Africa to reduce the burden of
      malaria infection and curable STIs/RTIs in pregnancy are inadequate. Malaria infection during
      pregnancy is responsible for 20% of all stillbirths and 11% of neonatal deaths and is
      strongly associated with low birthweight (LBW), preterm birth, and small-for-gestational-age
      (SGA) babies. To protect against adverse pregnancy outcomes in malaria-endemic areas, the WHO
      recommends providing IPTp-SP to pregnant women at each scheduled ANC visit as directly
      observed therapy from the second trimester to delivery with at least one month between doses.
      However, the loss of parasite sensitivity to SP has compromised the efficacy of IPTp.

      Apart from syphilis and HIV screening, the WHO recommends the syndromic management of curable
      STIs/RTIs in low- and middle-income countries involving diagnostic and treatment algorithms
      based on self-reported symptoms. BV and TV are included in these guidelines. However,
      syndromic management fails to detect the majority of infections in women for whom STIs/RTIs
      are most often asymptomatic. This is of genuine consequence in pregnancy. BV is the most
      common urogenital disorder in the world among women of reproductive age and increases the
      odds of preterm delivery 1.5-2 times. TV is the most prevalent curable STI in the world and
      increases the odds of preterm delivery 1.5 times. BV and TV both double the odds of LBW.
      Although vertical transmission of TV is uncommon, maternal treatment may prevent respiratory
      or genital infection of the newborn. These adverse pregnancy outcomes could be averted with
      metronidazole (MTZ); 2g is safe and curative of TV and reduces the recurrence of BV.
      Importantly, the dose can be provided as directly observed therapy during ANC to ensure
      compliance.

      IPTp-DP is the leading candidate to replace IPTp-SP. A trial in Kenya showed that IPTp-DP was
      superior to IPTp-SP in preventing clinical malaria episodes and other malaria-related
      endpoints. Alongside the trial, the investigators will conduct sub-studies that will generate
      important data about the mechanisms of IPTp-SP action against malaria, BV and TV.

      Primary objective: To determine if IPTp with SP or DP, combined with MTZ, for the control of
      malaria and STIs/RTIs in pregnancy is safe and superior to IPTp with SP alone for reducing
      adverse pregnancy outcomes.

      Hypothesis: IPTp with SP or DP, combined with MTZ, is superior to IPTp with SP alone in
      preventing adverse pregnancy outcomes.

      Overview Study Design: A 3-arm, parallel, partially placebo-controlled, individually
      randomised, phase-3, superiority trial involving 5,436 (1,812 per arm) pregnant women in ANC
      facilities of the Nchelenge District of Zambia.

      An economic evaluation will be carried out alongside the trial to estimate the cost and
      cost-effectiveness of interventions. In addition, the acceptability of therapy and the
      trade-offs between different attributes of the trial arms will be assessed using a discrete
      choice framework among trial participants and health care providers.

      Sub-study 1: Effect of treatment on vaginal and intestinal microbiome and maternal cytokines

      Objective: To characterise the effect of treatment across trial arms on the vaginal and
      intestinal microbiota communities, vaginal and intestinal bacterial loads and soluble markers
      of inflammation.

      Sub-study 2: In vitro testing of sulphadoxine and other antimicrobial agents (Ndola, Zambia)

      Objective: To measure the drug sensitivity of several pathogens implicated with WHO syndromes
      of vaginal discharge, lower abdominal pain, or genital ulcers in the presence of sulphadoxine
      and other antimicrobial agents.

      Sites: The study will be conducted ANC facilities of the Nchelenge District of Zambia where
      the prior pregnancy cohort was previously carried out, malaria transmission is high, parasite
      resistance to SP is high, and there is a high prevalence of TV and BV among pregnant women at
      antenatal care facilities.

      Study Population: HIV-negative pregnant women (all gravidae) between 16 and 28 weeks'
      gestation, as assessed by ultrasound dating who have not yet started IPTp during the current
      pregnancy.

      Study Interventions:

      Group 1: IPTp-SP plus MTZ placebo* (control) Group 2: IPTp-SP plus MTZ* Group 3: IPTp-DP plus
      MTZ*

      SP = 3 tablets each containing 500mg sulphadoxine and 25mg pyrimethamine (Day 0) MTZ = 4
      tablets each containing 500mg as directly observed therapy (Day 0) DP = 3 tablets of 40mg of
      dihydroartemisinin and 320mg of piperaquine (Days 0, 1, 2)

      *MTZ placebo (Group 1) and active MTZ (Groups 2 and 3) will be co-administered with SP or DP
      during the enrolment visit (gestational week 16-19) and the last ANC visit prior to delivery
      (gestational week 30-34)
    
  