
    
      First and foremost, the investigators obtained the ethical committee approval, then 54
      patients were enrolled since May 2019 to November 2019, at the AOUI (Azienda Ospedaliera
      Universitaria Integrata) Verona. Prospective analysis in a 3-arm, randomized double-blind and
      placebo-controlled study was performed to assess the effect of FIT Therapy patches on the
      chronic lumbar spine pain and on the ROM.

      The FIT Therapy patch (D. FENSTEC s.r.l. Altavilla Vicentina, Italy) is a medical device
      class 1 which mechanism of action is through the ability of biominerals to reflect the far
      infrared radiation (FIR).

      Normally the human body temperature would dissipate regular far infrared radiations but,
      thanks to the FIT Therapy (Far Infrared Technology), these waves are reflected and allowed to
      reach deeper areas in the human body (wavelength spectrum is 4-21 µm with a denser
      concentration around 11 µm).

      Every FIT device act as a mirror and they are able to induce an antalgic effect simply thanks
      to this biophysical process, therefore without releasing any active ingredient or creating a
      thermic shock.

      The plasters are made of 100% polypropylene non-woven fabric, an acrylic adhesive mass and a
      mix of titanium dioxide printed on. This particular mix in powder form is characterized by
      particles sizes above 100 nm. The intrinsic properties of the FIT technology are due to the
      mix of titanium dioxides that reflect the FIR emitted by the human body.

      Three different plasters were used: a placebo (without any biomineral, therefore with no
      reflectance ability); an "F3" patch and an "F4" one, characterized by different power of
      action (F4 has a broader spectrum of refrigency than F3). The 3 plasters presented no
      difference in size, color and shape.

      Patients were subdivided in 3 randomized groups.The Visual Analogic Scale (VAS) and the
      Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ) were used. The Range of Motion (ROM) evaluation
      consisted of flexion and extension, lateral bending and rotation of the lumbar spine.

      The trial consisted of a total of 14 days for each patient. At day 0, during the first
      clinical encounter, patients were enrolled by signing an informed consent. Still during the
      encounter, the lumbar spine ROM was measured, the VAS and the RMDQ administered. Only after
      all these necessary steps the first patch was applied. Every patient was given a RMDQ and a
      journal, which had to be updated daily, and at the same time every day, with the pain level
      experienced and any adverse effect to the FIT Therapy patch. At day 5 the patch was
      self-removed and the RMDQ given during the first encounter filled. The second clinical
      encounter was at day 8. The patients' ROM and VAS were tested for the second time and a new
      FIT Therapy patch was applied. At day 13 the FIT Therapy patch was dismissed and a second
      RMDQ filled at home. The last clinical encounter was held at day 14 and once again all 54
      patients' ROM and VAS were assessed. Finally, the daily journal was collected, and patients
      were asked if any other pain medication was self-administered during the entirety of the
      tests.
    
  