
    
      Preeclampsia affects approximately 5-8% of pregnancies in the United States with
      approximately 10% occurring before 34 weeks gestation. The diagnosis of preeclampsia is
      determined by the presence of hypertension with proteinuria after 20 weeks gestation. The
      gold standard for measuring proteinuria is a 24-h urine collection for total protein. In the
      non-pregnant patient, a random urinary protein-to-creatinine ratio has been shown to be a
      reliable indicator of significant proteinuria. The reliability of this test remains unclear
      in the pregnant population. Because there are relatively few studies in the pregnant
      population and many of these studies were poorly designed, limited by sample size, or
      confounded by other variables, further research in this area is still necessary. The purpose
      of this study is to determine if there are alternative diagnostic tools for the
      quantification of total protein excretion in 24-hours to aid in the diagnosis of preeclampsia
      that can be performed more quickly and efficiently than the gold standard 24-hour urine
      collection. We intend to perform a large prospective study looking at the predictability of
      the random urine protein-to-creatinine ratio compared to the gold standard 24-h urine protein
      collection. Furthermore, we plan to investigate whether analysis of proteinuria at shorter
      time intervals (4 and 8 hours) within the overall 24-h collection period is predictive of the
      24-h sample. Lastly, we plan to determine whether a combination of the random test with a
      shorter collection interval is comparable to the 24-h collection. The goal would be to make
      the diagnosis of preeclampsia in a more timely fashion to aid in the prevention of maternal
      and neonatal morbidity and mortality including eclampsia, HELLP syndrome, acute renal
      failure, pulmonary edema, DIC, IUGR, IUFD, intracranial bleeding and stroke, Additionally, an
      earlier diagnosis could also impact patient care by reducing hospital stay, nursing demands,
      and eliminating the need for cumbersome and likely inaccurate patient 24-h home collections.
    
  