
    
      Alterations in plasma sodium concentration (sodium ratio and solvent) are very common in
      clinical practice. Since plasma sodium concentration is a major determinant of plasma
      osmolality, it will determine the balance of the different body fluids compartments.

      Hyponatremia is defined as the measurement of plasma sodium below 136 mmol per liter.
      Hyponatremia may be associated with normal tone, low or high. The pseudohyponatremia is an
      artifact of measuring the concentration of sodium in the context of a growth in the
      concentration of active osmoles (glucose, mannitol), which induce water movement from the
      intracellular to extracellular. This can also occur in the context of substances that do not
      generate osmolarity as triglycerides and plasma proteins. In the first case, the
      investigators are in the presence of hypertonic hyponatremia, in the second case to an
      isotonic hyponatremia, neither should be considered true hyponatremias.

      The hypotonic hyponatremia is the one considered to be true. It represents the most common
      electrolyte imbalance in hospitalized patients (2% to 22% depending on the series and the
      cutoff points) and outpatients (7% to 18% in tertiary care center, being very dependent
      variable and cutoffs series). It is associated with increased morbidity and mortality (18% in
      hospitalized patients). It can be the cause of serious illness that requires immediate
      attention or be a marker of morbidity and mortality for underlying diseases (congestive heart
      failure, liver cirrhosis).

      Hyponatremia can occur in a wide range of patients, from asymptomatic with good tolerance to
      the critically ill. Symptoms may be mild or severe, and none is specific. They are mainly
      neurological and generally reflect dysfunction associated with cerebral edema. They are
      caused due to the magnitude of the alteration of plasma sodium concentration and the system
      speed.

      The clinical management challenge is the identification and specific treatment of the cause,
      understanding that the study of it brings the knowledge of its pathophysiology. The latter
      can be grouped into a loss of sodium and / or gain of fluid. In turn, the gain of liquids is
      possible by an alteration in kidney dilusorios mechanisms, as well as the variations that
      according to the glomerular filtration rate and filtered sodium load. Its high prevalence and
      potential neurologic sequelae associated with the disease and its treatment make the
      diagnosis and appropriate treatment is mandatory. Traditionally, the initial assessment and
      treatment are suboptimal in the descriptive series.

      We have not found in the literature any systematic record of patients with abnormalities in
      the sodium concentration in both inpatients and outpatients, except for a record of
      pharmacological effects. We believe that while this is a highly prevalent disorder, is not
      attractive to the pharmaceutical industry and this would partly explain the apparent lack of
      studies with large groups of patients.

      We also have not found any descriptive studies conducted in Argentina. While there are
      multiple proposals for the evaluation of alterations in sodium, there is no standardization
      in our single on the cleavage of specific sodium, appropriate diagnostic evaluation and
      proposed the best treatment for hyponatremia. There are technical difficulties in the
      standardization of the assessment of symptoms, physical examination, and the effectiveness of
      clinical parameters to guide therapy.

      There are no reports of the strategy used in our country for diagnosis and decision making in
      patients with alterations of plasma sodium concentrations. Nor Disnatremias epidemiological
      data in our environment, risk factors, assessment and monitoring of survival, complications
      and recurrences. We have no references in the literature that talk about the behaviour of the
      disnatremias in the areas of inpatient and outpatient, there are no data to see whether
      treatments aimed at the mere correction of hyponatremia, or interpretation of the
      pathophysiological same.

      The systematic recording of cases of Disnatremias will reveal the characteristics of the
      disease in our environment, the diagnostic strategies used and their results and the time
      course of the disease. We believe that this knowledge will allow us to design studies to
      optimize and standardize the diagnostic strategies, evaluation and treatment, resulting in a
      benefit for the affected population.
    
  