
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled study in which children
      aged 3 to12 years old with nocturnal bruxism will be randomly allocated into different phases
      of the study, according to treatment step: (1) placebo; (2) Phytolacca decandra; (3) Melissa
      officinalis; (4) Phytolacca decandra associated with Melissa officinalis. This study will be
      enrolled in Dental clinic of the Pediatric Dentistry department of Dental School, in Federal
      University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), from September 2014 to July 2017. All children will
      participate of each clinical stages, with a washout interval of 14 days between the phases.
      Children and the principal investigator will be masked to treatment.

      After anamnesis, extra and intraoral clinical examination will be conducted at the beginning
      of the study, by a single trained and calibrated examiner (the researcher responsible for the
      study). Thus, facial symmetry, temporomandibular joints and masticatory muscle activity
      should be observed. For the evaluation of the residual effect of bruxism in the muscles
      (masseter and temporalis) of the masticatory system, electromyography exams will be
      performed.

      For intra-oral clinical examination, patients will be positioned comfortably in a dental
      chair and the exam will be conducted with the aid of artificial light from dental reflector
      mirror plane, exploratory probe and cotton tweezers. Data from each patient will also be
      recorded in the dental records by a previously trained annotator. The presence of clinical
      signs related to the presence of bruxism, such as the presence of dental enamel wear and
      microfractures facets will also be evaluated.

      The Brazilian version of ECOHIS (B-ECOHIS) will be used to assess the quality of life for the
      selected children with 0-7 years old. This instrument will be applied before and after each
      phase of the study. And, the Brazilian version of "Child Perceptions Questionnaire" (CPQ)
      8-10 and 11-14, will also be used to assess the physical and psychosocial impact of nocturnal
      bruxism in children and adolescents in the study.

      The child's anxiety will be observed by means of a rating scale of trait anxiety in children.
      This scale will also be applied before and after each phase of the study.

      All medicines, including placebo, will be placed in identical amber glass vials, which will
      be labeled / encoded (A, B, C, D) and distributed ramdonly to children/parents, in accordance
      with the phases of the study.

      In every return, parents / guardians must give back the bottle used in the period to be
      verified the residual volume. Thus, the intake of the medicine will be properly evaluated.

      The subjects will be distributed within the treatment phases of the study in accordance with
      the following medications:• Phase 1 - Placebo; • Phase 2 - Use isolated of Phytolacca
      decandra 12CH; • Phase 3 - Use isolated of Melissa officinalis 12CH; • Phase 4 - Combined use
      of Phytolacca decandra 12CH and Melissa officinalis 12CH.

      Each drug, including placebo, will be formulated in Homeopathy Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy,
      UFRJ. They will be administered for a period of 30 days with a washout interval of 14 days
      between phases.

      All test solutions will be packed in amber glass 30 ml with dropper and will be prepared at
      the same time and under the same laboratory conditions. Supervision of all pharmaceutical
      manipulation will be under the technical responsibility of at least one homeopathic
      pharmaceutic.

      Administration of the test medicines (solutions) will be made once a day, with the following
      dosage: 01 drops of solution per age of the individual.

      Patients and their caregivers must be informed that all products involving oral care
      (toothpastes and mouthwashes) interfere with the absorption of homeopathic medicine, so the
      15-minute interval should be preserved between the drug intake and self-care mouth of each
      individual. It is emphasized that the use of the drug, quantity, time and frequency will be
      informed through a written prescription.

      The parents and/ or guardians will be responsible for helping monitoring the efficacy of the
      treatments. At the first visit, they will receive a notebook that will serve as a sleep
      diary. This instrument will be used for parents and / or guardians to describe their
      self-perception of the sleep routine of their children.

      In this appointment the parents and / or guardians will receive the researcher's instructions
      about the completion of the daily diary. Thus, it will serve later as the child's primary
      information before starting the use of medicines. This routine should be maintained
      throughout the period of treatment, and in the resting phase (wash out), serving as a home
      mirror, reflecting the effects presented by the child during the study period.

      The frequency of nocturnal bruxism will be assessed using a Visual Analogue Scale. This scale
      will be applied to parents and / or guardians in the first appointment to obtain the
      frequency of bruxism of each child at the baseline. Also, it will be reapplied during all
      phases for monitoring the clenching and grinding of the teeth.

      A multiple logistic regression model will be applied to investigate the difference between
      treatments.
    
  