
    
      The study product BioXclude™ is an Amnion-Chorion allograft membrane, a new membrane made
      from human amniotic tissue donated from elective Caesarean section births. Amniotic sacs have
      been used since the early 1900's to promote skin wound healing. All donated tissue has been
      carefully screened and tested to reduce the risk of transmitting disease. BioXclude™ is
      commercially available as a dental wound covering, for bone reconstruction procedures, and as
      a treatment for receding gums, and the manufacturer has met all federal requirements for
      distributing this product. However, the use of the membrane for this research treatment of
      periodontal disease is investigational. BioXclude™ does not meet the criteria for FDA
      oversight as a drug, device or biologic and is regulated as a Human Cells, Tissues, and
      Cellular and Tissue based product. The product is designed for use as wound covering in a
      variety of dental applications.

      Quadrants (right/left, upper/lower) of the mouth will randomly be assigned by block
      randomization via flip of a coin with either 1) scaling and root planing alone, or 2) scaling
      and root planing with 8 x 8mm Dehydrated Human Amnion/Chorion Membrane (dHACM) placement
      within the periodontal pocket at >5mm sites. The participant will act as their own control.
      There will be one side of the mouth that will receive the dHACM intervention with scaling and
      root planning, and one side that will be the control (scaling and root planning only).
      Depending on the extent of the disease (>5mm probing depths) the intervention may involve
      upper and lower jaws on that side of the mouth or only one jaw per side (1-2
      interventions/1-2 controls per mouth). The addition of dHACM will be a one-time placement.

      The only research-related procedures that will differ from standard of care are standardizing
      the x-rays (with custom bite block), placement of the dehydrated human amnion-chorion
      membrane (dHACM), supra-gingival cleaning at 3 and 6 months (instead of supra- and
      sub-gingival) and x-rays taken at 9 months.

      The two examiners (board certified periodontists) completing the periodontal examination will
      be blinded to the treatment allocated to the participant by the clinical provider (graduate
      periodontal resident or hygienist). Clinical measurements which are standard of care of a
      periodontal examination will include: probing depth, bleeding on probing, clinical attachment
      level, mobility, and plaque index (Sillness and Loe index). Probing measurements will be made
      at 6 location points on all teeth in the dentition using a calibrated University of North
      Carolina (UNC) periodontal probe with readings made to the nearest millimeter. Clinical
      attachment levels will be made from the cemento-enamel junction or nearest landmark. All
      sites with probing depths measuring >4mm will be measured a second time, and the average of
      the 2 readings will be used as the site-specific probing depth endpoint. Concomitant
      medications and safety evaluation will be recorded at each visit. Any suspected adverse
      events or allergic responses will be evaluated by the investigator.

      Clinical measurements will be made at the following time points: baseline; Month 1; Month 3;
      Month 6; Month 9. Four bitewing radiographs will be taken for evaluation with custom bite
      mounting utilizing a long cone paralleling technique and will be made at: baseline; Month 9.
      Baseline x-rays are the standard of care for a periodontal examination. Standardizing the
      x-rays with a custom bite block and re-taking the x-rays at 9 months are for research-related
      procedures. Participants will be instructed not to perform interproximal oral hygiene for 7
      days following treatment. At the 1, 3, 6 and 9 month follow up visits, Participants will be
      instructed on the Bass brushing technique as well as the proper use of dental floss as is
      standard of care for oral hygiene instructions. At the 3 and 6-month visits, supra-gingival
      plaque removal will be performed. At the completion of the study (9 months) supra- and
      sub-gingival scaling will be performed as indicated for each participant. Plaque removal is
      the standard of care for maintaining a periodontally diseased participant. For research due
      to the placement of the membrane, sub-gingival cleaning will be avoided at 3 and 6 months and
      the cleaning will be supra-gingival only. This differs from the standard of care, which would
      have sub- and supra-gingival cleaning at 3 and 6 months. Cleaning will return to standard of
      care at 9 months, where participants will have sub- and supra-gingival cleaning.

      To summarize, the standard of care will be followed for the initial x-rays, clinical
      measurements, scaling and root planing, 1 month re-evaluation, 3, 6 and 9 month cleaning
      visits. For the standard of care non-standardized x-rays are normally used. For research
      purposes, the investigators will be standardizing the x-rays with a custom bite block and
      re-taking x-rays at 9 months. In addition for research purposes we will be placing the
      dehydrated human amnion-chorion membrane (dHACM), and having supra-gingival cleanings at 3
      and 6 months (instead of supra- and sub-gingival).

      Three examiners (board certified periodontists) will be calibrated to each other for the
      collection of the data and interexaminer reliability will be calculated. The three examiners
      will be calibrated for probing depth and clinical attachment levels by reproducing clinical
      measurements on a single participant until the measurements are consistently within 0.5 and
      the percentage is 95 percent agreement
    
  