
    
      The long term goals of this project are to understand what constitutes protective and
      beneficial gut and skin microbial communities and determine approaches to foster and preserve
      these communities. By defining the gut and skin-associated microbiological communities and
      how these communities are affected by the environment and medical interventions including
      barrier therapies, the study team will make essential first-steps towards achieving these
      long term goals.

      Design & Procedures Study Groups: Potential subjects will be identified among Duke
      Hospital-admitted women with expectant preterm (≤30 weeks gestation) or term delivery. A
      total of 45 infants will be enrolled into one of three groups.

      Preterm microbiome Group 1 (n=10, ELBW preterm infants) will be part of an intensive survey
      of infant colonization with bacteria and fungi in addition to the intensive care environment.
      This will be a strictly observational group.

      Skin microbiome Group 2 (n=30, ELBW preterm infants) will be prospectively evaluated for the
      development of the skin microbiome in the context of a topical skin therapy typically used in
      the study nursery. Each infant will serve as his/her own control with a well-circumscribed,
      small area of the anterior thigh left untreated as the control area.

      Full term microbiome Group 3 (n=5, full term infants) will be surveyed for skin and
      intestinal colonization and serve as a control group. This will be a strictly observational
      group.

      Preterm and Full Term One-time Group 4 (n=100 preterm infants born at < 2000 grams and 100
      full term). This will strictly be an observational group.

      Comprehensive Microbiome Survey of Preterm Infants: Biological and environmental samples will
      be collected from enrolled mother and infant subjects (Study Group 1) from the time of
      delivery through the first two weeks of life. For stool samples, a minimum of 1 gram will be
      collected. For blood samples, 4 ml will be collected. Infant stool samples will be collected
      from diapers. Maternal stool and vaginal samples will be collected at the time of caesarian
      section using a sterile nylon swab of the distal rectum and vagina. Skin samples will be
      collected by gentling rubbing the target area with a sterile nylon swab moistened with
      sterile saline. Breast milk samples will be scavenged from left over material after the
      feeding of each infant. Since breast milk undergoes a single thaw from frozen storage per
      feeding, excess milk may not be stored for subsequent feedings and would be put to waste. A
      portion of stool, blood, and breast milk samples will be placed into sterile, nucleic
      acid-free tubes. An additional portion of stool, blood, and breast milk samples will be
      placed into sterile, nucleic acid-free tubes containing the preservative RNA later. All
      stool, breast milk, and blood samples will be frozen at -20°C within 1 hour of collection.
      Remaining samples will be placed at 4°C within 18 hr of collection. Samples will be
      transferred to -80°C storage within 24 hours of collection. A label carrying a unique sample
      number will be placed on each sample as it is collected. A binder with sample labels and a
      log of sample numbers, time of collection, sample type key, and special notes regarding
      collection, will be placed at the bedside.

      It is standard of care for ELBW infants in the Duke Intensive Care Nursery that non-sterile
      gloves are worn by all providers and family members for contact with the infant for the first
      two weeks of life. Providers and relatives will be asked to place used gloves in a zip-lock
      bag at the bedside after contact with the infant. The gloves will be grouped into zip-lock
      bags by provider type (medical provider, nurse, or ancillary staff) or relative. The bags
      will be collected each shift or day. Glove samples will not be labeled or linked with
      individual providers or relatives.

      When available, scavenged serum will be used for assessment of antibody specificity in
      relationship to colonization patterns of each infant. In some cases, stool samples will be
      analyzed for the presence, quantity and specificity of mucosal immunoglobulins. A video
      recorder will be positioned above the incubator on a tripod attached to the incubator
      vertical rail to capture changes in the infant's environment, including medical or nursing
      interventions. The camera will be positioned to capture the infant and the inside incubator
      surroundings, while avoiding the faces of those interacting with the infants to preserve
      anonymity. When hands or instruments are placed inside the incubator, they will be recorded.
      Video will be downloaded onto an external hard drive every 24 hours, and then onto a secure
      computer server for analyses. Video recording will be continuous for two weeks except for the
      period of time it takes to change the memory card. The video will be coded for the start and
      stop times of all clinical care events in order to explore the influence of environmental
      changes on the diversity of the infant's microbiome using Mangold Interact software.
      Inter-rater reliability will be checked by having video coders score a 30-minute period of
      each video, then computing Cohen's kappa.

      Microbiome Survey of Full Term Infants: The study team will perform a more limited survey of
      five full term infants as a control group (Study Group 3). Samples will be collected from
      mothers and infants. Samples will be collected daily while the mother and infant are in the
      hospital, which is generally expected to be approximately three days. At hospital discharge,
      the parents will be sent home supplies in a prepaid return mailing envelope to be used to
      collect skin and stool samples when the infant reaches two weeks of life.

      Skin Microbiome Substudy Plan: A controlled study of a commonly used skin treatments (No
      Sting protective spray and no treatment) will be performed in 30 ELBW infants (Study Group 2)
      to determine if No Sting promotes different skin microbial colonization. The current standard
      of skin care for ELBW infants in the Duke ICN is application of No Sting to all external
      exposed, non-mucosal areas shortly after birth and again at one week of age.

      A quarter 1.5 x 3 inch silicon patch with two holes will be applied to each of the infant's
      thighs. One hole in each patch will be left untreated (control) while the other is treated
      with No Sting. The patches will be used to define the treatment and no treatment areas. The
      remainder of the infant's skin will be treated with No Sting therapy at birth and seven days
      of life, as per the current standard of care. Daily sampling of each of the sites (No Sting,
      and untreated) will be performed by gentle application of a nylon swab for the first two
      weeks of life, and then twice weekly until one month of age. Samples will be analyzed for
      microbial content. Additional sampling will include infant stool as well as maternal skin,
      vaginal, perirectal, and stool samples as outlined in Table 1.

      The study team will use non-invasive skin probes to perform daily assessments of
      transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and skin pH. TEWL will be measured using the DermaLab® TEWL
      probe (Cortex Technology, Hadsund, Dermark), which consists of an open probe with paired
      sensors placed at different distances from the skin. Humidity and temperature are measured in
      each sensor to calculate vapor pressure gradients. The difference between two vapor pressure
      gradient measures is representative of TEWL at that point on the skin [19, 20]. Environmental
      humidity levels will also be measured using the DermaLab® before obtaining the TEWL measures.
      The average humidity readings from the two sensors will be recorded as environmental
      humidity. The probe will be thoroughly cleaned with 70% ethanol prior to and between uses to
      minimize cross-contamination or microbial transmission. The ethanol will be allowed to air
      dry prior to use of the probe. The Extech PH100 meter will be used to measure skin pH in the
      range of 0.00 to 14.00. The small flat surface electrode provides a non-intrusive accurate
      measure of pH. No Sting will be reapplied on day seven.

      Preterm and Full Term One-time Microbiome Survey (Study Group 4): One hundred preterm infants
      born at < 2000 grams and 100 full term infants will be included for a one-time data
      collection of infant only microbiome samples. For premature infants environmental samples
      will also be collected. The same procedures described for Study Group 1 and 2 above will be
      used for this single data collection.
    
  