
    
      Background: Infants in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit receive an average of 7 painful
      procedures daily yet less than half receive interventions to manage pain. Importantly, there
      are adverse long-term effects associated with untreated pain. Moreover, the developmental
      trajectory of an infant born preterm is further compromised by prolonged periods of
      separation from their mothers during their hospital stay that also impacts mother-infant
      relationships. Thus, there is a crucial need to minimize procedural pain and associated
      consequences. Kangaroo Care (KC) is an effective strategy for reducing procedural pain and
      promoting mother-infant interactions in infants demonstrated in multiple clinical trials and
      systematic reviews. Not known is the impact of consistent KC for pain on long term outcomes.
      The primary aim for this study is to determine if maternal KC provided during painful
      procedures in early life will mitigate stress release and will improve neurobehavioural
      outcomes in infants, decrease subsequent pain response, and enhance maternal-child
      interaction beyond the period of hospitalization.

      Research Design: Using a randomized clinical trial follow up design, mother-infant dyads
      taking part in the current CIHR and NSHRF-funded TRAKC trial (randomized to one of three
      interventions during all routine clinically necessary painful procedures for the duration of
      their initial neonatal intensive care unit hospital stay (KC/placebo; sucrose alone,
      considered to be standard care; or KC/ sucrose) will be compared on neurobehavioural outcomes
      up to 18 months.

      Procedure: Eligible mother-infant dyads will be contacted prior to routine 2, 6, 12 and 18
      month clinic visits where during these visits, infants will undergo an immunization and
      naturalistic observations will be recorded. Coders blinded to the study will score pain
      intensity and maternal comforting behavior using validated measures. At the 18 month visit,
      trained medical assessors blind to group assignment will perform the primary outcome measure,
      Bayley Scales of Infant Development (3rd ed) (BSID-III).

      Outcomes: The investigators hypothesize that infants from the current TRAKC trial who were
      assigned to either KC group (alone or in combination with sucrose) when compared to those
      infants in the sucrose alone group will have: Primary outcome: H1. higher scores on the
      BSID-III at 18 months corrected postnatal age. Secondary outcomes: H2. higher scores in
      socio-affective development (Social-Emotional axis of the BSID-III and the Brief Infant
      Toddler Social Emotional Assessment (BITSEA); H3. lower scores on Negative Affectivity,
      higher scores on Surgency/Extraversion and Effortful Control as measured by the Early
      Childhood Behavior Questionnaire (ECBQ); H4. lower pain scores measured using the Modified
      Behavioral Pain Scale (MBPS) at 2, 6, 12, and 18 month;. H5. higher maternal infant
      interaction scores measured using Measure of Adult and Infant Soothing and Distress Scale
      (MAISD) at 2, 6, 12 and 18 months.

      Sample size: The sample size is 159 mother-infant dyads at 18 months.

      Benefits of the Research Project: New evidence about the long-term impact of early KC
      provided during early painful procedures is important to the effective management of
      procedural pain and development in vulnerable infants. By fully integrating mothers and
      families as active participants, it will have direct implications regarding the improvement
      of outcomes of at-risk newborns, not only for their immediate physiological stability and
      later development, but also their families, and the health care system in general.
    
  