
    
      Recently advances in ceramics have greatly improved the mechanical and optical properties of
      restorative materials to overcome the drawbacks of all ceramic restorations over decades such
      as fracture, chipping, crack, wear and delamination of veneer ceramics.

      Up to date despite the popularity of all ceramic restoration, the clinicians have been
      worried about the wear of tooth enamel antagonist to ceramic materials.

      The wear properties of the ceramic restoration can affect the rate of wear of the antagonist
      enamel. So the wear resistance of ceramic restoration must be the same as enamel.

      Explanation for choice of the comparator:

      Monolithic zirconia attracts many dentists worldwide due to its excellent mechanical
      properties, biocompatibility and appreciate aesthetics. Some in vivo studies demonstrated the
      clinical success of monolithic zirconia restorations as an antagonist to natural enamel with
      good marginal adaptation, accepted contour, occlusion and minimum gingival response.

      Batson et al. studied the quality of CAD/CAM fabricated single tooth restorations (Ten
      zirconia restorations were compared to 12 metal ceramic and 10 lithium disilicate
      counterparts) .They found that were no significant differences between the studied crown
      systems. No difference of the gingival response among the different crown systems. Eighty
      percent of zirconia crowns needed no occlusal adjustment; also it showed the least amount of
      marginal discrepancy.

      Lohbauer et al. evaluated the amount of wear on the antagonist occlusal surfaces of
      clinically placed monolithic zirconia premolar and molar crowns using optical profilometry
      after 2 years of cementation, they found that the mean volume loss for enamel antagonist
      contacts (n = 7) was measured to 361 μm and the mean of the maximum vertical loss to 204 μm.
      The mean volume loss for pure ceramic contacts (n = 10) was measured to 333 μm and the mean
      of the maximum vertical loss to 145 μm.

      Mundhe et al.compared the wear of enamel opposing polished zirconia, glazed metal ceramic
      crowns and natural enamel as a control, one year after the cementation. They found that the
      occlusal wear of the antagonistic enamel one year after the cementation of metal ceramic
      crowns ranged from 69.20 ± 4.10 to 179.70 ± 8.09 μm, whereas, for zirconia crowns, it was
      from 42.10 ± 4.30 to 127.00 ± 5.03 μm.

      Stober et al. reported that after 2 years of cementation of the monolithic zirconia crowns,
      Mean and maximum vertical loss of enamel in occlusal contact areas caused by monolithic
      zirconia (46 and 151 μm, respectively) was approximately double that caused by contralateral
      antagonistic enamel (19-26 and 75-115 μm, respectively).

      A lithium silicate glass ceramic (obsidian ceramic) is newly introduced to the market. After
      crystallization, it exhibits an ideal combination of esthetics and strength with translucency
      that mirrors the vitality of natural teeth for fabrication of full anatomic anterior and
      posterior crowns. Obsidian ceramic restorations are highly resistant to chipping unlike other
      ceramics, due to their monolithic composition and average flexural strength of 385 MPa. Also
      Obsidian Milling Block owes its good wear resistance due to a very high content of ultrafine
      nanometer-size crystalline structure.
    
  