
    
      As patients with adrenal insufficiency still die from adrenal crisis, improvement of both
      prevention and also emergency management is needed. It is clear that perfect equipment and
      education of patients is key for further crisis prevention and management. Vaginal
      administration of prednisone-suppositories is easy to perform and independent of the
      gastro-intestinal system. Thus, this study aims at the efficacy, feasibility and safety of
      vaginal administration of prednisone-suppositories.

      Recruitment:

      Patients with primary adrenal insufficiency will be recruited. The adrenal insufficiency
      registry of Würzburg comprises more than 150 patients with primary adrenal insufficiency.
      Several patients have already indicated their interest to participate in the study. According
      to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) notes for guidance on the investigation of
      bioavailability and bioequivalence the number of 12 participants is regarded as the minimum
      required number.

      Trial flow:

      Pharmacokinetic studies will be performed at two different study visits. Patients will
      receive a 100mg prednisone suppository (Rectodelt® 100 mg) vaginal and rectal on two
      different study visits (interval longer then one week). Blood samples for determination of
      prednisone and adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) levels will be collected over a time period
      of 6 hours. Patients receive a diary to document eventual local or systemic adverse events
      during the following 7 days.

      Stopping rules:

      Participation of patients is fully voluntarily. Patients are able to stop participation in
      the study at any point in time. In addition, patients might claim the elimination of all data
      material at any point in time. Furthermore, study participation will be stopped for the
      individual patient, if new safety issues occur (e. g. new diagnosis of Diabetes mellitus,
      pregnancy or acute infectious disease) during the study. Relevant risks to the patients are
      highly unlikely. However, if 2 or more patients experience serious adverse events associated
      with the vaginal administration of prednisone with high likelihood, the study will be
      stopped.

      Written informed consent:

      A consent document including patient information upon the nature, scope and possible
      consequence of the trial must have been approved by the Institutional Review Board. Patients
      amenable for inclusion in the trial will be given sufficient time to study the written
      information, as well as possibility to ask questions before signing the consent document.

      Analysis:

      Documentation and analysis will be performed at the Department of Medicine I, Endocrine and
      Diabetes Unit, University of Würzburg, Germany. Data will be documented after
      pseudonymisation in a data base. Data analysis is mainly descriptive (bioequivalence of
      vaginal prednisone administration compared to rectal application, estimation of the patients
      regarding convenience and tolerability of different modes of drug administration, safety
      aspects).

      Safety:

      In the course of the trial, changes in physical findings as well as clinical signs and
      symptoms that may reflect adverse effects will be documented. Furthermore, all adverse events
      will be documented on the appropriate report form. When an adverse event occurs it will be
      graded according to the National cancer Institute - common toxicity criteria (NCI-CTC)
      (version 4.0). Patients receive a diary to document any local or systemic adverse event
      during the following 7 days after intervention. In addition, patients will be contacted by
      phone 3(±1) and 7(±1) days after vaginal administration of prednisone. If patients report any
      adverse events that are possibly related to the vaginal administration route, they will be
      called-in for further physical examination and detailed documentation. To further enhance
      individual patient's safety during the study, a safety assessment will be performed prior to
      the subsequent intervention. In addition, a safety assessment will be performed after 4 and 8
      subsequent vaginal administrations of prednisone with evaluation of events during the 7 day
      follow up period after administration.
    
  