
    
      Study Design. The proposed study is a multi-center, phase II, randomized, controlled,
      immunogenicity and safety trial comparing two doses of the trivalent HD-IIV vs. two doses of
      the quadrivalent SD-IIV vs. one dose of HD-IIV followed by one dose of placebo in adult SOT
      recipients (kidney, heart, and liver)

      Primary and Secondary Objectives

      I. Primary:

      Immunogenicity Objective To compare the hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) geometric mean
      titers (GMT) to influenza A antigens in adult SOT recipients after receiving either one dose
      of high dose quadrivalent influenza vaccine (HD-QIV), two doses of standard dose (SD)-QIV, or
      two doses of HD-QIV over one influenza season.

      Safety Objectives

        1. To compare the frequency and severity of local solicited adverse events in adult SOT
           recipients after receiving either one dose of HD-QIV, two doses of SD-QIV, or two doses
           of HD-QIV over one influenza season.

        2. To compare the frequency and severity of systemic solicited adverse events in adult SOT
           recipients after receiving either one dose of HD-QIV, two doses of SD-QIV, or two doses
           of HD-QIV over one influenza season.

      II. Secondary:

      Immunogenicity Objectives

        1. To compare the GMT to influenza B antigens in adult SOT recipients after receiving
           either one dose of HD-QIV, two doses of SD-QIV, or two doses of HD-QIV over one
           influenza season.

        2. To compare the frequency of seroconversion (achieving a ≥4-fold rise in HAI titer) or
           seroprotection (presence of ≥1:40 HAI titer) in adult SOT recipients after receiving
           either one dose of HD-QIV, two doses of SD-QIV, or two doses of HD-QIV over one
           influenza season.

      Study Population. A target of a minimum of 396 (132 subjects per year) adult subjects≥18
      years, who received kidney, heart, or liver SOT), and are 1-11 months post-transplant will be
      enrolled over a three-years period. Approximately 99 subjects per site (33 subjects per year)
      will be enrolled from the following four clinical sites: Vanderbilt University Medical
      Center, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, University of Washington Medical
      Center, and University Hospital, University of Alabama at Birmingham.

      Study Procedures. Consented and eligible subjects will be randomized in a 1:1:1 fashion to
      one of three groups to receive either two doses of 0.5 mL HD-IIV (60µg of each influenza
      antigen), two doses of SD-IIV (15µg of each influenza antigen), or one dose of HD-IIV (60µg
      of each influenza antigen) followed by one dose of placebo (normal saline).

      HAI and microneutralization (MN) titers to influenza virus specific vaccine antigens,
      phenotypic B and T cell responses, B and T cell specific influenza responses, and complete
      blood count with differential and platelets (CBC d/p) will be measured prior to the first and
      second vaccine dose, 28-42 days after the second vaccine dose, and approximately 6 months
      after second vaccine. Quantitative CD4+/CD8+/CD19+ levels, and quantitative serum IgG and IgM
      concentrations will only be measured prior to the first vaccine. Approximately 30-50 mLs of
      blood will be collected at each visit. Nasal swabs will be collected at each visit. Subjects
      will record solicited events for 7 days after each vaccination (Day 0-7). On days 1-3 and
      8-10, telephone and/or electronic communication will be made to assess for solicited AEs
      following each vaccination. Nasal swabs will also be collected at each study visit,
      regardless of symptoms.

      Influenza Surveillance. Active surveillance for influenza-like symptoms will begin when
      influenza season starts in each site's community. Influenza season in the specific community
      is defined -as in previous trials- by identification of at least two positive respiratory
      tests for influenza, with at least 10% of diagnostic tests positive during two consecutive
      weeks in the local clinical or research laboratory.

      Enrollment will continue during influenza season with nasal swabs obtained during study
      visits -regardless of influenza-like symptoms- and from symptomatic subjects to document the
      detection of influenza virus both prior to and after vaccination.

      During the influenza season, the study staff will attempt to do a weekly telephone and/or
      electronic communication with the participants to detect and document any influenza-like
      illness (ILI).

      If subjects meet ILI criteria and/or any specific COVID-19 like symptoms (see below), an
      additional nasal swab will be collected*.

      ILI criteria: One of the following criteria met:

        -  Fever: ≥38°C (100.4°F); or

        -  Two or more of any of the following: respiratory symptoms (rhinorrhea, sinus congestion,
           post-nasal drip, shortness of breath, cough, wheezing, sputum production, sore throat,
           sneezing, watery eyes, ear pain, or hoarseness); or systemic symptoms (myalgias, chills,
           chest pain, or headache); or new loss of taste or new loss of smell; or gastrointestinal
           symptoms (diarrhea or vomiting).

             -  Per investigators' discretion at each individual site, a swab is not needed if
                there is a known non-respiratory cause of symptoms
    
  