
    
      1. Problem:

           The gold standard techniques to stage and diagnose the mediastinum in patients with lung
           cancer consist of cervical mediastinoscopy (CM). CT, PET and PET-CT scans have improved
           the radiological staging of the mediastinum; however these techniques are unable to
           provide a tissue diagnosis and are inaccurate. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) and
           endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) have been available for the past few years and are proving
           invaluable in the diagnosis and staging of the mediastinum. These techniques rely on
           imaging of mediastinal lymph nodes (LN) through the airway (EBUS) and the esophagus
           (EUS) using miniaturized ultrasound probes mounted on the tip of flexible bronchoscopes
           (EBUS) and esophagoscopes (EUS). Once a LN is visualized and identified using either of
           these techniques, a needle is passed through the airway (EBUS) or esophageal (EUS) wall
           into the LN and biopsies are performed. These minimally invasive trans-luminal
           techniques do not require general anesthesia and can be performed safely, rapidly,
           accurately and at low cost.

           Due to the cost, inconvenience and risks associated with traditional surgical
           mediastinal diagnosis and staging, many physicians are foregoing tissue diagnosis of the
           mediastinum, resulting in incomplete pre-operative staging for patients. The endoscopic
           techniques are quickly replacing traditional techniques in some centers; however, when
           replacing a gold standard test with a new modality, one must first prove equivalence in
           safety and efficacy. Until such a study is completed, we do not have compelling data to
           be able to offer these techniques as equivalent alternatives to patients. The proposed
           project will be the first head-to-head comparison of both endobronchial (EBUS) and
           endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in addition to transluminal biopsy with gold standard
           invasive surgical staging techniques in the diagnosis and staging of NSCLC.

        2. Objectives:

             -  Define and compare the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value,
                negative predictive value, likelihood ratio and accuracies between traditional and
                minimally invasive mediastinal diagnostic and staging techniques for lung cancer.

             -  Compare morbidity, convenience, cost and efficiencies between traditional and
                minimally invasive diagnostic strategies.

             -  Examine the impact on decisions regarding changes in treatment plans (neoadjuvant
                chemoradiotherapy, prevention of thoracotomy) based on minimally invasive
                mediastinal staging compared to conventional staging strategies.

        3. Methodology:

           The study design consists of a prospective comparison of diagnostic test findings on a
           consecutive case series with each subject serving as his or her own control. In order to
           do this, we will enroll N subjects (N=166), and will subject each of the subjects to K
           procedures (K=3). One of those procedures, the "traditional" one (K-1), is considered to
           be the gold standard for comparison. We will compare the diagnostic findings from the
           K-2 and K-3 alternative procedures (EBUS and EUS, respectively) with the gold standard
           across the N subjects. We will compare them singly and in combination with the gold
           standard. All patients with a new or suspected diagnosis of lung cancer will be
           prospectively enrolled in the study. All patients will undergo standard mediastinal
           staging, EBUS and EUS in the operating room, during one procedure. Patients will be
           included in the study if they meet one of the following criteria: (A) Lung lesion with
           mediastinal lymphadenopathy and/or positive PET scan in the mediastinum, (B) Lung lesion
           without mediastinal lymphadenopathy or positive PET scan in the mediastinum. Sample size
           has been calculated to be 166 patients.

           Results of traditional staging techniques will be considered as the "gold standard"
           tests for mediastinal diagnosis and staging. These tests will be used as the standard to
           which other modalities and combinations of modalities are compared. Data will be
           collected and analyzed as a whole (all patients with mediastinal LN sampling) and
           separately based on pre-biopsy diagnosis, post-biopsy diagnosis, mediastinal LN size (CT
           scan), LN station and PET avidity. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
           predictive values, likelihood ratios and accuracies will be calculated and used to
           compare EUS and EBUS (transluminal strategy) to traditional staging, EUS to EBUS, EUS to
           traditional staging and EBUS to traditional staging. Subanalysis based on pre-biopsy
           patient and imaging (CT and PET) characteristics as well as ultrasound imaging
           characteristics during biopsy will be used to develop predictive models for minimally
           invasive mediastinal diagnosis, in order to better define patients at increased or
           decreased likelihood of successful diagnosis using these techniques. ROC curves will be
           constructed and used to discriminate results between diagnostic tests.

           The primary focus of this project and the hypothesis for which the sample size
           calculations were designed around is whether or not minimally invasive trans-luminal
           mediastinal LN biopsy is as accurate as traditional "gold standard" techniques in the
           diagnosis and staging of the mediastinum. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive
           value, negative predictive value and accuracy will be calculated for both strategies
           (minimally invasive and traditional) and compared. Receiver operating curves will be
           used to compare the two strategies at differing sensitivity and 1-specificity values.
           Relative operating characteristic curves will be used to compare the two strategies at
           different true positive and false positive rates. The study is estimated to be completed
           in three years. Sample size calculation has determined that 166 patients are required
           for the study. The thoracic surgery division at the CHUM estimates that accrual will be
           approximately 1.5 patients per week (6 patients/month).

        4. Expected Results:

      We expect to find that minimally invasive mediastinal LN staging and diagnosis is not only
      equivalent in terms of accuracy to traditional staging strategies, but is actually superior.
      This superiority is possible, secondary to the additional LN basins accessible via these
      techniques.
    
  