
    
      Congenital Solitary kidney (CSK) is a disorder caused by the abnormal development of one of
      the two kidneys. This abnormality can be either anatomical, caused by unilateral renal
      agenesis (RAG), or functional, caused by extreme forms of dysplasia (renal aplasia-RAP and
      multicystic dysplastic kidney disease-MCKD). The reported incidence is between 1:450-3200
      with no difference between the two sexes. CSK is a subgroup of a large family of Congenital
      Anomalies of the Kidney and Urinary Tract (CAKUT), which are caused by abnormal embryologic
      development. Physiologically, the development of the kidney begins during the 3rd week of
      gestation and proceeds through a series of phases: the pronephros, mesonephros, and
      metanephros. While abnormalities of the early pronephros-mesonephros phases lead to renal
      agenesis, an aberrant metanephros phase can cause a more wide spectrum of CAKUT. CAKUT are
      the leading cause of chronic (50%) and end stage (40%) kidney disease in children. While this
      risk is well known for some phenotypes (e.g. bilateral renal hypodysplasia and posterior
      urethral valves), whether CSK is a benign condition or not, has been the subject of recent
      debate. The knowledge of the natural history of CSK originates mainly from retrospective
      studies often performed in tertiary medical centers which are difficult to compare for
      several reasons: the number of individuals studied varied considerably as did the underlying
      CSK disorders (RAG, MCKD or RAP), the length of follow-up and the type of outcomes
      considered. These studies show an extremely variable risk of developing proteinuria (11-27%),
      hypertension (0-60%), and chronic kidneys disease (3.5-30%). So there are many difficulties
      which prevent us from understanding: a) which phenotype (RAG, MCKD or RAP) or risk factors
      could influence the progression to an adverse outcome; b) whether or not the compensatory
      hypertrophy and resulting hyperfiltration acts as a protective mechanism. Recently,
      Sanna-Cherchi et al. retrospectively analyzed the long-term renal outcome of over 300
      children with CAKUTs. With simple selection criteria, dialysis-free survival from birth was
      modelled to account for concomitant vesicoureteral reflux, age at diagnosis, hypertension,
      proteinuria, and serum creatinine concentration. Surprisingly the analysis revealed that
      patients with solitary kidney have a probability of nearly 50 % of requiring dialysis by 30
      years of age. This clinical outcome raises the possibility that subclinical defects could be
      present in the congenital solitary kidney which may account for a poorer prognosis. This
      hypothesis is also supported by the fact that the long-term prognosis in individuals with
      acquired single kidney (e.g. transplant donors or subject nephrectomized for Wilm's tumor)
      appears to be excellent. This reported high risk of poor outcome in CSK patients has
      highlighted the need for understanding: 1) the rate and the factors determining progression
      to end-stage renal disease; 2) the development of biomarkers to improve early detection.
      Usually, children with CSK are not always subjected to long term follow-up and when they are,
      monitoring involves plasma creatinine concentration , proteinuria and ultrasonography.
      Because most cases of endstage renal disease in children result from tubulointerstitial
      rather than glomerular disorders, serum creatinine and urine protein determinations are
      relatively insensitive. New biomarkers are now available that can facilitate the early
      identification of changes in renal function before they become irreversible. These biomarkers
      of glomerular (serum Cystatin C) or tubular damage (urine alfa-1 and beta-2 microglobulin,
      urine lysozyme, serum and urine neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin (NGAL), urine
      Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE3), urine Kidney injury molecule 1 (KIM1), urine
      N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), already validated for various kidney diseases (acute
      renal failure, nephrotic syndrome, etc), could be useful in the early identification of
      damage in CSK patients.

      The aim of this longitudinal study is to assess, in a cohort of children with CSK, during a
      10-year follow-up period:

        1. the rates of developing proteinuria, hypertension and chronic kidney disease and
           potential prognostic factors.

        2. the role of new biomarkers of glomerular or tubular damage in predicting the appearance
           of chronic kidney damage.

      Study population:

      Study group: male and female children, aged 0-18 years, diagnosed with CSK, documented by
      renal ultrasonography and confirmed by dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) Scan. Written informed
      consent will be obtained. Children with chronic renal failure, posterior urethral valves,
      diabetes, heart and/or vascular diseases and autoimmune diseases will be excluded. Subjects
      will be enrolled at the Paediatric Nephrology Department of the Sant'Orsola Malpighi
      Hospital, Bologna, as in and/or outpatients from the 1st April 2010 to 30th April 2013; the
      follow-up of each subject will continue for 10 years.

      At the baseline all children will be assess by:

        1. Medical history;

        2. Physical examination (anthropometric and blood pressure measurements);

        3. Kidney and urinary tract ultrasonography (US);

        4. Voiding cystourethrography (VCUG);

        5. Clinical laboratory assessments: complete blood count, serum electrolyte, serum
           creatinine, serum urea, serum cystatin C, urine analysis, urine creatinine,
           microalbuminuria, urine electrolyte, urine α1-microglobulin, urine β2-microglobulin,
           urine lysozyme, serum and urine NGAL, urine NHE3, urine KIM1, urine NAG;

        6. 99-technetium diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid scintigraphy (DTPA)(DTPA scan) in
           children aged more than 2 years.

      Patient follow-up and monitoring:

        1. Clinical examination with height, weight, BMI, blood pressure every six months in
           children up to 2 years and every year in children aged more than 3 years;

        2. Biochemistry (every six months in children up to 2 years and every year in children aged
           more than 3 years): complete blood count, serum electrolyte, serum creatinine, serum
           urea, serum cystatin C, urine analysis, urine creatinine, microalbuminuria, urine
           electrolyte, urine α1-microglobulin, urine β2-microglobulin, urine lysozyme, serum and
           urine NGAL, urine NHE3, urine KIM1, urine NAG;

        3. Kidney and urinary tract US with evaluation of renal length (every six months in
           children up to 2 years and every year in children aged more than 3 years);

        4. DTPA scan:

      If age ≤ 2 years: at 2 , 5 and 10 ten years; If age > 2 years: at entry and then every five
      years; 5. Ambulatory blood pressure measurement: If age ≤ 7 years: at 7 years, 10 years and
      at the end of follow-up; If age > 7 years at entry and then every five years.

      The following epidemiological, clinical and laboratory data will be collected:

      Epidemiological data:

        -  Sex;

        -  Age at diagnosis;

        -  Ethnicity;

        -  History.

      Clinical data:

        -  Height, weight and BMI at each visit,

        -  Blood pressure measurement at each visit.

      Laboratory data:

      • Complete blood count, serum electrolyte, serum creatinine, serum urea, serum cystatin C,
      urine analysis, urine creatinine, microalbuminuria, urine electrolyte, urine
      α1-microglobulin, urine β2-microglobulin, urine lysozyme, serum and urine NGAL, urine NHE3,
      urine KIM1, urine NAG at each visit.

      Instrumental data:

        -  US renal length at each visit;

        -  Glomerular filtration rate evaluated by DTPA scan;

        -  Ambulatory blood pressure meas
    
  