
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Bevacizumab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the
      growth of blood vessels.

      Erlotinib hydrochloride is designed to block the activity of a protein found on the surface
      of many tumor cells that may control tumor growth and survival. This may stop tumors from
      growing.

      Capecitabine is designed to interfere with the growth of cancer cells.

      Study Phases:

      The study has 2 parts, called Phase I and Phase II. In the Phase I portion, participants will
      be treated with 1 of 4 dose combinations of capecitabine, bevacizumab, and erlotinib
      hydrochloride, along with radiation therapy. The dose level of capecitabine and erlotinib
      hydrochloride will change during Phase I, but the dose levels of bevacizumab and radiation
      therapy is the same for all participants. The first group of participants will be given the
      lowest dose combination. If that group does not experience intolerable side effects, the next
      group of participants will be enrolled at a higher dose level. This will continue until the
      highest tolerable dose level of the study drug and radiation therapy combination is found
      (called the maximum tolerated dose, or MTD).

      Based on the results of Phase I, researchers will decide the MTD level of chemotherapy and
      radiation therapy. In Phase II, participants will be treated at the MTD dose level. Up to 26
      participants will be treated in each phase.

      Radiation and Chemotherapy Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin radiation therapy.
      The radiation therapy will be given once a day for 5 days in a row (Monday-Friday) each week,
      for up to 5 weeks and 3 days. You will have up to a total of 28 radiation treatments. Each
      radiation treatment will take about 30 minutes.

      You will take the chemotherapy drug capecitabine by mouth twice a day as a tablet on each of
      the days that you receive radiation therapy. These pills will not be taken on Saturday and
      Sunday. You must not be taking the drug cimetidine, and must be off of coumadin for at least
      1 week and sorivudine and brivudine for at least 4 weeks before starting capecitabine and
      during the entire capecitabine therapy. If you are not able to stop taking coumadin, you will
      need extra blood tests performed throughout the study to check your bleeding and clotting
      speed.

      You will receive the drug bevacizumab by vein once every 2 weeks for 6 weeks (a total of 3
      doses). The infusion will at first last 90 minutes. If there are no allergic reactions,
      fevers, or chills after the first infusion, the infusion time for the second dose will be
      shortened to 60 minutes. If there is no allergic reactions or side effects during the second
      drug infusion, the last infusion of bevacizumab will be given over 30 minutes. If you do have
      some reactions to the infusion, you may receive extra preventive medications before the
      infusion, and the length of time may need to stay at 90 minutes.

      You will take the chemotherapy drug erlotinib hydrochloride by mouth as a tablet once a day.
      Your doctor will tell you whether you will take erlotinib hydrochloride during the first 3
      weeks of radiation therapy only, or during the whole time you are getting radiation therapy,
      up to 6 weeks.

      Study Tests

      During the study, you will have the following tests performed:

        -  You will have physical exams once a week.

        -  Every week, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a routine urine test in the first and third week of radiation therapy.

        -  The possible development of side effects will be closely monitored during weekly visits
           with your doctors.

      At 6-8 weeks after you have stopped receiving radiotherapy, you will have a physical exam,
      routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons), and a urine test.

      Surgery:

      At least 8 weeks after you have stopped receiving radiotherapy, you will have the rectal
      tumor removed by surgery. This is considered the standard of care and you will sign a
      separate surgical consent document.

      Length of Study:

      You will receive radiation therapy with capecitabine, bevacizumab, and erlotinib
      hydrochloride for 5 ½ to 6 weeks. At least 8 weeks after you stop receiving radiotherapy, you
      will have surgery. You may then receive additional chemotherapy.

      You may be taken off study if the disease gets worse or you experience intolerable side
      effects.

      Follow-up Testing:

      After surgery and possible chemotherapy after surgery, you will be seen by a doctor every 3-4
      months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for the next 3 years. You will have blood tests at
      these doctor visits. You will also have CT scans within 4-6 months after completion of
      chemotherapy then every 6 months for the first 3 years, and then once a year for the next 2
      years. These tests are all the standard of care procedures for treatment of colorectal
      cancer.

      This is an investigational study. Capecitabine and bevacizumab have been approved by the FDA
      for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Erlotinib hydrochloride has been approved
      by the FDA for treatment of pancreatic cancer, but not for colorectal cancer. The combination
      of capecitabine, erlotinib and bevacizumab with radiation therapy has not been approved by
      the FDA. At this time, this combination is being used in research only.

      Update: Nineteen participants were enrolled at MD Anderson for the Phase I portion of the
      study then the study was completed December 2013.
    
  