
    
      The primary finding of this study is that older adults demonstrate improvements in manual
      dexterity after four weeks of piano training, but do not improve significantly after just two
      weeks. Furthermore, it does not matter whether the participants actively play for the first
      part and passively listen for the second part or vice versa.

      Of the three proposed mechanisms of Music Supported Therapy (MST) explained in the
      introduction, the findings of this study may be best explained by the emotion-motivation
      mechanism. Though dexterity scores were organized by whether the scores followed an active
      playing module, all participants experienced the same amount of music-listening and social
      interaction. Whether the participant was playing the music him/herself or observing, both
      groups were always hearing the same songs and scales for the same amount of time. The
      emotion-motivation mechanism states that this music-listening alone may increase cognitive
      processes like working memory and boost both mood and motivation. Therefore, these findings
      may mean that listening to piano music helps dexterity performance in older adults; but it
      does so if and only if the participants experience the music-listening module for a
      sufficient duration of time.

      Along with music-listening, social interaction was consistent between active and passive
      groups throughout the study. This interpersonal interaction may also have had an effect on
      mood and motivation, as piano instructors provided high levels of encouragement and
      complimented the participants' progress often. Relationship quality between patient and
      therapist is correlated with efficacy of therapy. This concept of increased socialization
      contributing to dexterity improvements is also supported by a study that identified social
      participation as a preventative factor of perceptual speed decline in older adults.

      Not finding the hypothesized effect of active versus passive condition on dexterity could be
      due to dexterous activities that the participants were engaged in outside of the training
      modules. For example, three of the 15 participants reported that they currently play piano in
      their free time, so it can be conjectured that those participants were engaged in active
      piano playing even when they were in the passive listening module. Other activities enjoyed
      by participants include exercise classes and painting-both of which could have been improving
      or maintaining their dexterity throughout the study.
    
  