
    
      Despite reductions in cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality in the past 20 years, CVD
      remains the leading cause of mortality in the United States, accounting for ~1 of every 3
      deaths. CVD costs the U.S. over $100 billion annually and is an important field for targeted
      primary and secondary prevention. Dyslipidemia, particularly a high low-density-lipoprotein
      cholesterol (LDL-C) level, is a well-established cardiovascular risk factor, and fasting
      lipid panels (including total cholesterol, LDL-C, triglycerides, and high-density-lipoprotein
      cholesterol [HDL-C]) are included in the recent 2013 ACC/AHA Risk Assessment Guidelines.
      Clinical trials have shown that low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction with
      statin therapy predicts cardiovascular event reduction. About a quarter of all adults >45
      years old were on statin therapy in 2008, and this will likely increase due to the recent
      2013 ACC/AHA Cholesterol Management guidelines. These guidelines recommend statin therapy in
      all patients with clinical atherosclerotic CVD, all patients with LDL-C = 190 mg/dL, patients
      age 40-75 years with diabetes and LDL-C 70-189 mg/dL, and patients with an estimated 10-year
      atherosclerotic CVD risk = 7.5%. For all of these patients, a fasting lipid panel should be
      drawn prior to statin initiation as well as during follow-up to assess medication and
      lifestyle adherence. These fasting lipid panels are obtained via conventional phlebotomy via
      venopuncture in an office-based or hospital laboratory setting.

      Research protein quantitation with mass spectrometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
      (ELISA) are technologies that allow for sensitive quantitation of protein biomarkers and
      targets, including lipoproteins. Most importantly, multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mass
      spectrometry is able to assess samples from a dried blood spot (DBS), whose advantages
      include minimal volume requirements, ease of sample attainment by finger stick with minimal
      training required, ease of transport, and sample stability. DBS sampling has been used for
      clinical and pre-clinical studies, simplifying sample collection and handling. However,
      research protein quantitation with mass spectrometry and ELISA has not been compared against
      conventional blood sample for evaluating changes in cholesterol levels during statin therapy.

      While LDL-C is well-established in predicting CVD event reduction, other laboratory lipid,
      thrombotic and inflammatory biomarkers have been shown to be associated with atherosclerotic
      plaque development or CVD risk. These include Apo A-I, Apo B, Apo E, IgM, plasminogen,
      TIMP-1, Von Willebrand factor, antithrombin III, cystatin C, mesothelin, C-reactive protein,
      SAA, LPS-binding protein, mannose-binding lectin, myeloperoxidase, fibrinogen, alpha-1-acid
      glycoprotein, soluble transferrin receptor, haptoglobin. All of these CVD protein biomarkers
      can be measured by research protein quantitation techniques.

      In a pilot study of 20 subjects, we aim to:

        1. measure changes in a panel of CVD protein biomarkers before and after initiation of
           statin therapy.

        2. compare clinical laboratory measurements of LDL-C and HDL-C in conventional phlebotomy
           blood samples with research protein quantitation mass spectrometry and ELISA
           measurements of LDL-C (Apo B) and HDL-C (Apo A-I) proteins in DBS and plasma.
    
  