
    
      Materials and Methods

      Subjects

      Twenty-four volunteers (4 males and 20 females) with lower eyelid fat bulging were enrolled
      in this study. The average age of these subjects was 56±6.28 years. The exclusion criteria
      were as follows: Prior cosmetic facial surgery within the past 1 year, placement of tissue
      fillers within the last 6 months, laser therapy or chemical peeling of midface within the
      preceding 3 months, and the use of topical retinoids for the face within the past 1 month.
      The study protocol was approved by the institutional review board Seoul National University
      Bundang Hospital and informed consent was obtained from all subjects prior to participation.

      Treatment protocol

      All treatments were performed under local anesthesia with 1% lidocaine and 1:100,000
      epinephrine. To minimize the impact on the treatment area, the least amount of anesthesia
      required was injected. The amount of AGNES micro-insulated needles with radiofrequency
      applicators (Gowoonsesang Cosmetics Co, Seongnam, Gyeonggi, Korea) were used to treat the
      lesions. This device is a monopolar radiofrequency system with 1MHz wavelength. The needles
      were composed of two parts: The proximal insulated area and the distal non-insulated area.
      Proximal insulation preserves the epidermis from thermal damage, allowing the procedure to be
      non-ablative and minimally-invasive.

      Subjects were treated in two separate sessions, at intervals of four weeks. Two types of
      needle tips were used sequentially in each session; one is a tip with three 1.5mm-length
      short needles with proximal 0.3mm insulation, while the other is a tip with single 5mm-length
      long needle with proximal 2.5mm insulation. First, periorbital area was treated with the
      short needles (exposure time 150ms, power 9W) to tighten the overlying dermis. Then, the fat
      pocket itself was treated additionally with the long needle (exposure time 400ms, power 9W)
      to tighten the orbital septum and directly damage the fat cells. Each insertion site was
      about 1mm apart. After treatment, the treated areas were cooled with ice packs for 20min and
      topical antibiotic was applied. All subjects were instructed to cleanse their face gently
      with tap water and avoid sun exposure until next day.
    
  