
    
      Overweight in the preschool age group is prevalent, increasing, and of consequence. During
      the last 30 years in the U.S., the prevalence of overweight among youth has dramatically
      increased. Overweight in young children is associated with later overweight, with childhood
      conditions such as hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and type II diabetes, and with higher
      morbidity and mortality in adulthood.

      Along with the long-term risks associated with overweight in the preschool age group, there
      come unique opportunities to intervene and alter the subsequent course of health and disease
      for these individuals. These regular visits allow both detection of elevated BMI levels and
      opportunities for intervention.

      The overall goal of this research is to assess a comprehensive, innovative, primary care
      practice change intervention to prevent obesity among children age 2 through 5 years at
      elevated risk of obesity. To achieve this goal, we will conduct a cluster-randomized
      controlled trial in 10 pediatric practices of Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates, a large
      multi-site group practice in eastern Massachusetts with a track record of research
      collaboration.

      We will randomize five health centers to the intervention condition, and five health centers
      to the control (usual care) condition. The intervention will consist of state-of-the-science
      approaches to changing dietary, activity, and inactivity behaviors among the children.

      The intervention period will be 1 year, followed by a 1 1/2 year maintenance follow-up
      period. Frequency of visits will be every 6 weeks for the first 6 months, and every 6 months
      after that. Participating families will complete a telephone-administered interview at
      baseline and all follow-up timepoints. There will be 3 types of measurements: 1) measurements
      made by the clinical staff that will also be used for outcomes in the research study (only
      height and weight); 2) measurements made by clinicians for feedback during counseling
      sessions, which will not be used for study outcomes; and 3) measurements made by the research
      staff for study outcomes and processes.
    
  