
    
      Rib fractures occur most commonly because of blunt thoracic trauma and occur in up to 12% of
      all trauma patients. Rib fractures themselves pose a significant healthcare burden with its
      associated morbidity, long term disability, and mortality. Pulmonary morbidity is increased
      in these patients as a result of diminished gas exchange from fracture induced pulmonary
      injury and from inadequate analgesia compromising both ventilation and pulmonary mechanics.
      Various factors affect outcome and mortality after rib fractures. These include the number of
      ribs fractured, preexisting comorbidities, advanced age, and level of associated pain. Of
      these, pain is a significant modifiable factor.

      Adequate analgesia is paramount in enhancing pulmonary hygiene aimed at preventing
      atelectasis and pneumonia. Systemic analgesia is usually sufficient in younger patients with
      fewer undisplaced fractures without a flail segment. Regional techniques are particularly
      useful in elderly patients (>65 years of age), patients with multiple rib fractures (MRFs),
      and in patients with severe pain or compromised pulmonary function. Conventional regional
      techniques used to manage rib fractures include epidural analgesia, paravertebral block
      (PVB), intercostal, and intrapleural block.

      In 2010 Truitt et al. introduced a novel technique whereby local anesthetic (LA) infiltration
      superficial to the posterior ribs via tunneled catheters successfully controlled rib fracture
      pain. Since then, multiple thoracic RA (Regional Anesthesia) techniques have been developed
      that use ultrasound-guided (USG) LA (local anesthetic) injections into fascial planes from
      the thoracic spinal lamina to the sternum to anesthetize various regions of the thorax.

      Some of the conventional regional techniques, particularly epidural analgesia and PVB, may
      not be feasible in the presence of anticoagulation, multisystem trauma, or in patients unable
      to be optimally positioned. Recently, several ultrasound-guided (USG) myofascial plane blocks
      (both single injection and continuous catheter techniques) have been described (e.g. The
      serratus anterior plane (SAP) block and the erector spinae plane (ESP) block) , which offer
      the advantages of being less invasive technique and provide adequate analgesia after rib
      fractures.

      ESP block is a novel myofascial plane block recently introduced into clinical practice. It
      has been successfully utilized in the management of pain after both rib fractures and surgery
      of the abdomen and thorax, and in the management of chronic thoracic pain. In contrast to the
      SAP block, the ESP block has the ability to provide analgesia to both the anterior and
      posterior hemithorax, making it particularly useful in the management of pain after extensive
      thoracic surgery or trauma (anterior, lateral, and posterior chest wall). Innervation of the
      ribs and adjoining tissue is primarily through thoracic spinal nerves. After emerging from
      the spinal cord and traversing through the intervertebral foramina, the thoracic spinal
      nerves split into ventral and dorsal rami. The ventral rami continue as intercostal nerves
      innervating the lateral and anterior chest wall, whereas the dorsal rami innervate the
      posterior chest wall after exiting the paravertebral space.

      The ESP block is directed at the erector spinae myofascial plane, which is located on the
      posterior chest wall between the anterior surface of the erector spinae muscle and oriented
      cephalocaudally to the posterior surface of the spinal transverse process. Local anaesthetic
      injected in this plane can block the dorsal rami as they traverse the erector spinae plane,
      producing anesthesia to the posterior hemithorax. Local anaesthetic also spreads anteriorly
      and cephalocaudally in the erector spinae plane. Ventral rami and intercostal nerves are
      blocked by anterior spread, providing analgesia to ribs and periosteum as well as large
      cutaneous areas of the lateral and anterior chest wall (by blockade of lateral and anterior
      branches of the intercostal nerves). Cephalocaudal spread provides anesthesia to at least
      three segments above and four segments below the injection site; a single injection can
      result in extensive thoracic anesthesia.

      PVB has been shown to be as effective as epidural analgesia in managing multiple rib
      fractures (MRFs). A recent randomized trial has shown that PVB is superior to intravenous
      patient-controlled analgesia (IVPCA) in providing better analgesia and improving pulmonary
      function with MRFs.

      Unilateral sensory, motor, and sympathetic block can be achieved when local anaesthetic is
      injected into the paravertebral space. As this space communicates with the intercostal space
      laterally and the epidural space medially, a 5-6 dermatome sensory block is possible with a
      single injection of 20 ml of local anaesthetic. Compared with epidural analgesia, PVB is
      relatively easy to perform, produces less sympathetic blockade, does not cause urinary
      retention or pruitis, and allows for an unimpeded neurological assessment. However, there is
      a small risk for pneumothorax, vascular puncture, pleural puncture and a possibility of
      toxicity due to the rapid absorption of Local Anaesthetic. TPB can be given by using surface
      landmarks, nerve stimulator guidance or Ultrasound Guidance (USG). A review suggested that
      USG blocks are more successful and safe than other techniques.
    
  