
    
      Navigator ACT group treatment consists of 5 sessions (each 3.5 hours), and is developed to
      address distress in parents raising a child with an Autism Spectrum Disorder and/or other
      disabilities.The aims of the study is to examine the feasibility, participant satisfaction
      and efficacy of the manual-based Navigator ACT group treatment in (a) improving
      psychological/behavioral flexibility (b) increasing mindfulness (c) reducing symptoms of
      depression and anxiety (d) reducing parenting stress (e) reducing behavioral problems of
      children with disability. This pragmatic multicenter RCT will be conducted mainly in
      Stockholm County Council disability services but even in other regions in Sweden. Parents
      participating in the study have their children (0-17 years) currently enrolled in the
      disability services (experiment group n=42, control group n=42, totaling at least 84 parents,
      with the power calculation for medium large effect of 90% ES=0.50). To balance for attrition
      approximately 100 parents will be included in the study.

      The participants will be block randomized in several blocks. The experiment group will be
      receiving Navigator ACT treatment directly after the randomizing procedure, the control group
      approximately six months after. The parents in the control group fill the efficacy-related
      self-rating forms at the same measuring points as the parents in the experiment group as well
      during their own group process.

      The feasibility of Navigator ACT in the disability services context is measured by
      attendance, that is: parents participating in at least 4 out of 5 sessions are considered as
      completers. The parent satisfaction is measured by session- and course evaluations. Five
      self-rating questionnaire are used to measure efficacy: The Mindfulness Awareness Attention
      Scale (MAAS), Parental Acceptance and Action Questionnaire (PAAQ) Parental Stress Scale (PSS)
      Hospital Anxiety and depression scale (HADS), The Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire
      (SDQ). Self-rating questionnaires are administered to parents at the baseline (0-2 weeks
      before the treatment start, T1), at the end of the treatment (0-2 weeks after, T2) and at the
      follow-up (3-4 months after the end of the treatment, T3). The data will be analyzed from
      baseline T1 to T2 (post treatment) as well as from T1 (baseline) to T3 (follow-up) with
      separate series of repeated measures ANOVA between-group.

      The Regional Ethics Committee of Stockholm (2016/526-21-1,2016/115-31/4, 2017/573-31/5 ) has
      approved the study.
    
  