
    
      Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) targeted to PD-1/PD-L1 axis has a higher response rate and
      lower incidence of side effects compared with anti-CTLA4, and has been proved to have
      survival advantages in many different malignant tumors, which has been approved as a
      second-line or first-line treatment for a growing number of malignancies, including lung
      cancer. As results of retrospective analysis led by Roberto Ferrara, although the efficacy of
      ICI treatment is obvious in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), there are significant
      differences in efficacy and responsiveness in different patients. Therefore, establishing
      predictive biomarkers for immunotherapy is the key to maximizing the therapeutic effect and
      studying drug resistance. According to clinical trial data after immunotherapy, there are
      three main groups: (1) those who respond initially and continue to respond (responders); (2)
      those who have never responded (primary resistance); (3) Those who initially respond but
      eventually develop into disease progression (secondary resistance).Currently, PD-L1
      expression is one of the most common biomarkers for immunotherapy, PD-L1 expression itself
      does not accurately predict immunotherapy response, due to that the many patients with higher
      PD-L1 have no response to clinical treatment, and many patients with lower PD-L1 respond
      better. Although tumor mutation burden (TMB ) used as a biomarker for the treatment of NSCLC
      by Opdivo could better differentiate the people who benefit compared with PD-L1, however, TMB
      as a biomarker to determine the criteria for the application of ICI treatment resistance is
      also limited because of its specific mechanism involved in tumor immune regulation needs to
      be further clarified and high cost of TMB detection using NGS for whole exome sequencing
      analysis.

      As one of the most prominent and common features of solid tumors, chromosomal instability
      (CIN) accelerates the development of anticancer drug resistance, often leading to treatment
      failure and disease recurrence, which limits the effectiveness of most current treatments.
      Previous studies have shown that CIN promotes the emergence of multidrug resistance by
      providing higher levels of genetic diversity, leading to multidrug resistance. In NSCLC, the
      researchers found that genomic doubling and sustained dynamic CIN were associated with
      intratumoral heterogeneity and led to parallel evolution of CDNAs, including CDK4, FOXA1, and
      BCL11A. It is worth noting that the study found consistency in the variation of mutation
      levels, indicating that CIN in lung cancer is more likely to select driving events than other
      mutation processes. CIN enables cells to enter several different evolutionary trajectories
      and adapt to the selective pressure generated by treatment, which is the basis of drug
      resistance. Based on the above, CIN may become a more accurate and effective biomarker for
      the study of drug resistance mechanism of ICI in lung cancer. NGS technology can obtain more
      comprehensive genomic information while detecting cost reduction, making CIN detection more
      accurate and practical than FISH used for evaluating CIN in patient commonly.As a new
      Detection method based on NGS technology, Ultrasensitive Chromosomal Aneuploidy Detection
      (UCAD) has been developed in our previous study. In which, low-coverage whole-genome
      sequencing technology based on NGS was adopted to detect CIN of ctDNA in patients' peripheral
      blood, and bioinformatics analysis was performed to determine the risk of malignancy (or
      recurrence) and the extent of tumor burden and CIN. It has important clinical value in
      auxiliary diagnosis, therapeutic effect monitoring, recurrence and metastasis monitoring and
      prognosis evaluation of tumor patients.

      This study proposes that continuous dynamic CIN is related to intratumor heterogeneity, which
      drives parallel evolution of somatic copy-number alterations (SCNAs) and promotes the
      emergence of drug-resistant clones by providing a higher level of genetic diversity of tumor
      cells, thus leading to drug resistance in patients treated with ICI. Investigators aimed to
      continuously monitor dynamic CIN in the blood of patients with lung cancer after second-line
      treatment with UCAD to establish a new molecular immune resistance evaluation index. Further,
      the correlation between the evolution of tumor cloning and ICI resistance in patients during
      treatment was analyzed based on the detection results of dynamic CIN.
    
  