
    
      METHODS Description of the intervention The intervention will consist in gathering
      patient-reported experiences and outcomes of the safety of the healthcare patients received
      in their PC centres during the previous 12 months. This information will be processed and fed
      back to their PC professionals to help them identify potential problems, and then target
      improvements based on problematic areas.

      The 3 stages of the intervention are:

        1. Measurement: Patients will be approached in the waiting room, the study explained, and
           informed consent taken. The PREOS-PC questionnaire will be completed using a
           tablet-computer. Patients will be given a choice of whether they would prefer to
           self-complete the questionnaire or have it facilitated by the researcher.

        2. Feedback: Using a bespoke online tool, the information for each PC centre will be
           collated and presented to the centres in the form of an automatically generated
           "Feedback Report", which will offer comparisons with other centres and also include a
           set of recommendations about how the problems identified could be addressed.

        3. Action planning and change: Participating PC centres will form an Action Planning Team.
           Each team will comprise around four people working in the centres. The team will be
           responsible for receiving the Feedback Report, considering which area(s) should be
           targeted, and developing, implementing and monitoring an action plan for safety
           improvement.

      This intervention is based on the Feedback Intervention Theory (FIT), which states that
      behaviour is regulated through comparison with standards or goals, and that feedback can draw
      attention to existing gaps[6]. FIT further postulates that once the gap has been identified,
      different methods can be followed in order to decrease it and attain the standard, including
      increasing the effort currently done[6], and implementing new strategies to address the
      problems identified. This could result in improving proximal outcomes (such as safety
      climate), and potentially impact more distal outcomes (e.g. incidence of safety events or
      avoidable hospitalizations).

      Development and evaluation of the intervention The methods described below are based on the
      Medical Research Council guidance for the development and evaluation of complex
      interventions[7]. The development and evaluation of the intervention described above will
      involve three stages. Stage 1 (intervention development) will involve: a) a qualitative study
      with end-users (PC providers) to explore the acceptability and utility of the proposed
      intervention, and potential implementation barriers; b) translation, cross-cultural
      adaptation and validation of the PREOS-PC survey for use in the Spanish context; c)
      development of the intervention components (feedback report and educational materials), and;
      d) development of an online tool to administrate the PREOS-PC and to automatically generate
      and send feedback reports to PC centres. Stage 2 (piloting the intervention) will involve a
      feasibility study in 10 PC centres (260 professionals and 500 patients). Stage 3 (evaluating
      the intervention) will involve: a) a cluster randomized controlled trial (48 PC centres, 1248
      professionals and 3600 patients) to evaluate the impact of the intervention on patient safety
      culture, patient-reported safety experiences and outcomes, and avoidable hospital admissions,
      and; b) a qualitative study with PC providers to evaluate the acceptability and perceived
      utility of the intervention.

      Stage 1: Intervention development

      The development of the proposed intervention involves:

        1. Qualitative study with PC providers: the investigators will conduct three
           semi-structured interviews and four focus groups with PC doctors, nurses, and admin
           staff (n=36) to examine the acceptability and perceived utility of the proposed
           intervention, and to identify potential barriers towards wider implementation.

        2. Translation and cross-cultural adaptation of the PREOS-PC instrument[8] into the Spanish
           context. The translation process, based on "state of the art" methods[9], will consist
           in forward and back translation by four independent translators, followed by cognitive
           interviews with eight to ten participants (diverse in terms of age, sex, and educational
           attainment) using the "think aloud" method [10] to ensure the translated version of the
           questionnaire is easy to understand and complete. The cross-cultural adaptation will be
           carried out using an expert consultation process involving five to seven national
           experts in PC patient safety.

        3. Development of the intervention elements: the investigators will design the Feedback
           Report based on findings from previous studies[11-15] and from the qualitative study
           with PC providers above described. The Feedback Report will show the results of the
           Spanish PREOS-PC questionnaire specific for each PC centre. It will provide benchmarking
           data - i.e., practices will be able to see their individual scores compared to the
           average scores of the rest of participating practices. To facilitate the design of
           action plans to address the potential safety issues identified in the Feedback Report,
           the investigators will also produce a guidance document including a number of
           recommendations, good practices and materials to improve patient safety in PC, which
           will be identified as a result of a literature review of academic publications and key
           resources provided by national and international institutions, including the World
           Health Organization[16], the European Union Network for Patient Safety and Quality of
           Care (PaSQ Joint Action[17]), the Agency for healthcare research and quality[18], and
           the LINNEAUS EuroPC (Primary Care) collaboration[19], among others. The investigators
           will also produce a registry form to help PC centres register and monitor progress of
           the planned actions to address the safety problems identified. The intervention
           materials will also include information to increase PC providers´ awareness of the
           usefulness of patient elicited information as a strategy to identify potential safety
           problems and design strategies to address them.

        4. Development of an online tool: the investigators will develop a bespoke online tool to
           allow the electronic administration of the PREOS-PC questionnaire to patients using
           tablet-computers. The data collected will be transferred to a database stored in a
           virtual server. Once all data has been collected from all participating patients in each
           PC centre, the tool will automatically generate and send the Feedback Reports to each of
           the participating centres. The tool will also be used to collect data from the
           healthcare professionals participating in the trial, which will be stored in a separate
           database. PC professionals will have password protected authentication to access to the
           provider questionnaire and to access to the Feedback Report.

      Stage 2: Piloting the intervention, qualitative study and refining the intervention

      Piloting the intervention will involve:

        1. Feasibility study: the investigators will pilot the intervention in a three-month,
           one-arm (pre-post) feasibility trial. This will allow us to estimate the follow-up rate
           for the main trial; test the collection of the planned primary and secondary outcome
           data; the willingness of PC centres, providers and patients to participate; and the
           trial procedures. It will also allow us to examine the psychometric properties (floor
           and ceiling effects, internal consistency (calculating inter-item correlations[20] and
           Cronbach´s α[21]), and construct validity (confirmatory factor analysis)) of the Spanish
           PREOS-PC, and introduce final changes in the instrument if needed.

           Participants will include PC centres, providers and patients.

           Sample size: assuming an average of 26 healthcare professionals per centre, recruiting
           ten centres will result in approximately 260 professionals taking part in the
           feasibility trial. With 260 healthcare professionals, this feasibility study would allow
           us to detect 80% follow up rate within 95% confidence intervals of 75.1% to 84.8%. With
           500 patients (50 per centre), the study is powered to detect a patient response rate to
           the questionnaire of 75% within 95% confidence intervals of 71.2% to 78.8%. 500
           participants are sufficient to perform factor analyses and the rest of analyses planned
           for the evaluation of the psychometric properties of the Spanish PREOS-PC.

           Recruitment: the investigators will recruit 10 PC centres from the Balearic Islands
           diverse in terms of list size, deprivation, and rurality. The investigators will recruit
           patients, who will be approached in the waiting room by a research assistant and invited
           to complete the Spanish PREOS-PC.

           Statistical analysis. The investigators will calculate the overall provider follow-up
           rate as the proportion of healthcare providers that successfully complete the Spanish
           Medical Office Survey on Patient Safety Culture (MOSPSC)[22] at baseline and at three
           months post-intervention. The investigators will also calculate the follow-up rate by
           type of healthcare provider (nurse, doctor, social worker, administrative, etc.).
           Response rate to the patient questionnaire will also be calculated. This will include
           total response rate and response rate by centre and patient characteristics (age and
           gender).

        2. Embedded qualitative study: after the intervention period the investigators will conduct
           semi-structured qualitative interviews with 20 healthcare professionals. They will be
           purposefully selected to ensure variation in terms of professional roles. Thematic
           analysis [23] will be used to explore the acceptability and perceived utility of the
           intervention, as well as possible suggestions to improve the intervention delivery or
           content.

        3. Refining the intervention: Results from the feasibility trial will be used to inform the
           potential refinements of the online tool to collect data and generate the Feedback
           Reports, also about the intervention as well as the trials procedures. The investigators
           will carry out an explicit process to decide the final intervention content, including a
           systematic appraisal of the trial processes (both quantitative and qualitative data) and
           proposals for solutions to identified problems.

      Stage 3: Evaluating the acceptability, perceived utility and effectiveness of the
      intervention

      The evaluation of the intervention will involve:

        1. Cluster randomized controlled trial: the investigators will conduct a multi-centre, 12
           month, two-arm, two-level cluster randomized controlled trial (PC professionals within
           PC centres; with randomization at the centre level in a 1:1 ratio). A cluster randomised
           trial is proposed to avoid the risk of contamination across professionals working in the
           same centre. 24 PC centres will be allocated to the control group and 24 to the
           intervention group. PC centres in the intervention group will receive the intervention
           described above. Centres in the control group will not receive any intervention during
           the study period but will receive the Feedback Reports at the end of the study.

           Randomization: Randomization will be done using a fully validated randomisation
           algorithm. Allocation will be carried out using a non-deterministic minimisation
           algorithm to ensure PC centres are balanced for important characteristics (including
           region, deprivation, and list size) and baseline measures.

           Participants: staff working and patients registered in the included PC centres.

           Sample size: The sample size calculation for this trial is based on its main outcome
           measure - the Spanish version of the MOSPSC, which ranges from 1-5. Assuming an average
           of 26 professionals per centre, approximately 1,248 professionals will take part in the
           study (624 in the intervention and 624 in the control group). Assuming a follow-up rate
           of 80%, the investigators will have complete data from approximately 998 professionals.
           Taking into account the cluster design, and using a conservative estimation of
           intra-class correlation of 0.1, this sample size will allow us to detect at least a 0.3
           difference in effect size (with 80% power and a significance level of 5%). This would
           approximately correspond to a difference of 0.8 points in the index (assuming standard
           deviation of 2.3 from a previous study) [24]. The investigators will recruit 75 patients
           per centre (3,600 in total) because, according to the psychometric study of the original
           version of PREOS-PC[8], that is the number of questionnaires needed to achieve a 0.7
           reliability of scale scores at the centre level. A more precise sample size calculation
           will be possible after the completion of the feasibility trial above described.

           Recruitment and training of PC centres: The investigators will recruit 48 PC centres
           from Balearic Islands and other regions in Spain. Centres will be recruited through
           scientific societies and key informants. Centres will be purposefully selected in order
           to ensure variation in terms of list size, rurality and levels of deprivation. Centres
           will be asked to consent as a unit, with all professionals being willing to participate.
           Consent will also be taken from patients invited to complete the patient survey.

           Data collection: Data will be collected at baseline and 12 months post-intervention
           (i.e. 12 months after the Feedback Reports are sent to the centres). The investigators
           will monitor the progress of the intervention in all the centres. Data from patients
           will include patient reported experiences and outcomes of patient safety in PC (measured
           with PREOS-PC) and patient sociodemographic characteristics. Data from healthcare
           professionals will be collected through online questionnaires and will include the
           perceived safety climate (measured with the Spanish MOSPSC), and sociodemographic and
           occupational characteristics. Data from centres will include rate of avoidable
           hospitalizations in the previous 12 months (which will be extracted from electronic
           medical records), and centre characteristics (rurality, list size, number of healthcare
           professionals, and deprivation index).

           Statistical analyses: Baseline variables will be presented by randomised group using
           frequencies (with percentages) for binary and categorical variables and means (and
           standard deviations) or medians (interquartile range) for continuous variables. The
           results from the trial will be presented as comparative summary statistics (difference
           in proportions or means) with 95% confidence intervals. The primary outcome will be
           analysed using a hierarchical model, with individuals (PC professionals) nested within
           PC centres in an analysis of covariance adjusted for minimisation factors. All analyses
           will be carried out on the basis of intention-to-treat (ITT).

        2. Qualitative study with PC providers (within trial qualitative evaluation): An embedded
           qualitative study will be carried out to understand the way the intervention is
           perceived among PC professionals in terms of acceptability, perceived utility and
           implementation barriers (including any unintended consequences). Around 30 PC
           professionals in the intervention centres will be invited to take part in an interview
           at the end of the trial. The investigators will use purposeful sampling in order to
           ensure variation in terms of type of PC professionals (doctors, nurses, administrative
           staff, etc.) and of centres (region, rurality, deprivation, list size). Interviews will
           take place in the centres or telephonically. Thematic analysis[23] will be used to
           identify recurrent themes and subthemes common to interviewees working in centres.
    
  