
    
      At screening, an informed consent form will be given to the potential volunteer. They will be
      required to read the information and be given the opportunity to seek more information if
      needed, or provided with the option of taking the consent form home to review prior to making
      their decision. If agreeable, the volunteer will sign the consent form and receive a
      duplicate of the signed copy. Once consent has been obtained, the screening visit will
      proceed.

      Screening assessments include:

        1. Review of medical history, concomitant therapies and current health status (weight,
           height, BMI, vital signs, safety blood work)

        2. Assesses inclusion and exclusion criteria

        3. Urine pregnancy test for female potential participants that are not post-menopausal

      Eligible participants will return to the clinic for baseline assessments. Baseline (day 0)
      assessments include:

        1. Review of concomitant therapies and current health status

        2. Review pre-supplement emergent AEs

        3. Reassess inclusion and exclusion criteria

        4. Randomization of eligible participants

        5. Dispense daily upper respiratory tract symptom questionnaire

        6. Collect saliva sample for measurement of secretory IgA

        7. Collect blood sample for the analysis of cell activity

        8. Administer mood and stress questionnaire in-clinic

        9. Dispense daily gastrointestinal and bowel questionnaire

       10. Dispense investigational product and instruct participants on use

       11. Dispense daily study diary

      At the end-of-study visit (Day 90) participants will return to the clinic for Visit 3
      assessments with unused investigational product, completed study diaries, daily symptom
      questionnaires, daily gastrointestinal and bowel diaries.

      Visit 3 assessments include:

        1. Collection of all study diaries

        2. Return of unused investigational product and calculate compliance

        3. Review of concomitant therapies and adverse events

        4. Check of health status (vitals, BMI, safety bloodwork)

        5. Administer mood and stress questionnaire in-clinic.

        6. Collect saliva sample for an end-of-study measurement of secretory IgA

        7. Complete Product Tolerability and Perception Questionnaire
    
  