
    
      Space-occupying, malignant middle cerebral artery (M-MCA) infarctions are still one of the
      most devastating forms of ischemic stroke, with a mortality of up to 80% in untreated
      patients.

      Actually, M-MCA infarctions constitute between 1% to 10% of all supratentorial ischemic
      strokes, with a yearly incidence about 10-20/100.000 people. The etiology of malignant MCA
      infarctions is mostly due to thrombosis or embolic occlusion of either the internal carotid
      artery or the proximal MCA. The term M-MCA is referred to a severe MCA syndrome with typical
      clinical symptoms (hemiparesis to hemiplegia, severe sensory deficits, head and eye
      deviation, hemi-inattention, and, if the dominant hemisphere is involved, global aphasia),
      following a uniform clinical course (progressive deterioration of conscious within the first
      24-48 h), and ending in herniation. An early diagnosis is essential and depends on CT
      (Computed Tomography) and MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) to aid the prediction of a
      malignant course, but, until today there is no clear consensus to define and predict
      radiologically a malignant evolution in early phases.

      Several pharmacological strategies have been proposed but the efficacy of these approaches
      has not been supported by adequate evidence from clinical trials and, until recently,
      treatment of malignant MCA infarctions has been a major unmet need.

      Over the past 10 years, results from randomised controlled trials (RCT) (HAMLET, DECIMAL and
      DESTINY) and their pooled analyses have provided evidence that an early hemicraniectomy leads
      to a substantial decrease in mortality at 6 and 12 months and is likely to improve functional
      outcome. However, there are still important questions about the individual indication for
      decompressive surgery. In consideration of a variable clinical course (some patients develop
      fatal brain edema early, whereas other patients do not show severe brain swelling for several
      days), achieving a way to measure, control and predict malignant brain edema formation would
      be of extremely important value.

      In this way, the ICP measuring could represent an objective value to determine in every
      patient the time point to indicate decompressive craniectomy surgery, and also could allow us
      to find a correlation between the size of the infarction and periinfarction edema. Therefore
      the optimal timing of surgical intervention can be defined and all the medical treatment
      adjusted.

      Currently, ICP can be measured and registered only using invasive techniques. The two ICP
      measurement methods available - intraventricular and intraparenchymal - require both a
      neurosurgical procedure, in order to implant the catheter and probes within the brain. Thus,
      these measures include themselves a risk for the subject, and both infections and
      intracranial bleedings are regular albeit not frequent complications. In addition, invasive
      recording of ICP requires neurosurgical expertise and intensive care unit (ICU) facilities.
      Therefore ICP measurement so far, is not a standard of care in stroke units.

      A reliable, accurate and precise non-invasive method to measure ICP would be of considerable
      clinical value, enabling ICP measurement without neurosurgical expertise and ICU facilities.
      Moreover, it would save the patients from the complication risks associated with invasive
      measures.
    
  