
    
      Purpose of the Study: This is a prospective, cohort study to evaluate the impact of
      cerebellar functional topography on perioperative outcomes related to cognition and motor
      ataxia in patients with cerebellar tumors.

      Primary Aim: The primary aim of this study is to determine if patients with a cerebellar
      tumor are more likely to test positive for cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome than
      patients with non-cerebellar tumors. This information will be used to improve perioperative
      assessment in patients with tumors of the cerebellum.

      Secondary Aim: To determine the impact of tumor location and cerebellar functional topography
      on perioperative outcomes (determined by standard of care neurological evaluation and brain
      images) in patients undergoing resection of cerebellar tumors. This information will be used
      to improve perioperative assessment in patients with tumors of the cerebellum.

      Study Interventions: Thirty-three adult (≥18 years of age) patients with primary cerebellar
      brain tumors or metastatic brain tumors located in the cerebellum who will undergo surgery
      for tumor resection, and 33 adult patients with primary non-cerebellar brain tumors or
      metastatic tumors located in a non-cerebellar brain location who will also undergo surgery
      for tumor resection will be included in this study. The non-cerebellar brain tumor control
      group will be included for comparison. Participants in this study will undergo surgical
      resection of their cerebellar or brain tumor (as per standard of care), as well as clinical
      and radiographic assessment, including: neurological physical examination (including
      Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) if conducted per Standard of Care), and magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) with or without diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)/tractography, prior to,
      immediately after, at one-month, 6-month, and 1-year follow-up status post-surgical
      resection. These data will also be collected at 18-month (±60 days) and 24-month (±60 days)
      visits post-surgery, if regular office visits with the neurosurgeon are scheduled at these
      two time points. Only at baseline, the following will be conducted: Brief Ataxia Rating Scale
      (BARS) assessment score, Cerebellar Cognitive Affective Scale (CCAS/Schmahmann syndrome)
      scale score, Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) assessment, and a quality of life (QoL)
      assessment using the SF-36 questionnaire.

      Data analysis: For each test item within the CCAS there is a threshold score allowing a
      pass/fail determination that differentiates CCAS-positive patients from CCAS-negative
      patients. The primary, study endpoint is the percentage of patients with a positive CCAS
      diagnosis prior to surgery. The investigators will evaluate whether CCAS is preferentially
      seen in association with any demographic or descriptive variables (particularly tumor
      location in the cerebellum) using chi-squared testing unless otherwise indicated. Demographic
      data including sex, age at time of brain tumor diagnosis and at surgery, education level
      completed, and dominant writing hand will be described. The distribution of each of the
      following preoperative variables will also be described: presenting symptom (cognitive,
      motor, or vestibular), brain lesion type (newly diagnosed vs recurrent), primary tumor site,
      primary tumor histology, presence or absence of a systemic burden of disease, presence of
      hydrocephalus or previous seizure in 30 days prior to surgery, prior surgery, prior whole
      brain radiation or stereotactic radiosurgery, initiation of antiepileptic or steroids prior
      to surgery, the indication for surgery. These data will be used to compare baseline
      characteristic of cerebellar tumor patients with non-cerebellar brain tumor patients. All
      statistical analysis will be performed by the investigators using Prism 4.0 (GraphPad
      Software, Inc.) and Stata v10 (StataCorp Lp). Significance will be assessed at alpha = 0.05.

      Risks/Benefits: There will be physical or health-related risks to the surgical resection of
      the patients' cerebellar tumor according to the standard of care. Risk is also involved to
      the extent that privacy and confidentiality may be compromised. However, every reasonable
      effort will be made to limit breaches of privacy and confidentiality. Participants will not
      benefit directly from this study. However, the results of this work will help improve the
      perioperative assessment of patients with tumors of the cerebellum, which may improve
      rehabilitation efforts in this unique patient population.
    
  