
    
      Lumbar disc herniation (LDH) is a common pathological process leading to spinal surgery. Open
      discectomy used to be a widespread procedure for surgical treatment for symptomatic LDH.
      Currently, with rapid progress of endoscopic techniques, several minimal invasive endoscopic
      surgeries have been developed to perform discectomy. Percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic
      discectomy (PTED) and microendoscopic discectomy (MED) are two widely used minimal invasive
      surgical procedures, the effectiveness of which has been proved to be comparable to
      conventional open discectomy. As difference in operative approaches and iatrogenic injury,
      the clinical outcome might be dramatically different from each other.

      In this study, a single center randomized controlled trial will be performed to evaluate the
      effectiveness of two minimal invasive endoscopic discectomy, PTED and MED, for the treatment
      of symptomatic LDH. We will conduct the study at the 3rd affiliated hospitals of Sun Yat-Sen
      University.

      Two groups of patients will be investigated; 1) patients diagnosed with lumbar disc
      herniation undergoing PTED, and 2) patients diagnosed with lumbar disc herniation undergoing
      MED.

      The primary outcomes of the study will be score of Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) as
      measured at pre- and post-operation, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and annually thereafter.
      Secondary outcomes include Visual Analog Scale (VAS), the SF-36 Health Survey, as well as
      post-operative radiological assessment. Treatment effect is defined as the difference in the
      mean change from baseline between the two groups. Lumbar intervertebral disc tissue would be
      obtained during surgery for histological analysis, in order to evaluate disc degeneration and
      find out risk factors of it.

      On the basis of the results of this trial we will, for the first time, have scientific
      evidence as to the relative effectiveness of PTED versus MED for minimal invasive surgical
      treatment for symptomatic lumbar disc herniation.
    
  