
    
      DECRESCENDO is a multicentre, open-label, dual-phase single-arm phase II de-escalation study
      evaluating neoadjuvant treatment with 12 administrations of weekly intravenous (IV)
      paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 (or IV docetaxel 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 4 cycles) combined with
      subcutaneous (SC) fixed dose combination (FDC) of pertuzumab and trastuzumab (loading dose of
      1200 mg pertuzumab and 600 mg trastuzumab, followed by 600 mg pertuzumab and 600 mg
      trastuzumab) every 3 weeks for 4 cycles.

      Surgery will be performed according to local guidelines in all subjects after neoadjuvant
      treatment.

      After surgery, subjects who achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR, defined as pT0/Tis
      pN0) will receive adjuvant pertuzumab and trastuzumab FDC SC for additional 14 cycles.
      Subjects with residual invasive disease will receive salvage adjuvant trastuzumab emtansine
      (T-DM1, 3.6 mg/kg, IV every 3 weeks) for 14 cycles. In subjects whose residual invasive
      disease is classified per Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) score as ≥2, 3 to 4 cycles of
      anthracycline-based chemotherapy may be administered, at the investigator's discretion,
      before the 14 cycles of T-DM1.

      If histopathological analysis finds that the surgical specimen from a subject with residual
      disease is ER-positive and/or PR-positive, adjuvant endocrine therapy may be administered
      concomitantly with study treatment, at the investigator's discretion and according to local
      guidelines.

      Adjuvant radiotherapy will be mandatory after breast-conserving surgery, whereas it will be
      performed according to local guidelines after mastectomy, and it will be administered
      concomitantly with pertuzumab and trastuzumab FDC SC in subjects who achieve a pCR, and
      concomitantly with T-DM1 in subjects with residual invasive disease (after
      anthracycline-based chemotherapy in subjects assigned to receive this treatment).

      Patients' tumour intrinsic subtype will be determined based on analysis of the PAM50 gene
      signature. The PAM50 gene signature, which measures the expression of 50 genes to classify
      tumours into 1 of 4 intrinsic subtypes (luminal A, luminal B, HER2-enriched, and basal-like),
      will be assessed in formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) samples obtained at baseline.
      While a tumour biopsy sample must be available prior to enrolment, the PAM50 results will be
      generated centrally post enrolment and subsequently used to assess the primary endpoint of
      the study, which is the 3-year recurrence-free survival (RFS) rate in the subpopulation of
      subjects with HER2-enriched tumours who achieve a pCR after the neoadjuvant phase of the
      study.

      Sub-study:

      The flexible care sub-study is an open-label, randomised phase II study to be conducted in
      selected sites from some of the countries that participate in DECRESCENDO. After completion
      of neoadjuvant treatment and surgery in the main study, 121 of the subjects who achieved a
      pCR and thus are assigned to continue treatment with pertuzumab and trastuzumab FDC SC will
      be randomised at a 1:1 ratio to receive 3 cycles of pertuzumab and trastuzumab FDC SC every 3
      weeks in the hospital, followed by 3 cycles in another setting outside the hospital, or to
      the same treatment starting with 3 cycles outside the hospital followed by 3 cycles in the
      hospital (treatment cross-over period). After the first 6 cycles of adjuvant treatment,
      subjects will be asked to choose between continuing treatment (for the remaining 8 cycles,
      for a total of 14 cycles) within or outside the hospital, according to their preference
      (treatment continuation period). Subjects can request to change from outside the hospital to
      in the hospital administration (and vice-versa) at any moment during the treatment
      continuation period, but not in the treatment cross-over period.
    
  