
    
      To be eligible, pregnant women must be at least 16 weeks pregnant. Expecting mothers (or the
      father of the infant to be born) or related sibling of the child to be born must meet or
      previously have met criteria for atopic dermatitis. In addition, one of the parents or
      sibling of the child to be born must suffer from allergic rhinitis or asthma.

      Pregnant women will be randomized at screening and their infant will be seen at 1 month, 6
      months, 12 months (1 year) and 24 months (2 years) after birth.

      Women randomized to group 1 will be requested to use the same body cleanser (Lipikar Syndet)
      and to apply Lipikar Balm AP to their child once daily immediately after bathing on a well
      blotted skin (within 3 minutes of bathing) to the entire body (including the face) from
      birth, while women randomized to group 2 will be in a non-interventional control group.

      The presence of atopic dermatitis (using Hanifin's criteria(1)) and study products use will
      be assessed at 1 month, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months after birth. A buccal smear will be
      sampled from all infants at 1 month after birth for the genotyping of filaggrin (FLG) gene.

      In addition, adverse events evaluation and parent questioning on infants development of food
      allergies and asthma will be performed at 1 month, 3 months (telephone visit), 6 months, 12
      months and 24 months after birth. Infants will be followed for a total of two years after
      birth.

      Lipikar Balm AP is a commonly used cosmetic moisturizer commercially available in many
      countries including Canada. This moisturizer is recommended for extreme dryness and
      atopy-prone skin in babies, children and adults. It contains shea butter, paraffin, waxes and
      vegetable oils. The high content in shea butter and the fraction chosen showed a greater
      expression of constitutive ceramids forming the barrier function of the skin (data on file at
      La Roche-Posay).
    
  