
    
      The FASTER (First and Second Trimester Evaluation of Risk) Trial is a multicenter prospective
      study comparing the accuracy of first and second trimester non-invasive screening methods for
      Down syndrome and other aneuploidies to diagnosis at delivery or miscarriage/fetal loss). All
      women will receive the two non-invasive test batteries in both the first and second
      trimesters. The accuracy of the results of different combinations of non-invasive tests will
      be compared with diagnosis at delivery or at miscarriage or later fetal loss.

      First trimester screening will involve ultrasound measurement of fetal nuchal translucency
      (NT) thickness at 10-14 weeks gestation, together with maternal age, and serum levels of
      pregnancy associated plasma protein-A (PPAP-A) and free-beta human chorionic gonadotropin
      (FbhCG). Second trimester screening will be based on the current standard of care serum
      "triple screen", which consists of alpha fetoprotein (AFP), unconjugated estriol (uE3), and
      hCG, performed at 15-18 weeks gestation, together with maternal age and the new serum marker
      inhibin-A. If patients screen positive (risk >/= 1 in 380), the patients are notified and
      offered invasive testing at 15 weeks (a serum "quad" test, an additional tube of blood for
      analysis of the presence of fetal nucleated erythrocytes in maternal blood [NIFTY: National
      Institute of Child Health and Human Development Fetal Cell Study]), and amniocentesis on
      those who accept). True positive cases receive counseling. True negative cases, those who
      decline invasive testing, and those who screen negative after the serum "quad" test, receive
      routine care with final pediatric outcome. Patients with an a priori risk for Down Syndrome
      may elect to have invasive fetal testing at 15 weeks after quad testing. For all fetuses with
      a NT measurement greater than 3 mm, and where karyotype is found to be normal after
      amniocentesis, will be followed with a repeat ultrasound examination at 18 to 20 weeks
      gestation, to evaluate fetal anatomy, particularly fetal cardiac structure. Final pediatric
      examination information will be obtained following delivery. If pregnancy results in
      miscarriage or later fetal loss, attempts will be made to karyotype any fetal tissue. This is
      especially important for those pregnancies that abort spontaneously between the time of the
      first and second trimester methods of screening. Pregnancy outcome data will be obtained in
      all cases.
    
  