
    
      Previous studies have shown that the opioid receptor modulator nalmefene can reduce heavy
      drinking among alcoholics. Genetic variation at the micro-opioid receptor gene locus, OPRM1,
      specifically the A118G polymorphism, is associated with differential subjective responses to
      alcohol. Further, the A118G polymorphism has been shown to moderate the effect of opioid
      receptor modulators on alcohol consumption. However, the role of A118G on nalmefene s
      effectivenes, and the neural substrates underlying nalmefene s therapeutic effect remain to
      be explored in humans.

      Objective: To evaluate the effect of nalmefene on alcohol self-infusion and neural response
      to alcohol cues in healthy male and female heavy drinkers, and to examine the role of the
      OPRM1 A118G polymorphism on this effect.

      Study population: Participants will be 21-60 year-old male and female heavy drinkers in good
      health, as determined by medical history, physical exam, and ECG and lab tests. Participants
      with current Axis-I mood, anxiety or substance use diagnoses, except alcohol dependence, will
      be excluded. Participants will be divided into 2 genotypic groups: Group 1 (AA) will include
      participants homozygous for the major 118A allele (118AA genotype), and group 2 (GX) will
      include participants carrying 1 or 2 copies of the variant 118G allele (118AG or 118GG
      genotype).

      Design: Participants will undergo 3 study sessions. In the first session, participants will
      complete an intravenous alcohol self-administration (IV-ASA) where they will have an open bar
      phase to determine their baseline level of alcohol consumption in the laboratory, as well as
      to obtain data on tolerability and subjective measures of alcohol effects. In the second and
      third sessions, participants will receive a single dose of either nalmefene or placebo, in
      counter-balanced order, before completing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans
      and IV-ASA procedures. The fMRI scans will include a task where participants will see cues
      that indicate the possibility of earning alcohol rewards to examine the neural substrates
      involved in processing alcohol cues, and a task designed to measure neural responses during
      anticipation and processing of aversive events. The difference in alcohol self-infusions
      between the two sessions will be compared between the two genotypic groups.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome measures are: (1) nalmefene-induced changes in IV
      alcohol self-administration; (2) nalmefene-induced BOLD signal changes in neural regions
      associated with alcohol reward processing, including ventral striatum, amygdala, and
      insula.;Secondary outcome measures include: (1) Nalmefene-induced BOLD signal changes in
      neural processing of aversive stimuli during fMRI; (2) Genotypic modulation (at the OPRM1 118
      location) of nalmefene s effects on primary outcome measures (BOLD signal change during
      alcohol reward processing and IV alcohol self-administration).
    
  