
    
      Skill-based approaches are effective in reducing stigma in health professionals.

      Overview: The Nova Scotia (NS) Department of Health and Wellness and the Mental Health
      Commission of Canada launched a demonstration project in NS-Adult Mental Health Practice
      Support Program. Originating in British Columbia (BC), it uses a novel learning platform
      which supports primary healthcare providers with treatment and management of mental illness.
      We hypothesized that enhanced skills in program participants would lead to increased comfort
      on the part of practitioners, diminished social distance and stigmatization; improved
      clinical outcomes and a reduction in healthcare costs.

      This evaluation has three co-primary objectives:

        -  To determine whether the Mental Health Practice Support Program (PSP) leads to lower
           levels of stigma among physicians participating in the program.

        -  To determine whether participation in the Mental Health PSP leads to lower levels of
           stigma among medical office assistants (MOAs)

        -  To determine whether participation of physicians in the Mental Health PSP leads to
           greater improvement in depressive symptom ratings among patients they are treating for
           depression, compared to treatment as usual.

      Two secondary objectives:

        -  To determine whether participation in the PSP leads to improved occupational functioning
           compared to treatment as usual.

        -  To assess the impact of participation in the Mental Health PSP on healthcare costs.

      Four exploratory objectives:

        -  To assess physicians' confidence and comfort in the management of depression treatment

        -  To determine whether physician participation int he Mental Health PSP is associated with
           a reduced frequency of antidepressant prescribing.

        -  To determine whether the patients of physicians participating in the Mental Health PSP
           report higher levels of satisfaction with the treatment that they receive.

        -  To determine whether patients participation in the Mental Health PSP is associated with
           improved quality of life.

      Methods: Seventy seven practices with one hundred and eleven community-based family
      physicians were recruited. Each practice was assigned a practice number. Each physician
      within the practice was assigned a unique identifier number. Individual practitioner or
      practice teams were randomly assigned to intervention or control groups. Randomization was
      stratified on the total number of physicians per practice, as well as urban or rural setting
      to ensure equal distribution of practice clusters and urban and rural groups. STATA, version
      12 [College Station, TX, 2012] to generate the sequence for practice [cluster] randomization.
      Random numbers were generated from a binomial distribution with a probability of success of
      0.5. Intervention group participants attended 3 half-day workshops with a "6- week action
      period" between workshops to practice learnings. Practice support was provided through
      diagnostic assessment tools, evidence based self-management tools, and on-site practice
      support coordinator support. A stigma-assessment tool, the Opening Minds Scale for Healthcare
      Providers (OMS-HC), was administered to both groups at intervention group pre-training, and
      post-training. Providers comfort and confidence in diagnosing and managing mental illness was
      also assessed, at comparable times.

      Upon completion of the intervention group training, physicians from both groups were asked to
      identify 3 consecutive evaluable patients. Patients were enrolled and allocated to
      intervention or control groups as per their associated physician.
    
  