
    
      The Durham Connects program is an innovative, community-based, universal nurse home-visiting
      program that aims to lower the population rate of child maltreatment and improve child and
      family health and well-being. The Durham Connects Program is implemented jointly by the
      Durham County (North Carolina) Health Department, the Center for Child & Family Health, and
      Duke University. It is designed to be brief and inexpensive per family so that communities
      can afford its costs. Its goals are consistent with those of more intensive nurse
      home-visiting programs: 1) to connect with the mother in order to enhance maternal skills and
      self-efficacy; and 2) to connect the mother with needed community services such as health
      care, child care, mental health care, and financial and social support; so that 3) the mother
      can connect with her child.

      DC achieves population reach by engaging all families within the community, rapidly triaging
      families based on identified risk to concentrate resources to families with greater needs,
      and connecting those families with significant nurse-identified risk to matched community
      programs and services to provide long-term support and a first step into the community system
      of care. The program consists of 4-7 manualized intervention contacts, including 1) a
      hospital birthing visit when a staff member communicates the importance of community support
      for parenting and schedules an initial home visit; 2) 1-3 nurse home visits between 3-12
      weeks of infant age to provide physical assessments for infant and mother, intervention and
      education, assessment of family-specific needs, and for families with significant
      nurse-identified risk, connections to matched community resources to provide longer-term
      support; 3) 1-2 nurse contacts with community service providers to facilitate successful
      connections; and 4) a telephone follow-up one month after case closure to review consumer
      satisfaction and community connection outcomes. With family consent, letters from the program
      reporting on the visit are also provided to also connect families to maternal and infant
      healthcare providers for ongoing support.

      During home visits, the nurse engages the mother (and father, when possible) to provide brief
      educational interventions for all families (e.g., safe sleep) and utilizes a high-inference
      approach to assess family needs across 12 empirically-derived factors linked to child health
      and well-being: Healthcare: parent health, infant health, health care plans;
      Parenting/childcare: childcare plans, parent-infant relationship, management of infant
      crying; Family violence/safety: material supports, family violence, maltreatment history; and
      Parent well-being: depression/anxiety, substance abuse, social/emotional support.

      The nurse scores each of the 12 factors and intervenes accordingly. A score of 1 (low risk)
      receives no subsequent intervention. A score of 2 (moderate risk) receives short-term,
      nurse-delivered intervention over 1-2 sessions. For a score of 3 (high risk) the nurse
      connects the family to matched community resources tailored to address that particular risk
      (such as, treatment for postpartum depression, a DSS social worker exclusively serving Durham
      Connects families for enrollment in Medicaid or food stamps, a multi-year home visiting
      program for long-term parent support). The nurse also provides follow up to make sure that
      each connection "sticks," requiring additional contacts with the family or community agency.
      A score of 4 (imminent risk) receives emergency intervention (<1% of cases). A final contact
      four weeks after case closure ascertains community connection outcomes and whether further
      problem solving is needed to address new or existing needs.

      From January 1, 2014, through June 30, 2014, all residential births in Durham County, North
      Carolina (~1600) will randomly assigned according to birthdate, with odd-birth-dates assigned
      to receive DC. Even-birth-dates will be assigned to receive services-as-usual and serve as
      the randomized control group. All eligible families (i.e., families living in Durham County
      giving birth at one of the two county hospitals) were included with experimental rigor, and
      without exception, but with ethical care for confidentiality. Hospital discharge records were
      utilized to confirm eligibility for all RCT families. Program implementation will be
      evaluated for all odd-birth-date families. The Duke University Health System Institutional
      Review Board approved all RCT implementation and evaluation procedures.

      Completely independent of program implementation, all RCT families were contacted and invited
      to participate in an independent evaluation of DC short-term impact at infant age 6 months
      (interviews completed between infant ages 6-8 months). Eligible RCT families were identified
      using short-form public birth records (i.e., resident Durham County births at one of the two
      county birthing hospitals) without consideration for intervention participation or adherence.
      RCT families were contacted and invited to participate in a descriptive research study about
      family community service use and child development. Families were blind to study goals, and
      home interviewers were blind to family DC participation status.
    
  