
    
      Introduction: cardiovascular rehabilitation programs (CR) can promote several benefits in
      patients with cardiac diseases. However, there are problems related to the patient adherence
      in CR. Some of these problems can be caused to factors like motivation. Alternative therapies
      can improve motivation and increase adherence to CR. In this context, virtual reality based
      therapy (VRBT), have shown benefits in cardiac patients to pain relief, functional capacity
      and increasing physical activity levels, but there is no answer whether it can increase
      engagement and adherence to CR. In addition, it is important to investigate hemodynamic
      responses of VRBT. Objective: investigate engagement, motivation, and the barriers to
      adherence of VRBT in patients with cardiac diseases and risk factors to the development of
      cardiac diseases. In addition, to investigate autonomic and hemodynamic responses of VRBT in
      comparison with conventional therapy (CT). Methods: patients with cardiac diseases or risk
      factors will be invited to perform CT or VRBT+CT. They will be submitted to an initial
      evaluation, the intervention and to a final evaluation. The initial evaluation include
      eligibility investigation, and after they will be random allocated to the interventions. The
      interventions will be performed with a frequency of three times a week, for 12 weeks, and the
      intensity will be prescribed individually. The primary outcomes includes engagement,
      motivation, barriers and adherence in the 12 previous weeks according to a recall
      questionnaire, after 12 weeks of the intervention and after 12 weeks of the final
      intervention program. The engagement will be evaluated using the User Engagement Scale
      (modified). Motivation will be evaluated using the intrinsic motivation questionnaire. The
      barriers will be evaluated using the Barriers Scale of Cardiac Rehabilitation. Adherence will
      be evaluated using the presence in the patient's records. Hemodynamic responses will be
      evaluated before, during and after a session at the first, sixth and twelfth week using blood
      pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation and rating of perceived exertion.
      Autonomic responses will be evaluated using heart rate variability. Statistical analysis: the
      data analysis will be evaluated using the two way ANOVA with Bonferroni posttest with
      significance to p < 0.05.
    
  