
    
      Decompressive craniectomy is a neurosurgical procedure that is used frequently for mass
      and/or intracranial hypertension. The Trephined Syndrome (or Sinking Skin Flap Syndrome) is a
      neurological deterioration which follows craniectomy and which is attributed to a large bone
      flap size. The symptomatology is varied but includes headache, aggravation of a hemisyndrome
      or cognitive disorders, often has an orthostatic component and improves or disappears with
      cranioplasty.

      The pathophysiology of the Trephined Syndrome is not clearly understood. The hypothesis is
      that the contents of the skull, which is no longer isolated by the bone, is then subjected to
      atmospheric pressure, which would lead to changes in the blood flow, but also abnormalities
      in the circulation of the cerebrospinal fluid and even cell metabolism.

      The precise incidence of the Trephined Syndrome is poorly known but is described to be 7% up
      to 26%. It is much likely underestimated since it concerns patients with preexisting
      neurological symptoms and often multiple comorbidities. Furthermore its presentation varies
      in a way, that in certain patients the Trephined Syndrome manifests itself by neurological
      aggravation, while in other patients it is only the absence of evolution in rehabilitation,
      followed then by improvement after cranioplasty, which makes it possible to retain this
      diagnosis a posteriori.

      The diagnosis is also difficult since it is a clinical diagnosis of exclusion. The cerebral
      imaging that shows contralateral herniation than the craniectomy is pathognomonic, but is not
      a gold standard for diagnosis, since the symptomatology can occur before this stage of
      radiological presentation.

      It is, of course, necessary to wait until the regression of the edema makes it possible to
      restore the flap without risk of inducing a new lesion but the ideal moment of the
      cranioplasty is unknown. The risk of infectious disease may be increased during "early"
      remission, on the other hand the risk of developing the Trephined Syndrome or other
      complications increases during "late" cranioplasty.

      Currently at our university teaching hospital the cranioplasty is planned after a delay of 3
      months, because of a fear of infectious complications in case of earlier remission. However,
      in neuro-rehabilitation, a shortening of this delay is desirable, especially when the patient
      can mobilize and/or be discharged home (helmets are often not well supported) or when a
      radiological and clinical Trephined Syndrome occurs. Indeed, the solution of staying in bed
      awaiting the 3 month delay is not ideal both from the point of view of rehabilitation (very
      limited therapies in the prone position, risk of the appearance of complications of the
      decubitus), comfort of the patient and eventual non reversible neurological damage due to the
      Trephined Syndrome.

      This observational prospective study focus on patients with cerebral damage who underwent
      decompressive craniectomy due to mainly traumatic brain injury and ischemic stroke with
      malignant edema or hemorrhagic stroke and other causes of intracranial mass effect). The
      study comprises a fragile population, but it is also a population that is affected by a
      possible modification of the delay to cranioplasty.

      The presence and type of symptomatology attributable to the Trephined Syndrome, its duration,
      severity and its modification after cranioplasty will be recorded. The delay for cranioplasty
      and any complications (such as hematoma or infectious complications) of the latter will be
      noted. The study aims to provide valuable information on how to to better plan the care for
      patients who undergoes decompressive craniectomy and to determine the optimal delay for the
      cranioplasty.

      METHODS:

      This is a prospective, observational study. It will include a neurological and cognitive
      examination upon arrival in the neuro-rehabilitation department. It is expected that the
      patient will remain stable or improve during the stay in neuro-rehabilitation. In case of
      neurological aggravation, if a Trephined Syndrome is suspected (other causes must be well
      dismissed such as recurrence of stroke, haemorrhage, infection, hydrocephalus, electrolytic
      or metabolic disorder, toxic and metabolic abnormalities, epileptic crisis etc) a new
      neurologic evaluation will specify the type of deficit. The examination will take place in
      the morning and evening after a day of therapies to eventually observe the neurological
      aggravation due to orthostatism. In the event of a evident worsening due to orthostatism, as
      usual, a bed rest awaiting cranioplasty will be offered to the patient. In all patients
      (improved compared to admission, stable or worse) an examination at 7-10 days before the
      cranioplasty will be performed and then repeated 1-4 days before and then 1-4 days after the
      cranioplasty. The delay of cranioplasty in relation to the date of craniectomy, the date (if
      known) when a cranioplasty was considered possible in terms of radiological and clinical
      evaluation and the date of start of the Trephined Syndrome will be recorded. Complications
      related to cranioplasty will be noted. At the patient's discharge from neuro-rehabilitation
      department a final examination will be performed. The mentioned evaluations will be carried
      out by the medical residents in charge of the patient under the supervision and assistance of
      the study investigators.

      The patients will be classified as having the Trephined Syndrome if s/he: a) shows a
      neurological aggravation with no other cause (see above) with a typical imaging; (B) a
      neurological aggravation with no other cause (see above) but aggravated to orthostatism and /
      or at least partially reversible shortly following cranioplasty (no longer than 4 days after)
      or c) if there is a rapid neurological improvement after cranioplasty (no longer than 4 days
      after). The waiting period until the cranioplasty will be recorded for each case. The
      possible complications of the cranioplasty (in particular hematoma and infectious) will be
      recorded.

      There is no randomization since this is an observational study.

      Participation in the study is offered to all patients with decompressive craniectomy upon
      arrival in neuro-rehabilitation department. The duration of follow-up will be that of stay in
      neuro-rehabilitation (usually for this type of population at least 4-6 months). The study
      will cover 5 years in view of the low number of patients with craniectomy. The patient can of
      course leave the study at any time if he wishes.

      Collected Data will include age, sex, baseline diagnosis, neurological assessment at the
      various stages (admission at neuro-rehabilitation, at the time of a possible neurological
      deterioration, 7-10 days then 1-4 days before, 1-4 Days after cranioplasty, at the time of
      final discharge from the neuro-rehabilitation department), the results of the neurological
      imaging, the delay between craniectomy and cranioplasty, delay between the theoretic
      possibility of cranioplasty (if known) and the actual cranioplasty, complications related to
      cranioplasty and functional and cognitive outcome.

      This study does not include administration of medicinal products or changes in the usual
      management of patients in neurosurgery and neuro-rehabilitation departments. In the case of a
      recognized Trephined Syndrome, cranioplasty is always promptly requested. Unfortunately the
      waiting periods remain, even in this case sometimes long, due to the availability of
      neurosurgeons. The study could provide objective data to improve the management of these
      patients.

      Criteria to be evaluated:

      Clinical history data: Orthostatic headache, motor function deterioration or other.

      Local examination of the craniectomy site: presence of edema, fluid collection, sinking skin
      flap, size of the bone flap.

      Neurological examination with in particular visual field assessment, Glasgow Coma Scale if
      vigilance impaired, National Institute of Health Stroke Score if stroke as etiology, motor
      hemisyndrome evaluation with "The Motricity Index for Motor Impairment After Stroke" and
      Jamar. pyramidal signs in neurological evaluation . Balance (rating according to "Postural
      Assessment Scale for Stroke"), gait.

      Cognitive examination: verbal span, geometric objects drawing span, Trail Making Test Type A
      and Type B.

      For aphasic patient: denomination of drawn objects and Token test. For patients with
      visuo-spatial neglect: Bells cancellation test. Results of cerebral CT and MRI imaging.
      Functional outcome: Functional Independence Measure at admission and discharge.

      Data management:

      Patients' anonymity and data confidentiality will be respected as the data will be reported
      on sheets with neither the name nor the date of birth of the patient to whom a number will be
      assigned (separate number for each patient).

      The data will be stored and archived for 10 years in a secure and closed place.

      Management of adverse events :

      In case of adverse effects the patient is excluded from the study, the promoter is warned,
      who undertakes to take the appropriate measures if any.

      It should be noted, however, that no adverse effects are expected in this purely
      observational study.

      Quality control and assurance:

      Throughout the study, monitoring will be carried out in order to verify the strict
      application of the protocol as well as the concordance between the source data and the case
      report forms, corrections of the case report forms as well as the collection of undesirable
      events.

      In the event of an audit or inspection of the regulatory authorities, the investigator will
      allow the persons authorized to visit the premises, installations and materials used, to meet
      the persons involved and to have access to the documents of the study as well as to the
      source data and to consult all documents of importance for the study.

      Statistical analysis:

      Study sample estimate: by taking the incidence of the Trephined Syndrome in the
      craniectomized population between 7% - 26%, it takes 100 patients with craniectomy to hope to
      have data comprising at least 15-20 patients with the studied syndrome. There are about 30
      patients craniectomized per year at our institution, but not all of them are transferred to
      our neuro-rehabilitation unit and hence the duration of the study expected over 5 years.

      Analysis of the data: comparison of differences in occurrence of the Trephined Syndrome
      (presence vs absence) in relation to delay to cranioplasty. Non-parametric variables will be
      compared with Mann-Whitney U test, parametric variables with t-test and categorical variables
      with Chi-square.

      For pre- and post-cranioplasty: repeated-measure ANOVA with group factor (with / without
      Trephined Syndrome) will be performed.

      Incidence of complications related to cranioplasty will be collected and correlation between
      delay to cranioplasty and presence complications will evaluated.

      Criteria to stop the study: The study is stopped or at least modified if on the data
      published by others there strong evidence of optimal delay to cranioplasty.

      Ethical Considerations:

      This study will be conducted in accordance with good clinical practice. Being purely
      observational, it should not lead to any particular ethical problem. Treatment will not be
      altered unless the patient agrees to participate in the study. The free and informed consent
      will probably be difficult to obtain at the arrival of the patient if it has a severe
      neurological impairment with often an altered capacity of discernment and in this case the
      relatives will be asked to consent. As soon as possible the patient himself will be informed
      and his free consent obtained. If it is a minor patient the informed consent will be asked to
      their parents. All data collected will be anonymized.
    
  