
    
      The long neoadjuvant chemotherapy period in patients with breast cancer brings a time window
      of opportunity to investigate the potential of pre-operative exercise to increase treatment
      efficacy with improved tumour regression. A possible improvement in chemotherapy completion,
      lift in physical function, alleviated toxicities as well as changes in biological markers can
      also be investigated.

      100 patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer who start neoadjuvant chemotherapy will be
      randomized to the intervention arm (n=50) and control arm (n=50).

      Participants in the intervention arm will be prescribed a prehabilitation program consisting
      of thrice weekly combined supervised aerobic and resistance exercise during the neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy period. Participants will be screened for psychological distress four times and
      in case of moderate-severe distress be advised to visit the local Cancer Society Support
      Center where participants will be assessed and offered free services based on their
      psychosocial needs and available offers.

      Participants in the control arm will receive usual care.

      Outcomes will be measured at baseline (diagnosis), during neoadjuvant chemotherapy, during
      the week before breast surgery, at breast surgery and at 3 months follow up.

      The participants will receive the recommended neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimens in Denmark -
      currently up to 24 weeks. With expected chemotherapy dose delays, the time of breast surgery
      is expected to be within 30 weeks from baseline. The treatment plans will be individually
      modified based on tumour response and expected side effects to treatment. A subgroup of
      participants may change neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen and be referred to breast surgery
      early. In these participants, the last measurement during chemotherapy will be used, and the
      3 months follow up measurement will still be scheduled at 3 months after breast surgery.

      The study procedures will be pre-tested in a pilot study with 6 patients who will all receive
      the prehabilitation program.
    
  