
    
      Background & Rational Uganda and Switzerland are two examples of regions in the world that
      have experienced the era of antiretroviral treatment (ART) in substantially different ways.
      While European patients had access to ART from the beginning of drug development, ART was
      made accessible to patients from sub-Saharan Africa many years later. HIV-infected patients
      in resource-limited settings were not subjected to the early days of treatment, were mono
      therapy was tried or combinations of drugs that are off the market nowadays. Furthermore, in
      contrast to European patients, patients from resource-limited settings were constantly
      confronted with economic constraints leading to stock-outs for instance. Cultural aspects,
      such as stigma and fear of disclosure, differ as well, and are well known to influence
      individual adherence and treatment outcome substantially.

      Today similar first-line treatment choices are made by Ugandan and Swiss physicians, but
      monitoring strategies still differ. As in other countries of sub-Saharan Africa, treatment of
      HIV-infected patients is monitored immunologically and clinically, while viral load
      measurement is reserved for selected patients. In accordance with WHO recommendations
      treatment failure is therefore determined clinically (new or recurrent WHO stage III or IV
      condition) and/or by the decline of a patient's CD4 cell count to or below baseline, which
      usually occurs late during insufficient treatment. Viral rebound and emergence of resistance
      may thereby arise. Moreover, misclassification of treatment failure (e.g. patients with
      immunological failure in the absence of virological failure or complete non-adherence to
      treatment) may result in premature switching to more costly second-line treatment options.

      The currently available information on transmitted drug resistance (TDR) in Ugandan adults
      shows lower rates compared to patients from European countries, including Switzerland. Yet,
      available studies were conducted with small patient numbers. Newer data from Uganda,
      especially under new WHO treatment recommendations, is not available yet.

      To the best of investigators' knowledge, so far no study has directly compared HIV drug
      resistance data from a resource-limited country to a resource-rich country. Little is known
      about the effects of historically, culturally and economically different ART experiences on
      resistance. With the 2013 WHO guidelines, ART roll-out will be enhanced globally and the
      continued success of these large-scale treatment programs will depend on the prevention of
      further emergence of drug resistance.

      Study Design:

      Cross-sectional, single-site, observational Enrolment period: May 1st - July 31st 2015
      Patients: All HIV-infected adults above the age of 18 years that have been on a stable first-
      or second-line ART regimen ≥6 months presenting to the Infectious Diseases Institute (IDI)
      during the study period and are able to give written informed consent will be enrolled. The
      goal is to perform viral load testing in 2750 patients on ART. Presuming a detectable viral
      load in 10%, resistance testing would then be performed in 250 patients on ART. Treatment
      naive HIV-infected patients above the age of 18 years presenting to the IDI during the study
      period will be offered resistance testing. The goal is to perform resistance testing in 250
      ART naive patients.

      Laboratory tests: A blood sample is used for resistance testing in treatment naive patients.
      For patients on ART, the initial sample will be used for HIV viral load measurement at the
      IDI. Part of the sample will be frozen (-80°C) and stored at the IDI for later resistance
      testing in case of detectable viral load (plasma viral load >1000 copies/ml). Resistance
      testing will be done at the Ugandan Virus Research Institute (UVRI) in Entebbe, Uganda.

      Statistical Methods:

      Type and frequency of mutations in treatment-naive will be identified and compared to the
      data from the SHCS. Investigators will compare treatment-naive patients from the SHCS who
      were tested in the same time-frame (in the year 2014). Additionally, investigators will
      identify a time-frame in the SHCS where a similar proportion of patients had detectable viral
      loads on ART as now in Uganda (the time-frame will depend on the findings in Uganda). Uni-
      and multivariate logistic regressions will be performed to identify risk factors for the
      detection of HIV drug resistance mutations.

      Type and frequency of mutations in treatment-experienced patients will also be analyzed and
      compared to patients from the SHCS. For comparison, investigators will match patients from
      the SHCS with the same age, gender and ART. To identify risk factors for the detection of
      mutations in treatment-experienced patients, the investigators will also perform logistic
      regression models.

      To study the diagnostic performance of clinical/immunological testing investigators will
      calculate the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value compared to
      virological testing (gold standard).

      These analyses will be performed for all drug-resistance mutations pooled together
      (outcome-variable= patient has any drug resistance mutation), for drug resistance mutations
      against individual drug classes (outcome = patient has any drug resistance mutation to a
      particular drug class), and for the two resistance mutations (M184V and K103N) that have been
      most prevalent in previous studies in resource-limited settings.
    
  