
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare pain relief in patients undergoing single-fraction vs multiple-fraction
           re-irradiation of painful bone metastases at 2 months after treatment.

      Secondary

        -  Compare overall pain relief in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare time to pain progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Assess relationship between response to initial radiation and pain relief after
           re-irradiation in these patients.

        -  Compare changes in functional interference after re-irradiation using the Brief Pain
           Inventory in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens (patients in Canada,
           France, the Netherlands, and patients registered through RTOG).

        -  Determine characteristics of non-responders (to both initial and re-irradiation) among
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Monitor the incidence of acute severe radiation-related side effects in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Monitor the incidence of in-field pathological fractures and spinal cord compression in
           patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      response to initial radiotherapy (yes vs no), initial fractionation (single fraction vs
      multiple fraction), and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive single-fraction radiotherapy (8Gy) on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive multiple-fraction radiotherapy (to a total of 20Gy) over 5 days
           or over 8 days if re-irradiation of the spine and/or whole pelvis is involved AND prior
           initial radiotherapy was given in multiple fractions.

      At least 4 weeks after the first re-treatment, patients in both arms may receive a second
      re-treatment at the discretion of the treating oncologist.

      Patients complete a Brief Pain Inventory questionnaire at baseline, on days 7 and 14, monthly
      during months 1-6, and at months 9 and 12. Acute Toxicities are assessed on days 7 and 14.
      Quality of Life is assessed at baseline and then monthly during months 1-6 for patients from
      participating groups.

      Patients are followed for up to 1 year.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 850 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  