
    
      Introduction Pectus excavatum (PE) is presented as a sunken sternum in the midline and these
      chest deformities are not uncommon, occurring in approximately 1/1000.

      It is commonly accepted that the abnormal growth of condral cartilage results in displacement
      of the sternum. Most patients and their parents seek medical advice for psychosocial
      concerns, particularly related to the cosmetic aspects and the consequent aversion to sports
      or public exposure. Physiological tests are often normal, but both the cardiac index and
      pulmonary function may be affected.

      Surgical treatment of pectus excavatum Nuss broke the paradigm in PE surgery with the
      publication of their results using a technique called minimally invasive. This technique
      involves lateral incisions in the chest and the placement of one or two temporary steel bars,
      which are shaped during surgery, specifically for each patient. These bars are placed in
      retrosternal position and the sternum is elevated without the need of cartilage resection.

      This surgical technique, in addition to the bars and stabilizers, needs a set of instruments
      that are used in the customization of the bar for each patient and, after three years, the
      withdrawal of the bar at the end of the treatment.

      Another problem refers to the displacement of the metallic bars that are positioned under the
      sternum and that are held in position by placing stabilizers, one at each lateral end of the
      bar. These stabilizers, which are perpendicular to the bar, has the function to expand its
      area of contact with the chest wall in order to prevent it from moving from its position.

      In order to increase the stability of the bar, preventing their movement, various
      modifications have been proposed. The investigators believe that further modification can be
      introduced. If the stabilizer metal bar has an oblique position relative to the bar (rather
      than perpendicular as it is currently) it will be perpendicular to the ribs, thus increasing
      its area of contact with the chest wall, which might bring more stability.

      The investigators are also proposing that the new metal bar that is being developed is
      completely smooth, not having the usual slots that the current model has at the extremities
      of the bars. The reason for this is to try to prevent bleeding during bars withdrawal after 3
      years of use.

      Another proposed amendment is a pressure screw incorporated into the stabilizer itself.

      Search object The object of research is the development of a new model of metallic bar and
      stabilizers, as well as dedicated surgical instruments whose purpose is to perform minimally
      invasive repairs of PE.

      Social relevance One of the reasons why the Public Health in Brazil gives no coverage for
      this type of surgical treatment for patients with PE is the high cost of surgical equipment
      that is imported. The development of this material in the country, as is being proposed in
      this project, has high social relevance that may represent savings by avoiding the purchase
      of imported material and the possibility of making available this type of surgical treatment
      for patients served by our public health.

      Site of the search The research will be performed in the Department of Thoracic Surgery,
      Heart Institute (InCor) of the Hospital das Clinicas, Faculty of Medicine, University of São
      Paulo.
    
  