
    
      The purpose of this study is to explore the impact that a four-week Occupational Therapy (OT)
      Health and Wellness Program has on perceived satisfaction and performance of daily
      activities, fatigue, sleep quality, and health-related quality of life among adult
      community-dwelling cancer survivors.

      The research questions for this study are as follows:

        1. What changes occur in community-dwelling cancer survivors in Physical, Mental, and
           Social Health from the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)
           after a four-week Occupational Therapy Health and Wellness Program from initial pretest
           to posttest?

        2. What changes occur in community-dwelling cancer survivors in self-perceived occupational
           performance and satisfaction from the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM)
           after a four-week Occupational Therapy Health and Wellness Program from initial pretest
           to posttest?

        3. What changes occur in community-dwelling cancer survivors in fatigue from the
           Multidimensional Assessment of Fatigue Scale (MAF) after a four-week Occupational
           Therapy Health and Wellness Program from initial pretest to posttest?

        4. What changes occur in community-dwelling cancer survivors in sleep quality from the
           Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) after a four-week Occupational Therapy Health and
           Wellness Program from initial pretest to posttest? It is hypothesized that there will be
           improvements in participants self-perceived occupational performance and satisfaction,
           fatigue levels, sleep quality, as well their mental, physical, and social quality of
           life after participation in a four-week OT Health and Wellness Program. This study will
           explore occupational therapy health and wellness cancer programming in a new service
           setting of the community. It additionally will integrate innovative occupational therapy
           community cancer programming looking at called for participation outcomes.

      METHODS This quasi-experimental study will use a single group pretest-posttest study design
      to explore the effects of a four-week Occupational Therapy Health and Wellness Program on
      physical, mental, and social health (PROMIS), fatigue levels (MAF), Sleep quality (PSQI), and
      self-perceived occupational performance and satisfaction (COPM) of community-dwelling cancer
      survivors.

      Participants This study defines cancer survivor as any person who has been diagnosed with
      cancer from the time of diagnosis through the remainder of their life. Therefore, cancer
      survivors will be included irrespective of their phase of survivorship (i.e. actively
      receiving treatment, remission etc.).

      An a priori power analysis using G*Power 3.1 was performed for a dependent-sample t test with
      the following parameters: two-tailed test, power of .80, a Type I error (α) of .05, and a
      medium effect size (d = .50). A minimum required sample size of 34 was determined. Taking
      into account attrition rate (25%), a target sample size is set for 43. Using results reported
      in a similar study of cancer survivors with an activity-based one week health program using
      the COPM, an effect size was calculated at .53 so the minimum sample size would be 30).

      Data collected will be de-identified by using a participant code (first three letters of the
      participant's mother's first name and the last three digits of the participant's phone
      number). Participant IP addresses will not be collected in Qualtrics. A list of participant
      codes and their corresponding phone numbers will be stored on an encrypted google drive with
      access for investigators only in order to make reminder phone calls for meeting times. The
      study survey can be found at: https://uindy.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_56XfqHqrkLFYtNj

      Procedures Recruitment. Survivors that are actively participating in programming at Cancer
      Support Communities Central Indiana location as well as their satellite facilities (Community
      Hospital, IU Health Simon Cancer Center, St. Vincent Cancer Care, and Hendricks Regional
      Health), and CSC community network partners (Little Red Door, Pink Ribbon etc.) will receive
      an informative flyer about the program. The program flyers will be posted at CSC and their
      satellite facilities as well as emailed to other community network partners for distribution.
      The OT Health and Wellness Program information will also be placed on CSC's programming
      schedule. Programming recruitment will also be through word from the investigators to their
      professional networks.

      Screening. When a survivor calls to inquire about the OT programming, investigators will
      check if their results from the CSC Distress Screening Tool indicate the need for OT
      services. Those survivors that have indicated concerns of great severity on Cancer Support
      Community (CSC) Distress Screening Tool (Likert Items: very serious, serious, and moderately
      serious) in OT service provision areas related to finding meaning and purpose in life,
      disruptions in school/work/home life, fatigue, and sleep problems will be included in the
      study. This screening tool will be utilized to determine if participants are in need of the
      four-week OT Health and Wellness Program services and this data will be retained for the
      study.

      Informed consent. Informed consent will happen at the survivor's first appointment with
      either the primary investigator or one of the co-investigators. Informed consent will be
      reviewed by one of the investigators and potential participants will indicate voluntary
      consent on Qualtrics. If the participants indicates voluntary consent to participate by
      continuing in Qualtrics, they will proceed into the COPM questionnaire. If the participant
      does not consent, it will take them out of Qualtrics. No data will be collected on those that
      do not provide voluntary consent.

      Intervention. The OT Health and Wellness Program will have four weeks of education and
      individual integration intervention modules. One of the investigators will lead each of these
      weekly modules or students in the UIndy OTD program enrolled in OTD 620 Cancer Survivorship
      elective course will run the modules under the direct supervision of the Principal
      Investigator. Students will be trained to provide the standardized educational module for
      each topic area and will not be interacting with any study data. Each module will have an
      identified theme and information provided in each group will be education to topic, evidence
      based literature on intervention strategies, lifestyle, or environmental modifications that
      improve performance of daily activities that will last approximately 45 minutes. After, group
      sharing of ideas and individual identification of weekly goals for integration of 1-3
      targeted interventions will occur and last approximately 30-45 minutes). The program will
      take place at CSC or one of their satellite facilities previously listed.

      Data Analysis. Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the baseline and
      post-intervention characteristics of the sample. Nominal data will be presented as
      frequencies and percentages, while interval and ratio data will be reported as means and
      standard deviations or medians and interquartile ranges, dependent on whether the data are
      normally distributed. To determine if there is a significant difference in scores from
      pre-intervention to post-intervention, scores will compared using a paired t test, if the
      data are normally distributed, or the non-parametric Wilcoxon signed-ranks test if the data
      are not normally distributed. Normality will be determined using the Shapiro Wilk test. Data
      will be analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version 25.0. All comparisons will be
      two-tailed and a significance level of less than .05 will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  