
    
      Avelumab is a fully human monoclonal PD-L1 antibody of the immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) subclass.
      It works by binding to PD-L1 on tumor cells, immune cells and/or stromal cells. This prevents
      PD-L1 from interacting with PD-1. Inhibition of this interaction increases
      activation/survival of antitumor lymphocytes. It also increases innate immunity by resulting
      in decreased PD-1 suppression of NK cell function and bolsters antibody production by B cells
      due to less PD-L1 binding of PD-1 on B-cells. Additionally, avelumab has been suggested to
      have another mechanism involving antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). ADCC in
      these cases involves NK cell recognition and lysis of tumor cells that have antibody bound to
      PD-L1. By blocking PD-L1, avelumab leads to less CD80 binding by PD-L1 and more CD80-CD28
      binding in response to antigen presentation to T-cells. This results in increased
      costimulatory signaling and is another mechanism by which avelumab may enhance T-cell
      activation.

      Avelumab has been shown to be efficacious across multiple metastatic tumor types, including
      urothelial cancer. The phase Ib study has reported survival and safety outcomes with >12
      months followup using pooled data on 249 patients with metastatic UC (Apolo et al, ESMO Sept
      2017). Patients had been treated with a median of 2 prior therapies in the metastatic setting
      and 13 patients who were cisplatin-ineligible were evaluated for safety alone. PD-L1
      expression was not a criterion for enrollment. The confirmed objective response rate (ORR)
      was 16.1%, with 5% complete responses and 11.2% partial responses. The 6-month
      progression-free survival was 27%. The ORR was better than or comparable to chemotherapy in
      historical controls. Among responders, 70.3% were maintained > 12 months. Treatment-related
      adverse events (AE) occurred in 70%, with 10.7% of the total with AE's of grade >3.
      Immune-mediated AE's occurred in 18.5%, of which 4% were grade >3. There is currently a phase
      III clinical trial ongoing comparing avelumab to standard of care chemotherapy in the second
      line setting or beyond for metastatic UC. Two other checkpoint inhibitors have been approved
      in the last 2 years for first line treatment of patients with metastatic UC who are
      ineligible for cisplatin-based therapy.
    
  