
    
      Background:

      Colorectal Cancer is the second most common cause of death in Hungary. The most important
      prognostic and predictive factor of colorectal cancer is the stage of disease at the time of
      diagnosis. Precise staging, especially nodal staging is highly important for correct planning
      of oncotherapy, i.e. adjuvant chemotherapy. Nodal staging relies on the proper surgical
      removal of mesocolon/mesorectum belonging to the the affected colorectal segment, as well as
      on the thorough pathology work-up of the specimen.

      Current quality standards require examination of a minimum of 12 lymph nodes in order to
      reliably report N0 stage.

      Methylene-blue injection into the main supplying artery of the removed specimen is one of the
      simplest and most effective techniques described to aid pathologist in lymph node harvesting.

      Technique of methylene blue injection:

      First of all, surgeon need to en block remove the affected colorectal segment with its
      mesecolon/mesorectum. Then the surgeon isolates the main supplying artery and cannulated it
      with an appropriate-size canula.

      Methylene blue solution (50 mg methylene blue diluted in in 30 ml saline) is prepared and
      injected into the freshly removed specimen via the canula until the blue solution appears on
      the cut edges of the specimen.

      The specimen can be processed in a routine way (placed in 4% formaldehyde).

      Aim of the study:

      The aim is to investigate if the well described and in Western-European healthcare systems
      well tested technique (Methylene blue injection) can be effectively adapted in an
      overwhelmed, busy Eastern-European healthcare environment. (Other techniques, including
      pathology assistant are not affordable in this area.) Apart form testing diagnostic accuracy
      of the pathologist on specimens with and without methylene blue injection, the investigators
      would like to assess a potential survival benefit of the suspected improvement of staging
      effectivity.

      Timing of the study:

      Over a 20-month period of 2014 and 2015 two surgical centers in Hungary randomised their
      elective colorectal resection cases into interventional and control arms. Randomisation was
      performed with a 1:1 ratio at each site on 100-100 consecutive cases.

      Further pathology work-up and reporting has been routinely performed without any specific
      effect on oncology follow-up or treatment. No specific data collection has been performed
      after the intervention.

      This study aims to retrospectively select the 100-100 (total of 200) consecutive colorectal
      resection cases of the given time frame from the official hospital medical recording systems.

      Pathology reports and other relevant patient clinical records will be collected and
      statistically assessed.

      Ethical approval was requested and gained from the Medical Research Council, Hungary, for the
      retrospective analysis of patient data.

      Statistical analysis:

      Power analysis was performed to get the sufficient number of cases (200 cases in total).

      Case Report Form The retrospectively included cases will be listed in a specific database on
      a safe medical server. Anthropometric, disease-specific, operation-specific and pathology
      report details will be extracted out of the official patient documentation system.

      Patients will be included according to the known interventional interval and the operation
      type (elective colorectal resection). Cases in the database will be anonymized. No
      patient-identifying data will be recorded or given to the assessor of the study
      (statistician).
    
  