
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) carries a significant, independent risk of mortality among
      hospitalized patients. Recent studies have demonstrated increased mortality among patients
      with even small increases in serum creatinine concentration. International guidelines for the
      treatment of AKI focus on appropriate management of drug dosing, avoiding nephrotoxic
      exposures, and careful attention to fluid and electrolyte balance. Early nephrologist
      involvement may also improve outcomes in AKI. Without appropriate provider recognition of
      AKI, however, none of these measures can be taken, and patient outcomes may suffer. AKI is
      frequently overlooked by clinicians, but carries a substantial cost, morbidity and mortality
      burden.

      The investigators conducted a pilot, randomized trial of electronic alerts for acute kidney
      injury in 2014. The trial, which randomized 2400 patients with AKI as defined by an increase
      in creatinine of 0.3mg/dl over 48 hours or 50% over 7 days, found that alerting physicians to
      the presence of AKI did not improve the course of acute kidney injury, reduce dialysis or
      death rates. However this study was conducted in a single hospital, and the alert itself did
      not describe specific actions that a provider could take. In the present proposal, the
      investigators seek to expand upon their prior study to determine both the modes of alerting
      that would be most effective and to determine if targeting alerts (such as to patients on
      medications that may worsen acute kidney injury) will improve effectiveness.

      This study will be a randomized, controlled trial of an electronic AKI alert system. Using
      the Kidney Disease: Improve Global Outcomes creatinine criteria, inpatients at several
      hospitals will be randomized to usual care versus electronic alerting. The primary outcome
      will be a composite of progression of acute kidney injury, dialysis and death.
    
  