
    
      Background:

      Postoperative Cognitive Dysfunction (POCD) is a state in which a decline in cognitive ability
      after surgery persist from early postoperative period to a much longer term. It is said to be
      a subtle disorder of thought processes that influences domains of cognition such as memory
      especially short-term memory, inattention and inability to focus with the presence of
      generalized slowness. In fact, a lot of older patients and their loved ones claim they are
      'never the same' after the surgery. It is to be distinguished from postoperative delirium, a
      diagnosis portrayed through several symptoms that occurs acutely after surgery, fluctuates
      with time and has a tendency to be transient. POCD, on the other hand, is difficult to
      diagnose and only detected by comparing postoperative results of neuropsychological battery
      tests to those done as baseline preoperatively.

      Advanced age is a major risk for developing POCD.6 Studies done by the International Study of
      Postoperative Cognitive Dysfunction (ISPOCD) group had found an incidence of POCD at 19.2%
      within 1 week and 6.2% in 3 months. Similar studies have reported a higher figure of 36.1% at
      1 week after surgery for this phenomenon. In certain high-risk groups, the range ascends to
      16 - 62% with an average of 35% in hip fracture patients9 and up to 60% for those who
      underwent cardiac surgery that persist in 10-30% after 6 months.

      Hypothesis:

      As far as research is concerned, tremendous efforts are now underway to look for causes of
      POCD and its risk factors but most importantly, find ways to avoid this disability over time.
      Clinicians instinctively prescribe prehabilitation in preparation for surgery through various
      physical conditioning to improve patients' physiological cardio-respiratory reserve in the
      hope for better recovery. The investigators hypothesize that the same holds true with
      cognitive function and by optimizing mental 'fitness', the pre-conditioning can attribute to
      a decrease in POCD.

      Currently, there are a few ongoing trials such as NeuroBics in US15 for non-cardiac surgery
      and Cog-train in UK for cardiac patients investigating the role of using electronic-based
      'brain' intervention before surgery. The investigators aim to test the feasibility of using a
      home based logbook with easy applicability as the cognitive training to produce equally
      favourable results in reducing POCD since the socio-economic pattern of our older population
      is different from the west. Senior citizens may not be familiar with or have difficulty to
      afford electronic devices and are less engaged with web-based Internet as reflected by data
      from a local service provider that found only 3.9% of their user base in the country is over
      the age of 60.

      Sample size:

      Based on 36% POCD at one week from a previous study8 and our proposed 50% reduction to 18%
      incidence with intervention, a total of 232 participants (including 10% drop-out rate) are
      required at a 1:1 ratio between groups to achieve an 80% powered study and Type 1 error of
      5%.

      A preliminary analysis will be done at 50 recruited patients to look for feasibility of
      continuing this study.
    
  