
    
      Primary objective To investigate in hand OA patients predictive clinical, biological, genetic
      and imaging factors of clinical aggravation after 6 years of follow-up.

      Secondary objectives To investigate in hand OA patients predictive clinical, biological,
      genetic and imaging factors of clinical aggravation after 3 years of follow-up.

      To investigate in hand OA patients predictive clinical, biological, genetic and imaging
      factors of clinical aggravation after 3 years of follow-up.

      To investigate whether clinical changes and radiographic structural changes are associated or
      correlated between inclusion and 3 years of follow-up or between inclusion and 6 years of
      follow-up To investigate whether clinical status and radiographic alterations are correlated
      at inclusion To determine whether hand OA is associated with other OA at other sites or with
      other hand diseases (carpal tunnel syndrome, tendinitis) To evaluate frequency of erosive
      hand OA among the whole hand OA cohort at inclusion, at 3 and 6 years of follow-up To
      identify clinical, biological, genetic and imaging factors associated with erosive hand OA
      (versus non erosive hand OA) at inclusion or during the follow up (3 and 6 years) To
      investigate predictive clinical, biological, genetic and imaging factors of clinical or
      radiographic aggravation after 3 or 6 years of follow-up in the erosive hand OA subgroup

      Methods : Prospective observational study The study will be proposed to all patients viewed
      at the out-patient clinic for hand OA which took place in Saint-Antoine Hospital in
      Rheumatology Department since 2004 (usually 12/week). The investigators plan to include 500
      patients in the cohort (5/week).

      7 visits (one per year) are planned: M0, M12, M24, M36, M48, M60 and M72. A clinical
      evaluation of hand OA will be performed at each visit. At visit M0, M36 and M72, hand
      radiographs and radiographs of other OA localisation (if symptomatic) will be performed.

      A blood sample will be taken at inclusion for biomarker studies and genetic investigations.

      A blood sample will be taken at M36 and M72 to build a prospective serum collection.

      Duration of the study: 8.5 years with 2.5 years of inclusion period Duration of the study for
      one patient: 6 years Recruitment at the Rheumatology Department of Saint-Antoine Hospital
      with a multicentric international steering committee
    
  