
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the optimum starting dose (defined as the dose that does not require
           modification within the first 4 days of treatment for lack of efficacy or the occurrence
           of adverse events) of methadone hydrochloride as a first-line opioid treatment in
           patients with chronic neuropathic cancer pain.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the number and timing of breakthrough analgesic usage.

        -  To assess the number of episodes of breakthrough pain.

        -  To assess the total daily dose of methadone hydrochloride.

        -  To assess the average pain score.

        -  To determine the safety and adverse event profile of methadone hydrochloride as a
           first-line opioid in the treatment of chronic neuropathic cancer pain.

        -  To assess the frequency and severity of sleep disturbance associated with the use of
           methadone hydrochloride.

        -  To determine the feasibility of recruiting patients with chronic neuropathic cancer pain
           in a reasonable time frame for a future phase III study of methadone hydrochloride vs
           morphine.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to a group according to their
      average daily dosage of morphine-equivalent for the 3 full days prior to study entry (≤ 45
      mg/day OR > 45 but ≤ 75 mg/day).

      Patients receive oral methadone hydrochloride at various doses every 8 hours. Patients also
      may receive breakthrough oral methadone hydrochloride every 2 hours, as needed, for up to 6
      breakthrough analgesics per day. Treatment continues for up to 35 days. Treatment stops if
      the patient has well-controlled pain or experiences intolerable side effects.

      Patients complete the Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire at baseline. Patients rate their
      pain according to questions from the Brief Pain Inventory on a scale of 0 (no pain) to 10
      (worst pain imaginable) to best describe pain at its worst in the last 24 hours, pain at its
      least in the last 24 hours, pain on average, and pain right now; record the number and timing
      of breakthrough analgesic usage, the number of episodes of breakthrough pain, and the total
      daily dose of methadone hydrochloride; and complete nausea and sleep assessments once daily
      on days 1-14.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4, 6-7, and 28 days.
    
  