
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia affecting 1-2% of the
      population of the western world, increasing to 10% in patients above the age of 75. The
      lifetime risk for development of AF is 26% for men and 23% for women. It is associated with
      significant morbidity, mortality and cost, but also with a two-fold increase in mortality and
      a six-fold risk of stroke. Severity of symptoms for AF may range from a 'nuisance' feeling of
      palpitations to debilitating symptoms that affect quality of life, interfere with normal
      livelihood and significantly impair exercise tolerance to more severe symptoms (hemodynamic
      compromise and heart failure), which are associated with poor prognosis and increased
      mortality. Patients who are symptomatic pose the greatest burden to the health care system,
      often making repeated visits to the emergency room for treatment or repeated
      hospitalizations.

      AF is known to be a chronic disease. The majority of patients have progressively more
      episodes of AF, or present with persistent AF. As with all chronic diseases, it cannot be
      cured but can be controlled with effective treatments. AF often occurs in the setting of
      other diseases, increasing the complexity in determining appropriate therapies. Most often,
      AF occurs in the setting of other cardiovascular disease, obesity, diabetes, sleep apnea or a
      combination of the above. In order to effectively manage AF, a 'holistic' approach is
      necessary. Appropriate management of hypertension, sleep apnea, obesity, etc. is part of the
      mainstay of therapy for AF. This is part of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) AF
      guidelines recommendations stating: "underlying causes or precipitating factors for AF
      including hypertension should be identified and treated". Current guidelines suggest that AF
      treatment should focus on strategies to manage and control heart rate and rhythm. Exercise
      and physical activity have been shown to improve outcomes in patients with some cardiac
      conditions (ischemic heart disease, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure), but its
      effects on AF are still not clear.

      The current Canadian health care system was designed to address acute illness, rather than
      chronic disease, which is impacting hospitalizations for symptomatic AF. There is not an AF
      clinic at the QEII Health Sciences Centre to assist with AF management after a patient has
      been seen by a specialist. The investigators propose to create, evaluate, refine and
      implement a virtual, patient-centered platform to guide patients with out-of-hospital
      management of atrial fibrillation, after evaluation by a specialist.
    
  