
    
      The Liver Incytes system allows for full visualization of the liver with the low cost and
      portability of ultrasound. It is an adjustable multi-frequency technique, which can show
      large areas of the organ as volumetric elasticity maps. The device uses the Shear Wave
      Absolute Vibro-Elastography (S-WAVE) method.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine the relationship between the elasticity
      results from Liver Incytes and those of MR Elastography. In addition to stiffness
      measurements, the relationship between the Liver Incytes attenuation measurements and MR-PDFF
      will also be evaluated.

      As secondary objectives, the ability of Liver Incytes to correctly stage patients using MRE
      as the standard (unless biopsy is available), looking specifically at the ability to measure
      mild and advanced fibrosis.

      In additional to performance objectives, the safety, tolerability and usability of the device
      will be assessed.

      This is a prospective, open label, validation study of the Liver Incytes system in comparison
      to MR results (as gold standard) in patients with liver disease or suspected liver disease.
      Approximately 100 subjects may be enrolled in this study which will take place at clinical
      centers across Canada and the United States. Study participants should be distributed
      primarily across the 4 stages of fibrosis, with secondary consideration of the three stages
      of steatosis.

      The study is comprised of: Screening Period (up to 28 days) and Data Collection Period. There
      are no safety follow-up visits in this study.

        -  Screening Period (-28 days to Prior to Imaging (Fibroscan, Liver Incytes, MRE)): during
           the screening phase, participants will provide written informed consent before
           undergoing procedures to determine study eligibility.

        -  Data Collection Period (variable duration): Study participants will attend a study visit
           on Day 1 and may attend an optional visit within 28 days of the initial/Day 1 visit.

      The total duration of study participation will vary from approximately 2 weeks to
      approximately 8 weeks.
    
  