
    
      Setting:

      All three stages will take place in various South London and Maudsley Hospital NHS Trust
      (SLaM) Adult Mental Health settings affiliated with the Maudsley Hospital and the Bethlem
      Royal Hospital, and at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN).

      Stage One:

      A series of focus groups with inpatients with a diagnosis of SMI, carers of people with a
      diagnosis of SMI and clinical staff will scope perceptions of attitudes, and practicalities
      of a pilot RCT. It is expected that between 6-8 people will attend each focus group.

      Up to 5 focus groups will be conducted, lasting two hours each, addressed at the following
      populations: 1) Clinical staff affiliated with SLaM; 2) Inpatients with a diagnosis of SMI
      who reside at the Maudsley Hospital and the Bethlem Royal Hospital, and their carers; 3)
      Carers recruited via the national carers' forum, a carers group in SLaM.

      Procedure: A series of simple open-ended questions will be asked, and participants will
      answer verbally. The questions will address factors relevant to the pilot study design
      including optimal duration and intensity of exercise sessions; location of exercise sessions;
      procedures surrounding storage of exercise equipment; and procedure surrounding outcome
      assessments. An audio-recording will record responses to these questions when permission has
      been granted. The qualitative data gained from the questions asked as part of the focus group
      will be analysed using thematic analysis to understand the main themes.

      Stage Two:

      Part a- A pilot RCT will be conducted whereby inpatients with a diagnosis of SMI will be
      randomly allocated to either 12 weeks of HIIT or 12 weeks of TAU. For patients in the HIIT
      arm, HIIT will be conducted twice a week for 12 weeks using a stationary bike. Each session
      will have the following structure: 4-minute warm-up, followed by 5X1 minute intervals at
      85-95% of maximum heart rate, interspersed with active pauses of 90 seconds cycling at
      approximately 60-70% of maximum heart rate, and a 4-minute cool-down. Assessment measures
      including a neuropsychological test battery; fitness test; and physical health checks will be
      conducted at baseline, 6-, and 12-weeks. Twenty inpatients will be recruited to each arm of
      the RCT (40 inpatients in total). This number is based on recruiting a big-enough sample to
      assess the feasibility of the study and on the resources available (Leon, Davis & Kraemer,
      2011).

      Pre-post intervention changes in will be measured, including changes in neuropsychological
      outcomes, fitness, physical health, and cardiovascular risk. A between-group analysis will
      also be conducted to see whether any changes in outcome differ from the control (TAU) group.

      Part b- The RCT commenced in January 2020 using the above RCT procedure. Recruitment was
      halted in March 2020 at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic and HIIT sessions were ceased. The
      data gained will be analysed as above using an intention-to-treat basis.

      In light of easing of lockdown the HIIT trial will resume using a remote cohort design. All
      eligible participants will receive HIIT, no randomisation will take place. A cohort design
      will be employed due to the smaller number of SMI patients receiving inpatient treatment
      during the outbreak/ slow resumption of inpatient admissions, thus it is unlikely that there
      will be enough numbers to randomise patients. The study primary and secondary outcomes remain
      the same.

      HIIT sessions will resume remotely. This data will be analysed separately to existing data
      gathered from the RCT. A pre-post analysis on an ITT basis and a subgroup of those with 64%
      adherence will take place. The research team will conduct HIIT sessions remotely via a
      projector screen but a member of the ward will supervise sessions in person. Adverse events/
      injuries/ difficulties will be observed by both the researcher remotely and the in-person
      staff member. Baseline and follow-up assessments will be conducted remotely via a projector
      screen/ telephone call for questionnaire measures.

      A target of 6-8 patients will be recruited to the cohort study design.

      Stage Three:

        1. Qualitative interviews:

           Participants who completed the pilot study will be invited to take part in individual
           semi-structured follow-up qualitative interviews. Feedback regarding the acceptability
           and feasibility of the study will be sought. Additionally, feedback will be sought from
           those that withdrew from the study and those that did not agree to take part. The
           interviews will assess 1) how participants experienced the intervention, 2) if there are
           any parts of the intervention that could be improved, and what factors influenced people
           in completing/not completing the intervention. Interviews will take place on a
           one-to-one basis with a member of the research team and a participant. Each qualitative
           interview will be conducted within 3 weeks of each participant finishing the HIIT pilot
           study/ within 3 weeks of drop-out if time commitments permit. Responses will be recorded
           when permission has been granted. Overall, each individual interview will take 30- 60
           minutes and will not require participants to participate in any follow-up tasks. The
           qualitative data gained from these questions will be analysed using thematic analysis to
           understand the main themes.

        2. Focus groups:

      Up to two focus groups with clinical staff at SLaM will be conducted and feedback regarding
      the acceptability and feasibility of the pilot HIIT study conducted in stage two of the
      research project will be sought. It is expected that between 6-8 people will attend each
      focus group. A series of simple open-ended questions will be asked, and participants will
      answer verbally. The questions will address staff's opinions regarding the acceptability and
      feasibility of conducting HIIT in a mental health setting. An audio-recording will record
      responses to these questions when permission has been granted. The qualitative data gained
      from these questions will be analysed using thematic analysis to understand the main themes.
      Overall, each focus group should take no more than 2 hours and will not require participants
      to participate in any follow-up tasks.
    
  