
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for 8 intrathecal (IT) injections (via
      lumbar puncture) of anti-cluster of differentiation (CD)3 × anti-EGFRBi armed activated T
      cells (aATC) (EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells) given twice per week for 4 weeks in a standard
      3+3 dose escalation schema with 0.10, 0.50 and 1.00 × 10^9 EGFRBi-aATC per IT injection for a
      total of 0.8, 4.0, and 8.0 × 10^9 cells, respectively. (Phase I) II. To explore efficacy and
      confirm the toxicity profile of EGFRBi-aATC. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Measure immune responses in participants of the phase I/II trial by sequential monitoring
      of phenotype, interferon gamma (IFN-g) enzyme-linked immunoSpots (EliSpots),
      anti-glioblastoma (GBM) cytotoxicity of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) (direct
      cytotoxicity against GBM cells) directed at GBM cell lines, T-helper 1 (Th1)/T-helper 2 (Th2)
      serum cytokine patterns, and anti-glioma antibodies in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)/serum
      during the "vaccinate and consolidate" process.

      II. Assess survival and persistence of aATC in the CSF, and trafficking of IT-injected aATC
      out of the CSF into the bloodstream.

      III. Image patients' brain with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (performed clinically in
      2-month intervals; includes standard structural sequences and perfusion imaging) and
      alpha-[11C]methyl-L-tryptophan (AMT) positron emission tomography (PET) scan (under Wayne
      State University [WSU] Internal Review Board [IRB]/Karmanos Cancer Institute [KCI]-approved
      research protocol) before and after the aATC treatment regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells IT twice weekly for 4 weeks.

      PHASE II: Patients receive EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells* IT twice weekly for 4 weeks and
      then intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes twice weekly for 2 weeks.

      *NOTE: Six selected patients receive EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells IV on day -3, -2, or -1
      prior to first IT infusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and
      then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  