
    
      This project proposes to Continuing the Conversation, following a previous study in which the
      investigators used storytelling in African Americans Veterans, to create videos of how they
      manage their blood pressure. The investigators demonstrated significant differences in
      intention to change HTN management behavior immediately after video viewing; however, effects
      on blood pressure were not sustained, and six-month outcomes revealed only modest benefit
      over control (p = 0.06). The investigators' findings highlight the need for longitudinal
      support to sustain the storytelling effect. The proposed study provides longitudinal support
      via text messages, incorporating content from the participant's chosen peer narrative as a
      means of sustaining motivation and engagement in HTN self-management.

      The proposal, "Continuing the Conversation," is a novel integration of peer narrative
      communication into technology. While use of an informatics tools (texting) as a channel to
      support self-management is not novel per se, the extension of a narrative via longitudinal
      texting is an innovative mechanism for supporting and sustaining HTN self-management
      behaviors. The investigators' Specific aims include:

      Aim 1. Refine and Pilot the Continuing the Conversation (CTC) intervention. Previously, the
      investigators created video-recorded stories told by African-American Veterans with HTN,
      describing their self-management strategies. The investigators will refine CTC by adapting
      content from these videos to create narrative-aligned texts and will pilot CTC.

      Aim 2. Test CTC by conducting a randomized controlled trial. CTC 'begins the conversation' by
      showing Veteran Story videos to participants, then inviting participants to select a
      preferred narrative. The investigators then 'continue the conversation,' offering
      longitudinal support via 6 months of narrative-aligned text messages. Messages cover key HTN
      content, providing education, reminders and weekly assessments, and include quotations
      derived from the chosen narrative. Control participants receive weekly assessment texts
      addressing the same key HTN self-management behaviors.

      Aim 3. Evaluate CTC effectiveness, and mediating factors, and conduct a cost analysis. The
      investigators hypothesize that, for the CTC Intervention group as compared to the control:
      (H1)the difference in blood pressure from baseline to 6 months (primary outcome) will favor
      CTC intervention compared with the change in control. (H2): Self-efficacy and HTN management
      behaviors during 6-month follow-up will be greater for those in the CTC intervention group
      than control.

      Methods: In a randomized controlled trial, 600 African-American Veterans with poorly
      controlled HTN will be recruited from 2 VA healthcare sites with known disparities in HTN
      control. The investigators will use within-site randomization (CTC vs. Control). Outcomes
      will include blood pressure, self-efficacy and HTN management behaviors. Longitudinal texts
      are designed to bring the storyteller back into the Veteran's everyday life, reminding and
      reinforcing as Veterans engage in the numerous daily decisions that will impact their blood
      pressure and their lives. Incorporating peer content into text messages in this way is highly
      innovative and offers a promising approach to supporting Veterans.
    
  