
    
      Uveitis refers to a large group of intraocular inflammatory diseases that can cause
      devastating visual loss in adults and children. This study establishes a clinical database
      and biospecimen repository for the identification of novel factors relevant to the
      pathogenesis, progression, and response to treatment of a wide spectrum of uveitic
      conditions.

      Objectives: This study provides for standardized collection of longitudinal clinical data and
      for serial collection, processing, and storage of a variety of biospecimens. The clinical
      data set and biospecimen repository will be used to identify novel genetic factors,
      biomarkers, and experimental models associated with pathogenesis, progression, and response
      to treatment for various ocular and systemic conditions where inflammation of the uveal tract
      is present.

      Study Population: The study plans to accrue 500 participants with uveitis or related
      diseases. This will not be restricted by anatomical location or etiology with the inclusion
      of both idiopathic cases, infectious uveitis, scleritis and those cases linked to a disease
      known to be associated with an increased risk of intraocular inflammation (e.g., sarcoidosis,
      Beh(SqrRoot)(Beta)et's disease, and multiple sclerosis (MS) and lymphoma). In addition, 100
      participants without intraocular inflammatory disease will be enrolled as controls.

      Design: This is a prospective observational study of participants with intraocular
      inflammatory diseases incorporating:

        1. A standardized follow-up and testing schedule with standard-of-care management of eye
           diseases; and

        2. Collection of biospecimens for research purposes for which sampling does not incur more
           than minimal risk to participants.

      Outcome Measures: Outcome measures include the interaction of key parameters of disease
      phenotype (such as visual acuity and ocular imaging features) with genetic variants and other
      biomarkers identified from biospecimens and the characterization of new experimental models
      of eye health and disease.
    
  