
    
      This is a single-center exploratory observational clinical study combining cross sectional
      and longitudinal aspects. It contains 18F-AV-1451-PET as an intervention. The primary
      objective is to measure tau deposition with 18-F-AV1451-PET based on voxel wise or volume
      based quantitative assessments and to study the effects of Tau deposition on the organism by
      identification of factors correlating to the measured tau deposition. Study participants will
      be followed for up to 8 years.

      To date cerebral tau pathology in vivo was only estimated by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau or
      CSF phospho-tau which precludes a study of topical distribution and interplay with Abeta
      pathology. 18F-AV-1451 offers the chance to visualize tau pathology and to study effects of
      tau on brain structure, brain physiology and cognitive function. Ideally, these effects are
      studied in well characterized individuals in whom other important pathological factors are
      already known.

      We therefore plan to study tau pathology measured by 18F-AV-1451 in subjects with already
      existing data on cerebral amyloid deposition (11C-Pittsburgh Compound C, Flutemetamol). We
      will be able to relate tau pathology to past and prospective cognitive performance assessed
      by a detailed neuro¬psychological examination, and we will be able to investigate whether
      cerebral tau pathology is reflected by peripheral blood biomarkers. For this purpose we will
      include elderly subjects with various degrees of cognitive performance (cognitively healthy,
      mild cognitive impairment, dementia) and various degrees of cerebral amyloid deposition
      (dichotomized or quantitative). We will also include Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD)
      cases to study tau effects in neurodegenerative disease in the absence of beta-amyloid.

      Our hypotheses are the following:

        1. We assume that it is possible to identify tau deposition in subjects with and without
           cerebral Abeta deposition.

        2. We hypothesize that tau-deposition will be associated with structural and physiological
           brain changes and that there are synergistic effects of the amount of tau and Abeta
           pathology on certain brain regions and on cognitive function.
    
  