
    
      DISCO RADIAL is a prospective, global, open label, multi-centre randomized controlled trial
      with plan to include approximately 1300 patients on who transradial coronary angiography
      and/or intervention is performed. The patients will be randomized in 1:1 ratio to either
      Distal Transradial Artery Access (DTRA) or Conventional Transradial Access (CTRA) arm. In
      both arms 6Fr Glidesheath Slender (GSS) will be used as access sheath.

      The sponsor will work in accordance with standard operating procedures (SOP) and the
      Monitoring Plan in order to ensure adherence to the CIP and applicable regulations at the
      investigational sites.

      The Monitoring Plan is built according to a risk-based monitoring approach and describes the
      level of source data verification to be performed by the monitors.

      Risk-based monitoring approach uses all available means to supervise the trial (central
      monitoring, remote monitoring and on-site monitoring), focusing in critical data points and
      issues ensuring that adequate monitoring (central, remote and on-site) at each site is
      completed to ensure protection of the rights and safety of the subjects and the quality and
      integrity of the data collected and submitted.

      The sponsor shall provide training and the necessary guidelines to assist each
      investigational site on the data collection in the eCRF. Each site is responsible to report
      the available data requested by the CIP. In order to ensure data quality and avoid missing
      information in the eCRF, edit checks are designed during database development. In addition,
      Sponsor's CRA and Data Management team will be responsible to review the data and raise
      queries accordingly into the eCRF. An audit trail logging all data entered and edited is
      available within the EDC system. All source documents are maintained in the hospital files
      ready for inspection by the Sponsor and regulatory authorities upon request. The Sponsor will
      inform the investigator of the time period for retaining these records as per applicable
      regulatory requirements.

      The following analysis sets will be considered for the statistical analysis :

      As Treated Population This population includes all patients who were treated and undergo the
      studied procedure. Patients will be assigned to the study treatement groups according to the
      actual received treatement.

      Intention-To-Treat Population This population includes all patients who have been randomized
      to a treatement. Patients will be assigned to the study treatement groups according to the
      treatement to which they have been randomized.

      Per-Protocol Population This population includes all patients who were treated and undergo
      the studied procedure, excluding all patients with major violations to the protocol (e.g.
      wrong inclusion, missing data, mis-randomization, crossover, drop off before discharge).
      Patients will be assigned to the study treatement groups according to the treatement to which
      they have been randomized. All the protocol deviations will be reported in statistical
      report.

      Assuming a rate of forearm RAO of 1% in DTRA and 3.5% in CTRA based on on two-sided alpha =
      0.050 and power = 80%, 1:1 randomization needs 551 patients for each group to detect
      statistically significant differences in forearm RAO proportions. Then, given the crossover
      rate of 10% and the drop out rate of 5% for both group, at least 648 patients needs for each
      group to maintain proper statistical power. In total 1300 subjects will be randomized.

      The primary endpoint analysis will be performed on ITT (Intention-To-Treat) population, by
      using two-sided superiority test with alpha = 0.05. Due to the short observation period (3
      days ±2), a low number of missing data is expected. However, in case it exceeds 15-20%,
      missing, unused or spurious data will be considered using a tipping point analysis for each
      population. The comparaison in RAO rates between treatment groups will be tested by
      Chi-squared tests or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. Odd-Ratio with IC95% will be
      calculated. Logistic regression analyses will be used to test the tendency.
    
  