
    
      Pulmonary artery hypertension (PAH) is a rare, severe disease, characterized by a progressive
      increase in pulmonary vascular resistance ultimately leading to right ventricular (RV)
      failure and premature death. PAH may be idiopathic (IPAH) or may be also related to various
      conditions like portal hypertension, HIV infection, left to right shunt, connective tissue
      diseases such as scleroderma (PAHSSc). PAH is defined as a mean pulmonary artery pressure
      (mPAP) of > 25 mmHg at rest. Symptoms include dyspnea and fatigue resulting in restricted
      exercise capacity and poor quality of life. The agents currently approved for treatment of
      PAH are prostanoids (i.v. epoprostenol or s.c./i.v. treprostinil), endothelin-receptor
      antagonists (ambrisentan, bosentan and sitaxsentan), and phosphodiesterase type 5-inhibitors
      (sildenafil and tadalafil). These therapies have been shown to improve pulmonary
      hemodynamics, exercise capacity, quality of life and survival. Indeed, recent studies
      described a three year survival higher than 80%. This improved survival is associated with
      major challenges for clinicians as most patients remain with limited exercise capacity and
      poor quality of life. A clear understanding of exercise physiopathology is thus mandatory to
      specifically address mechanisms responsible for this exercise limitation and eventually
      improve patients' management.

      In order to better characterize the exercise physiopathology in PAH, the general objective of
      this research is to systematically examine blood flow distribution and limb muscles
      microcirculation at rest and during submaximal exercise in PAH. The limited link between
      traditional measures of pulmonary hemodynamic impairment and functional capacity confirms
      that exercise physiopathology in PAH is not well understood. Although peripheral muscle
      dysfunction and exercise intolerance are certainly multifactorial in origin and are unlikely
      to be explained by a single mechanism, an altered skeletal muscle microcirculation could
      represent a unifying mechanism to explain similarities in skeletal muscle dysfunction and
      exercise intolerance in PAH. The investigators plan to use a multimodality approach to
      provide comprehensive information regarding skeletal muscle perfusion in PAH. For example,
      the investigators will be able to know if there is some relationship between muscle perfusion
      heterogeneity (arterial spin labeling MRI) and microvascular oxygenation or muscle oxygen
      consumption (NIRS). Muscle oxygen delivery could also be influenced by cardiac function or
      hypoxemia. These methods should thus be viewed as complimentary and will help to separate
      differences in cardiac function, quadriceps global perfusion, perfusion heterogeneity and
      oxygenation and their consequences on skeletal muscle function and exercise tolerance in PAH
      versus controls.
    
  