
    
      Chronic organ dysfunction of the lung allograft is the most common cause of death in lung
      transplant recipients after the first postoperative year and is a major cause of morbidity in
      the long-term care. It affects every second recipient surviving 5 years after transplantation
      (Boehler, Estenne 2003). Obliterative bronchiolitis (OB) is the histo-pathological process
      underlying chronic organ dysfunction after LTx. Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) is
      the clinical definition of chronic organ dysfunction following lung transplantation (LTx) and
      refers to a progressive obstructive ventilatory disorder. Staging is performed according to
      baseline values of forced expiratory volume after LTx (Estenne et al. 2001).

      Excessive immunosuppression may be deleterious by increasing the risk of infection, thereby
      triggering innate and adaptive immunity. BOS is progressive in most of the cases with
      stabilisation in some. Different clinical entities are found according to time of onset,
      speed of decline in graft function (Jackson et al. 2002), ventilatory patterns, findings on
      imaging studies (Pakhale et al 2005, Choi et al 2003) and response to macrolides (Gerhardt et
      al. 2003). Exhaled biomarkers are promising markers of disease activity in pats with BOS (an
      Muylem 2007, Brugiere et al 2005) Alloimmune-independent and -dependent mechanisms produce
      injuries and inflammation of epithelial cells and subepithelial structures, leading to
      aberrant tissue repair (Nicod et al 2006). The triggering of innate immunity by various
      infections (especially respiratory viruses, Khalifah et al 2004) or chemical injuries (e.g.
      gastroesophageal reflux or aspiration, Palmer et al. 2000), may lead to the release of danger
      signals that are able to activate dendritic cells, a crucial link with adaptive immunity.
      Inflammation can also increase the expression and display of major histocompatibility
      alloantigens and thus favor the initiation of rejection episodes. The injuries evoke a
      proinflammatory response and cellular infiltration that leads to excessive fibroproliferation
      and results in matrix deposition and vascular remodelling. These phenomena may be limited in
      time and location or may be protracted. Reducing the risk of alloimmune-independent factors
      may be as important as treating acute episodes of lung rejection.

      Newpotential therapeutic targets are emerging from the research performed on leukotriene
      receptors, chemokine receptors, and growth factors. Neutralizing these molecules may reduce
      the initial mononuclear and polynuclear infiltrates or the subsequent fibroproliferative
      process and the neovascular changes, feeding this process. (Nicod 2006). Macrolides are
      promising new agents which partially reverse loss of graft function in a subgroup of
      patients, which may change definition of BOS in the near future (Gerhardt et al 2003).
    
  