
    
      Previous studies have demonstrated that premature infants transfused using restrictive
      guidelines, in which red blood cell (RBC) transfusions are triggered at relatively low Hgb
      thresholds, receive significantly fewer transfusions and have similar clinical outcomes to
      premature infants transfused using liberal transfusion guidelines that use higher Hgb
      thresholds. However, some remain apprehensive about a restrictive transfusion approach,
      primarily because the research remains somewhat limited. In addition, concern also exists
      because some previous researchers found that although there was no difference in mortality
      based on whether a restrictive or liberal transfusion guideline was used, they did find that
      a liberal transfusion policy may provide a neuro-protective benefit. This then implies that
      there may be circumstances in which a neonate transfused with a restrictive strategy could
      benefit from an increased Hgb level, but does not receive transfusion because their Hgb has
      not dropped below a predefined transfusion trigger level.

      The investigators have previously demonstrated in an observational study that measuring
      tissue oxygen saturation (rSO2) levels using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) can be more
      specific in determining RBC transfusion needs in the preterm population than relying on Hgb
      values derived from a blood sample. Using a model to calculate the splanchnic to cerebral
      oxygenation ratio (SCOR) [splanchnic rSO2 / cerebral rSO2] could predict with a high
      probability if preterm infants would improve clinically after a RBC transfusion. Infants with
      a low SCOR, who were in a physiologic state in which blood and oxygen were being diverted
      away from the gastrointestinal tract, usually benefited after transfusion. Neonates with a
      high SCOR, in which oxygen saturation in gut tissue was relatively constant with brain
      tissue, were unlikely to improve with transfusion.

      The intent of this study is to determine whether the SCOR assessment (performed in addition
      to traditional measurement of Hbg) can better predict which premature infants will benefit
      from RBC transfusion in a subset of infants demonstrating signs of anemia before having
      reached the transfusion threshold of a restrictive transfusion protocol. The goal is to
      assess whether this additional assessment of oxygen delivery (SCOR) can safely reduce the
      rate of transfusion in a group of subjects treated on a restrictive protocol compared with
      those transfused using a liberal transfusion protocol. The hypothesis is that by
      incorporating a measure of transfusion need, SCOR, to the clinical management of a group of
      preterm infants following a restrictive guideline approach, we can still reduce the average
      number of transfusions that these infants receive compared to a similar group of preterm
      infants managed with a liberal approach, yet have no difference in morbidity, including
      neurological outcomes.

      This study is designed as a prospective randomized controlled trial. Preterm infants less
      than 30 weeks gestational age and 500-1250 grams in weight will be recruited and enrolled
      into the study during day of life 0 to 3. Study participants will be randomly assigned into
      two groups: a restrictive transfusion group and a liberal transfusion group. In the liberal
      group, RBC transfusions will be given to subjects when their Hgb level falls below defined
      values that are based on respiratory support status. In the restrictive group, RBC
      transfusions will be given to subjects either when their Hgb level falls below defined values
      based on respiratory status or, despite not having reached their Hgb trigger threshold, if
      they manifest symptoms judged by the clinical care team to be consistent with anemia (i.e.
      apnea, bradycardia, or desaturation episodes) and subsequently have a near-infrared
      spectroscopy (NIRS) evaluation that demonstrates an SCOR < 0.73.
    
  