
    
      Clinical practice in the treatment of community-onset skin and soft tissue infections (SSTI)
      has not kept pace with the emergence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in
      the community. This clinical trial will evaluate clindamycin (CLINDA) and
      trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) and wound care for the outpatient management of
      uncomplicated skin and soft tissue infection (uSSTI) in 3 metropolitan areas, Chicago, Los
      Angeles, and San Francisco, cities with high prevalence of community acquired (CA)-MRSA. This
      is a phase IIb multicenter, stratified, randomized, double-blind trial in which enrolled
      subjects with abscess or cellulitis will be treated with CLINDA, TMP-SMX, or placebo.
      Participants will include 1310 non-immunocompromised out-patients age 6 months to 85 years
      with SSTIs not requiring hospital admission. Subjects will undergo a screening/baseline
      evaluation, including determination of presence and size of abscess and/or presence of
      cellulitis. Subjects will then be randomized to receive treatment with either CLINDA,
      TMP-SMX, or placebo depending on whether they have: a larger drainable abscess, defined as
      greater than 5 cm in diameter in adults and as greater than 3 cm in diameter for ages 6-11
      months, greater than 4 cm for ages 1-8 years, and greater than 5 cm for age 9 years and
      older; a limited drainable abscess, defined as less than or equal to 5 cm for adults and as
      less than or equal to 3 cm for ages 6-11 months, less than or equal to 4 cm for ages 1-8
      years, and less than or equal to 5 cm for age 9 years and older; or cellulitis or erysipelas
      only. If the diameter of the abscess greater than 5 cm (smaller for children depending on
      age) or 2 or more sites of skin infection are present the subject will be randomized (1:1) to
      10 days of therapy with TMP-SMX or CLINDA. If the diameter of the abscess less than or equal
      to 5 cm (smaller for children depending on age) then the subject will be randomized (1:1:1)
      to TMP-SMX, CLINDA or placebo for 10 days. Subjects with cellulitis or erysipelas only will
      be randomized (1:1) to TMP-SMX or CLINDA for 10 days. Subjects will be provided study drug,
      instructed in its use, and scheduled for 4 follow-up visits including: wound check (24-48
      hours after enrollment); end of therapy (48 hours after completion of therapy); test of cure
      (7-10 days after completion of therapy); and a final visit at one month after completion of
      therapy. The primary objectives of this study are: to compare the cure rate of CLINDA to that
      of TMP-SMX for the treatment of patients with cellulitis or larger abscess at the Test of
      Cure (TOC) visit and to compare the cure rate of CLINDA, TMP-SMX, and placebo, each in
      conjunction with surgical drainage for the treatment of subjects with limited abscess at the
      TOC visit.
    
  