
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of doxorubicin, carmustine, cyclophosphamide, and melphalan (ABCM)
           with or without oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone as induction for the first plateau
           phase in elderly patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      center.

      Patients receive doxorubicin IV followed immediately by carmustine IV over 1-2 hours on day 1
      and oral melphalan (L-PAM) and oral cyclophosphamide (CTX) on days 22-25 (ABCM). Treatment
      continues every 6 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients whose blood counts recover within 6 weeks after beginning L-PAM and CTX
      during course 3 are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients whose blood counts fail to
      recover within 6 weeks after beginning L-PAM and CTX during course 3 are assigned to arm II.

        -  Arm I: Patients continue ABCM for a maximum of 12 courses in the absence of a plateau
           phase after completion of at least 4 courses, disease progression, or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral cyclophosphamide once weekly and oral prednisone every
           other day. Treatment continues every 6 weeks in the absence of a plateau phase after
           completion of 3 courses of ABCM plus a minimum of 8 weeks on arm II or less than 3
           courses of ABCM plus 6 months on arm II, disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients on both arms with bone pain or failure to respond to chemotherapy may undergo
      minimal radiotherapy. Patients achieving plateau phase may enter the MRC trial of interferon
      alfa-2b.

      Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,000 patients will be accrued for this study within
      approximately 5 years.
    
  