
    
      HIV is spreading more rapidly in Eastern Europe than anywhere else in the world. Bulgaria and
      Hungary are still in the early stages of the crisis. However, without efforts to prevent the
      spread of HIV and AIDS, both countries are likely to fall victim to the HIV/AIDS growth curve
      that has already affected the rest of Eastern Europe. Bulgarian and Hungarian young men who
      have sex with men (YMSM) and Roma men and women are at the greatest risk for HIV infection.
      In both countries, HIV is spread primarily through sexual transmission. Prevention efforts
      that are undertaken now could help these countries avoid an explosive HIV/AIDS epidemic. YMSM
      and Roma men in Bulgaria and Hungary are more likely to trust HIV/AIDS information received
      from someone they know than from an official statement. Therefore, entire social networks
      will be recruited for this study and the leader of each network will be responsible for
      delivering the prevention information to his or her peers. This study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of peer-led HIV/STD risk reduction educational counseling in reducing HIV risk
      behavior among the social networks of YMSM and Roma men and women in Bulgaria and Hungary.

      This study will recruit 40 YMSM and 40 Roma high-risk social networks. Each network will be
      randomly assigned to receive either standard HIV/AIDS risk reduction or the intervention.
      Networks assigned to receive the intervention will be assessed sociometrically to determine
      the 'social influence' leaders of each group. The leaders will then attend a 9-session
      program over the course of 3 months that will train them to deliver theory-based
      risk-reduction messages and peer-counseling to their respective social networks. The messages
      will focus on promoting safer sex knowledge, attitudes, intentions, perceived norms, and
      self-efficacy. All participants will be offered STD testing and their HIV-risk behavior will
      be assessed at Months 3 and 12. Participants assigned to receive the standard HIV/AIDS risk
      reduction will then receive the network intervention for an additional 12 months.
    
  