
    
      Stroke is the third leading cause of death and the leading cause of serious long-term
      disability in the United States. Approximately 15-30% of stroke survivors are permanently
      disabled. Twenty eight percent of stroke patients are under age 65 which results in a loss of
      work income. While many restorative therapies are touted as promising for the treatment of
      ischemic stroke, to date none are approved for this purpose. Sildenafil (Viagra®), a
      phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, has been shown to reduce mortality and improve the
      functional outcomes of young and aged rats when administered 24 hours and 7 days after stroke
      onset. Such results are encouraging and warrant further investigation in human stroke.

      The specific aims of this study are to assess the safety of treating ischemic stroke patients
      with sildenafil (Viagra®) and to evaluate their outcomes at day 90. This will be a phase I
      dose-escalation study with cohort sizes of 12 patients (depending on the occurrence of
      serious adverse events). A total enrollment of 120 patients is planned. Patients who are
      between 4 and 7 days from stroke onset will receive 25, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 175, and 200
      mg daily of sildenafil for a period of 14 days. Of the 120 patients, 24 will be randomly
      selected to receive standard treatment but will not receive sildenafil. All patients and
      physicians will be aware of treatment assignment. Evaluation of potential toxicity will be
      monitored throughout the course of treatment and during a formal visit at day 16 after
      initiation of treatment. Plasma monitoring of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) will
      be made prior to treatment, at days 7, 16, 30, 60, and 90. Measurements of NIHSS scores,
      Rankin scores, and Barthel indices will be made at days 30, 60, and 90. Patients will also be
      assessed for color vision changes and sexual function during day 16 and day 90 visits. There
      will be every other day phone calls to patients while on treatment. The primary outcome
      measure will be death, recurrent stroke, and myocardial infarction during treatment.
      Exploratory analysis will include functional outcomes as measured on the neurological scales,
      and changes in VEGF levels in relation to clinical outcome.

      The long-term objective is to identify a safe and easily administered treatment that improves
      functional outcome in patients with ischemic stroke.
    
  