
    
      Pregablain Interest has been focused on the analgesic, sedative, anxiolytic, and
      opioid¬sparing effects of pregabalin (PGL) (S+ 3-isobutyl GABA), a structural analog of GABA
      and a derivative of gabapentin in various pain settingsl including postoperative pain . Of a
      similar mechanism of action, it is thought to possess a superior phannacokinetic profile than
      gabapentin [15]. Pregabalin has a variable role in neuropathic pain conditions, such as
      post-herpetic neuralgia, painful diabetic neuropathy, central neuropathic pain, and
      fibromyalgia . Some studies had not demonstrated a significant analgesic effect in the acute,
      postoperative pain; others propose PGL to have effective sedative and opioid-sparing effects,
      both useful characteristics for the control of acute pain. Opioid sparing effects and
      improved pain scores have been seen after abdominal and pelvic surgery. Its many potential
      actions such as reducing opioid reqUirements, prevention and reduction of opioid tolerance,
      improvement of the quality of opioid analgesia, decreased respiratory depression, relief of
      anxiety, and gastriC sparing, make it an attractive drug to consider for control of pain in
      the post operative period.

      Population characteristics The orthopedic oncological patients are a specific group of
      individuals whose demand for antinociception starts rather before surgery because of the bone
      tumor-generated pain that usually signals the first the existence of pathology. Also, pain
      intensity that is generated by an intervention on the skeleton is more intense than that
      induced by damage to soft tissue. Subsequently, these patients would require postoperatively
      more analgesics than after general surgery and for a longer period of time. We have
      demonstrated previously that acute pain that is superimposed on an already aroused eNS, i.e.,
      the presence of central sensitization, would create a situation where complete
      antinociception is hard to obtain, as in these patients, and therefore the efficacy of the
      antinociceptive protocol is best tested, comprised the possible transformation of acute into
      chronic pain.

      Pre-emption has been pointed out as a beneficial tool for reducing perioperative pain.
      Various techniques have been employed for this purpose; different drugs were used as well.
      The beneficial effects of preemptive PGL were documented in patients who had undergone lumbar
      discectomy, both immediately and 1 and 3 months after surgery.

      Hypothesis No studies considered the comparison of preemptive vs. post-surgery PGL only
      administration, We believe that the administration of PGL preemptively would diminish pain
      sensation and therefore the need for opioids administration in orthopedic-oncologic patients
      more effectively than if administered starting postoperatively.

      Objectives To assess the beneficial effects Of PGL admi"istered either pre-incisionally or
      post-incisionally on the immediate and late (1-and 3 months) postoperative analgeSia
      requirements and pain scores, as well as satisfaction rate in the orthopedic oncologic
      patients.
    
  