
    
      Spina bifida can be a devastating neurological congenital anomaly . It results from
      incomplete closure of the neural tube between 22 and 28 embryological days. Its incidence is
      approximately 1-2 per 1,000 births. It is considered the most common congenital anomaly of
      the central nervous system that is compatible with life.

        1. The most frequent form is myelomeningocele (MMC), characterized by the extrusion of the
           spinal cord into a sac filled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and is associated with
           lower limb paralysis and bowel and bladder dysfunction.

        2. The majority of MMCs can be diagnosed between 14 and 20 weeks of gestation. MMC is
           associated with Chiari II malformation, which includes a constellation of anomalies such
           as hindbrain herniation, brainstem abnormalities, low-lying venous sinuses and a small
           posterior fossa.The Chiari II malformation can have deleterious effects on motor,
           cranial nerve and cognitive functions. Postnatally most MMC patients develop
           hydrocephalus and require a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Shunts require lifelong
           monitoring and have a high failure rate due to infection, obstruction, and fracture.

      Experimental studies using animal models have shown that prenatal coverage of a spina
      bifida-like lesion can preserve neurological function and reduce or reverse hindbrain
      herniation.These studies suggest a "two-hit" hypothesis in which the ultimate neurologic
      deficit results from a combination of the failure of normal neural-tube closure (first hit)
      with secondary spinal cord injury resulting from prolonged exposure of sensitive neural
      elements to the amniotic fluid (second hit mechanism).

      Based on this hypothesis, open fetal surgical repair of MMC was proposed, and the recent
      publication of the NICHD sponsored randomized controlled trial demonstrated clear neonatal
      benefit of open in-utero fetal surgical repair of MMC. The study showed a reduction in the
      incidence of hydrocephalus and in the radiographic severity of hindbrain herniation (relative
      risk: 0.67; 95% confidence interval: 0.56-0.81).

      Open in-utero fetal surgery is not without risk and the NICHD study (MOMS Trial) showed an
      elevation in maternal-fetal morbidity/risk when compared to the postnatally treated group,
      including higher risk for chorioamniotic separation (26% vs. 0%, respectively), maternal
      pulmonary edema (6% vs. 0%), oligohydramnios (21% vs. 0%), placental abruption (6% vs. 0%),
      spontaneous membrane rupture (46%; RR: 6.15; 95% CI: 2.75-13.78), spontaneous labor (38%; RR:
      2.80, 95%CI: 1.51-5.18), maternal blood transfusion (9%; RR: 7.18; 95%CI: 0.90-57.01), and
      preterm delivery before 34 weeks (46%; RR: 9.2; 95%CI: 3.81-22.19). The reason for the
      increased incidence of these complications is related to the nature of the open fetal
      procedure, which involves a multi-faceted invasive approach including maternal laparotomy,
      large hysterotomy with uterine edge stapling, and open fetal repair of the spina bifida
      defect that may involve manipulation and exposure of the fetus for a significant amount of
      time.

      Fetal endoscopic surgery has progressed rapidly over the past decades and the investigators
      are now able to perform a number of intricate procedures inside the uterus with specially
      designed instruments. These procedures include laser therapy for Twin-twin-transfusion
      syndrome, fetal cystoscopy and fulguration of posterior urethral valves, release of amniotic
      bands, and placement of various shunts and balloons inside fetal structures and cavities
      (peritoneal, pleural, cardiac, and trachea).

      Fetoscopy offers a less invasive therapeutic option that could reduce a number of the
      morbidities (both maternal and fetal) related to open fetal procedures.

      A few animal studies and some clinical human experience with fetoscopic repair of MMC have
      been reported showing the feasibility of covering the defect with a patch and sealant, or
      even in performing a full repair. These repairs have been accomplished using at least two
      (and sometimes more) entry ports through the uterine wall. Kohl et al. in Germany, have
      demonstrated the feasibility of performing a complete percutaneous fetoscopic repair of MMC
      using carbon dioxide to distend the uterus and provide a dry working area for the surgeon to
      perform the repair.

      These investigators described a two-layer covering technique using an absorbable patch
      (Durasis, Cook, Germany) and sutures. However, while they showed that the procedure is
      feasible, their percutaneous technique with complete two layer surgical closure of the defect
      using sutures was associated with prolonged operative time and significant maternal and
      obstetrical morbidities.

      Fetoscopy in a CO2 gas filled uterus has been recently reported by groups in Bonn, Germany
      (Kohl et al) and Sao Paulo, Brazil (Pedreira et al). The fetoscopic technique the
      investigators use has been developed and tested in a fetal sheep model of MMC by the
      investigators group and others (Peiro et al).

      This fetoscopy technique has evolved over time to a 2-port technique developed by our team in
      Houston, Texas and its feasibility and applicability to the human uterus and fetus have been
      demonstrated and published (Belfort et al, 2017) and demonstrate an improved degree of
      flexibility in terms of access to the fetus regardless of placental location. The technique
      is designed to decrease the maternal risks of open uterus fetal surgery while maintaining a
      similar level of fetal benefit as seen in the MOMS trial.

      The investigators technique employs an open abdomen/exteriorized (but closed) uterus
      methodology that allows the minimally invasive multi-layer closure of the fetal neural tube
      using the same closed skin repair currently employed at Baylor College of Medicine/Texas
      Children's Fetal Center using the open uterus approach. The technique employs a novel
      approach to low pressure uterine distention using the same carbon dioxide gas 8-12 mmHg that
      others attempting fetoscopic repair have used, but employing a much lower gas flow rate and
      pressure. In addition, our technique (as compared with the percutaneous method) allows
      improved access to the fetus in anterior placentation, ability to manipulate and maintain the
      fetus in the required position, and optimal port placement resulting from the exteriorized
      maternal uterus.

      In addition, because of the exteriorized uterus and the optimal placement this allows, we
      require only two access ports and these can be sutured into the uterus allowing a closed seal
      and minimizing gas leakage. The use of humidified, warmed CO2, which we pioneered in fetal
      surgery, decreases membrane disruption and may prolong gestation without rupture of the
      membranes. Finally, recent advances in miniature surgical instruments (Storz 1.5 - 3mm
      surgical sets) allow unprecedented flexibility which enables a full surgical repair to be
      performed via a fetoscopic approach.

      In preparation for the human trial we were able to perform, in a sheep model, dual access
      port fetoscopic neural tube closure using a 12 F cannula, a second 9F cannula, a cover patch,
      and a medical sealant with similar results to that seen with open fetal surgical repair in
      the same sheep model.26

      We have now completed almost 50 cases using our 2 port exteriorized technique with results
      that are reflect our initial hypothesis (Belfort et al , 2017). As with any technique there
      have been advances in instrumentation and technique and the study is ongoing investigating
      the multilayer closure technique.

      In this protocol, the repair of the open neural tube defect will follow the same principles
      as we use in open repairs currently being done at this institution. This involves release of
      the placode, dissection of the surrounding skin and attempted primary closure of the defect
      using a Durepair patch, a muscle or duro-fascial flap, and available skin. In those cases
      where we are able to complete the procedure with full skin closure of the defect, the only
      difference between the open uterus procedure and the fetoscopic procedure, will be that the
      surgery will be done fetoscopically rather than through an open uterine incision. If we are
      unable to close the skin primarily despite best fetoscopic efforts, the option of
      performing/completing the repair as an open procedure exists and will be offered to the
      patient. The patient is monitored in hospital until ready for discharge.

      Approximately 6 weeks after the surgery a post-procedure fetal MRI will be performed. If
      there is evidence of good closure of the neural tube defect and reversal of the Chiari II
      malformation, a vaginal delivery can be attempted based on obstetric criteria. Patients will
      be followed in person every 3-4 months after birth to 12 months at the Spina Bifida Clinic at
      TCH. Remaining visits will be yearly up to 5 years. If this is not possible, questionnaire(s)
      will be mailed to the child's parents and records will be requested from the treating
      neurosurgeon on this same schedule.
    
  