
    
      A randomized controlled trial involving adult patients undergoing surgery to the wrist and
      hand with centralized random allocation of patients to 2 groups: 1)Brachial plexus block and
      2)Forearm block. The brachial plexus group will undergo a standard brachial plexus block. The
      forearm group will undergo a block of the proximal forearm targeting the radial sensory,
      ulnar, median and lateral antebrachial cutaneous nerves.

      Group allocation will not be blinded from the treating physicians or patients due to
      methodological constraints. However, the research assistants performing follow-up assessments
      will be blinded.

      Brachial plexus anesthesia provides a reliable sensorimotor block for upper extremity
      surgery. It is the current gold standard of anesthesia for surgery on the hand. A forearm
      block is an alternative anesthetic technique. As day surgery for hand procedures is less
      invasive and has fewer analgesic requirements, it may be that a forearm block, which allows
      for preservation of upper extremity function, is of benefit for these types of procedures. It
      is anticipated that patients may appreciate the forearm block as opposed to a brachial plexus
      block as they will have greater functionality post-operatively upon returning home. This
      contrasts with a brachial plexus block which causes a flaccid and insensate upper extremity
      lasting for many hours beyond the surgical procedure longer than the anticipated analgesic
      requirements which may be detrimental. Conversely, a forearm block may not provide sufficient
      anesthesia to create a dense motor blockade, which may result in unwanted intra-operative
      hand movements during surgery. This could pose a significant safety concern.

      A forearm block has successfully been used as a primary anesthetic in patients undergoing
      hand surgery, although no information has been published about patient satisfaction and
      events related to patient safety.

      The investigators aim to assess patient satisfaction, as well as overall efficacy and safety
      of the forearm blocks for hand and wrist surgery, as compared to the gold standard of
      brachial plexus blocks.
    
  