
    
      Patients with renal stones, seen through the outpatient clinic in the urology department or
      post primary intervention for renal stones, will be assessed to see if the patient satisfies
      all inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients who are meeting these criteria will be asked
      to participate in this prospective study. If they agree, they will be asked to sign an
      informed consent.

      Baseline patients' assessment will include;

        -  Full history taking including

             -  Previous stone history regarding presentation and management

             -  Previous trial oral dissolution therapy for renal stones and their compliance to
                the treatment

             -  Previous GIT surgery

             -  History of chronic medical or metabolic illness e.g; DM

        -  Clinical examination including

           o Body mass index (BMI)

        -  Laboratory investigations including;

             -  Urine analysis (urine PH)

             -  24 hours urine testing for uric acid and citrate

             -  Urine culture

             -  Serum creatinine

             -  Random blood sugar (RBS)

             -  Serum uric acid

             -  Serum calcium, phosphorus and magnesium.

        -  Initial radiological evaluation will include

             -  Renal ultrasonography (US)

             -  Plain X-rays to exclude the presence of calcification in the targeted stone.

             -  Non Contrast Computed Tomography (NCCT) on the abdomen and pelvis.

             -  MAG3 diuretic renogram

      (All NCCT studies will be performed with multislice helical CT scanners, NCCT images will be
      obtained from above the kidneys through the bladder base. For each renal stone, its location
      will be recorded, its size will be measured using the largest dimension from length (L),
      width (W) and height (H) on axial and coronal reformat images. Its mean density will be
      recorded by measurement using region of interest just smaller than the stone. Associated
      hydronephrosis proximal to the stone will be also evaluated (Nakada et al 2000).)

      Patient will receive the allocated instructions and medications

      Patients' follow up (The aim at follow up is to monitor the urinary PH with adjustment of the
      dose of potassium citrate and also to assess the compliance of the patients regarding the
      dietary recommendations and the medications)

        -  After 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 8 weeks and 12 weeks.

           - the most important parameter will be assessed is the urinary PH every two weeks. The
           target urinary PH should be kept between6.5 to 7.0, the dose of potassium citrate should
           be adjusted to achieve this value.

        -  Patients' compliance to medications intake and the instruction of fluid intake and
           dietary modification.
    
  