
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved atezolizumab for this
      specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

      Atezolizumab is a protein that affects the immune system by blocking the PD-L1 pathway. The
      PD-L1 pathway controls the body's natural immune response, but tumors can interrupt this
      pathway and partially resist or escape the immune system. By blocking the PD-L1 pathway,
      Atezolizumab may help the immune system identify and catch tumor cells.

      Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a standard procedure used to treat patients with cancer in
      the brain. SRS uses many precisely focused radiation beams to treat tumors. It is not surgery
      in the traditional sense because there's no incision. Instead, SRS uses 3-D imaging to target
      high doses of radiation to the affected area with minimal impact on the surrounding healthy
      tissue. Like other forms of radiation, SRS works by damaging the DNA of the targeted (tumor)
      cells. The affected cells then lose the ability to reproduce, which causes tumors to shrink.

      When given separately, atezolizumab and SRS, work in different ways to help stop cancer cells
      from growing and spreading. However, it is not known if giving atezolizumab and SRS at the
      same time will have a better effect than giving each treatment on its own. It is hoped that
      SRS treatment will damage cancer cells and make them more visible to the immune system.

      The researchers conducting this study are testing to see whether giving SRS with atezolizumab
      may boost the body's immune response to cancer, and therefore improve upon the effects of
      either SRS or atezolizumab given alone.

      In this research study, the investigators will measure the length of time that the
      participant receive this study intervention without the disease getting worse. The
      investigators will also look at how well the disease responds to atezolizumab and SRS as well
      as the safety of the combination.
    
  