
    
      Objectives of the Study:

      The general objective of this study is to analyze the rate of functional decline (FD) and
      progression to clinical dementia and their risks factors (biomedical, imaging, psychosocial,
      and clinical) in a community-dwelling elderly with subjective cognitive complaint (SCC),
      through a population-based study. The specific objectives are to determinate (i) longitudinal
      evolution of biomarkers measured from blood, stool and structural and functional neuroimaging
      (MRI), (ii) evolution of the health-related quality of life; (iii) rate of cardiovascular
      events (stroke and coronary events), and (iv) mortality rates. The investigators also aim to
      build the capacity to undertake clinical research on brain aging and dementia disorders and
      create Data-Bank and Bio-Banks with an appropriate infrastructure to further studies and
      facilitate access to the data and samples for research.

      The Gero cohort is the core clinical project of the GERO, supported by the Fund for Research
      Centers in Priority Areas Program (FONDAP) of the Chilean National Commission for Scientific
      and Technological Research (CONICYT). GERO is initially funded for 5 years, and its main aim
      is to establish a center for studying Brain Aging in Chile including basic and clinical
      research.

      Methods/Design

      Field work during the first contact

      The recruitment process considers two steps. Firstly, a lay team contacts each home to
      determine the presence of eligible individuals. In positive cases, the person receives a
      second visit by a trained psychologist who proceeds to check the eligibility. In case of
      acceptance, the inclusion and exclusion criteria protocol are applied. If the subject
      fulfills the criteria, the psychologist schedule a medical interview. Following this
      evaluation, a neurologist decides if the subject fulfill the inclusion criteria of the
      cohort.

      The fieldwork is preceded by an outreach campaign (flyers, local radio advertisements, and
      presentations to community-organized groups) raising awareness about the visit of
      interviewers and the relevance of participating in the study. Rates of contact and response
      are monitored permanently, and the procedures around the contact and first interview are
      checked in the field and also by telephone to a subsample of participants. Contact to homes
      is attempted up to three times on different days and hours before considering it frustrated.
      The fieldwork started in November 2017 and is expected to finish at the end of 2019.

      The lay team and psychologists involved in the first contact and recruitment received
      specific training on their labour in the field. The lay team completed a whole week training,
      which included theoretical and practical elements. Psychologists received a twelve weeks
      length training, which covers several sessions of neuropsychological assessment, including
      performance psychology.

      Sample size

      The sample size had to satisfy two criteria, one concerned with the statistical power
      required to explore multiple associations with outcomes, and other related to the feasibility
      to perform a wide range of assessments to each participant assuming costs and logistics. Both
      criteria meant a trade-off between the tolerance to uncertainty around the parameters to be
      estimated and the number of assessments that would be investigated throughout the study. The
      final sample chosen was 300 participants. This number allows maintaining the integrity of the
      original protocol and permits to test associations equivalent to an odds ratio (OR) around
      1.5 (Cohen's d equal to 0,22) in cases of exposition and probability of the outcome close to
      50%, using a significance of 5%. It is expected to follow each participant between 2 and 3
      years, accumulating roughly 750 person-years of follow up.

      Follow-up and retention strategy

      Socio-demographic, clinical, psychosocial, neuropsychological, neuropsychiatric, motor,
      neuroimaging, blood biomarkers, stool, and genetic samples will be performed as baseline
      evaluation and every 18 months, with the exception of genetic study that will be performed
      only at baseline and neuroimaging at baseline and the 36 month. Patients' health status,
      functionality, and involvement in the Gero cohort will be monitored every 6 months by a
      telephonic questionnaire.

      To avoid a significant attrition of the sample a set following strategies have been
      considered: to recruit only people who have at least one person that can facilitate the
      contact with him or her, it means a person who can be contacted for asking about the location
      of the participant; telephone contact every six months; and domicile visit in case of absence
      of contact or attending to assessment appointments. Additionally, all transport costs of
      participants will be covered by the Gero cohort administration, as well as any food that is
      required during the days of assessment. Initially, the end of the follow up of the cohort is
      programmed for October 2022.

      Assessments and measurements

      The protocol considers an intensive and deep multidimensional study of factors related to the
      prognosis of FD and dementia development. The range of assessments includes:
      socio-demographic, psychosocial, neuropsychological, neuropsychiatric, motor, neuroimaging,
      blood biomarkers, genetic and stool samples to perform gut microbiome studies. Neuroimaging
      protocol will allow assessing brain atrophy, structural and functional connectivity and white
      matter lesions. Gero biological samples of whole blood, buffy coat, plasma, serum, and
      peripheral mononuclear cells are taken and processed according to the guidelines published in
      2015. Samples are stored in our Gero biobank for long-term storage at -80 °C or in liquid
      nitrogen. Stool samples will be collected using standardized kits and DNA extracted using the
      protocol Q suggested by the international human microbiome standards (IHMS SOP 06 V1). Data
      are recorded in an ad-hoc platform developed by bioinformatics and bioengineers personal of
      Gero.

      Data analysis plan

      The Gero cohort offers a unique opportunity for multiple analyses to identify, correlate and
      analyze multidimensional factors related to FD and progression to dementia in elderlies with
      SCC.

      In broad terms, a descriptive of baseline measurements (either outcomes or potential
      predictive factors) will be performed. The procedure will be repeated at each measurement
      time, every 18 months. Random effect models will be used for describing trajectories of
      participant subgroups and the whole cohort according to main variables, using Markov-Chain
      Montecarlo procedures.

      The association between variables and outcomes will be explored broadly using different
      machine learning methods, such as elastic net procedure, random forest procedure, based-tree
      methods, and support vector machines. These procedures are suitable to lead with
      multi-collinearity and also high dimensional data (e.g. the number of predictive variables is
      larger than the number of participants in the cohort). Interpretation of causality will be
      conducted using standard random effect models and eventually structural equation modeling.

      Missing data and loss of follow up of participants are common in observational studies,
      mainly in cohorts. Firstly, cases with missing data in any outcome will be explored and
      compared with cases without missing data describing any pattern. Secondly, two strategies
      will be followed to estimate results: (1) to analyze only cases with complete information
      (i.e. assuming that missing data is completely at random); and (2) imputing data according to
      multivariate imputation by chained equation techniques. The analysis will be performed using
      the statistical software R.

      Coordination with local health services

      The Gero cohort has been carefully design to avoid undermining the usual care of participants
      in their common health services facilities. Even more, a linkage between the health
      assessments provided by the cohort and the usual health care has been promoted.

      In cases when the cohort's assessment detects a new health condition (diabetes, depression,
      hypertension, etc.), participants are derived to the primary healthcare centre of their
      territory. In case of detection of a significant neurological disorder (dementia syndrome,
      Parkinson, etc.) the participants are directly derived to specialized care according to their
      health district, communicating the decision to the primary health care.

      Primary care health centres, specialized care polyclinics and the direction of the Health
      District involved have been informed about the study and jointly the protocol of derivation
      and communication were established.

      Regulation of access to data/biospecimens

      The access to data and biospecimens is regulated by the GERO directorate in accordance with
      the local Institutional Review Board authorization. A bilateral agreement must be signed
      before sharing of data. Access to the server will not be granted.
    
  