
    
      The underlying pathogenesis of schizophrenia remains unknown, but aberrant
      reduction-oxidation has gained increasing support as an hypothesis to help explain the
      pathophysiology of the disease. Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) is a naturally occurring antioxidant,
      essential for the function of different enzymes of mitochondria's oxidative metabolism, that
      is currently approved to treat diabetic neuropathic pain9. ALA and its reduced form,
      dihydrolipoic acid (DHLA), have important advantages over other antioxidant agents such as
      vitamin E and C, partly due to their amphiphilic properties, which confer antioxidant actions
      in the membrane as well as in the cytosol. A preclinical study conducted in our lab showed
      that ALA alone and combined with clozapine reverses schizophrenia associated symptoms and
      pro-oxidant changes induced by ketamine in mice. Before the widespread use of antipsychotics,
      two studies found that low doses of ALA relieved symptoms in patients with schizophrenia.

      More recently, my colleagues and I conducted an open label proof of concept study that
      provided encouraging evidence that low doses of ALA might be an effective adjunctive
      treatment for schizophrenia. Based on promising preliminary results, the investigators will
      now test ALA in a more rigorous placebo-controlled clinical study.

      Specific Aim1: To conduct a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial
      to evaluate the efficacy of adjuvant treatment with low doses (100mg) of ALA to treat
      cognitive and negative symptoms of patients with schizophrenia. The investigators will
      randomize 50 patients over 4 months.

      Specific Aim 2: To quantify changes in biomarkers of oxidative stress in response to
      adjunctive treatment with ALA. The hypothesis is that changes in these biomarkers will
      mediate the clinical response to ALA.

      Research Plan: To carry out a proof of concept 4-month prospective, randomized, double-blind,
      controlled trial of alpha-lipoic acid, at doses of 100 mg/day or identical placebo tablets,
      added to ongoing antipsychotics in 50 stable patients (ages 18-60 years, 25 patients per
      group) with diagnosis of schizophrenia. The study will be conducted at the Drug Research and
      Development Center (NPDM), at the Universidade Federal do Ceará, Fortaleza, Brazil. This
      center has a long history of performing placebocontrolled trials in clinical medicine
      (http://www.npdm.ufc.br/) and has the necessary infrastructure to successfully complete the
      proposed study protocol. All participants will give written informed consent prior to study
      enrollment.
    
  