
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE Septic Encephalopathy is a serious complication of sepsis / septic
      shock. In postmortem, human brain samples, two forms of neuraxonal injury have been
      described, namely, scattered ischemic lesions and diffuse injury. Prior evidence suggests
      that cerebral autoregulation is impaired in patients with septic shock, and this may render
      the central nervous system more vulnerable to direct ischemic damage, especially during
      episodes of hypotension. Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) constitutes an established method
      of noninvasive assessment of cerebral autoregulation and provides the capability of
      semiquantitative assessment of regional cerebral blood flow.

      In the context of a multicenter randomized clinical trial (RCT) evaluating the effect of
      steroids and antioxidants on the outcome of septic shock, we aim to assess cerebral
      autoregulation and frontal cortex perfusion using NIRS in patients who will be enrolled in
      the 25-bed intensive care unit (ICU) of Evaggelismos Hospital, Athens, Greece.

      The rationale of the main study is based on the following facts: A large body of experimental
      data has demonstrated that both corticosteroids and intravenous vitamin C reduce activation
      of nuclear factor kappa beta (NFƘB), thereby attenuating the release of pro-inflammatory
      mediators. This may result in reduced endothelial permeability and improved macrocirculatory
      flow, and augmentation of the release of endogenous catecholamines and enhanced vasopressor
      responsiveness. Furthermore, a combined attenuation of the systemic inflammatory response,
      reduced vascular leakage, and improved macrocirculatory flow may partly contribute to the
      preservation of cerebral autoregulation and effective, regional brain perfusion. In addition,
      recent evidence suggests that thiamine may be neuroprotective in severe shock states.

      Regarding the rationale and hypotheses of the current substudy: Recent, observational data
      suggest that impaired cerebral autoregulation is independently associated with 3-month
      mortality in patients with septic shock. Therefore, the current project aims to test the
      following hypotheses: 1) The steroids/vitamin C/thiamine intervention may result in
      attenuation of the septic shock-associated impairment in cerebral autoregulation; and 2) The
      increased frequency of intact cerebral autoregulation in the intervention group may result in
      more neurologic failure free days and ventilator free days during a 60-day follow-up;
      improved survival to hospital discharge with good functional outcome; and better
      patient-reported health-related outcomes at 90-day follow-up.

      METHODS

      NIRS monitoring will be applied for 60 min at 2 levels of mean arterial pressure (MAP; ie,
      65-70 mmHg and 95-100 mmHg) within 24-30 hours, and within 48-54 hours and 72-78 hours after
      the diagnosis of the septic shock. Autoregulation will be assessed by using tissue
      oxygenation index values and concurrently recorded MAP values in a regression analysis and
      will be considered as adequate if the pertinent Pearson correlation coefficient is lower than
      0.3. Cerebral blood flow will be assessed by determination of the blood flow index after
      bolus injection of 5 mg of indocyanine green.

      Patients will be randomized to the intervention or control group in subgroups of 4 using the
      "Research Randomizer" software, version 4 (https://www.randomizer.org/). Substudy
      intervention: In concordance with the main study protocol as approved by the Institutional
      Review Board (IRB; ie, the Scientific Council) of Evaggelismos Hospital, Athens Greece, the
      substudy intervention will comprise the following:

      Hydrocortisone: Hydrocortisone 50 mg initial/single bolus (5-mL syringe containing 50 mg of
      hydrocortisone in normal saline), followed by a 24-hour continuous infusion of 200 mg/day for
      4 days. The daily hydrocortisone dose of 200 mg will be diluted in a 50 or 100 mL bag of
      normal saline.

      Hydrocortisone placebo will be provided as an identical syringe/50 or 100 mL bag of normal
      saline.

      Vitamin C: Vitamin C is provided by the manufacturer as a 50 mL vial at a concentration of
      500mg/mL. Three (3) ml of the vitamin C solution will be diluted in a 50 or 100 mL bag of
      normal saline (1500 mg vitamin C in a 50 mL bag) which will then be infused over 1 hour. The
      bag will be labeled by the study's pharmacy team as "vitamin C". The dosing schedule is 1500
      mg every 6 hours for 4 days or until discharge from the ICU.

      Vitamin C placebo will consist of an identical bag of 50 or 100 mL normal saline (but with no
      vitamin C) and will be labeled vitamin C. Placebo will be infused over 60 min as per the
      infusion instructions of the active vitamin.

      Thiamine: As a high percentage of septic patients have been shown to be thiamine-deficient,
      patients will receive intravenous thiamine 200 mg every 12 hours for 4 days or until ICU
      discharge. Thiamine is also a cofactor for the metabolism of oxalate (a byproduct of vitamin
      C metabolism), with thiamine deficiency increasing oxalate levels. To simplify the study
      protocol both the intervention and the control group will receive thiamine.

      The study inclusion and exclusion criteria are detailed in the dedicated subsections.

      DOCUMENTATION AND PATIENT FOLLOW-UP

      Monitoring of patients over the first 10 days after randomization will include: 1)
      Determination and recording of hemodynamic parameters and hemodynamic support, blood gases
      and fluid balance over the previous 24 hours as well as arterial blood lactate and central
      venous oxygen saturation; 2) Blood sampling at 24, 48 and 72 hours and 7 days after
      randomization for determination of cytokines' concentrations; 3) Daily, routine laboratory
      investigations' results and prescribed treatment data; 4) the results of 4 daily (1 / 6
      hours) blood glucose measurements will be recorded and the incidence of hyperglycemia
      (defined as blood glucose over 200 mg/dL) will be analyzed; 5) Daily calculation of the
      Sequential Organ Dysfunction Assessment Score; and 6) The source of the infection, the
      results of blood cultures and other biological specimen cultures, and the antibiograms.

      The time to first cessation of vasopressor support will also be documented. Follow-up until
      day 60 postresuscitation will include organ failure-free days and ventilator-free days.
      Finally, the ICU length of stay, the hospital discharge date, and the morbidity and
      complications / adverse events during hospital stay will be recorded.

      ICU management protocol:

      All septic patients enrolled in this study will be managed by a standardized approach which
      will comprise:

        1. Empirical treatment with at least 2 broad spectrum antibiotics; antibiotic treatment
           will be deescalated according to microbiological data and clinical improvement

        2. A conservative strategy of fluid management

        3. A lung-protective ventilation strategy

        4. Limited use of sedative agents according to pertinent guidelines

        5. Enteral nutrition which will be started at 24 hours after ICU admission

        6. Prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis with both enoxaparin (or heparin
           in patients with a calculated creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) and sequential
           compression/decompression stockings

        7. Permissive hyperglycemia (ie, blood glucose of 150-200 mg/dL)

      The study outcome measures are detailed in the dedicated subsection.

      Sample size calculation: The previously reported frequency of impaired cerebral
      autoregulation is approximately 60% on day 2 after the diagnosis of sepsis/septic shock (3).
      The detection of a study intervention-related halving of the aforementioned proportion with
      an alpha value of 0.05 and a power of 0,80 would require the enrollment of 96 patients. As we
      estimate that at least 100 patients will be enrolled at Evagglismos hospital in the context
      of the steroids - vitamin C - thiamine multicenter RCT, we also propose a target enrollment
      of 100 patients for the current substudy.

      G Power 3.1.9.2 Exact - Proportions: Inequality, two independent groups (Fisher's exact test)
      Options: Exact distribution Analysis: A priori: Compute required sample size Input: Tail(s) =
      Two Proportion p1 = 0.30 Proportion p2 = 0.60 α err prob = 0.05 Power (1-β err prob) = 0.80
      Allocation ratio N2/N1 = 1 Output: Sample size group 1 = 48 Sample size group 2 = 48 Total
      sample size = 96 Actual power = 0.8004595 Actual α = 0.0290919

      POSSIBLE SIGNIFICANCE OF STUDY RESULTS: In view of encouraging preliminary data on the
      corticosteroids / vitamin C, thiamine combination, we expect that the results of the current
      study will further elucidate important mechanisms underlying the (speculated)
      intervention-related benefit.
    
  