
    
      Various techniques have been described to optimize accuracy, efficiency, and quality of
      EUS-FNA specimens. FNA is typically performed using a 22- or 25-gauge needle with a stylet
      under EUS guidance. The lesion is punctured with a stylet in place or slightly withdrawing
      the needle. After puncture, the stylet is pushed out of the needle tip and then the needle is
      moved to and fro within the lesion and this process is repeated for each needle pass. It is
      currently believed that the use of a stylet for EUS-FNA helps prevent clogging of the needle
      by gut wall tissue, which could limit the ability to aspirate cells from the target lesion.
      This may improve the quality of specimens and hence enhance the diagnostic yield of specimens
      obtained. This is a logical assumption, but there are no data demonstrating clearly that the
      use of a stylet increases the yield of EUS-FNA. At the present time, it is recommended that
      the stylet is re-inserted back into the needle prior to each FNA pass. The use of a stylet
      during EUS-FNA is cumbersome, time and energy consuming and increases the costs of EUS-FNA
      needle systems. In some circumstances, the stylet may actually make EUS-FNA very difficult as
      it may be impossible to advance or remove the stylet once the target has been punctured. This
      tends to occur when the echoendoscope or the needle is bent and a large (19 gauge) needle is
      being used. In addition, the data comparing the effectiveness of EUS-FNA with stylet to FNA
      without stylet is limited. Paquin et al compared the adequacy, the bloodiness, and the yield
      of FNA samples obtained with a stylet to FNA without a stylet. In this study, the use of
      stylet for EUS-FNA was associated with a reduced specimen adequacy and more bloody passes. 13
      Thus the use of a stylet for EUS-FNA is questionable and needs further investigation. If the
      diagnostic yield, adequacy and quality of specimens obtained by EUS-FNA without a stylet is
      found to be equivalent to that with a stylet, this could potentially make a strong case for
      not using a stylet and thus making the procedure easier, more time- and cost-efficient. The
      hypothesis and specific aims of this prospective randomized controlled trial are as follows:

      First hypothesis: There is no difference in the degree of cellularity, contamination, and
      amount of blood in samples obtained by EUS-FNA with and without a stylet Specific Aim #1: To
      compare the degree of cellularity, contamination, and amount of blood in samples obtained by
      EUS-FNA with and without a stylet

      Second hypothesis: There is no difference in the diagnostic yield of malignancy in specimens
      obtained by EUS-FNA with a stylet compared with EUS-FNA without a stylet.

      Specific Aim #2: To compare the diagnostic yield of malignancy in specimens obtained by
      EUS-FNA with and without a stylet.

      Third hypothesis: An acceptable level of inter-observer agreement exists among
      cytopathologists in the assessment of specimens obtained from EUS-FNA with stylet and EUS-FNA
      without a stylet.

      Specific Aim #3: To assess the inter-observer agreement among cytopathologists in the
      evaluation of specimens obtained from EUS-FNA with stylet and specimens obtained from EUS-FNA
      without a stylet.
    
  