
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the fourth leading cause of death in the
      world, a lung disorder which is characterized by a partially reversible airflow limitation,
      which is usually progressive, and associated with an abnormal inflammatory response to
      noxious particles or gases. In 2005, among elderly Hong Kong Chinese (age ≥60 years) in Hong
      Kong with COPD defined as an FEV1/FVC <70%, 19.6% males and 11.9% females suffered from
      moderate levels of severity.

      From an initial stable condition, an acute exacerbation of COPD (AECOPD) is characterized by
      a sudden onset of breathlessness, purulent sputum, and increases in sputum volume. Other
      symptoms include increasing cough, wheeze, chest tightness or fatigue. The major cause of
      AECOPD is infection, although other stimulating factors include air pollution, withdrawal of
      medication, and low temperature. After the first admission of an exacerbation, the
      readmission rate for patients with AECOPD is high. The mean number of annual readmissions is
      2.2 episodes, with a one-year mortality rate of 14%.

      Spirometry can help to diagnose COPD patients, and a post-bronchodilator FEV1/FVC<0.7
      confirms the presence of airflow limitation. The classification of severity of airflow
      limitation in COPD is based on GOLD category. The lower the post-bronchodilator FEV1, the
      higher is the severity. This method is useful for assessing patients with stable COPD only.
      For those with AECOPD, this method may not be easy to conduct and assess patients immediately
      due to patients' difficulty in breathing.

      A common dilemma facing clinicians is whether patients presenting with breathlessness, cough
      and wheeze have an acute exacerbation of COPD, an acute exacerbation of left ventricular
      failure (LVF), or some degree of both. Making an accurate diagnosis is important as the
      treatment in each case is different, and a quick recovery depends upon appropriate and timely
      intervention and treatment.

      Unlike acute exacerbations of asthma, there are no objective guidelines on how to assess the
      severity and prognosis of patients presenting to hospital with acute exacerbations of COPD.
      However, the CURB65, originally intended for assessing patients with pneumonia, has been
      evaluated in this context. High CURB65 scores in patients presenting with acute exacerbations
      of COPD do predict increasing risk of hospital and one month mortality from 2 to 21% but do
      not predict patients with very high risk.

      In healthy subjects, the presence or absence of carbon dioxide retention influences the
      body's haemodynamic response. Hypercapnia has been shown to increase mean pulmonary artery
      pressure (PAP), pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR), heart rate (HR), stroke volume (SV),
      cardiac output (CO), and mean arterial BP (MAP). However, hypercapnia does not appear to
      affect indices of systolic function, such as peak aortic velocity and aortic mean and peak
      acceleration, or plasma renin, angiotensin II, and aldosterone activity.

      In stable patients with compensated COPD, elevations in CO2 trigger central and peripheral
      chemoreceptors resulting in an increased depth and rate of respiration, bradycardia (via
      vagal stimulation), and systemic vasoconstriction (via sympathetic stimulation). Therefore,
      cardiovascular parameters may be either normal or, if there is a degree of carbon dioxide
      retention resulting in catecholamine release and autonomic stimulation, then moderately
      hyperdynamic. Patients with COPD should have a cardiac Index (CI), which is elevated either
      towards the upper half or above the normal range, and may be as high as 5L/min/m2, an
      elevated SI, an elevated SVR and elevated DO2.

      The Smith-Madigan Index II (SMII) is a novel measure of inotropy, which in stable COPD
      patients should either be normal or, if there are adrenergic effects, then may be elevated to
      as much as 1.6. The effects of hypercapnia in patients with COPD on potential to kinetic
      energy ratio (PE/KE, PKR), flow time (FT), peak velocity (Vpk) and mean pressure gradient
      (Pmn) are unknown.

      These changes contrast with patients with acute LVF, where CI is low and the SMII is usually
      less than 1.0, and commonly around 0.7 - 0.8. PE/KE and SVR are generally much higher, and FT
      (as a function of SV) is longer. Vpk and Pmn are also lower in LVF.

      We have conducted a preliminary study to evaluate the correlation between severity of COPD
      and haemodynamic parameters. 86 stable COPD patients, 43 AECOPD patients and 36 healthy, age
      and gender matched subjects were recruited. It was found that the severity of COPD correlated
      positively with mean heart rate, cardiac index (CI), ejection time percentage (ET%) oxygen
      delivery index (DO2I) and inotropy. When compared with healthy controls, stable GOLD IV
      patients had a significantly higher CI (3.98 vs 3.15 l/min/m2, p<0.005), inotropy (2.14 vs
      1.72 W/m2, p<0.01) and DO2I (679.8 vs 530.7 ml/min/m2, p<0.01), and a significantly lower
      potential to kinetic energy ratio (PKR) (43.0 vs 56.6, p<0.05). Moreover, the 30-day
      readmission rate was the highest in GOPD IV patients. Based on the existing findings, it
      would be interesting to study the long-term prognostic effect of haemodynamic parameters in
      COPD patients.

      Aim

      The aims of the present study for patients visited respiratory clinic or admitted to the
      Emergency Department (ED), including those admitted to resuscitation room or emergency high
      dependency unit, are:

        1. To investigate whether there is any correlation between haemodynamic parameters and COPD
           severity.

        2. To investigate whether USCOM-derived haemodynamic variables may be used as prognostic
           indicators of 6-month, 1-year, 3-year and 5-year readmission.

        3. To investigate whether USCOM-derived haemodynamic variables may be used as prognostic
           indicators of 6-month, 1-year, 3-year and 5-year all-cause mortality.

      Measurements

        -  Haemodynamic measurements using an Ultrasonic Cardiac Output Monitor (USCOM®; USCOM Pty
           Ltd, NSW, Australia)

        -  Lung function assessment using Spirometry (MICROLAB 3300 spirometer; Micro Medical,
           Kent, UK)

        -  6-minute walk test

        -  Borg dyspnoea scale

        -  Blood pressure

        -  End-tidal CO2

      Definition of haemodynamic parameters:

        -  Velocity time integral (vti) is the integral of the flow profile, i.e. the distance the
           blood travels in one beat. The unit of vti is m/s.

        -  Cardiac output (CO) is the volume of blood pumped by the heart in one minute: CO = SV x
           HR. The unit is l/min.

        -  Cardiac index (CI) is equal to CO divided by BSA. The unit is l/min/m2.

        -  Stroke volume (SV) is the volume of blood ejected from the heart during one systolic
           stroke. SV = vti x πr2,where πr2 = flow cross sectional area. The unit of SV is ml.

        -  Stroke volume index (SVI) is SV divided by BSA and the unit is ml/m2.

        -  Stroke volume variation (SVV) is the percentage change in SV between a group of beats.
           SVV = (SVmax - SVmin x 100) / [(SVmax + SVmin)/2].

        -  Systemic vascular resistance (SVR) is the pressure against which the heart pumps. SVR =
           MAP/CO. The unit is d.s.cm-5.

        -  Systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI) SVRI = SVR x BSA d.s.cm-5m2.

        -  Oxygen delivery (DO2) is calculated by the equation: DO2 = 1.34 x Hb x SpO2/100 x CO,
           where Hb = hemoglobin in grams of hemoglobin per litre of blood (g/l); SpO2 = the
           peripheral oxygen saturation as a percentage (%). The unit of DO2 is ml/min.

        -  Oxygen delivery index (DO2I) is equal to DO2 divided by BSA. The unit of DO2I is
           ml/min/m2.

        -  Inotropy index refers to (Potential energy + Kinetic energy) divided by body surface
           area. The unit of inotropy is W/m2.

        -  Potential to kinetic energy ratio (PKR) is the energy used to produce blood pressure
           divided by the energy used to produce blood flow.
    
  