
    
      Coronary artery disease and its complications are the leading cause of death in the western
      world. Diabetes mellitus (DM) is one of the major risk factors to develop coronary artery
      disease, myocardial infarction and post-infarction complication1-3. Furthermore, mortality
      from myocardial infarction is almost doubled in diabetic patients compared to non-diabetics4.
      Despite significant amount of research, the basis for these differences in outcome still
      remains unclear. The survival of myocardial tissue subjected to ischemia can be increased by
      the ability to promote growth of new blood vessels into ischemic areas, thus limiting regions
      of impairment and ultimately preserving myocardial function. Hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)
      -1 is a transcription factor that promotes the expression of several genes that confer
      protection against hypoxia/ischemia through angiogenesis, erythropoiesis, vasodilation, and
      altered glucose metabolism5,6. Our hypothesis is that angiogenesis may be impaired in
      diabetes mainly via decreased protein expression and activation of HIF-1 and its main
      downstream target vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), as well as the inhibitor
      angiogenesis factor, angiostatin7, in the heart. Therefore the purpose of this study is to
      examine whether the angiogenic process during coronary ischemia is influenced by diabetes. To
      address these questions, HIF-1, VEGF and angiostatin protein expression will be evaluated in
      atrial tissue obtained from patients with and without diabetes who will undergo coronary
      bypass surgery. In addition comparison between emergency and elective procedure will be
      performed in regard to HIF-1 and VEGF protein levels and correlation with chronic statin
      therapy will be performed.

      During the cannulation process, prior to initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) during
      heart surgery, a small piece of the right atrium is cut in order to insert a venous cannula
      into that chamber. The investigators intend to use this piece of tissue (that is routinely
      wasted) in our protein and histological analyses.
    
  