
    
      This study is primarily aimed at surveying the tolerability profile of Eribulin in an
      unselected population of patients with metastatic breast cancer in relation to toxicities
      already described in clinical trials, and neurotoxicity in particular.

      The secondary objectives of this trial include:

        -  To study the relationship between specific genetic polymorphism and incidence and
           severity of peripheral neuropathy

        -  To describe treatment efficacy in terms of duration of treatment and impact on survival.

      All toxicities will be collected and classified according to National Cancer Institute Common
      Terminology criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0 and monitored during all the
      treatment period and up to 30 days after therapy discontinuation.

      In particular, evaluation of incidence and outcome of any grade AEs already recorded in
      previous clinical trials will be collected, as follows:

        -  asthenia/fatigue,

        -  neutropenia,

        -  alopecia,

        -  nausea,

        -  peripheral neuropathy

        -  constipation

      Any other unexpected AEs shall be evaluated likewise.

      Patients must be followed for AEs until every ongoing Eribulin-related/unrelated toxicity and
      AE have been resolved, or the Investigator assesses them as "chronic" or "stable" or until
      the end of the trial, whichever comes first. For patients who will begin a new anticancer
      therapy after the last study drug administration, the AEs reporting period will end at the
      time the new treatment starts.

      For the determination of polymorphisms, a routine blood collection of two tubes with 3-5 ml
      of blood be performed. The sample can be collected at any time during the participant's first
      two treatment cycles. Blood will be collected in a Vacutainer containing
      ethylendiaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA). Immediately after blood collection, tubes have to be
      inverted (at least five times) and then stored at - 20° C.
    
  