
    
      PESCA is a substudy of the UMPIRE clinical trial which is evaluating a 'polypill' treatment
      strategy for subjects with established cardiovascular disease or at high risk. All PESCA
      subjects will have already been recruited to UMPIRE and randomised to taking either a single
      'polypill' (comprising low dose aspirin, a cholesterol-lowering statin, and one of two blood
      pressure lowering medicines) or their usual treatment consisting of similar medication in
      more than one separate tablets.

      PESCA will evaluate whether: 1) progression of atherosclerosis (fatty deposits which narrow
      the arteries and impair blood flow to vital organs); and 2) central systolic blood pressure
      (the pressure in the body's main artery, the aorta, when the heart pumps out blood), are
      reduced in 'polypill' recipients compared to those who continue their usual treatment.
      Atherosclerosis and central blood pressure are both strongly associated with increased risk
      of heart attacks and stroke. Atherosclerosis will be assessed by ultrasound scanning of the
      carotid (neck) arteries to look at thickness of the artery walls (carotid intima media
      thickness)and plaques(fatty deposits). Direct measurement of central blood pressure is
      impractical but it will be estimated using a computerised "pulsecor" device. This uses an
      inflatable cuff on the arm but provides a detailed recording of the pressure wave as the cuff
      is deflated which enables "pulsecor" to calculate central blood pressure. Results from both
      ultrasound and blood pressure investigations will be reviewed by investigators who do not
      know whether the subjects have been randomised to the polypill or their usual treatment.

      PESCA assessments will be conducted at 2 visits:baseline (as soon as possible after
      recruitment to the UMPIRE study); and at the end of both studies (which will coincide).

      Parallel studies are being undertaken in the three European sites (UK, Eire and Netherlands)
      participating in the UMPIRE trial with each site aiming to recruit 300 participants.
    
  