
    
      Confocal laser endomicroscopy findings in patients with proctosigmoiditis before and after
      initiation of treatment

      Background Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) includes Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.
      Crohn's disease often strikes the terminal ileum, but may occur from the mouth to the anus.
      It is characterized by segmental spreading with transmural inflammation and occasional
      presence of granulomas in the tissue samples. Ulcerative colitis is only found in the colon
      and involves in practice always the rectum. The inflammation is limited to the mucosa and
      submucosa, and the diffusion is continuous.

      The development of endoscopy has made these procedures a central part of the diagnostic and
      therapeutic management of patients with gastrointestinal diseases, including IBD. The entire
      gastrointestinal tract is now available for inspection and therapy. A limitation of these
      studies is that the histology, which is often essential for the diagnosis and treatment of
      the patient, cannot always be precisely evaluated by a conventional examination. The proper
      handling of detected lesions require in addition to the endoscopic evaluation, a histological
      evaluation of the tissue involved, making tissue samples necessary in order to obtain a
      definitive diagnosis and thus optimal handling. Therefore, during the endoscopic procedure
      tissue samples from the intestinal mucosa must be taken, which rarely involves a greater risk
      to the patient, but causes a delay, due to preparation time for the histological analysis and
      in some cases even due to re-examination if histopathology is negative. In the treatment of
      IBD the endoscopic assessment of the severity and extension is absolutely essential for the
      choice of treatment. The "Gold standard" for the optimal treatment is called "deep"
      remission, defined by clinical and endoscopic remission as assessed by conventional
      endoscopy.

      Within recent years a new approach was introduced, wherein the microscopic structures of the
      intestinal mucous can be evaluated continuously in vivo during the endoscopic procedure. The
      technique is called confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE). CLE functions by means of a laser
      device, which is inserted or build into an endoscope, and used as an illuminator of the
      lining of a small area and at a precise depth. The tissue is first added with fluorescence by
      intravenous administration. The reflection of the mucosa is captured in a focused area and
      magnified by which a two-dimensional image of mucosal microscopic structures is formed. This
      provides us with an "optical biopsy", which can be compared with a similar microscopic image.

      This provides us with a potential opportunity for immediate diagnosing and targeted therapy
      during the same procedure. The optical biopsy is stored digitally in such a way that it can
      also be evaluated postprocedure. During CLE multiple frames are generated per second, which
      is stored continuously, thereby forming a movie sequence, so that the microscopic assessment
      of the tissue becomes dynamic i.e. the flow in the small vessels may be observed.

      A current hypothesis about the pathogenesis of IBD is that a defective barrier function may
      be a key element. The intestinal barrier is composed of epithelial cells, which are bound
      together by the so-called "tight junctions". Experimental studies have shown an increased
      intestinal permeability in IBD patients and that the degree of permeability is a prognostic
      indicator for the relapse of Crohn's disease. In CLE-studies, the defective barrier function
      has been identified in vivo as an efflux of fluorescein through the intestinal wall and
      demonstrated to be significantly greater in IBD patients compared to a healthy control group.
      The spacing between the epithelial cells are also increased. In patients in remission a
      defective barrier function predisposes to relapse of their disease. However, it is not
      possible to realize this dysfunction by a conventional histological examination, as well as
      other parameters, which require a dynamic microscopic evaluation. By implementing CLE the
      sensitivity of the endoscopic assessment may increase, which may change not only the
      characteristics of "deep" remission, but also assessment of the diseases activity.

      CLE is at present a rapidly growing field of development which has primarily been used in
      connection with endoscopy of the digestive tract, but also has been used in connection with
      endoscopy of the urinary and respiratory tract. CLE have been shown, to reduce the number of
      tissue samples significantly without compromising the diagnosis. Furthermore, several studies
      suggest that CLE can contribute to a more accurate diagnosis, and preliminary studies suggest
      that the degree of the disease can be estimated better compared to conventional endoscopy.
      Yet, there is no data evaluating the applicability of the method in relation to monitoring of
      treatment response and as a real prognostic tool. CLE is a new method, and therefore still
      many unresolved issues and areas to be clarified exist before the technology can finally be
      implemented in the daily practice.

      There is in the research group led by professor of endoscopy Peter Vilmann several years
      fostered a greater experience in the introduction of new methods. This includes the
      implementation of relevant studies and the collection and publication of scientific data at
      an international level, so that the modality can find its proper place for the diagnosis and
      treatment of patients.

      Introduction: By conventional colonoscopy, the degree and spread of inflammation is often
      underestimated or overlooked in patients with acute inflammation due to insufficient
      sensitivity. In ulcerative colitis the course of the disease and in particular the risk of
      treatment failure is related to the degree of acute inflammation, which in addition to
      clinical and endoscopic observations is assessed by changes in crypt architecture, and
      infiltration of acute inflammatory cells in the lamina propria. The dissemination of the
      disease is also particularly important for the choice of treatment, which changes
      successively from suppositories to enemas and to systemic corticosteroids depending on the
      proximal boundary of the inflammation. Taking tissue samples may partially prevent
      underestimation, but this is time consuming, expensive and rarely leads to a radically change
      of treatment strategy, since endoscopy is the reference in this context. The literature
      suggest two classifications of inflammation based on CLE, which we partly - and for a start,
      will use to estimate disease activity before and after initiation of treatment and in a
      control group. In addition, personal observations will be recorded and analyzed. This
      assessment will subsequently be used for an intra-and inter-observer study and a
      stratification of CLE-observations in relation to acute inflammation and degree in tissue
      samples.

      Hypothesis: CLE can be used to assess the degree and extend of acute and chronic inflammation
      and treatment response in patients with ulcerative colitis and is a sensitive supplementary
      to conventional diagnostics.

      Design: A blinded prospective observation and methodology study in patients before and after
      initiation of topical steroid treatment with subsequent calculation of intra-and
      inter-observer variability.

      Method: Enrolled patients will be examined by conventional colonoscopy and CLE before and
      after initiation of topical treatment, respectively. The degree and distribution of acute
      inflammation will be assessed by conventional microscopy (Mayo score), CLE (crypt
      architecture, micro vascular changes and the presence of inflammatory cells in the lamina
      propria and defective barrier function) and histology biopsies. It is expected that not
      previously described CLE-finding will be found, and that these will be recorded and evaluated
      as described above.

      The terminal ileum and each colonic segment is (caecum, ascending colon, transversal colon,
      descending colon, colon sigmoid and rectum) assessed as described above. CLE findings will be
      graded for analysis according to the following scales:

      Crypt Architecture: 1: Normal, 2: Changed shape, size and distribution, 3: Crypt destruction
      and abscess

      Micro vascular changes: 1: Normal, 2: Slightly higher in number and moderately dilated, 3:
      Significantly higher in number and massively dilated

      Infiltration of inflammatory cells: 1: No, 2: Presence <50% of the crypts, 3: Presence> 50%
      of the crypts

      Defective barrier function: 1: Normal, 2: Functional defect, 3: Structural defect

      The correlation between histology (the "gold standard"), the Mayo score, which is a combined
      clinical and endoscopic index, and CLE will be calculated. This applies to both IBD patients
      as the control group. An intra-and inter-observer study is planned after the initial study,
      where CLE operators are blinded with respect to each other. The pathologist is blinded to
      conventional and CLE observations. CLE results are stratified in order to identify which of
      the recorded CLE parameters correlates best with the other two methods, and is therefore most
      suitable for further studies with focus on inflammation. In addition, a determination of the
      relationship between CLE findings and the treatment effect for the individual patient is
      conducted.

      Statistical method: Comparison of CLE-findings in relation to the Mayo score and histology is
      made using Spearman correlation analysis. To evaluate the treatment effect the Wilcoxon
      Signed Rank test is used. In the inter-and intra-observer study weighted kappa statistics are
      used.

      Patient: A complete sample-size calculation has been made for the inter-and intra-observer
      study of the individual CLE parameters by 3 observers. If possible, to achieve a kappa value
      of 0.9 with a confidence interval of 0.05, there must be 122 observations. If we register
      Mayo score, CLE parameters and take tissue samples for pathology in all the abovementioned
      intestinal segments during two endoscopies, 14 observations for each patient will be
      registered which subsequently are assessed in relation to each of the parameters used in the
      study. If there is no waivers, all ileocolonoscopies are fulfilled and all CLE observations
      can be analyzed, only 9 patients needs to be included. It is assumed, however, that if only
      25% of the expected observations are obtained, since some CLE observations will be
      unsatisfactory, some examinations will be interrupted, and some patients will only be only
      evaluated once. Thus, 36 patients must be enrolled in the study to achieve the desired
      strength, of which 10 are in the control group.
    
  