
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose or the optimal immunologic dose of alefacept in
           patients with relapsed or refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma or peripheral T-cell
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  Determine if antitumor activity of this drug exists in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive alefacept IV over 2-5 minutes once weekly for up to
           8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
           stable disease or complete or partial response after induction therapy proceed to
           maintenance therapy.

      Cohorts of 6 patients receive escalating doses of alefacept until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity. The optimal immunologic dose is defined as the dose that
      does not exceed the MTD, has the highest alefacept level, and achieves saturation of CD2
      receptors.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive alefacept IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4
           weeks for 10-12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who experience disease progression during maintenance therapy may receive
      reinduction therapy* comprising 4 weekly doses of alefacept. The patient then proceeds to a
      second maintenance phase in the absence of disease progression.

      NOTE: *Only 1 reinduction allowed.

      Patients undergo blood and tissue collection periodically for pharmacological studies. Blood
      serum is analyzed for alefacept concentration, cytokine concentration, CD16 polymorphisms,
      and CD2 saturation via flow cytometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 3 years
      and then periodically thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  