
    
      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the most important cause of life years lost in Northern
      Ireland (NI). A recently updated Cochrane review (Joliffe et al, 2003) confirmed the findings
      of earlier meta-analyses (O'Connor et al, 1989; Oldridge et al, 1988) which indicated that
      participation in cardiac rehabilitation (CR) reduces mortality after MI. The earlier work
      demonstrated a reduction of 20-25% in all-cause and cardiac mortality. The recent work
      allowed analysis of an increased number of patients (8440 in 32 trials) and reported a
      reduction in total cardiac mortality of up to 31%. Participation in CR after MI also improves
      well-being and reduces disability (NHS, 1998). However, informal reports suggest that only
      approximately 50% of patients actually attend a hospital based program.

      The hypothesis to be tested is that for those who chose not to attend formal CR, a home-based
      walking program is an acceptable alternative.

      This programme of work entails two separate study designs. To evaluate the home-based walking
      program, we plan a randomised controlled trial (RCT). Randomisation of subjects to study
      groups will follow determination of eligibility to participate. Participants randomised to
      the experimental group will be asked to walk for up to 30 minutes, 5-days per week. They will
      be requested to record aspects of their walking in a diary, including time, intensity and
      number of steps taken (recorded using a pedometer).

      Qualitative methodology using semi-structured interviews will be used to explore the
      experiences of those allocated to the intervention group. The attitudes and experiences of
      other non-attenders of CR who declined to participate in the trial will be explored in focus
      groups. Three focus groups each containing 8 participants are planned.

      Focus group transcripts will be analysed independently by two observers using a computer
      program (NUDIST) to identify themes and develop questions for the semi-structured interviews.
      Analysis of the semi-structured interviews will be descriptive, responses being categorised
      into themes as appropriate.

      RCT results will be analysed by intention to treat.
    
  