
    
      The peritoneum after long-term peritoneal dialysis is inevitably associated with fibrosis,
      which further compromises the efficiency of dialysis and ultrafiltration, or even worse the
      development of encapsulating sclerosing peritonitis (EPS) and mortality. Transabdominal
      ultrasonography and computed tomography has been reported in the diagnosis of EPS. Until now,
      it remains a critical clinical issue to early diagnose thickening of peritoneum and
      preventing the formation of EPS. Transabdominal ultrasonography and computed tomography are
      convenient and non-invasive, and has been reported to detect the thickening of peritoneum in
      pediatric PD patients with a history of peritonitis.

      Our recent published study confirmed the utility of transabdominal ultrasonography in the
      evaluation of parietal peritoneum in adult PD patients. In previous work, we examined and
      compared eighteen adult PD patients with PD duration of more than 7 years with other eighteen
      adult PD patients wit PD duration of less than 1 year. Our results indicated that sonographic
      thickness is associated with PD peritoneal transport characteristics but not with the
      duration of PD. This work was just published in Nephrology, Dialysis and Transplantation in
      year 2008. We believe that was the earliest published ultrasonographic study in adult PD
      patients.

      This proposed study aims to extend from previous study by increasing examinee population to
      include all adult PD patients as a cross sectional observational study. We will utilize
      previously published sonographic examination method on PD patients (both B-mode and Doppler
      ultrasonography). We will collect the blood, urine and peritoneal effluent sample at the same
      time. We hope that through this large-scale survey we can elucidate more clearly the
      relationship between morphology and functional/transport characteristics of the parietal
      peritoneum during the natural course of renal replacement therapy with peritoneal dialysis.
      The results will form our basis of future longitudinal serial follow-ups for the adult PD
      patients. Besides, for those PD patients with suspected peritonitis, we will also perform
      non-invasive ultrasonographic examinations and collect relevant samples on the initial days
      of hospitalization in order to establish an "early predicting model" of severe,
      medical-refractory peritonitis by using transabdominal ultrasonography.

      Peritoneum and bowel wall calcifications are found frequently in EPS, and although while
      pre-EPS stage. This study will utilize computed tomography to detect peritoneum and bowel
      calcifications in PD patients. We hope to found the relationship between calcification,
      peritoneum function, peritonitis frequency and future possibility of EPS.
    
  