
    
      More than 31% of Connecticut adults are former smokers, which may contribute to the high
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in this state. Atherosclerosis, a hallmark of CVD, is a
      progressive life-long process. Chronic cigarette smoking increases atherosclerosis and CVD
      risk. While smoking cessation may lower CVD risk, former smokers still are at high CVD risk.
      The mechanisms by which smoking accelerates atherosclerosis formation are not fully
      understood. This knowledge gap prevents development of informed interventions to reduce CVD
      risk in former smokers.

      Previous work suggests smoking increases oxidative stress and leads to elevated CVD risk.
      Former smokers also have decreased antioxidants and markers of vascular function in the
      circulation, suggesting that despite cessation, smoking has a lingering adverse effect on CVD
      protective mechanisms. Chokeberry (Aronia melanocarpa) is a native Connecticut plant rich in
      polyphenol antioxidants and is a promising intervention for reducing CVD risk in former
      smokers. Chokeberries have diverse polyphenols such as anthocyanins, proanthocyanidins,
      resveratrol, quercetin, and chlorogenic acid. Chokeberry consumption improves dyslipidemia,
      inhibits inflammation, and reduces oxidative stress in humans and animals, all of which could
      contribute to the prevention of CVD in former smokers. Therefore, our central hypothesis is
      that dietary chokeberry polyphenols reduce CVD risk in former smokers by improving lipid
      profiles and inhibiting inflammation and oxidative stress. Our long-term goal is to define
      the mechanisms by which polyphenol antioxidants mitigate CVD risk. The overall goal of this
      project is to conduct a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial to evaluate the
      cardio-protective effects of dietary chokeberry polyphenols in former smokers.

      Our objectives are to determine 1) the effect of chokeberry polyphenols on plasma cholesterol
      and triglyceride levels and on gene expression involved in cholesterol metabolism; 2) the
      extent to which chokeberry improves antioxidant and vascular function in former smokers; and
      3) the association of bioavailability of chokeberry polyphenols to changes in biomarkers of
      CVD risk.

      Successful completion of this work will result in improved understanding of the role of
      dietary berry polyphenols to regulate lipid metabolism, inflammation and oxidative stress.
      Thus, this study will be an important step to developing dietary recommendations for
      individuals predisposed to CVD risk, particularly former smokers.
    
  