
    
      Routine Outcome Monitoring Routine Outcome Monitoring (ROM) enables systematic assessment of
      treatment outcomes at regular intervals for monitoring the progress of patients during
      treatment. ROM was originally developed for clinical studies, thus providing quality feedback
      for research and clinical purposes. There is accumulated evidence that ROM has positive
      effects for supporting care, for research and for management.

      As of the beginning of the previous decade, ROM projects have developed and integrated into
      national health systems (e.g. Australia and New Zealand, England, etc.) and in various
      research groups around the world (e.g. Holland, Italy, USA, Canada, (Ruggeri, 2002; Burgess
      et al., 2012; Mellor-Clarket al., 2006) .In recent years, computer software has been widely
      used to collect, analyze and manage information in a secure, efficient and accessible manner,
      providing ongoing feedback to caregivers (Barkham et al., 2001; Barkham & Mellor-Clark, 2003;
      Margison et al., 2000).

      Routine outcome monitoring can enable achieving several goals that directly contribute to
      treatment (De Beurs et al., 2011). It provides quality feedback to clinicians and patients in
      real time about the progress of the treatment and the early identification of various
      problems such as negative response to therapy. This increases the positive response to the
      treatment, balances the therapist's biases in an optimistic or pessimistic direction,
      supports decisions in treatment and improves the cooperation between the therapist and the
      patient. Hence, patients' involvement in the therapeutic process, their commitment to it, and
      their satisfaction (Whipple & Lambert, 2011), Lambert, 2010 (Priebe et al., 2002) also
      improve. A group of studies has shown that frequent monitoring of the evaluation of the
      therapeutic relationship during psychotherapy enables better real-time identification of
      therapeutic ruptures that can be corrected (Muran et al. 2009; Safran et al., 2011). In
      psychiatric work with more severe patients, it was demonstrated that there was a correlation
      between ROM and a significant reduction in the number and duration of hospitalizations, a
      finding that has a significant economic significance (Slade et al., 2006). In a meta-analysis
      review published in 2009 (12 studies, 2001-2006) a significant short-term symptomatic
      improvement and some long-term improvements was shown in monitored therapies. In another
      review (Shimokawa et al., 2010), a weekly measure of personal well-being measures had a
      significant positive impact on the quality, duration and outcome of treatment, especially in
      patients prone to dropout. Despite initial objections among teams to introduce quantitative
      measurements into their work, various attempts have shown that after assimilation, staff
      satisfaction from the systems is great and serves as a complement to individual work and
      staff meetings (de Beurs et al., 2011).

      The collection of the broad information in the ROM is also used for managerial purposes
      (Trauer, 2010). For example, the accumulated information can be used for ongoing
      epidemiological research of treatments as they actually occur in a heterogeneous clinical
      environment and may maximize resources utilization (Coombs et al., 2011). The information
      produced (on the organizational, local, regional or national levels) is more likely to have
      higher predictive validity than information extracted from incidental questioning patients
      for improvement. Effective evaluations of various treatment approaches have also been made,
      and it is important to consider that treatments are indeed effective in the particular
      clinical setting they are provided, and not only in controlled studies under very different
      conditions (Stiles et al., 2008). Applying ROM appears to be more effective when integrated
      in a formalized and structured manner (Krägeloh, 2015). In such terms, it may be a powerful
      managerial tool, balancing between the patient's expectations and needs and the mental health
      care capacity. It is thus surprising, as recently noted by Jensen-Doss (2018), that ROM
      rarely used in practice, even though it is viewed favorably.

      Despite current enthusiasm, advances in implementation, and the growing belief among some
      proponents and policymakers that ROM represents a major revolution in the practice of
      psychotherapy, other research has suggested that the focus on measurement and monitoring is
      in danger of missing the point (Miller et al., 2015). Research from the field of expertise
      and expert performance provides guidance for realizing the full potential of ROM. One crucial
      element in optimizing the effect of the ROM is that the decisions derived from continuously
      collecting the outcome measures will be taken with the patient (and not just shared with
      him/her). As shown by Clarke et al. (2015), more active involvement in decision-making than
      the patient stated as desired was associated with higher satisfaction. A clinical orientation
      towards empowering, rather than shared, decision-making may maximize satisfaction and
      optimize the effect ROM may have on clinical practice.

      Implementation of novel strategies in the field of psychiatry may result in substantial cost
      reduction (van Londen, 2016) Patient-therapist matching in psychotherapy Research on fitting
      treatment procedures to the unique needs and proclivities of patients is limited. Traditional
      research on efficacy of psychotherapy focuses on the role of interventions and theoretical
      brands, minimizing factors that cannot be randomly assigned. This line of research has not
      realized its initial and desired promise, perhaps because it fails to incorporate into the
      study of psychotherapy important and effective treatment variations that are associated with
      therapist and non-diagnostic patient factors (Beutler, 2015).

      The possibility to match patient to therapist by pre-treatment data did not succeed. Many
      factors were found to contribute to good outcome in psychotherapies. These include patient's
      factors (e.g.- high levels of motivation and involvement with positive, but realistic
      attitude), therapist's factors (e.g.- training and supervision) and relational factors
      (strength of therapeutic alliance is a leading factor; other factors are of moderate- to
      poor-correlation to outcome) (Cooper, 2008).

      While it is accepted that pre-treatment patient-therapist match will not do, the possibility
      to re-match patient-therapist dyads in case of unsuccessful therapies clinically sounds.
      Surprisingly, to our best knowledge, this possibility was never examined. Thus, while the ROM
      clearly indicates whether the trajectory of a given psychotherapy is favorable, it is not
      examined for initiating patient-therapist re-matching in therapies with poor outcome. This
      can be attributed to the personal and protected nature of the psychotherapy, generally
      perceived as indifferent to external observation.

      RESEARCH ASSUMPTIONS Co-implementation of patient- and therapist-based routine monitoring
      tools with matching/re-matching strategies will promote therapy outcome in 25% and will not
      reduce total patients' satisfaction.

      As measured in cost-effectiveness values, our secondary assumption is that co-implementation
      of monitoring-&-managing systems will reduce 28% of mental health costs in the unit examined.

      STUDY DESIGN The study (see Figure 1 attached at the end of the proposal) will span over 21
      months, of which 14 months will be dedicated for assessing the effect of
      monitoring-&-matching system in one out-patient intensive mental health facility.

      The study will be performed in the Day Care Department (DCD) of the Shalvata Mental Health
      Center (SMHC). This unit treats patients who suffer from psychiatric disorders but do not
      require full hospitalization. The DCD is part of the SMHC out-patient network, and admits
      patients directly from the community (half-way in). The department has a diverse team (30
      professionals) of psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, occupational therapists,
      expressive therapists and nursing staff, and receives about 10-15 patients each month. The
      DCD is ideal for testing new therapeutic strategies in the field of psychiatry: it supplies
      intensive care (thus enabling frequent monitoring of the patient's condition), it operates in
      large volumes (i.e., can quickly examine proposals for implementing treatment systems), it is
      backed by sophisticated information systems (Chameleon; an integrated electronic medical
      record system) and as it is situated "in-between" the hospitalizing and ambulatory systems
      (it covers both of them).

      The proposed study in a pilot study, thus focusing on a relatively small number of
      participants. Altogether, one hundred patients will be enrolled in the study,
      randomized-by-order to either the monitored-&-matched ("re-matched") group, or the
      treated-as-usual (TAU) group. Enrolled patients of the two groups will be followed for their
      entire day-care period, or to a period of 3 months (the shorter of the two). Follow up will
      include in both re-matched and TAU groups formalized (SCID) and an array of self-reported
      questionnaires (see below). Patients and therapists of the both group will routinely complete
      ROM questionnaires, as well as mid- and end-term questionnaires evaluating their condition
      and satisfaction; only patients of the re-matched group will be matched/re-matched (see
      below).
    
  