
    
      The Foot Drop Trial is the first prospective, randomised controlled trial to investigate the
      treatment of foot drop in peroneal nerve entrapment. Currently, the literature consists
      mostly of biased retrospective case series with the exception of some small (biased)
      prospective case series. No comparative trials have been conducted. The goal of the trial is
      to assess whether foot drop due to peroneal nerve entrapment recovers better 9 months after
      decompressive surgery compared to maximal conservative treatment.

      Patients with persisting foot drop (MRC score ankle dorsiflexion ≤ 3) after 10 +/- 4 weeks
      after onset of symptoms will be randomised to either decompressive surgery within 1 week
      after randomisation or maximal conservative treatment focussing on physiotherapy and gait
      rehabilitation. Blinded outcome assessors will evaluate participants at study visits 10 days
      (surgical group), 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months (primary outcome) and 18 months
      (extended follow-up) after randomization.

      Outcome assessors will conduct several assessments to evaluate gait improvement (6-minute
      walk test, 10-meter walk test, Stanmore questionnaire, functional ambulation categories,
      ability to walk barefoot, need for foot-ankle orthosis), muscle strength (MRC score for ankle
      dorsiflexion, ankle eversion, hallux extension and ankle range of motion), quality of life
      (EQ-5D 5L and SF-36) and cost-effectiveness of both treatment strategies (work productivity
      and activity impairment questionnaire (WPAI), return to work, percentage of invalidity).
      Electrodiagnostic follow-up will be registered at 3 months and 9 months after randomization.

      The primary endpoint of the foot drop trial is the difference in distance covered in meters
      during the six-minute walk test (6MWD) between baseline and 9 months after randomization.
      Time to recovery, defined as the time necessary to cover the minimal age- and sex-specific
      normal 6MWD AND the time necessary for foot drop recovery to an MRC-score ≥ 4 for ankle
      dorsiflexion is the key secondary endpoint. No cross-over to surgery is allowed before
      primary endpoint is reached.

      Since studies comparing surgery versus no surgery or delayed surgery are challenging, a
      feasibility pilot study will be conducted in 5 centers in Belgium and 1 center in the
      Netherlands. The go / no-go criterion to embark on a full scale study is the recruitment of
      at least 14 patients in these 6 centers after 6 months.
    
  