
    
      Patients who provide Informed Consent and satisfy the Eligibility Criteria will be placed in
      an eligibility pool for randomization for either the Litx™ treatment arm or the standard of
      care arm.

      A Patient assigned to the Litx™ treatment group may receive up to three Litx™ treatments.
      Regardless of which group the patient is assigned the treatment planning should anticipate
      ablation of all lesions with three Litx™ treatments using up to 4 Light Sources per treatment
      (a single Light Source may kill 2 cm x 4 cm of tissue).

      The Litx™ treatment group undergo CT or Ultrasound guided percutaneous placement of a single,
      two, three, or four Light Sources depending on their tumor characteristics. No more than 4
      Light Sources will be used at a single treatment. The Light Source(s) may be used in a single
      lesion or in multiple lesions. Following imaging confirmation of Light Source placement,
      patients will receive an intravenous dose of LS11 at 1 mg/kg. Fifteen minutes to one hour
      following completion of LS11 administration, delivery of 200 J/cm per Light Source at 20
      mW/cm light energy will begin. The Light Source will then be manually removed and the
      patients will be observed for any complication after Light Source removal. Precautions for
      protection from external light exposure should be instituted beginning with the LS11
      administration and maintained for up to two weeks.

      Patients designated for the standard of care group, will receive current standard of care
      treatment recommended by the investigating physician. Should the elected treatment fail, a
      patient may switch to another standard of care treatment.

      A patient designated for the Litx™ treatment group may receive up to two additional Litx™
      treatments. A second and third treatment with Litx™ may be considered if any residual tumor
      or new tumor exists. The third treatment must take place within six months after the first
      treatment. A patient may switch to receiving standard of care after the third Litx™ treatment
      or as recommended by the investigator as necessary.

      For either the Litx™ group or standard of care group once all treatment therapies have been
      exhausted the patient will be followed for survival. No protocol-directed office visits are
      required during this period and the patient may be followed by phone and/or e-mail at four
      week intervals. All patients will be monitored for survival from the time of randomization to
      the time of death from any cause or until at least 142 deaths have been observed, whichever
      occurs first.
    
  