
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximal tolerable dose of flavopiridol in relapsed or refractory acute
      leukemia in adults (Stratum 1) and children (Stratum 2).

      II. To define the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of flavopiridol in regard to organ
      specificity, time course, predictability, and reversibility.

      III. To determine the preliminary clinical activity of flavopiridol in adults (Stratum 1) and
      children (Stratum 2) using this novel schedule in acute leukemia.

      IV. To evaluate the plasma and cellular pharmacokinetics of flavopiridol in patients enrolled
      on this study.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure pharmacodynamic measurements including effects on cell cycle; down modulation
      of bcl-2, mcl-1, XIAP, bax, RNA polymerase II phosphorylation; and signaling via the VEGF
      (VEGF, VEGF-R1, VEGF-R2, HIF-1), NF-Kappa B pathway, and PI3kinase pathway; and correlate
      with Css and other pharmacokinetic features.

      II. To assess drug induced apoptosis of acute leukemia cells in vitro and subsequent
      relationship to clinical response based upon Css of flavopiridol attained in vivo.

      II. To determine if increase in inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, gamma-IFN, IL-6 and IL-8)
      correlate with pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, laboratory (decrease in serum albumin) and
      clinical (hypotension observed with the first administration of flavopiridol) parameters of
      treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according to age group
      (adult [≥ 18 years] vs pediatric [1-17 years]).

      Patients receive flavopiridol intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes followed by a 4-hour
      infusion on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating
      doses of flavopiridol until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is
      defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed up every 2 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 4 years.
    
  