
    
      To make the CTLs, subject's donors' cells were mixed with small pieces of proteins, called
      peptides that come from adenovirus, CMV, EBV, BKV and HHV6. These peptides stimulate donor T
      cells that react against the viruses to grow and train the donor T cells to kill cells that
      are infected with CMV, EBV, adenovirus, BKV and HHV6. Once sufficient numbers of T cells were
      made, they were tested to make sure they would target the cells infected with these viruses
      but not the normal cells. Then the cells were frozen.

      When the Investigators think the subject needs them, the subject's donor's CTL cells will be
      thawed and injected into the intravenous line. To prevent an allergic reaction, prior to
      receiving the CTLs the subject may be given diphenhydramine (Benadryl) and acetaminophen
      (Tylenol). After the subject receives the cells, Investigators will monitor the levels of
      these five viruses in the blood. They will also take blood to see how long the T cells they
      gave the subject are lasting in the body.

      If the CTL infusion has helped the subjects infection or if they have had a treatment, for
      example with steroid drugs that might have destroyed the T cells the subject was given, then
      they are allowed to receive up to 2 more doses of the cells.

      The first part of this study was a dose escalation study. That means that at the beginning,
      patients were started on the lowest dose (1 of 3 different levels) of T cells. The next group
      of patients were started at a higher dose. This process continued until all 3 dose levels
      were studied. They would now like to enroll more patients at the highest dose level to get
      more information about how the T cells work.

      Subjects will continue to be followed by their transplant doctors after the injection. The
      subject will either be seen in the clinic or they will be contacted by a research nurse to
      follow up for this study every week for 6 weeks then at 8 week and 3, 6 and 12 months. The
      subject may have other visits for their standard care. Subjects will also have regular blood
      tests done to follow their counts and the viral infection. To learn more about the way the T
      cells are working in the body, up to an extra 30-40 ml (6-8 teaspoons) of blood will be taken
      before the infusion and then at 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8 weeks and 3 months. Blood should come
      from the central intravenous line, and should not require extra needle sticks.

      If subjects experience a positive response or are taking medicines (such as steroids) that
      may affect how long T cells stay in the body, they may be able to receive up to two
      additional doses of the T cells at the same initial dose level from 28 days after their
      initial dose. After each T-cell infusion, they will be monitored as described above.

      Study Duration: Subjects will be on study for approximately one year. If they receive
      additional doses of the T cells as described above, they will be followed until 1 year after
      their last dose of T-cells.
    
  