
    
      More than 75% of the 800,000 people who annually suffer stroke exhibit persistent arm/hand
      hemiparesis restricting independence thus burdening caregivers. Arm motor skill can recover
      if the rehabilitation program provides an adequate "dose" of repetitive movement practice.
      However, the vast majority of stroke survivors lack the proper practice-dose because the
      duration of inpatient stroke rehabilitation is limited by cost, or residence in medically
      underserved rural settings. To meet the pressing need for innovative cost-effective
      rehabilitation options, the investigators developed, tested and licensed a prototype virtual
      environment (VE) for post-stroke arm rehabilitation. Its custom built design motivates
      extended practice of specific arm motor skills known to improve quality of life. Excitingly,
      practice sessions do not require direct therapist supervision. Published pilot data
      demonstrated improved real-world arm movement after VE training. These promising initial
      results led to software upgrades that will now enable installation and testing in the primary
      markets for this technology; stroke rehabilitation hospitals, and patients' homes. The
      overall goal for this small pilot study is to test the feasibility of self-directed VE
      practice in these settings measured by movement repetitions and motor skill improvement. To
      that end, this project will address the following Specific Aims (1) Determine the number of
      daily movement repetitions and treatment effect achieved by inpatients in a stroke
      rehabilitation hospital who self-direct VE practice sessions during non-therapy hours
      (evenings, weekends) compared to standard evening activities; and (2) Determine the number of
      daily movement repetitions and treatment effect achieved by in-home stroke survivors who
      self-direct daily VE practice sessions compared to a group of in-home survivors with a
      standard self-directed exercise program.
    
  