
    
      This will be a single arm observational study to include 100 subjects. After a clinical
      decision is made to implement a single drug substitution to ATV +/- RTV, there will be an
      initial screening visit, at which time the study will be presented to the patient and
      informed consent for participation will be obtained. A number of evaluations (including blood
      tests) will be completed to definitively assess a subject's eligibility to participate in
      this protocol. The patients will continue on their current therapy and will return within the
      next 14 days for an enrollment visit to review the blood test results and definitively
      confirm study eligibility. In particular, we will ascertain the continued presence of the
      side effect/toxicity motivating consideration of a change in therapy. This being down, the
      quality of life questionnaires (MOS-HIV and ASDM) will be administered for the first time.
      Once again, the patient will continue on their current HAART and return within the next 14
      days for a baseline visit at which time the quality of life questionnaires (MOS-HIV and ASDM)
      will be administered once again, the results being averaged with those obtained at the time
      of the enrollment visit, this serving as a more rigorous evaluation of the patient's current
      status. The patient could be withdrawn from the study if the side effect/toxicity motivating
      consideration of a change in therapy is no longer present. At this baseline visit, all
      patients will switch the PI or NNRTI component of their regimen to ATV (+/- RTV). The
      decision to use boosted or unboosted ATV in this protocol will be left to the discretion of
      the treating physician. All patients will be receiving ATV (+/- RTV) with food. The dose of
      the unboosted ATV will be 300 mg (2 capsules, 150mg each) plus RTV (1 capsule, 100 mg). The
      patients will then be seen in follow up at weeks 4, 12, 24, 32, and 48 after the baseline
      visit. They will continue on their new therapy (including ATV +/- RTV) for this entire period
      of observation. Changes in the NRTI backbone will be permitted without constituting a study
      endpoint, while changes in the ATV +/- RTV that may be required for reasons of efficacy or
      toxicity will constitute such an endpoint, leading to a patient's withdrawal from the study.
      At each study visit, the quality of life questionnaires (MOS-HIV and ASDM) will be
      administered. The results will be compared to the mean results obtained at the enrollment and
      baseline visits, with each individual participant serving as his/her own control. Measures of
      adherence to HAART, CD4 cell counts and HIV plasma viral load will also be obtained at each
      study visit, and will constitute secondary study endpoints.
    
  