
    
      Low back pain (LBP) is the leading musculoskeletal condition in burden of disease and years
      lived with disability. This high ranking is in large part due to the high prevalence of LBP.
      LBP is not only mechanically related to spinal pathophysiology (i.e., postural alterations,
      articular stiffness, or muscle weakness), but may also be influenced by psychosocial factors
      such as attitudes and beliefs. Multidisciplinary rehabilitation programs, which include
      biopsychosocial management, resulted in a better outcome. The aim of this project is to
      determine if the change in LBP-related knowledge and attitudes toward LBP are correlated with
      the change in LBP-related pain, disability, fear avoidance, and emotional states of
      depression, anxiety, and stress after three months. Secondly, the investigators will
      investigate the effect of adding LBP knowledge related education sessions to standard
      physical therapy treatment on patients' LBP knowledge, attitudes toward LBP, LBP-related
      pain, disability, fear avoidance, and emotional symptoms in comparison to standard physical
      therapy alone. 74 patients with LBP receiving standard physical therapy service for the first
      time will be interviewed and their knowledge and attitude about LBP will be collected at the
      baseline. After 3 months, the LBP related pain, emotional symptoms, and LBP disability will
      be collected. The patients will be allocated to "Experimental group" consist of 37 patients
      will take education sessions in addition to standard physical therapy for 12 sessions or
      "control group" consist of 37 patients take just standard physical therapy for the same
      number of sessions without education. Participants will be assessed at baseline and at 3
      months follow up. Outcome measures include Arabic version of the Back Pain Attitudes
      (Back-PAQ), Low Back Pain Knowledge (LKQ) Questionnaires, Arabic version of Oswestry
      Disability Index (ODI) to assess the function, Visual Analogue Scale for pain intensity,
      Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS-21) for emotional states, and Fear-Avoidance Beliefs
      Questionnaire (FABQ) for fear avoidance beliefs. Spearman correlation coefficient r will be
      used to investigate the correlation between change in LBP knowledge and attitude, and change
      in pain, disability, fear avoidance and emotional symptoms after three months. Independent
      sample t-test will be used to compare the knowledge, attitude, VAS, ODI, FABQ, and DASS-
      between the experimental group and control group.
    
  