
    
      In Canada, 42 billion dollars are spent per year treating mental health issues. Given that
      53% Canadians undergo postsecondary education, the mental health of university students is of
      great concern, especially as they experience higher proportions of psychological distress
      ("stress") compared to the general population. Reports indicate a 42.2% of stress levels in
      university students, which not only poses a significant impact in their academic performance,
      but also meaningfully contributes to decreased rates of students completing their studies,
      and in high rates of long-term maladjustment mental illness including depression (15-30%),
      and anxiety (32.2%). University students are also prone to develop eating disorders (6%),
      attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (4%), post-traumatic stress disorders (3%),
      drug/substance abuse (2.1%) , and sleep disturbances (5% to 73%).

      As the onset of most psychological disorders occurs at age 24, university students may
      greatly benefit from mental health assistance provided by academic institutions. At McGill
      University, high rates of psychological distress are experienced by both undergraduate and
      graduate students, as observed by concerning rates of suicidality (10% of students have
      considered attempting suicide while at University), trauma (5 to 16%), and testimonials of
      experiencing social anxiety (61-65 %) and academic distress (55-66%). Moreover, a steady
      increase in students seeking mental health or counseling services and the increased
      complexity and severity of symptoms have placed significant attention in the development of
      strategies addressing university students' psychological well-being.

      Implementation science: mental health care in university settings. Many public-sector
      services systems and provider organizations are in some phase of learning about or
      implementing evidence-based interventions. Universities represent an optimal setting for
      reaching young adults with mental health promotion and prevention programs as they are a
      captive audience, thus reducing adherence problems known to diminish the impact and outcomes
      of public health interventions in general.

      Successful program implementation (i.e., examining the barriers and facilitators of program
      adherence to an evidence-based program) is directly associated with better outcomes and a
      translational promise to accelerate knowledge into practice. Efforts to enhance and improve
      outcome involves ameliorating concordance with evidence-based clinical practice guidelines.
      However, guidelines for the treatment of mental illnesses are underdeveloped and not
      routinely well implemented in mental health care, despite the number of evidence-based
      practices on the rise.

      Moreover, studies have found that young people in need of mental health care services show
      less adherence to prevention and treatment programs, despite the availability of
      evidence-based practices. In the context of university students, it appears that university
      students face not only high academic demands and perceived and self-stigmatizing attitudes
      towards mental illness, but also report limited accessibility (time, transport, and cost) to
      participate in or adhere to mental health care. Other barriers are related to confidentiality
      and trust, concern about the characteristics of the provider, difficulty or an unwillingness
      to express emotion, preferring other sources of help (i.e., family, friends), and worrying
      about effects on career. In this vein, it remains crucial to systematically study what
      factors impact program adherence (i.e., attendance on three out of five sessions), and home
      practice (i.e., continued home practice). Studies also need to understand further how
      students experience stress and explain the comparative experiences of students participating
      in different mental health promotion and prevention strategies.

      Current treatments in Canada and at McGill: Some studies suggest that approximately 50% of
      university students experience significant stress (i.e., a reaction observed in the form of
      depression and anxiety). It is therefore recommended that universities employ preventative
      interventions that impact large numbers of students (i.e., group-based interventions) instead
      of merely relying on individual services to meet student needs. Current treatments for
      psychological distress offered at Canadian universities include health promotion and
      accessibility, counseling, and medical services. These are limited by lack of coordination,
      financial constraints, adequate staffing, and primarily reactive response to focus on
      problems as they arise.

      In McGill University, student's support services include the Peer-Support Centre (PSC),
      counseling services and psychiatric consultation for more severe cases. At the therapeutic
      level, counseling services offer vocational and therapeutic workshops, therapeutic groups
      (i.e., Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and Acceptance and Commitment Therapy), and one-on-one
      counseling services. However, the current wait-time for students with mental health issues to
      initially meet a counselor and receive urgent support (i.e., being placed on a therapeutic
      group) is approximately four weeks. This creates significant pressure for McGill Student
      Services to offer rapid open-access services to students experiencing stress. In this vein,
      Student Services not only tackles a student's need for support but also actively engages them
      in mental health prevention promoting continued well-being. Newer "third wave" programs
      including mindfulness and compassion-based (i.e., Mindful Self-Compassion) interventions are
      a promising approach, especially as they have gain popularity in educational settings.

      Self-compassion interventions: While some research groups have begun evaluating the use of
      mindfulness programs in university settings (i.e., MBSR), most studies address populations of
      medical students rather than overall university-level populations. Yet, novel self-compassion
      programs remain to be examined. While mindfulness-based interventions focus on the
      non-judgmental experience of the present moment, compassion-based approaches focus on kindly
      addressing the suffering experience of the experiencer itself. In light with this,
      compassion-based approaches foreground cultivating compassion towards self and others, given
      high levels of self-criticism associated with many mental disorders. Compassion greatly
      benefits mental health and emotional regulation, improves interpersonal and social relations
      and is considered a significant predictor of well-being and resilience. Novel programs
      include Mindful Self-Compassion (MSC) which demonstrates solid endurance and resilience
      effects, and may theoretically have a more significant impact on university students compared
      to well-known third wave interventions, such as MBSR.

      It is relevant to delineate that MBSR's loving-kindness meditation is different from
      compassion and self-compassion meditation. In loving kindness, the aim is to develop an
      affective state of unconditional kindness to all people. In compassion, the aim is to
      cultivate deep and genuine sympathy for those stricken by misfortune and to develop an
      earnest wish to ease suffering. In self-compassion, the aim is to soothe and comfort the
      'self' when any distressing experience arise, remembering that such experiences are part of
      being human. In this vein, loving kindness is best explained as our attention for all being
      to be happy, whereas compassion refers to our attention for all beings (or ourselves, in
      self-compassion) to be free from suffering.

      Recently, studies have addressed self-compassion as a moderator of perfectionism and
      depression in both adolescence and adulthood suggesting that self-compassion interventions
      may be useful in determining the effects of maladaptive perfectionism. It also appears that
      self-kindness and mindfulness serve as a buffer of stress as students claim to receive social
      support and that self-compassion training has an essential impact on measures of depression,
      anxiety, general well-being, self-compassion, mindfulness, life satisfaction, social
      connectedness, optimism, self-efﬁcacy, and rumination. Additionally, self-compassionate
      students are less afraid of failure and are more likely to train again when they fail, have
      less academic worry and also have a greater sense of self-efficacy. This portrays the
      student's ability to handle social and academic struggles more effectively, report less
      depression and homesickness, as well as more satisfaction about their choice of study while
      at the university.

      Limitations to self-compassion interventions: effectiveness and implementation science. To
      our knowledge, the only study that has examined the effect of MSC in university students was
      a brief version of MSC compared to a time management intervention in 51 college females.
      Findings from this study include significantly more significant gains in self-compassion
      (21%), mindfulness, optimism, self-efficacy and decreases in rumination, strongly suggesting
      that short versions of MSC may have a substantial potential to improve psychological
      well-being and resilience of university students. Results from this study, also include
      medium to high effect size for self-compassion (r=1.19), mindfulness-awareness without
      judgement (r=0.70), mindfulness-non-reactivity to inner experience (r= 1.20), optimism
      (r=0.66), self-efficacy (r=0.52), and rumination (r=0.70). Although these effect size
      measures are of importance, the sample was too small to further determine the effects of the
      program and interestingly, necessary measures of psychological and vocational influence (both
      crucial to academic success) were not thoroughly addressed. Furthermore, there are no studies
      examining impact factors of program implementation (i.e., those associated to student's
      participation of self-compassion programs), despite a growing interest in implementation
      science in the educational setting and mental health prevention field. In this study, we will
      address the issues above to better examine the comparative effectiveness of MSC to MBSR.

      Using a mixed methods approach, including a randomized controlled trial and an in-depth
      qualitative interview, this study will assess the comparative efficacy of newly developed
      brief Mindful Self-Compassion (MSC) and Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction (MBSR) programs on
      improving stress in university students. Factors impact group adherence (retention and home
      practice) will also be explored. Participant's experience of stress and the comparative
      experience of students participating in both groups will be explained.
    
  