
    
      Cockroach allergens appear to be a major cause of inner city asthma. Because of the suspected
      relationship between domestic cockroach species and allergy and asthma symptoms, the Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) wants to standardize cockroach allergen vaccines for use in the
      U.S. Allergen standardization comprises two important components: the selection of a
      reference preparation of allergenic extract and the selection of procedures to compare
      manufactured products to the reference allergen extract.

      Adults in this study will be exposed to different doses of each of 3 German cockroach
      allergen extracts via intradermal skin testing. Participants in this study will be adults who
      have a history of allergic disease or asthma and are sensitive to the German cockroach
      allergens being tested.

      Participants will have 2 visits during this study: a screening session and a testing session.
      At screening, participants will be asked to complete a screening questionnaire and will
      undergo a targeted physical exam, vital signs measurement, and peak expiratory flow (PEF)
      testing. Premenopausal women will also have urine collected for pregnancy testing. At the
      screening session, a 15-minute prick/puncture test will be administered on the skin of the
      forearm with the proposed standard allergen extract, histamine (positive control), and
      diluent (negative control). Skin erythema (swelling) response to the injections will be
      recorded.

      Some participants may continue into the testing session on the same day as the screening
      session; others will participate in the testing session at a second study visit within 4
      weeks after study screening. At the start of the testing session, participants will be asked
      to complete a questionnaire about demographics, history of airway disease and previous skin
      testing, and current medication use. For participants whose testing session occurs on a
      different day than the screening session, vital signs measurement and PEF readings will occur
      and premenopausal women will have urine collected. Blood collection will occur prior to the
      skin test. Intradermal skin testing will consist of injections on the participant's back with
      multiple doses of 3 different extracts of German cockroach allergen. Each of the 3 extracts
      will require 4 to 7 injections, depending on the response to each dose. Erythema skin
      response to the dilutions will be recorded. Participants will be observed for at least 1 hour
      after the intradermal skin testing as a safety precaution. After the observation period,
      participants will undergo additional PEF testing and will be assessed for adverse reactions
      to the skin testing procedure. Participants may be given antihistamines to relieve itching.
    
  