
    
      Ammonia is a waste product of protein and amino acid catabolism and is also a potent
      neurotoxin. The onslaught of high blood ammonia levels on the brain can manifest as cytotoxic
      brain edema and vascular compromise leading to intellectual and developmental disabilities.
      In addition, clinical hyperammonemia recurs at varying intervals, which can increase the
      cumulative damage to the brain and the chance of irreversible coma and death during a
      hyperammonemia episode due to vascular compromise or brain herniation. The threshold of
      tolerance for elevated blood ammonia is very low and concentrations above 100 µM can cause
      brain dysfunction manifested as nausea, vomiting, lethargy, and abnormal behavior; higher
      concentrations can cause coma and even death. Failure to remove ammonia can be due to
      inherited defects of the urea cycle, some defects in amino acid catabolism, and degradation
      of fatty acids.

      Aim 1 - To determine the chronology of biomarkers of brain injury - S100B, NSE, and UCHL1 -
      in response to a hyperammonemic (HA) brain insult in patients with an inherited
      hyperammonemic disorder. We hypothesized that elevations of S100B, NSE, and UCHL1 will
      parallel the rise in blood ammonia. These biomarkers will be measured concurrently to ammonia
      levels throughout hospitalizations for HA until normalization of patient's blood ammonia and
      mental status.

      Aim 2 - To determine if S100B, NSE, and UCHL1 are altered in patients with two other inborn
      errors of metabolism in which the primary pathology is neurological injury, Maple Syrup Urine
      Disease (MSUD) and Glutaric Acidemia (GA1). We hypothesize that neuronal and astroglial
      injury in these disorders may also result in increased levels of S100B, NSE, and UCHL1.

      Metabolic patients will be enrolled either during a hospitalization or in outpatient clinic,
      but outpatient enrollment is preferred. Metabolic patients typically have multiple laboratory
      tests performed at their outpatient visits. We will obtain the discarded blood samples from
      such laboratory tests in order to measure S100B, NSE, and UCHL1 levels at baseline (normal
      blood ammonia), which will provide data on biomarker levels following recovery from a
      hyperammonemic episode.

      During hospitalization for metabolic decompensation or for hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy,
      sequential measurements of S100B, NSE and UCHL1 levels will be obtained from discarded blood
      samples. We will obtain S100B, NSE, and UCHL1 levels from collected discarded blood samples
      at all subjects' next outpatient visit following their hospitalization, to determine if
      levels return to baseline.
    
  