
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Pityriasis alba (PA) is a common benign skin disorder, that usually affects children and
      adolescents of darker phototypes. PA usually manifests as erythematous lesions followed by
      smooth scales with residual characteristic pruritic or non-pruritic ill-defined hypopigmented
      patches, that typically occur on the upper part of the body, especially the face. A history
      of atopic dermatitis is a well-known risk factor, and PA may be a minor manifestation of
      atopic dermatitis, although it can occur in nonatopic individuals as well. It is thought to
      represent nonspecific dermatitis with residual post-inflammatory hypopigmentation. Sun
      exposure is a triggering and accentuating factor.

      PA is a common reason for dermatologic consultation due to its chronic course, frequent
      relapses and cosmetic appearance. Spontaneous healing occurs in several months to few years,
      therefore impacting the quality of life. Emollients and mild-potency topical steroids are the
      mainstay of treatment, with a potential risk of skin atrophy and hypopigmentation.

      Pimecrolimus is a topical calcineurin inhibitor that prevents T-cell activation, approved for
      the treatment of atopic dermatitis, and proved efficacious for seborrheic dermatitis, without
      having the potential adverse effects of topical corticosteroids. Tacrolimus 0.1% ointment,
      another calcineurin inhibitor is an effective and safe treatment for PA, a similar efficacy
      of calcitriol and tacrolimus was shown after 9 weeks of treatment. An exploratory study
      evaluated the efficacy of pimecrolimus cream in the treatment of PA. To the best of our
      knowledge there is no randomized placebo-controlled trial in the literature proving the
      efficacy of pimecrolimus in PA.

      Objective: To evaluate the effect of topical pimecrolimus in the treatment of treatment of PA

      Hypothesis: Pimecrolimus is an efficacious, well-tolerated and safe treatment for pityriasis
      alba.

      Trial design: A randomized placebo-controlled double blinded trial establishing the
      superiority of topical pimecrolimus 1% over placebo.
    
  