
    
      BACKGROUND:

      There is abundant evidence of persistent differences in cardiovascular disease morbidity and
      mortality by socioeconomic status (SES). The determinants of SES-related differences in CVD
      outcomes and risk factors have not been fully established. Previous work in this area has
      focused predominantly on individual-level SES indicators, but recently attention has shifted
      to the role of neighborhood or community-level variables in shaping health outcomes,
      independently of individual-level SES. Several epidemiologic studies have suggested that
      neighborhood characteristics may influence the distribution of disease risk, but the role of
      both neighborhood-level and individual level SES variables in shaping individual-level
      outcomes and risk factors has been rarely addressed in epidemiologic studies of CVD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Associations of neighborhood socioenvironmental characteristics with CVD prevalence and
      incidence in middle-aged and elderly populations were investigated using data from the ARIC
      Study and CHS. Associations of neighborhood socioenvironmental characteristics with CVD risk
      factors and risk factor trends in young and middle-aged adults were investigated using data
      from the CARDIA and ARIC studies. CARDIA and ARIC data were also used to explore the
      contributions of neighborhood characteristics to racial differences in CVD risk factors.
      Census defined areas were used as proxies for neighborhoods. Participants were linked to
      their census-tract and block-group of residence using their home address, and neighborhood
      characteristics were obtained from the 1990 U.S. Census. The three data sets were analyzed
      separately. After exploratory and descriptive analyses, regression models were used to
      investigate associations of neighborhood characteristics with the outcomes before and after
      controlling for individual-level SES and other relevant covariates. Appropriate statistical
      methods (mixed effects models) were used to account for the multilevel structure of the data
      (individuals nested within neighborhoods and repeated measures nested within individuals),
      and the potential violations of the assumption of independence of observations that might
      arise from it.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  