
    
      Prior to entrance on the study, patients will undergo a history and physical and evaluation
      of Karnofsky Performance Status. They will have a biopsy of their tumor and will undergo a
      fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET scan and must include evaluation of para-aortic lymph nodes.
      Blood work will be done (complete blood count (CBC), differential, platelets, blood urea
      nitrogen(BUN), serum creatinine, bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine
      aminotransferase (ALT) and alkaline phosphatase. Also, pre-treatment, patients will receive a
      chest x-ray and an intravenous push (IVP) (unless a computed tomography (CT) with contrast
      has been performed). Additionally, patient may undergo a CT, magnetic resonance (MRI) and/or
      lymphangiogram.

      Patients will then be registered to a treatment arm, depending on the outcome of their PET
      scan. Patients with positive pelvic lymph nodes but no positive para-aortic lymph nodes by
      PET will be assigned to Treatment Arm 1. Patients with positive pelvic lymph nodes and
      positive para-aortic lymph nodes by PET will be assigned to treatment arm 2.

      Treatment Group 1. Either a conventional or CT simulation may be performed. Patients will be
      treated with IMRT extended field external beam radiation therapy (to cover pelvis and
      para-aortic lymph nodes) and intracavitary radiation (6 high dose radiation (HDR) treatments)
      concurrently with cisplatin (40 mg/m^2/week)

      Treatment Group 2. A CT simulation must be performed. Patients will be treated with extended
      field external beam radiation therapy to the pelvis and with IMRT to cover the para-aortic
      lymph nodes to 60 Gy, 50.4 Gy to the para-aortic lymph node bed in conjunction with external
      beam pelvic radiation therapy as appropriate for disease stage and intracavitary radiation (6
      HDR treatments) concurrently with cisplatin (40 mg/m^2/week).
    
  