
    
      This is a blinded, randomised, placebo-controlled, double-dummy, four-period crossover study
      to investigate the psychomotor and cognitive effects of GSK598809 alone and in combination
      with ethanol in healthy subjects.

      A sufficient number of subjects, approximately 20 healthy (18 to 65 years) male and female
      subjects will be enrolled. Occasional smokers who are non-daily smokers may be enrolled in
      the study, but will not be permitted to smoke whilst in the unit.

      Subjects will be screened by medical history, physical examination and routine laboratory
      tests within three weeks before the start of the study. Within three weeks or on Day -1 they
      will have a training session to get familiar with the pharmacodynamic tests.

      There will be four crossover sessions. All study occasions/sessions will be performed in the
      same way. The duration of each treatment session is 5 study days. Subjects will report to the
      clinic during the evening of Day -1 in a fasted condition and will remain in the clinic for
      two overnight stays. A short study introduction will be given followed by admission
      procedures. Dinner will be served after the collection of blood samples for laboratory safety
      tests.

      On morning of study day 1, approximately 08:00hrs two intravenous cannulae (one cannula for
      blood sampling and another cannula for infusion of the ethanol/placebo) will be inserted.
      Before the start of the infusion a light breakfast will be given. The alcohol infusion will
      start in the morning, between approximately 09:30hr and 10:00hr and will take place for five
      hours, followed by a three-hour infusion-free washout period. GSK598809 or matching placebo
      will be administered orally 30 minutes after the start of the alcohol infusion. A
      standardised lunch will be given at approximately 3.5 hours post dose and dinner
      approximately 9 hours post dose.

      Subjects will be discharged after the completion of study assessments and AE review on Day 2
      and if deemed appropriate by the investigator or designee. Study Days: 3 and 4 will be
      outpatient visits for collection of pharmacokinetic samples and AE review.

      During each session, a range of central nervous system (CNS) functions will be tested
      frequently, using a validated CNS-battery, CHDR Neurocart. In addition, pharmacokinetic
      measurements will be taken for plasma levels of GSK598809 and GSK685249 (GSK598809
      metabolite). Pharmacokinetic measures will also be taken for breath alcohol and blood alcohol
      levels.

      There will be a washout period of at least five days between treatment sessions. The follow
      up visit will take place approximately 7 days post final treatment.
    
  