
    
      Citrulline is an amino-acid almost exclusively released by the small intestine after its
      synthesis from glutamine by the OTC in enterocytes. Citrulline from the small intestine is
      released into the portal vena and, because it does not enter hepatocytes, it reaches the
      systemic circulation to be metabolized in arginine by kidneys. By this way, is an important
      source of endogenous ARG. Moreover, evidence suggests that circulating citrulline could have
      a direct action on the regulation of muscle protein synthesis. Therefore, the administration
      of citrulline might be an interesting nutritional strategy to preserve or restore muscle mass
      and function. Muscle mass is a determinant of respiratory function and muscle weakness
      explains for a large part morbidity and mortality in patients suffering from Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).

      Evidence suggests that citrulline plasmatic levels would be lower in several states involving
      systemic inflammation and hypoxia. Indeed, it has been observed in rats that hypoxia leads to
      a sharp decline in plasma CIT concentration and also in human (hypocitrullinemia has been
      observed in Intensive Care Unit patients and in subjects suffering from sepsis and trauma)
      but the cause of relationship is not yet established. Therefore, it may be supposed that a
      decreased plasma CIT level could be responsible for a decrease in de novo ARG synthesis
      leading to an impairment of NO production (endothelial dysfunction) in these pathological
      situations.

      Because chronic hypoxia and systemic inflammation are both systemic traits of patients
      suffering from COPD, the fact that hypoxia and/or systemic inflammation might directly affect
      OCT, decreasing intestinal citrulline production which, in turn, could contribute to
      endothelial dysfunction and muscle weakness is considered.

      In order to explore this hypothesis, the potential consequences of hypoxia and inflammation
      (alone or in association) on citrulline synthesis by the OCT in human enterocytes will be
      determined, thanks to an "explant" culture model of duodenal tissue. Duodenal biopsies will
      be removed during oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopies performed in the Hepato-gastro-enterology
      unit of Grenoble University Hospital, among patients expected to undergo a gastroscopy for
      any diagnostic purpose. 30 patients will be selected during a period of 6 months. After
      complete information and written agreement, 8 biopsy specimens will be removed from the
      duodenum of each patient and processed for organ culture.

      Then, duodenal biopsies will be incubated in the presence or not of cytokines and exposed or
      not to hypoxia. Indeed, 4 groups will be constituted: a control group (no stimulus), a group
      exposed to hypoxic conditions, a group exposed to inflammatory conditions (cytokines) and a
      group exposed to both hypoxic an inflammatory conditions.

      As primary endpoint, for each group, the OTC activity and the citrulline production in the
      culture medium will be studied.
    
  