
    
      In the past the nerve system has long been regarded as a privileged site of immune system due
      to (1) the absence of lymphatic drainage, which limits the immunological circulation; (2) the
      blood-brain barrier (BBB) or blood-nerve barrier (BNB), which limits the passage of immune
      cells and factors; (3) the low level of expression of MHC factors, particularly MHC II, in
      the resident cells of the nerve system and the lack of potent antigen presenting cells, such
      as dendritic or Langerhans' cells, both of which lead to reduced recognition of the neurons
      or nerves by the immune system; and (4) the presence of immunosuppressive factors such as
      TGF-b. which suppress the immune response in the nervous system.

      However in the past few years, the concept of privilege is revised, that is the differences
      in the immunological aspects between the nervous system and other organs are more
      quantitative than absolutely qualitative. Several lines of evidence indicate that BBB and BNB
      are not complete both anatomically and functionally and activated T cells can cross these
      barriers and traffic in and out the nervous system. The nervous system also contains a
      collection of immunologically resident cells, including professional or non-professional
      antigen presenting cells such as resident endoneurial or perivascular macrophage, glial
      cells, Schwann cells and endoneurial capillary endothelial cells, which are capable of
      synthesizing cytokines that were initially classified within the domain of the immune system
      and are found to express a range of appropriate specific receptors, both characteristics
      mediate the immunological processes in the nervous system.

      The nerve system is therefore a target of immune attacks. Many disorders of the central or
      peripheral nerve system are related to activation of the immune system. Immune mechanisms
      seem important in the pathogenesis and treatments of these disorders.

      Cytokines are a diverse group of soluble proteins and peptides which act as humoral
      regulators and modulate the activities of individual cells and tissues either under normal or
      pathological condition. Unlike the hormone, cytokines are usually made by more than one type
      of cells, have multiple target cells and multiple actions, and usually function in short
      acting radius. Constitutive cytokine production is usually low or absent and its production
      is promoted by certain stimuli at the transcription and translation level. The functions of
      cytokine are pleitropic and redundant. In embryogenesis and organ development, it acts as a
      regulator of miosis, differentiation, migration, cell growth and cell death; and in host
      defense response to infection, inflammation, autoimmune, trauma and metabolic injury, it not
      only stimulate immune cells to proliferate and differentiate but also regulate the
      progression and termination of immunological reaction. Some cytokines that make the
      inflammation progress are referred as pro-inflammatory cytokines. The major pro-inflammatory
      cytokines that are responsible for early responses are IL1, IL6, and TNF-alpha. Other
      pro-inflammatory mediators include IFN-gamma, TGF-beta, GM-CSF, IL11, IL12, IL17, IL18, IL8
      and a variety of other chemokines that chemoattract inflammatory cells. When these cytokines
      are produced or administered into human, they induce destruction of tissues, up-regulation of
      the synthesis of other pro-inflammatory cytokines by various immunological cells, and
      induction of systemic inflammatory reaction like fever and shock. Another immunoregulatory
      cytokines that counteract the inflammation or the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines
      are referred as anti-inflammatory cytokines. These mediators act mainly by the inhibiting the
      production of pro-inflammatory cytokines or by counteracting many biological effects of
      pro-inflammatory mediators and thus contribute to the control of the inflammatory responses.
      The major anti-inflammatory cytokines are IL4, IL10, and IL13. Other anti-inflammatory
      mediators are IL16, IFN-alpha, TGF-beta, G-CSF, as well as soluble receptors for TNF or IL6.
      It is supposed that the balance between pro-inflammatory cytokines and anti-inflammatory
      cytokines determines the net effect of an inflammatory response. In addition, cytokine
      responses are regulated by special subpopulations of CD4 (+) T-cells, called helper T cell.
      They provide help to other cells of the immune system in mounting immune responses by causing
      cell activation or the secretion of cytokines. Th1 cells stimulate strong cellular immunity
      but only weak and transient antibody responses. These cells produce a number of cytokines
      known asTh1 cytokines and including IL2, IFN-gamma, IL12 and TNF-beta. In contrast Th2 cells
      evoke strong antibody responses but relatively weak cellular activity. These cells produce
      cytokines that are known as Th2 cytokines and include IL4, IL5, IL6, IL10, and IL13. Th1 and
      Th2 cells can keep each other in check and prevent inflammatory reactions in response to
      pathogens getting out of control. However, imbalances may also precipitate inappropriate
      reactions. It is thought that some autoimmune disorders and allergies may be related to
      overactive Th1 or Th2 responses.

      Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) is clinically defined as an acute peripheral neuropathy over a
      time period of days or, at the most, up to 4 weeks. GBS may not be a single disease, but a
      variety of acute neuropathies with different clinical and electrophysiological
      manifestations. GBS is considered to be an autoimmune disease caused by cross reaction of
      infectious agents with auto-antigen. The triggering of autoimmunity depends both on the
      increase in immunogenicity of the target cell and the individual's own capability to
      recognize the antoantigens (HLA genes, T cell repertoire). The pathogenesis of GBS is not yet
      fully understood and GBS with variable clinical manifestations are supposed to be associated
      different immune mediated pathogenic mechanisms. By studying the GBS patients about their
      clinical manifestations, conventional laboratory studies, electrophysiological studies and
      skin biopsies and by evaluating the cytokine expression in the CSF and serum in different
      subtypes of GBS, we want to clarify the relationship between the immunological parameters and
      the clinical manifestations in GBS.
    
  