
    
      Immunotherapy with DC vaccines Prevention of infectious diseases through immunization is one
      of the greatest achievements of modern medicine. Nonetheless, considerable challenges remain
      for improving the efficacy of existing vaccines for therapeutic immunizations for diseases
      such as cancer. More than 10 years ago the first groups introduced tumor antigen-loaded
      DC-based vaccines in the clinic. Effective immune responses and favorable clinical outcomes
      have indeed been observed. Thus far, mainly conventional in vitro generated monocyte-derived
      DCs (moDC) have been used in clinical trials worldwide. Long lasting tumor specific T
      cell-mediated immunological responses are clearly linked to increased progression free
      survival as well as overall survival.

      However, moDC may not be the optimal source of DCs for DC vaccination studies, due to
      extensive culture periods and compounds required to obtain mature moDC. Two principal subsets
      of human blood DC, called plasmacytoid DC (pDC) and myeloid DC (mDC), are possibly a better
      alternative since they do not require extensive culture periods and are directly isolable
      from the peripheral-blood. Based on promising immunological and clinical outcome with pDC and
      mDC vaccinations in metastatic melanoma patients, further testing of these blood DC subsets
      is warranted. Based on these observations investigators are convinced that pDC and mDC employ
      different, and probably more optimal mechanisms to combat cancer. In addition, based on in
      vitro data and preclinical studies that suggest that natural DC act synergistically,
      investigators hypothesize that the combination of pDC and mDC may induce stronger anti-tumor
      immune responses as compared to pDC or mDC alone.

      Immunotherapy in prostate cancer Prostate cancer is the most common noncutaneous cancer in
      men. In recent years novel therapies have been studied extensively. Prostate cancer is
      usually diagnosed in men above 65 years of age. Depending on the severity of the disease,
      current treatment options for prostate cancer consist of active surveillance, prostatectomy,
      radiation therapy, hormonal therapy, or chemotherapy. Up to one-third of patients with a
      localized tumor eventually fails on local therapy and progress to advanced-stage or
      metastatic disease within 10 years. Although the majority of patients initially respond to
      anti-androgens, most tumors become resistant within 14 to 30 months. For men with mCRPC the
      median survival in phase III studies range from 15 to 19 months. The chemotherapeutic drug
      docetaxel was for several years the only treatment option for mCRPC, resulting in a median
      overall survival benefit of two to three months compared to mitoxantrone. In the past five
      years second-line chemotherapy (cabazitaxel), second-generation androgen deprivation therapy
      (abiraterone acetate plus prednisone and enzalutamide), cellular immunotherapy
      (sipuleucel-T), and a targeted alpha emitter (radium-223 treatment) have expanded the
      treatment repertoire for mCRPC.

      Sipuleucel-T, a DC-based vaccine for patients suffering from prostate cancer, has shown to be
      clinically effective and is approved by the Food and Drug Administration and European
      Medicines Agency for mCRPC patients. A major advantage of cellular immunotherapy when
      compared to chemotherapy, and even androgen deprivation therapy, is its low toxicity. Several
      other immunotherapeutic approached have been investigated and potential tumor antigens have
      been identified. Prostvac (vaccinia-prostate-specific antigen) was administered in a
      randomized phase II study with encouraging results. Ipilimumab had promising results in
      several phase II studies and in combination with a vaccine, such as GVAX. However, in a phase
      III study post-chemotherapy trial ipilimumab seemed not superior to placebo. Hence, only
      sipuleucel-T had clinical significant results in clinical trials.

      The promising immunological and clinical outcome with pDC and mDC in metastatic melanoma
      warrants further testing of these blood DC in prostate cancer. In this study investigators
      aim to show proof-of-principle of natural DC immunogenicity in prostate cancer patients:
      induction/enhancement of tumor-specific T cells by mDC and induction of an IFN signature by
      pDC. Investigators will also get insight if combining subsets improves immunogenicity and
      clinical outcome. Hence, there is an urgent need for a potent treatment modality together
      with a solid predictive and prognostic biomarker.
    
  