
    
      Early childhood caries (ECC) has been increasing worldwide and became a significant health
      problem. ECC is a multifactorial disease result from the interaction of different factors as
      cariogenic microorganisms, exposure to fermentable carbohydrates through inappropriate
      feeding habits. It affects teeth that are less susceptible to caries. The management of ECC
      is expensive, often requiring extensive restorative treatment such as the drill and fill
      technique and extraction of teeth at an early age. Nowadays, non-invasive treatment for
      arresting untreated dental caries is becoming urgently needed.

      Silver diamine fluoride (SDF) treatment offers an alternative non-invasive treatment for
      caries as it arrests caries progression. S.D.F. is a colourless agent in the form of liquid
      with an alkaline PH of 10 it contains 24.4% to 28.8% (weight/volume) silver and 5.0 to 5.9%
      fluoride .. SDF is inexpensive treatment, and its ease of the application makes it a durable
      treatment option in dental clinics. Arresting active caries is an essential treatment
      modality and requires training by all dental auxiliaries.

      The major drawback to SDF treatment has been its black stain and discolouration, which has
      limited its use. The precipitation of silver by-products in the dental tissues results in
      black staining, which can be discouraging and limits its use in visible areas. SDF also
      temporarily stains skin and gingiva, requiring them to be handled carefully to avoid contact
      with these tissues. To overcome the staining, SDF researchers investigated applying a
      saturated solution of potassium iodide (10% weight % KI) and studied the effect of
      glutathione (GSH) biomolecule on reducing of enamel and dentin discolouration.

      Potassium iodide (KI) is used as a nutritional supplement. A supersaturated solution of KI is
      used in managing the discolouration problem of the carious lesion without affecting its
      caries arresting effect. It reduces the staining caused by the SDF as silver ions from the
      SDF solution reacts with the iodide ions present in KI solution, which results in the
      formation of silver iodide.

      Glutathione (GSH) is a tri-peptide biomolecule, and it is considered one of the best with
      silver as it contains a thiol group (-SH) which has a high affinity for adsorption onto metal
      surfaces . GSH also forms a coat around silver particles, decreasing the aggregation of
      silver particles and controlling the rate of silver ion release (Homeostasis) , which reduces
      the discolouration of an SDF-coated tooth over time. This study was conducted to compare the
      effect of glutathione (GSH) versus Potassium iodide (KI) in reducing the SDF staining effect
      in carious primary teeth.
    
  