
    
      This is a randomized, open labelled multicenter phase II trial. Patients with Her2 negative,
      previously untreated metastatic esophagogastric adenocarcinoma will be randomized to receive
      either modified FOLFOX (Oxaliplatin at a dose of 85 mg/m² iv over two hours (day 1),
      Leucovorin at a dose of 400 mg/m2 iv over two hours (day 1), Fluorouracil at a dose of 400
      mg/m² iv bolus (day 1), and Fluorouracil at a dose of 2400 mg/m² iv continuous infusion over
      44 hours (day 1+2), every 2 weeks) alone or modified FOLFOX plus Nivolumab (240mg "Flatdose"
      i.v. d1 every 2 weeks) and Ipilimumab (1mg/kg i.v. d1 every 6 weeks) or sequential treatment
      (three cycles of induction chemotherapy with modified FOLFOX followed by immunotherapy
      consisting of 4 administrations of Nivolumab at 240mg "Flatdose" i.v. d1 every 2 weeks and 2
      administrations of Ipilimumab at 1mg/kg i.v. d1 every 6 weeks, this sequence may be repeated
      starting two weeks after last administration of immunotherapy once, or, if medically
      reasonable, for an unlimited number of repetitions upon investigator decision; after
      completion or discontinuation of chemotherapy, immunotherapy will be continued consisting of
      Nivolumab at 240mg "Flatdose" i.v. d1 every 2 weeks and Ipilimumab at 1mg/kg i.v. d1 every 6
      weeks) for a maximum of 24 months or until disease progression or inacceptable toxicity or
      end of study treatment.

      The primary objective is to determine the clinical performance of ipilimumab in combination
      with nivolumab and FOLFOX in patients with previously untreated HER2 negative locally
      advanced or metastatic esophagogastric adenocarcinoma in terms of progression free survival
      (acc. to RECIST v1.1).

      Secondary objectives are to determine efficacy in terms of objective response rate (acc. to
      RECIST v1.1) and overall survival, as well as tolerability (acc. to NCI CTC AE v4.03) of the
      experimental regimen. In addition histopathological types and molecular parameters such as
      immune cell composition and PD-L1 expression as determined by quantitative mRNA (RT-PCR) will
      be correlated with efficacy in an exploratory analysis.

      207 subjects (59 in the control arm, and 89 in the experimental treatment group A1 and 59 in
      the experimental treatment group A2) will be randomized.
    
  