
    
      During clinical routine, intraoperative handover of anaesthesia care occurs frequently. This
      handover between two anaesthesiologists requires the transmission of all relevant information
      concerning the patient and the ongoing procedure. Studies regarding the influence of such
      handovers on patient outcome are inconclusive and mostly of retrospective nature. Some
      studies report a negative effect of handovers on patients mortality and outcome, however
      studies exist reporting no effect. A positive effect of intraoperative handovers as a result
      of a "second man" effect ist also possible. To increase handover quality, the German Society
      of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine (DGAI) recommends the application of the
      situation, background, assessment and recommendation (SBAR) concept. Information are arranged
      in those four groups with the goal of structuring the handover and incorporating all relevant
      information. Studies show increased accuracy of transferred information and improved
      comprehensibility when using the SBAR concept. Whether an intraoperative handover according
      to the SBAR concept reduces the rate of postoperative complications is not yet investigated.
      Due to lack of information regarding feasibility and effect size, the investigators plan a
      prospective pilot study to answer these questions. Initially, patients undergoing major
      surgery are recruited where handover is performed without a standardized handover. After the
      implementation of a checklist using the SBAR concept, this checklist will be used during
      intraoperative handover in recruited patients where a handover occurs. The primary endpoint
      is a combined endpoint consisting of all-cause mortality, readmission to any hospital, or
      major postoperative complications. Additionally, implementation rate and efficacy of the
      checklist will be evaluated.
    
  