
    
      Phase III studies have shown that patients with UC who received vedolizumab had a higher rate
      of clinical response, clinical remission and mucosal healing when compared to placebo3.
      Nevertheless, while clinical response rate was almost 50%, the rate of clinical remission at
      6 weeks was only 16.9. In comparison, in the ACT trials almost 40% of patients achieved
      remission at week 84. The delayed onset of action of vedolizumab monotherapy in patients with
      UC may lead to a higher colectomy rate and limit the use of vedolizumab in patients with
      active disease who require rapid induction of remission. Corticosteroids are used as a
      bridging agent to rapidly induce remission. However, steroid refractory or dependent disease
      and steroid intolerance are common. Furthermore, steroids have devastating side effects.

      Tacrolimus inhibits the complexion of calcineurin with its respective cytoplasmic receptors
      cyclophilin and FK-binding protein 12 (FKBP-12), both of which regulate a calmodulin
      dependent-phosphatase. Tacrolimus has been found to be efficacious in the treatment of
      patients with moderate to severe UC. Unfortunately, because of the safety profile with long
      term use, the drug is mostly used as an induction agent.

      While switching to vedolizumab from another drug that has not been efficacious or has lost
      effectiveness (or starting vedolizumab as a first agent) can be beneficious in the long term,
      patients need an induction agent in order to achieve remission in a short period of time.
      Tacrolimus is a widely used drug to prevent implant rejection after a transplant. Randomized
      controlled trials have shown that is highly effective with good response rates even after 2
      weeks of therapy. In order to avoid side effects, tacrolimus is usually used for a limited
      amount of time (12-14 weeks), which is sufficient time to induce remission of disease.
      Unfortunately, as other inflammatory bowel diseases, UC recurs and patients also require a
      maintenance therapy. While tacrolimus has been used with good results as a long term agent,
      the ideal scenario is to avoid its long term use as there is still a potential for side
      effects and a need for a very strict close monitoring. This is why a long term maintenance
      agent is needed to keep the patient in remission. Until recently, no ideal agent was
      available for this purpose, as while anti-tumor necrosis factor agents (infliximab and
      adalimumab) have been approved for ulcerative colitis, its combination with another agent
      that induces systemic immunosuppression (in this case, tacrolimus) could potentially increase
      the risk of infections and/or malignancies. Because vedolizumab is gut selective, does not
      affect the entire immune system and post-marketing studies have confirmed its safety profile.
      This makes it a perfect combination agent to tacrolimus, theoretically decreasing the
      potential side effect while increasing its efficacy.

      The hypothesis is that the addition of tacrolimus as an induction agent to a standard regimen
      of vedolizumab increases the efficacy of the drug, decreasing the rate of need for colectomy
      and other complications while quickly improving the patients' quality of life without
      significantly increasing the risk of adverse events.
    
  