
    
      Currently, MRE is a clinical tool used to assess hepatic fibrosis at many institutions. MRE
      is superior to invasive techniques (i.e. biopsies) and mechanical testing in that it is
      noninvasive and can be performed in vivo under physiologic conditions. MRE could make
      diagnosing stiffness widely available and could revolutionize the diagnosis and treatment of
      numerous other diseases affecting stiffness of soft tissues.

      Aortic wall "stiffness" is a fundamental biomechanical parameter that reflects the structural
      integrity of normal and aneurysmal aortic tissue. AAAs enlarge over time leading to sudden
      rupture and death in up to 90% of patients. Surgical or endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR)
      is recommended for AAAs > 5.5 cm in diameter. However, previous studies have reported a high
      percentage (13%) of smaller AAAs (<5 cm) go on to rupture, and an even higher percentage
      (60%) of larger AAAs (>5 cm) remain stable. Despite the poor prognostic value of aortic
      diameter, it is still the primary parameter used to time surgical repair. It is known that
      changes in stiffness of AAA can reveal important information on extra-cellular matrix
      content; a key factor in the pathophysiological development of AAA and the risk for rupture.
      A non-invasive, spatially resolved estimate of aortic stiffness may provide a superior
      determinant of the risk for rupture compared to the currently used anatomical measures. The
      relationship between non-invasively measured wall stiffness (WS) and the structural integrity
      of the aortic wall must be further elucidated. Therefore, aortic MRE can be used as a
      noninvasive tool to estimate the stiffness of AAAs and can provide superior diagnostic and
      prognostic information in patients with developing AAA disease.

      Entry to this study is open to men and women aged 18 years and older, and to all racial and
      ethnic subgroups. Two separate groups of patients with AAA will be recruited. One group will
      be patients who have been diagnosed with AAA and are monitored to observe the size of the
      AAA. The other group is comprised of patients who are scheduled for surgical repair of AAA.
    
  