
    
      Transcranial direct current stimulation is a technique of noninvasive brain stimulation which
      delivers a electrical current to the scalp to modulate the neuronal activity. Depending on
      the polarity of stimulation, tDCS induces a neural hyperexcitability (with anode) or
      hypoexcitability (with cathode) of the target area.

      Due to its neuromodulatory action, ease of use and low safety, tDCS can be used as a
      potential treatment but also as an investigative tool in neurophysiology. Thus, studies have
      shown a beneficial effect of tDCS on cognitive and motor functions. Nevertheless, studies
      conducted on motor performance and the reduction of neuromuscular fatigue show disparate
      results. It is impossible to conclude whether tDCS allows for improved performance and is a
      means of doping.

      With a prospective, sham-controlled, crossover, double-blind design, this study aims to
      evaluate the effect of tDCS on neuromuscular fatigue resistance during explosive (jumping)
      and endurance (cycling) exertion.

      This study is divided into two parts:

        -  Part A: jumping group

        -  Part B: cycling group.

      During Part A, participants visit the laboratory on 3 occasions. Each visit is organized in
      the same way and is at least 48 hours apart from the previous one.

      Participants are divided into two groups according to their level of experience (amateurs vs.
      high level).

      Before the session of tDCS, participants carry out a psychometric assessment (MCQ, BIS10) and
      experimental tasks (BART, EEFRT, STROOP test and Go NoGo task). Then, they performed three
      types of jumps (long jump, squat jump and countermovement jump). Finally, participants
      benefit from neuromuscular tests (EMG recording of plantar flexor muscle activity,
      percutaneous stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve).

      Subjects will be submitted to three sessions of tDCS (2 actives and one sham), one by visit,
      in the order of randomization. Current intensity will be of 2 mA (or 0 mA), through 25 cm²
      surface electrodes, during 20 minutes. The positioning of the stimulation electrodes will be
      carried out in compliance with EEG 10/20 standards:

      - Sequence order determined by randomization:

        1. Anode: F3 / Cathode: AF8/ Stimulation intensity: 2 mA

        2. Anode: F3/ Cathode: AF8/ Stimulation intensity: 0 mA

        3. Anode: FC2/ Cathode: Left shoulder/ Stimulation intensity: 2 mA

      Immediately after the stimulation, participants perform motor and cognitive task again and
      the results are compared.

      During part B, subjects participate in two training sessions of five days each. The training
      sessions are one month apart.

      Participants are divided into three groups according to their level of experience (amateurs
      vs. high level vs. sedentary).

      Each day, the subjects perform two twenty-minute time trials during which they receive a
      session of tDCS. (one week with the active tDCS, one week with the sham). So, subjects will
      be submitted to 10 tDCS stimulation sessions (active or sham) for five consecutive days (2
      sessions of 20 minutes/day). Current intensity will be of 2 mA, through 25 cm² surface
      electrodes, placed over the dlPFC and the supraorbital region (anode position over F3 and
      cathode over AF8, according to the EEG 10-20 international system).

      At J1 and J5 of each session (before and after session training), subjects carry out a
      psychometric assessment (MCQ, BIS10) and experimental tasks (BART, EEFRT, STROOP test and Go
      NoGo task) and benefit from neuromusculars tests (EMG recording of plantar flexor muscle
      activity, percutaneous stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve). Baseline measures will be
      compared to those obtained immediately after the end of sessions (5 days: short-term
      effects), and to 12 and 30 days later (long-term effects). Active and sham stimulation
      sessions outcomes will as well be compared.
    
  