
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine and compare the efficacy of tai ji quan training and strength training in
      reducing the incidence of falls in prostate cancer survivors on androgen deprivation therapy
      (ADT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine and compare the efficacy of tai ji quan training and strength training to
      reduce frailty and dysfunction in prostate cancer survivors on ADT.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine how well the benefits of tai ji quan and strength interventions persist over
      a 6-month period.

      OUTLINE:

      The study is a 3-group, single-blind, parallel design randomized controlled trial in prostate
      cancer survivors treated with ADT. Participants in each study group will attend supervised
      1-hr classes, 3 days a week for 6 months.

      ARM 1: Tai ji quan, an integrated exercise routine consisting of 8 purposeful movement forms
      and a set of therapeutic movements, specifically designed to challenge limits of stability
      and train gait patterns, as reflected in movements such as upright trunk positioning,
      displacement of body's center of mass over the weight-bearing leg, and step initiation,
      locomotion, and termination.

      ARM 2: Strength training. Participants wear a weighted vest while performing exercises using
      functional movement patterns that challenge balance by using muscle groups and movement
      involved in everyday activities (chair rises, 90°squats, side-to-side squats, toe raises,
      lunges (forward, lateral, backward, walking), multi-directional step ups).

      ARM 3: Stretching control. Participants in the control group will attend a supervised
      flexibility program of the same total weekly duration as the experimental arms (e.g., 3,
      60-min sessions per week). Control participants will perform a series of whole body
      stretching exercises, according to the ACSM guidelines for flexibility training, with a focus
      on developing and maintaining a healthy back.

      Six Month Follow-Up: Participants will be followed for an additional 6 months after the
      6-month supervised intervention stops to track falls (using same monthly report used during
      intervention phase). Exercise questionnaires to track participation in home or community
      exercise programs and will be collected at the 9- and 12-month time periods.
    
  