
    
      Methodology This will be a prospective randomized trial with 2 treatment groups with 100
      patients in each arm. The control group ( Group C) will be intubated with our conventional
      endotracheal tubes and the test group ( Group T) will be intubated with the special Taper
      guard tubes with subglottic suctioning and snug fit facilities.

      All adult patients ( > 18 years of age) admitted into the Intensive Care Unit who are likely
      to receive more than 72 hours of ventilation will be admitted into the trial. The trial has
      been cleared by the Hospital Ethics and informed consent will be obtained from the patient's
      next of kin.

      All patients will have their demographic data collected, the primary reason for ICU
      admission, the APACHE 2 scores, presence of infection at admission, antibiotic use and
      whether they have risk factors for VAP ( previous surgery, trauma, antibiotics usage, reflux
      disease and use of stress ulcer prophylaxis, decreased immune status ) The following
      guidelines modified from the American Thoracic Society 2005 will be used as the basis for
      diagnosing Ventilator Associated Pneumonia.

      Guideline for Diagnosis of Ventilator Associated Pneumonia (VAP)2

        1. Patient ventilated for more than 48 hours.

        2. Suspicion of ventilation associated pneumonia

        3. Presence of a new or progressive infiltrate on chest radiograph.

        4. At least 2 of the following:

             1. Fever, defined as an oral temperature greater than 38 degree C, a tympanic
                temperature greater than 38.5 degree C or a rectal /core temperature greater than
                39 degree C OR hypothermia, defined as a rectal/core body temperature of less than
                35 degree C.

             2. Elevated total peripheral WBC count (greater than 12000/mm3) or greater than 15%
                bands regardless of total peripheral WBC count; or leucopenia with total peripheral
                WBC less than 4500/mm3 (caused by the infection)

             3. New onset of purulent sputum production or other respiratory secretions (e.g.
                tracheal secretions), or a change in the character of sputum or tracheal secretions

             4. Worsening hypoxaemia with reduction in PaO2/ FiO2 greater or equal to 15%

      In addition all patients will have aspirants from the oral cavity (control group) or
      subglottic region (group T) and the lungs ( both group C and group T) sent on alternate days
      for bacterial culture. All tubes will be inflated to a sealing pressure of no leak or up to
      20-25 cm H2O whichever is the lower.

      The sample size has been estimated based on the incidence of ventilation-associated pneumonia
      (VAP) which is the primary outcome measure from other studies1,2. Based on a VAP incidence of
      20% and 6% in each group, 1:1 ratio, 80% power and significance value of 0.05, the number
      required in each group will be 89. Adding 10% for loss to follow-up, the number needed in
      each group will be 100 giving a total of 200 The assignment of each patient to the study will
      be randomized according to computer generated random numbers by the statistician who will not
      be a party in the ongoing clinical part of the research. In addition she will provide the
      allocation sequencing via an opaque envelope when a suitable patient has been identified for
      the assignment of the patient to the 2 groups when informed consent has been obtained. The
      person who intubates the patient with the endotracheal tube will use the tube that has been
      allocated according to the written instruction inside the now opened opaque envelope.

      Patient and the clinical researchers managing the patient cannot be blinded as there are
      obvious differences between the 2 types of endotracheal tubes. However the assessor that will
      determine the presence or absence of the soft signs of ventilator associated pneumonia will
      be blinded to the type of tubes used. The Radiologist who reads the Chest Xrays will not be
      privy to the type of tubes used and the Microbiologist determining the significance of the
      bacteria identified in the oral/subglottic secretions and the tracheal secretions will not be
      aware of the endotracheal tubes used.

      The main outcome measure will be the incidence of ventilator associated pneumonia on each day
      the patient is ventilated. The secondary outcomes will be the length of ventilation, the
      duration of intensive care stay, the duration of hospital stay (pre-intensive care,
      post-intensive care) and the incidence of mortality of the 2 groups.

      Statistics Categorical variables will be analysed using Chi square test while continuous
      variables will be analysed using ANOVA. Intention to treat analysis will be used. Analysis
      will be carried out using the SPSS version 15.0 software. All statistical tests will be
      carried out using a significance level of 0.05.
    
  