
    
      The study objective is to investigate whether it is possible to reposition a displaced
      suture-method catheter using ultrasound.

      A peripheral nerve catheter will be inserted on each side under US guidance. An investigator
      will insert one catheter in the short-axis plane of the adductor canal using an in plane
      technique: The needle is inserted through the vastus medialis into the adductor canal and
      exits superficial to the femoral artery through the sartorius muscle.

      The second catheter is inserted from proximal to distal direction in the long-axis plane
      using a combination of in-plane and out-of-plane techniques.

      10mL of isotonic saline is used for hydro-dissection for both catheter insertions to
      facilitate placement. Both catheters are injected with 15 mL LA with an immediate assessment
      of the spread being within or outside the adductor canal.

      Loss of cold sensation in the cutaneous saphenous nerve innervation area will be evaluated 15
      minutes after injection by another investigator, who is blinded to allocation and
      randomization.

      Following return of normal sensory function the catheter is then intentionally displaced at
      least 2 cm outside the adductor canal in the direction of the entry or exit site according to
      randomization. The distance from the LA delivery orifice of the catheter to the adductor
      canal is noted. Adequate displacement requires that injection of isotonic saline does not
      result in spread within the adductor canal.

      A third investigator will assess distance from the LA delivery orifice of the catheter to the
      adductor canal and subsequently reposition the catheter using saline to pinpoint location of
      the delivery orifice. Once the catheter is repositioned LA is injected. The US scan during LA
      injection is performed with a fourth investigator present to evaluate for satisfactory spread
      within the adductor canal. The 2 investigators will not communicate regarding the assessment
      of spread within the adductor canal.

      Evaluation of cold sensation on the medial part of the lower leg is performed 15 minutes
      after 15mL LA (lidocaine 10 mg/mL) injection by investigator 2. The catheters are then
      removed and the study is completed.

      Distance from catheter delivery orifices to the adductor canal is defined as following:

      Distance from the LA delivery orifice to the fascia surrounding the adductor canal is noted
      in the short axis group. The distance from the LA delivery orifice to the penetration of the
      aponeurosis lying just below the sartorius muscle is noted in the long axis group. Both
      represent anatomical reference points for the adductor canal.

      Satisfactory spread within the adductor canal is defined as following:

      The LA injection spreads deeper along the lateral side of the femoral artery, observed in the
      two-dimensional plane while producing minimal displacement of the roof and the overlying
      sartorius muscle.

      The injection may spread occasionally superficially over the femoral artery within the canal
      and will then force the artery deeper. If the injection spreads more medially and
      superficially over the saphenous nerve and femoral artery in an anterolateral to
      posteromedial direction, initially resembling the injections within the adductor canal but
      separates the sartorius muscle from the femoral artery by lifting the sartorius muscle
      medially off the hyperechoic roof of the adductor canal it is considered not to spread within
      the adductor canal.13

      Successful primary placement and subsequent repositioning is defined as the combination of
      satisfactory spread within the adductor canal (assessed using SAX visualization of the
      adductor canal for both catheters) and loss of cold sensation.
    
  