
    
      Sarcoidosis is chronic condition which can affect any organ within the body, however
      frequently involves the lungs and thoracic lymph nodes. The exact cause of the disease
      remains uncertain and it is thought that the immune system overreacts to a possible inhaled
      antigen in the environment. A role has been suggested for triggers such as certain types of
      infection.

      The clinical course and prognosis of sarcoidosis is extremely variable. Some patients make a
      full recovery without the need for any specific treatment, however up to a third of patients
      may develop a more severe form of the disease which can lead to scarring and fibrosis of the
      lungs. As such, the treatment of sarcoidosis focuses on suppressing the immune system,
      however the evidence to support this remains weak. Furthermore, such treatment may place the
      patient at risk of long-term side effects.

      At the present time, there is a lack of useful markers which not only help diagnose the
      condition, but also help to predict and identify those patients at risk of developing more
      severe disease or who may require treatment.

      The purpose of this study is to use a technique which analyses breath samples to provide a
      profile of chemicals which are present in the exhaled breath of patients with sarcoidosis. It
      is important to know if this profile differs from healthy people, relates to infections or
      changes over time, particularly in response to treatment. As such, hopefully this technique
      will provide an alternative way of monitoring the disease or predicting progression.

      This is an observational case-control study of patients with suspected sarcoidosis receiving
      standard care at two NHS hospitals over the course of 12 months. At baseline, if patients are
      undergoing a bronchoscopy or endobronchial ultrasound and lymph node biopsy as part of their
      routine clinical care an additional sample of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid will be collected
      and used for metagenomic sequencing to identify the presence of any infections such as
      bacterial, viruses or fungi. In addition, patients will also be invited to provide additional
      voluntary consent for an extra biopsy to be taken which would also be used for metagenomic
      sequencing. Alongside this a sample of breath would be collected using the ReCIVA device
      (Owlstone Medical, Cambridge, UK), as well as blood sampling and storage for biomarker
      analysis. Patients would also be asked to complete three questionnaires including the medical
      research council dyspnoea score (MRC) and King's Sarcoidosis Health Related Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (KSQ) relating to their employment, level of breathlessness, symptoms and
      quality of life. Additional voluntary consent would also be sought for an extra blood test to
      be taken at baseline and stored for future genetic analysis.

      During the course of study, three further follow-up visits would then take place at 3, 6 and
      12 months. During each visit a sputum sample would be collected (if the patient was able to
      expectorate spontaneously) as well as repeated blood and breath sampling and completion of
      the medical research council dyspnoea score and King's Sarcoidosis Questionnaire. Pulmonary
      function tests would be performed as part of routine clinical care. At the end of the study,
      a repeat high resolution computerised tomography (CT) scan of the chest would take place to
      look for any new changes related to sarcoidosis and assess the activity of the disease.

      The study will aim to recruit a total of 80 patients presenting with suspected sarcoidosis
      across both sites. In a subset of 10 participants, repeated breath sampling will take place
      two weeks from baseline to assess for reproducibility.

      Alongside patients with suspected sarcoidosis, 40 healthy volunteers (including partners or
      spouses) will be recruited for breath sampling at baseline.

      The study is being undertaken as part of a PhD programme and is funded by a grant from
      British Lung Foundation. Ethical approval has been granted from the North West - Greater
      Manchester Central Research Ethics Committee (IRAS Number 241100).
    
  