
    
      The LP is a 4-step approach that aims to upregulate T-regulatory cells (T-Regs) by directly
      stimulating their development and removing stimuli that could suppress them, eventually
      creating an environment favorable for graft acceptance. This protocol has been based upon
      preclinical research perormfed in the investigators lab and has been implemented as standard
      of care since the inception of the clinical programma in 2000. Patients gave informed consent
      for Donor Specific Blood Transfusion. Ethical approval for collection of additional blood
      samples was granted by the local ethical committee (s56862).

      Step 1. Donor-specific blood transfusion (DSBT). 400 mL of whole blood was collected from the
      donor at the time of procurement and was transfused systemically in the recipient prior to
      reperfusion.

      Step 2. Avoiding high-dose steroids. After Intestinal Transplantation, only 16 mg of medrol
      was administered and tapered towards 4 mg in 3 to 6 months post-Tx, similar to the liver Tx
      protocol.

      Step 3. Avoiding high-dose calcineurin inhibitors (tacrolimus). Initial levels of 15 ng/ml
      were tapered -within 3 to 6 months- to 5 ng/mL or less for liver-containing grafts and 6 to 8
      ng/mL for isolated intestinal grafts.

      Step 4. Maintaining mucosal integrity and reducing ischemia reperfusion injury, inflammation,
      and endotoxin translocation. This was obtained by selecting perfect (ischemia-free) donors
      (<50y, absence of significant hypotension, vasopressor requirement and cardiac arrest);
      pretreating donors with selective bowel decontamination and glutamine; gentle manipulations
      of the organs during donor and recipient surgery; aiming for short cold and warm ischemic
      times (5h and 30' respectively). Bowel decontamination consists of Nilstat, Tobramycine and
      Colimycine administered by a nasogastric tube and continued posttransplant during three
      months. Glutamine is supplemented parenterally (Dipeptiven Kabi Fresenius) and enterally
      (Alitracq) to donors and continued posttransplant.
    
  