
    
      Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) is a severe complication of diabetes mellitus
      characterized by new vessel formation in the retina and optic disc. Tight glycemic control
      and laser treatment in the early phases of the disease may slow the progression of PDR.
      Panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) is a laser-based treatment modality that destroys the outer
      retina layers and thereby improves the oxygen supply of the inner retina. During the
      following years, sequential improvements took place, including introduction of yellow, green,
      and diode lasers with various advantages of each wavelength.

      In 2006, a novel semi-automatic and multi-shot photocoagulator called as PASCAL (Pattern scan
      laser, Opti-Medica Corp., Santa Clara, California, USA) was introduced with a reduction in
      pulse duration of each laser spot from typical 100 ms down to 10-30 millisecond. Compared
      with the conventional laser, shorter pulses have been shown to significantly reduce the risk
      of damage to the adjacent retinal tissues.

      Almost all patients experience pain during PRP. While some patients may tolerate the pain,
      the majority does not. One study reported that 64.1% of patients did not complete treatment
      due to pain and therefore had an increased risk of vision loss. To improve patient
      compliance, several anesthetic and analgesic techniques such as peribulbar anesthesia, oral
      anesthesia and topical eye drops have been used. The patient comfort, and thus compliance,
      may be improved by using the shorter exposure burns, avoiding red or infrared wavelengths
      with deeper penetration, and by decreasing overall treatment time.

      The aim of the current study was to compare the severity of expressed pain scores in patients
      with PDR who underwent either PASCAL or conventional laser.

      As a method of this study, both eyes were treated within the same session and while one eye
      was treated with PASCAL laser, the other was treated with conventional laser (ELLEX Integre,
      Adailade, Australia) with 30 minutes resting intervals. To avoid a bias about orientation or
      becoming accustomed to laser procedure, PASCAL laser was performed in the first eyes in half
      of the patients (14 patients) and conventional laser was performed in the first eyes in the
      other half of the patients randomly. While the spot size used to obtain a white-grayish spot
      on the retina was 200-400 µm in both PASCAL and conventional laser, the pulse duration was
      100 ms with conventional laser and 30ms with PASCAL laser. In order to accurately and
      reliable compare the grade of pain between each procedures, the retinal areas and total
      number of spots were standardized. Similar numbers of laser spots were created by two laser
      systems in same retinal quadrants in both eyes. Ten minutes after the procedure ended the
      severity of pain was assessed using a verbal rating scale and a visual analog scale (VAS). In
      the verbal scale the patient rates the pain on a Likert scale verbally, e.g. "none", "mild
      pain", "moderate pain", "severe pain" or "very severe pain" in five grading system (0-4) and
      in the VAS they specify the severity of pain by indicating a position along a continuous line
      from 0 to 10. Using these scores, relationship between severity of pain and patient
      characteristics including history of prior PRP treatment (experience), gender and duration of
      diabetes mellitus were assessed. Patients were assigned either in the experienced or
      non-experienced groups depending on history of prior PRP.
    
  