
    
      For patients with malignant spinal cord compression (MSCC) who are paraparetic or paraplegic
      before initiating treatment, the current treatment options provide a meager to poor chance of
      neurologic recovery and the prognosis is guarded. Improving the chance of ambulation after
      treatment for MSCC may dramatically improve patients' quality of life, decrease days spent in
      hospital and improve survival. Steroids appear to prevent neurologic damage from MSCC and
      increasing doses appear to have an increasingly protective effect, however, higher doses are
      limited by an increasing incidence of serious toxicity.

      Recombinant human erythropoetin has been shown to improve quality of life in patients with
      anemia of chronic disease and animal models suggest that r-HuEPO may have a neuroprotective
      effect. Human studies have demonstrated increased CSF concentrations of r-HuEPO after
      intravenous administration, including patients with MESCC. Furthermore, there is a suggestion
      that patients treated with intravenous r-HuEPO, steroids and RT may recover ambulatory
      function to a greater degree and faster than patients not treated with r-HuEPO.

      Ultimately the effect of r-HuEPO in improving neurologic, functional and quality of life
      outcomes will need to be tested in a properly designed, large, randomized control trial.
      However, in order to successfully complete this study in a timely manner, a multicenter study
      will need to be performed. There are logistical issues that need to be addressed when setting
      up a r-HuEPO infusion program.

      Therefore, a multicenter, randomized phase 2 study of intravenous r-HuEPO, steroids and RT
      will allow the investigators to address three issues: i) confirm that the logistical issues
      at each center can be addressed; ii) confirm in a larger cohort of patients whether the
      encouraging neurologic outcomes seen in the preliminary study can be replicated across
      different settings when compared with a randomized control group; iii) ensure the safety of
      EPO in this population including overall survival and incidence of subsequent TVEs with and
      without EPO.
    
  