
    
      With the advent of the highly active antiretroviral (ARV) therapy era, patients with human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) have had significantly decreased mortality and morbidity.
      Concomitant with more patients chronically taking antiretroviral therapy, there has been an
      increase in atherogenic lipoprotein profiles (high cholesterol, high triglycerides, low
      HDL's), insulin resistance, fat redistribution and coronary artery disease. HIV viral
      replication, anti-retroviral treatment regimens, lipids, glucose intolerance, host immune
      response or a combination of factors may contribute to the increase in cardiovascular risk
      factors. HIV positive patients, independent of the effect on lipids, appear to have increased
      cardiovascular risk. Studies are not entirely consistent, but the most convincing study to
      date, the D.A.D. study from EURO-SIDA, shows a 27% relative increased rate of myocardial
      infarction per year of exposure over the first seven years of ART.

      Lopinavir-ritonavir is one of the most commonly used antiretroviral therapy. It also produces
      lipid abnormalities. Thus, an important part of the investigating factors contributing to
      atherosclerosis would be to determine if this drug can adversely influence endothelial cells
      in the absence of HIV infection or low CD4 counts. This would suggest that this drug directly
      or indirectly could predispose to atherosclerosis. Endothelial function is an important
      contributor to atherosclerosis. Invasive and non-invasive methods to evaluate endothelial
      cell function have been validated as predictors of coronary artery disease. These techniques
      have been used at NIH for clinical investigation for many years.

      This protocol is designed to determine whether there is a pathologic effect on endothelial
      function from the lopinavir/ritonavir. By measuring endothelial function in HIV non-infected
      subjects both before and after four weeks of therapy, we will be able to investigate whether
      the medications have a direct toxic effect on the endothelium. Collection of metabolic data
      will allow us to evaluate whether endothelial function occurs in conjunction or separate from
      lipoprotein and glucose metabolic changes. As ARV options increase, it may be possible to
      choose specific regimens that may minimize acceleration of cardiovascular risk factors
      associated with endothelial dysfunction, especially in patients with other cardiovascular
      risk factors. These findings may help elucidate the pathophysiology of premature
      cardiovascular disease in HIV positive patients and also plan interventions to minimize
      endothelial dysfunction and subsequent cardiovascular disease.
    
  