
    
      Colorectal Cancer is the third most common cause of cancer in Canada with an estimated
      lifetime risk of developing the disease of 6-7%. Each year there are approximately 21,000 new
      cases and 9,100 deaths attributable to this disease. Colonoscopy is one of several methods
      recommended for Colorectal Cancer (CRC) screening by current guidelines. While colonoscopy is
      the most invasive, it offers high diagnostic accuracy and ability for therapy (biopsy and
      removal of adenomas) compared to other modalities. The emerging evidence regarding missed
      neoplastic lesions with colonoscopy has resulted in quality initiatives designed to improve
      colonoscopy performance. I-Scan (Pentax, Montvale, NJ) is a new method that uses post
      processing computer algorithms to revise the standard white light to highlight pit patterns
      and vascular surface patterns.The relevant I-scan settings in the colon are I-scan 1 and
      I-scan 2. The primary objective of the study is to compare the adenoma detection rate in the
      right colon using High-definition white light colonoscopy versus I-scan enhanced colonoscopy.

      All patients referred for a screening colonoscopy at Forzani and MacPhail Colon Cancer Centre
      will be considered for enrollment.All eligible patients that are not part of another research
      study will be approached for enrollment into the study. During the pre-assessment at the
      clinic a study assistant will contact all the eligible patients to describe the study and
      provide an "Invitation to participate in a Research study" form. The study assistant will
      obtain a final consent if they agree. Those not interested will simply receive the Centre's
      standard protocol. There will be no coercion of any sort. Following Informed Consent,
      treatment allocation through computer generated randomization will be revealed. Patients will
      be allocated to one of the three study arms (HD Colon, I-scan 1 and I-Scan 2). Patients will
      receive a standard bowel preparation: Split dose Polyethylene Glycol (PEG) (2L at noon + 2L
      at 8 PM the day before) for morning procedures or (2L at 8Pm the day before and 2L at five
      hours before the procedure on the day of colonoscopy) for afternoon procedure. certified
      gastroenterologists will perform all of the procedures with the assistance of a nurse. The
      planned "second look" of the right colon will involve withdrawing from the Cecum to Hepatic
      flexure, then re-inserting to Cecum and finally withdrawing through the entire colon. The
      physician performing the procedure will then fill a "Colonoscopy Report Form" including the
      number of polyps detected, size, shape, polypectomy method and cleanliness of the bowel.

      The investigators did a pilot study with 150 subjects to check the mean no.of adenomas per
      colonoscopy, no.of adenomas detected in the right colon during the second look and to
      estimate the recruitment rate. Based on those results the investigators started this study
      with a large sample size. The investigators are planning to do an interim analysis after
      recruiting 450 subjects (30% of total enrollment). The results of the analysis will determine
      whether the investigators complete recruitment of the initially approved sample size of 1500
      subjects.
    
  