
    
      Motor Neurone Disease (MND) is neurodegenerative disorder that leads to progressive weakness
      of limb, bulbar and respiratory muscles. The most common form of the disease is the
      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Severe weakness of the neck extensor muscles is common
      in patients with ALS. Those patients are advised to wear a cervical collar, to improve their
      neck posture and social interaction. However the main limit of commercially available collars
      is that they are designed to immobilize the neck, which makes them uncomfortable and
      strenuous to wear for long time. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects on MND
      patients of a new collar specifically designed for people affected by neck weakness: the
      Sheffield Support Snood. The assessment will be performed through the use of inertial sensors
      since they allow the measurement to be performed in real life settings (clinics/home) with
      reduced discomfort to the patient. Subjects will be asked to perform a series of active head
      movements (flexion, extension, axial rotation, lateral bending) with and without the collar
      and the range of movement measured in the two cases will be used to assess the support
      offered by the collar. Since in MND patients difficulty in perform active head movements is
      due to a severe weakness of the extensor muscles, with or without involvement of the neck
      flexors, this study will also investigate the activation of these muscles while the subject
      is performing the active head movements. A wireless surface electromyographic system (sEMG)
      will be used to this purpose. Patients able to perform a series of activities of daily living
      (ADL, ie: drinking, eating, washing hands) will be asked to perform the tasks both with and
      without the collar. The support perceived by the subjects while they are performing the ADL
      will be evaluated through a questionnaire specifically developed for this study.
    
  