
    
      Alzheimer's disease is a degenerative disorder associated with aging and presents a
      significant human and financial burden. Amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) is a
      disorder of impaired memory and is a precursor to Alzheimer's disease. Current treatments are
      symptomatic and do not slow disease progression. There is increasing evidence linking sleep
      and cognition, such that decreased sleep, particularly slow wave sleep (physiologically slow
      wave activity; SWA), is associated with impaired cognitive performance. Not only does SWA
      decrease with aging, it is much less in people with aMCI than cognitively normal elderly.
      Interventions that improve sleep may also improve cognition. Auditory stimulation using
      sounds played through headphones or speakers during sleep have been shown to increase SWA and
      memory in young adults. Because this method plays sounds at fixed intervals, its ability to
      enhance SWA may be limited. Investigators have developed an improved method that measures
      slow waves during sleep in real time and delivers the sound at a particular phase of the slow
      wave (phase locked loop; PLL). Given that people with aMCI have low SWA, this method may be
      able to improve cognition by enhancing SWA. Our objective is to determine whether the PLL
      method of auditory stimulation can increase SWA and improve cognition in people with aMCI.
      Investigators propose a randomized sham-controlled cross-over study of auditory stimulation
      that population.

      The specific aims are:

        1. to determine a dose and duration of stimulation required to increase SWA by 10% in
           people with aMCI;

        2. to determine the effect of the stimulus on cognitive performance in people with aMCI
           using word pair recall and the NIH Toolbox cognitive battery, which includes tests in
           multiple cognitive domains.

      Investigators will recruit 15 participants with aMCI identified through the Northwestern
      University Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease Center Clinical Core. Participants
      will undergo 2 separate nights of polysomnography (stimulation and sham) and cognitive
      testing on stimulation and sham visits. There will be approximately 1 week between overnight
      visits. The order of stimulation and sham will be randomized. Results study will be used to
      determine the optimal stimulation parameters, provide preliminary data on its potential
      effect, and guide design of future studies.
    
  