
    
      BRYTECH STUDY SUMMARY

      The Remote Physiological Monitoring System (RPM™) is a wireless technology for physiological
      monitoring. The RPM™ is designed to capture, transmit and remotely monitor the vital signs of
      a patient or group of patients. The RPM™ allows the patient to carry an unobtrusive unit and
      sensor array, which is able to store and/or forward its data via existing communication
      networks. This data is archivable and can be made available to a monitoring station or
      stations. This approach obviates the need to provide new and expensive infrastructure to
      support the system since it is designed to 'piggy-back' on the existing network.

      A major clinical advantage of the RPM™ and the principal reason why it may offer a benefit to
      patients, is that it provides continuous remote monitoring of vital signs, in contrast to the
      current situation for ward patients, where there is intermittent vital signs monitoring. This
      is a major advantage for patients and hospital staff, since there is increasing evidence that
      demonstrate early recognition and treatment of clinical events, e.g., shock, can save lives;
      the concurrent cost and labour saving is a further obvious benefit.

      The RPM™ uses wireless technology to overcome the portability problems associated with
      conventional patient monitoring systems. The RPM™ uses off the shelf computer technology such
      as standard displays, as well as secure, wireless, 802.11 networking protocols and consists
      of the following system components:

        1. Physiological Monitoring Unit (PMU)

        2. Data Aggregation Server (DAS)

        3. Clinical Monitoring Position (CMP)

      To validate the RPM™ device for regulatory approval, BRYTECH will evaluate the RPM™ in a
      clinical setting, thereby ensuring that the system is trustworthy and acceptable to health
      professionals as a monitoring system in patients. The study proposes to evaluate the accuracy
      and reliability of the RPM™ compared to monitors commonly used in the medical practice under
      the standard conditions of medical practice; this study will therefore be a non-intervention
      study. The study also proposes to evaluate notification and alarm systems, the communications
      interface and non-interference with existing systems, devices, networks and procedures as
      well as the incremental nursing workload associated with the integration of the RPM™ in a
      clinical environment. The RPM™ and reference physiological monitoring devices will be
      compared for physiological monitoring capabilities in 40 patients from the following four (4)
      cohorts:

        1. Cohort 1 (Exercise): patients who are scheduled to undergo a minimum of 20 minutes of
           exercise testing.

        2. Cohort 2 (ICU): patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU)

        3. Cohort 3 (Post-op): patients in Post-Operative care

        4. Cohort 4 (ER): patients admitted to the Emergency Room (e.g., high risk medical
           admissions) These cohorts are considered representative of a broad spectrum of the
           general patient population. Patients participating in the study will be assigned to one
           of these 4 cohorts, with a minimum of 10 patients assigned to Cohort 1 (Exercise) and a
           minimum of 5 patients in each of the other cohorts.

      For the study, the RPM™ and reference monitoring devices will be time-stamped such that zero
      time will be readily evaluable and patients will be fitted with all necessary sensors for
      collection of vital signs, namely heart rate (HR), electrocardiogram (ECG), blood oxygen
      saturation levels (SpO2), non-invasive blood pressure (NIBP), body temperature (BT) and
      respiration rate (RR).

      For Cohort 1 (Exercise) patients, comparative monitoring of vital signs will be done during
      exercise testing for a minimum of 20 minutes with additional monitoring performed pre- and
      post-exercise. There will be a minimum of 10 patients in this cohort. For patients in Cohorts
      2, 3 and 4, comparative monitoring of vital signs will be performed during the period (24 -
      72 hours) required to collect 12 Vital Sign Assessment Cycles (VSAC - defined in Section
      5.2.2) per subject, with a minimum of 5 patients in each cohort and a total of 30 patients.
      The four cohorts of patients have been chosen to allow comparison of vital signs from the
      RPM™ and standard nursing measurement techniques over a broad range of physiologic data (e.g.
      rest and exercise) and patient populations (e.g. stable and critically ill).The primary
      objective for the study is to determine substantial equivalence of the RPM™ and the reference
      devices or standard practice measurements by comparing the agreement (accuracy) between
      paired output results for individual vital signs and the reliability of data collection over
      a 24 hour monitoring period. Timepoint matched paired data for all available timepoints will
      be collected from the RPM™ and the reference devices, excluding ambulatory data, for heart
      rate, ECG, SpO2, blood pressure, body temperature and respiration rate. Accuracy will be
      determined by assessing whether the paired values show significant agreement. Reliability
      will be determined by a comparison of cumulative totals for lost data points and error rates.

      The study will be conducted according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines with all
      patients required to sign an Informed Consent Form (ICF). This is a non-intervention study
      and patients tested will be subjected to use of the RPM™ as the only experimental procedure
      during the trial. Importantly, patients will not be exposed to any significant risks as a
      result of participating in this study.
    
  