
    
      Bevacizumab and olaparib have already been tested on 12 patients in a phase I trial at their
      usual doses (10 mg/kg q2w and 400 mg bid - 50 mg capsules -, respectively), and no DLTs were
      observed. The addition of an anti-VEGF small molecule, cediranib, to olaparib doubled the
      median PFS in a randomized phase II trial in patients with platinum sensitive relapse, with a
      manageable safety profile.

      A recently reported phase I trial established the RDP2D of Durvalumab and Olaparib - 150 mg
      tablets -, when given in combination, at 1500 mg every 4 weeks, and 300 mg bid, respectively.
      In addition, the ENGOT/GINECO PAOLA phase III trial is currently evaluating the combination
      of Olaparib and Bevacizumab as first-line maintenance after platinum-paclitaxel combination,
      in patients with advanced high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma. Under the hypothesis of a
      survival benefit in favor of this combination, it would also be of interest to assess the
      value of adding Durvalumab in order to improve the efficacy of the overall combination.

      There are no trials to date assessing anti-VEGF in combination with anti-PARP and anti-PD-L1
      therapy.

      Beside additive efficacy, a synergistic effect could be expected :

        -  Between bevacizumab and durvalumab, through normalization of blood vessel and
           potentiation of immunologic infiltration.

        -  Between olaparib and durvalumab, through cytotoxicity-mediated release of antigens and
           impairment of mutation repair mechanisms, thereby increasing neoantigen loads.

        -  Between olaparib and bevacizumab, through tumor environment modulation and signaling of
           DNA damage inhibition, which has already been tested with the anti-VEGF cediranib.

      For those reasons the sponsor propose a phase II trial of Olaparib, Bevacizumab and
      Durvalumab combination, in patients with relapsing AO high grade carcinoma :

        -  In platinum sensitive relapse (PSR), whatever the line, in patients not amenable to
           frontline surgery of the relapse and previously-treated by a platinum-containing
           chemotherapy in first line and

             -  Either didn't receive any of the tested drugs,

             -  Or previously received either bevacizumab or olaparib BUT NOT the combination of
                both drugs.

        -  In platinum-resistant relapse (PRR), in previously untreated patients for their relapse,
           or in patients who received a maximum of 1 chemotherapy regimen in this setting and
           either

             -  Either didn't receive any of the tested drugs,

             -  Or previously received either bevacizumab or olaparib BUT NOT the combination of
                both drugs.

      The trial will also propose translational research, including :

        -  Assessment of germline and somatic BRCA mutations and determination of HRD phenotype and
           mutational load by NGS

        -  Quantification of mutagenesis in simultaneous treatment on ctDNA

        -  Characterization of immune response in the tumor by Nanostring immuno-oncology panel on
           tumors
    
  