
    
      Childhood obesity has reached epidemic proportions. Schools have been identified as a focal
      point for intervention because children spend almost half their day in school. On average,
      school-based interventions have shown modest short-term improvements in weight outcomes.
      However, considerable individual variation is found within treatments. Current clinical
      guidelines for childhood obesity recommend a staged treatment approach in which every few
      months treatment plans are reevaluated based on an individual's progress toward weight
      outcomes. When an individual doesn't sufficiently progress toward outcome goals, his/her
      treatment is escalated to be more individualized, include more structure, and greater social
      support. This method parallels a treatment paradigm used in other areas of medical treatment
      in which medication type and dose are altered when an individual does not respond to initial
      care. Obesity treatment provided in the school setting does not follow a similar structure of
      care. Despite the recognized variation between individuals, school-based obesity
      interventions are typically evaluated by mean changes in weight outcomes over time. Although
      this is sufficient to evaluate the efficacy of a program, it does not identify individuals
      who are not responsive to treatment. Following clinical best practices, it is likely that
      treatment needs to be escalated for those who do not respond to initial treatment. Currently
      no escalated treatment options, like that provided in clinical settings, are available in
      schools. This is a critical gap given the immense individual variability to treatment
      response and pediatric tracking of BMI. This study will develop and evaluate an escalated
      school-based treatment for individuals resistant to initial treatment, called Take CHARGE!
      (Teens Committed to Health through Activity, Relationships, and Good Eating). Specifically, a
      pilot randomized control trial will A.) examine differences in zBMI between Take CHARGE and a
      treatment as usual condition over an academic school semester among low SES, racial/ethnic
      minority youth resistant to initial treatment, and will B.) determine the proportion of
      students resistant to school-based behavioral obesity treatment. Understanding the proportion
      of children who are resistant to school-based intervention is a critical first step in
      treating this high-risk group of children.
    
  