
    
      CBT4CBT will be the first computer-based, cognitive behavioural therapy program for
      Addictions treatment to be offered in Canada. CBT4CBT has been rigorously tested in urban
      populations in the United States but this collaboration will be the first pilot trial in
      First Nation and other rural communities in Canada. Prince Edward Island has a
      self-proclaimed need for innovative new substance abuse treatments and CBT4CBT may provide
      the continuity and retention to traditional therapy programs that current available treatment
      options often lack. This study will allow CBT4CBT to be tested in several Prince Edward
      Island communities to gage its efficacy and effectiveness. The results and feedback received
      from the pilot study will allow the program to be adapted for Canadian populations in order
      to optimize its positive outcomes within Canada.

      CBT4CBT has been tested in urban populations in the United States in three rigorous
      randomized clinical trials with great success. The nature of CBT4CBT suggests it would also
      be beneficial in rural and remote populations which are common across Canada. Computer based
      treatments are cost-effective and although their nature necessitates human participants they
      have minimal risk associated with them. As the first computer based training for Addictions
      in Canada this research project could have broad implications for treatment in Addictions
      across our country.

      Analysis techniques will be based on those used in previous CBT4CBT trials conducted by our
      collaborator, Dr Carroll.

      The primary substance abuse outcomes (self-reported abstinence) will be assessed throughout
      the study and through a six month follow-up. Additional outcomes will include use of other
      services (medical, legal), patient and provider satisfaction, as well as the costs of
      implementing the program. Each week, the counsellors will deliver a questionnaire (provided
      by the CHCR) which covers this range of topics to their patient participating in the trial.
      The data will be analyzed with a focus on feasibility (retention in both conditions, levels
      of substance abuse, health problems, and cost by condition).
    
  