
    
      After the participant has signed the consent form a continuous glucose monitor (CGM) sensor
      will be placed on the arm of the participant. If consent is signed prior to the day of
      discharge the sensor placement will be delayed until the day of discharge. The participant
      will be provided with instruction to avoid bumping the sensor and to avoid dislodging when
      bathing and dressing. If the sensor should fall off before the follow up appointment, they
      will be instructed to bring it with them for a partial download.

      During the already scheduled post-discharge follow up appointment the CGM sensor data will be
      downloaded by clinic staff. The diabetes medications will be reconciled, and the downloaded
      data will be reviewed with the patient. Based on the download, a PharmD will have the option
      of increasing or decreasing insulin doses by a maximum of 10% to reduce hypoglycemia and/or
      hyperglycemia. The goal will be to adjust medications, if needed, to target blood sugars
      between 90-250mg/dl greater than 80% of the time. This is a conservative goal aimed at
      reducing risk for severe hypo or hyperglycemia with good glycemic control rather than to
      target tight glycemic control. If adjustment of oral agents or a change of greater than 10%
      is required this will be done in consultation with an attending physician.

      These adjustments will follow standards of care and the expectation is that this will benefit
      the patient. All changes will be communicated to the participant's primary care physician
      (PCP) or endocrinologist. If the patient does not have an endocrinologist and it is felt that
      significant adjustments will be required over time to improve the participant's glucose
      control they will be given the option of a referral to the Diabetes Cardiovascular Clinic,
      General Endocrinology Clinic, or if having excessive hypoglycemia the Diabetes Technology
      Clinic for consideration for long term use of CGM. If no changes are required, this will also
      be communicated to the patient's PCP or endocrinologist. The downloaded data from the CGM
      will be scanned in the media tab in the electronic medical record and any adjustments will be
      included as part of the medical record.

      Between 30 and 40 days post-discharge the participant's medical record will be accessed
      again. At this point it will be determined if the patient was readmitted to the hospital or
      died in the 30 days post-discharge. In addition, clinic notes will be examined to determine
      if there is any evidence that the patient developed worsening hypoglycemia or worsening
      hyperglycemia in response to medication adjustments made during the post-discharge clinic.
      This data will be collected to assist in understanding the efficacy of the intervention and
      to ensure that the intervention is not causing unintended harm. This access of the medical
      record would not be expected to benefit the patient but could provide benefit to future
      participants or patients.
    
  