
    
      STUDY DESIGN:An interventional non-randomized before-and-after study included 98 GPs (49 in
      the intervention group of mentors and 49 controls) and 174 medical students attending Family
      Medicine clinical rotations. A telephone survey on knowledge and attitudes towards EBM was
      conducted among participating physicians before and six months after the rotation. During the
      rotation, each mentor chose two cases from real life, and the students' task was to form an
      answerable clinical question, find the evidence-based answer and to write a brief report. The
      mentor reviewed the report and discussed it with the student.

      STUDY SETTING : The sixth year medical students within Family Medicine courses at
      MedicalSchool in Split, Zagreb and Rijeka have rotations at their mentors' offices. Before
      arrival of the students, mentors will respond to the questionnaire for physicians prepared
      for research purposes, and answer the same questionnaire six months after the "EBM
      intervention." SUBJECTS: mentors /bearers of instructional practices in family medicine
      constitute the intervention group and the same number of physicians similar in all features
      to those from the intervention group except that they are not mentors/bearers of
      instructional practices constitute the control group. The intervention group will be
      subjected to students' "EBM intervention", and the control will not.

      INTERVENTION: The sixth year medical students have practice at their mentors' offices within
      Family Medicine course. Each mentor chooses two patients / cases from real life, appearing to
      be diagnostic, therapeutic or prognostic problems in the outpatient work. A student's task is
      to make a question according to Patient Intervention Comparison Outcome (PICO) scheme, find
      the best evidence / answer to that question and write a brief report in accordance
      withPractical Evidence about Real Life Situations PEARL. The report is then brought to the
      mentor for review and discussion. So, it is a students' "EBM intervention", which will (?)
      affect the knowledge, attitudes and practice (work style) of a family physician.

      MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Self-evaluation of knowledge and attitudes after the intervention,
      which would be a surrogate outcome measure for GP's change in behaviour and work style
      (adoption of EBM practice).
    
  