
    
      The investigator will use an experimental design using a randomized controlled trial for the
      impact evaluation of the True North program. This is a sound methodological design to assess
      the outcomes of the participants in the program and comparison groups. The target population
      is at-risk youth age 17 to 23 who have been involved in the foster care system and are
      preparing to "transition into adulthood." The units of analysis are young adults in the
      foster care system. The investigator plans to have 80-120 research study participants in each
      of the 3 cohorts. Over the 5-year grant period, a total of 300-360 young adults will be in
      the sample, with approximately 150-165 young adults in the program group and approximately
      150-165 young adults in the comparison group. The inclusion criterion is: Any young adult age
      17 to 23 who is aging out of the foster care system. The exclusion criterion does include an
      age restriction of 18 to 23 because that is the age group that receives extended foster care
      services in Broward County. Services end at age 24. There are no gender-based enrollment
      restrictions. There are no race-based enrollment restrictions.

      The young adults randomly assigned to the program groups will take part in a multi-component
      intervention consisting of group workshops and individual sessions on relationship skills and
      financial stability and receive employment assistance and mentoring. For the healthy
      relationships component, program participants could receive 13 hours of workshops and 7 hours
      of individual sessions. For the economic stability component, program participants could
      receive 3.5 hours of financial stability and job readiness workshops and 7 hours of
      individual sessions about finance and employment. For the mentoring component, program
      participants could receive up to 7 hours of case management and 10 hours of prosocial events.
      All sessions will take place at the Children's Harbor Lauderhill office over a 9-month
      period.

      The young adults in the program group will be completing a pre-test, post-test, and a
      followup. Answering the pre- and post-tests will take about 1 hour each and will be conducted
      at the Children's Harbor office, on the phone, or online. Participation in this evaluation
      study will take a total of approximately 106-112 hours of their time during the year-long
      program.

      The investigator expects the True North program group to have improved relationship skills
      because of the participation in the Love Notes and mentoring components of the True North
      program. Love Notes v2.0, which was adapted from Relationships Smarts Plus, an evidence-based
      intervention rated by SAMSHA's National Registry of Evidence-based Programs and Practices
      (NREPP), will be utilized to help participants develop healthy relationship skills. It was
      selected based on its proven track record in serving diverse, economically disadvantaged
      youth and young adults age 16 to 24 who are at risk for poor quality relationships and
      unplanned pregnancies (NREPP 2012). An evaluation of Love Notes for Youth Build USA found
      that Love Notes participants improved their attitudes, knowledge, perceived skills, and
      behaviors associated with healthy relationships. When compared to with the control group, the
      Love Notes group had higher post program scores about their knowledge of healthy
      relationships.

      The investigator expects True North participants to become financially stable through debt
      reduction, increased savings, improved credit scores, and asset building. The Annie E. Casey
      Foundation has developed a promising a practice of providing a coordinated set of services to
      help low-income individuals and families get jobs, strengthen their finances and move up the
      economic ladder. This practice entitled, Working Families Success Network (previously
      entitled the Center for Working Families), will be utilized to help participants develop
      financial literacy and job readiness skills. The Annie E. Casey Foundation reports that the
      Working Families Success Network model, which has been adopted at more than 100 locations
      throughout the country, has resulted in 4,400 people finding jobs, 3,300 getting steady
      30-day employment, 2,300 obtaining public benefits, 2,800 improving their net worth, and
      2,700 improving their credit score. Program participants also were five times more likely to
      achieve a major economic outcome - such as buying a car, getting out of debt or completing a
      training or education program - than the participants' counterparts who did not receive an
      intensive, coordinated set of services.

      The True North program will support the development of job readiness skills, explore the
      participants' career interests, connect them to subsidized and unsubsidized job
      opportunities, and job coaching. The employment component will be supported by the True North
      Program Coordinator, Financial Coach, and Navigator. The Program Coordinator is developing
      relationships with employers to encourage and support job placement for participants. In
      addition, the Program Coordinator is working on implementing subsidized part time employment
      opportunities in the nonprofit arena. Participants will be prepared for these job
      opportunities by attending job readiness and career exploration sessions included in the
      financial literacy curriculum. The Financial Coach will also provide one-on-one job coaching
      as well as information on wages, benefits, and taxes. Most importantly, the participant's
      Navigator will guide the participants through a job hunt, provide support during the
      application and hiring process, and assist with job transitions.
    
  