
    
      PILOT STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib administered with temozolomide and
      radiotherapy in patients with glioblastoma multiforme or other grade 4 brain tumors who are
      currently on enzyme-inducing anticonvulsant (EIAC) therapy vs no EIAC therapy.

      II. Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine
      the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the efficacy of this
      regimen, in terms of 1-year survival, in these patients.

      PHASE II OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the response rate and time to progression in patients treated with this regimen.

      II. Determine the 6-month progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      III. Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation pilot study of erlotinib followed by a phase
      II study. Patients are stratified according to concurrent enzyme-inducing anticonvulsant drug
      use (yes vs no).

      PILOT STUDY: Patients receive oral erlotinib once daily. After 1 week of erlotinib alone,
      patients also receive oral temozolomide once daily for 6 weeks and undergo concurrent
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks. After completion of radiotherapy, patients continue
      to receive erlotinib once daily alone in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Beginning 4 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy, patients also receive oral
      temozolomide once daily for 5 days. Temozolomide treatment repeats every 28 days for 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PHASE II: Once the MTD of erlotinib is determined, additional patients are treated with
      erlotinib at the MTD, temozolomide, and radiotherapy as above.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 5 years and then annually for 10 years.
    
  