
    
      1. At the first visit to maternal health care: Preliminary caries risk assessment of the
           family using questionnaire 1 to the expectant mother and father / partner. The
           invitation and time are given for an initial health call. The invitation is translated
           into the most common languages in Hageby and Navestad. If a translation into the current
           language is missing, an interpreter is hired.

        2. During pregnancy: Health talk with specially trained dental hygienist / dental nurse at
           the local Public Dental Clinic (Folktandvården Hageby). Determination of the family's
           risk assessment in accordance with the criteria of the regional Public Dental Service in
           the County of Östergötland is adapted for the project.

        3. One-month monitoring in child health care: Follow-up of caries risk assessment of the
           family with the help of questionnaire 2 to future mother and father / partner.

        4. Care program 6-18 months with different designed depending on caries risk.

        5. At 12 months: Group information or individual call, depending on risk, in collaboration
           with child health care. Follow-up of the family's caries risk assessment with
           questionnaire 3 to the expectant mother and father / partner.

        6. At 18 months regardless of risk: Health talk, examination and renewed caries risk
           assessment of the child according to the criteria of the Public Dental Service.

        7. Dental care program 18-30 months, individually designed depending on caries risk
           evaluation: Oral health behavior is evaluated using a caries risk assessment
           questionnaire. The questions in the form are based on factors that are of importance for
           caries development, and are supplemented with information from the maternity care and
           social services medical records. The questionnaire is constructed with yes and no as a
           response alternative, where the no-answers, together with an assessment of a dietary
           registration, indicate an increased risk of developing caries. The questionnaire
           registers risk behavior as a point. The evaluation is conducted as an assessment of
           changed risk points. The baseline data uses the score from the first questionnaire to be
           answered during pregnancy, according to point 1 above in the dental care program. The
           questionnaire is constructed based on known risk factors for caries, but has not been
           validated for measuring oral health behavior. A validation is therefore planned to be
           implemented as part of the project and applied for separately. Caries prevalence is
           evaluated by routinely collected caries epidemiological data when the children are 3 and
           6 years and reported as the proportion of caries-free children, average dmft (= caries,
           extracted and filled teeth) and proportion of children with deft> =5. Three and six
           years are so-called indicator ages for caries epidemiological records. This means that
           caries data at the personal number level for all children in Östergötland are reported
           to the County Council. Participation in the dental care program is reported as the
           proportion of pregnant women who participate in the first health call compared to the
           proportion of pregnant women in control group 1 who participate in maternal health
           care's regular parental education on oral health at the midwifery. The usefulness of the
           questionnaire as a screening instrument is evaluated by comparing the outcome of the
           risk assessment with the caries outcome when the children in the control group are 3 and
           6 years, respectively. The health economic evaluation focuses on cost efficiency. All
           costs associated with the intervention are recorded and calculated. Effects are
           calculated in the form of the number of people who come to the health interviews and
           meetings, changes in behavior, and in the longer term the changes in the number of dmft
           that occur. Cost efficiency is therefore calculated as the extra cost incurred per extra
           power (e.g. cost per person coming or cost per prevented dmft). The evaluation mainly
           uses a socio-economic perspective, which means that all costs and effects that arise at
           different levels in society are taken into account.
    
  