
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether high dose (HD)-trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV) compared with
      standard dose (SD)-quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (QIV) will increase the
      probability of achieving a >= 4-fold rise in hemagglutination inhibition assay (HAI) titer,
      >= 1:40 HAI titer, or a higher geometric mean titer (GMT) titer to influenza A antigens in
      adult hematopoietic cell transplantation (HSCT) recipients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether HD-TIV compared with SD-QIV will increase the probability of
      achieving a >= 4-fold rise in HAI titers, >= 1:40 HAI titer, or higher GMT titers to
      influenza B antigens in adult HSCT recipients.

      II. To determine the frequency and severity of solicited local injection site adverse events
      (e.g. pain/tenderness, redness, and swelling at injection site) with HD-TIV compared to
      SD-QIV in adult HSCT recipients.

      III. To determine the frequency and severity of solicited systemic adverse events (e.g.
      fevers, headache, fatigue/malaise, nausea, body ache/myalgia, general activity level, and
      vomiting) with HD-TIV compared to SD-QIV in adult HSCT recipients.

      IV. To define the relationship between HAI titers, in vivo T and B cell phenotype, and in
      vitro influenza-specific T and B cell response in adult HSCT recipients receiving either
      HD-TIV or SD-QIV.

      V. To correlate HAI responses to microneutralization responses. VI. To compare the persistent
      HAI and microneutralization assay (MN) titers for all four antigen seven months after the
      last vaccine dose to assess for persistence of antibody titers.

      VII. To compare influenza detection by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) during influenza
      season in adult HSCT recipients receiving either HD-TIV or standard dose QIV.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive HD-TIV intramuscularly once at baseline and once between 28-42
      days.

      GROUP II: Patients receive SD-QIV intramuscularly once at baseline and once between 28-42
      days.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are contacted at 1-3 and 8-10 days after each
      vaccination visit.
    
  