
    
      The incidence of cervical cancer estimated to be 500,000 cases per year with a 50% case
      fatality rate. Human papilloma virus (HPV) infection, which is the most common sexually
      transmitted viral infection, contributes as a main causative factor to the development of
      invasive cervical cancer (ICC) and its precursors (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, CIN).
      Thus, prophylactic HPV vaccines hold great promise to reduce the global burden of cervical
      cancer, especially in areas with no or limited screening.

      Currently, two prophylactic vaccines, a quadrivalent (Gardasil®, Merck & Co. Inc) and a
      bivalent (Cervarix™, GlaxoSmithKline) vaccine, are employed for the prevention of genital HPV
      infection in more than 100 countries, and showed high efficacy for the prevention of target
      HPV related CIN2+. Merck is also conducting a Phase III trial of a vaccine protecting against
      nine types. As the prophylactic efficacy is type-restricted and not all the different types
      of HPV are covered by currently available vaccines, determining the type-specific HPV
      distribution and their associations with ICC and its precursors would provide essential
      information in assessment of HPV vaccination program impact. What is more, it is possible
      that the decrease in the prevalence of the target types of these vaccines could affect the
      distribution of other types, so the baseline information is also important for monitoring
      possible changes in type-specific HPV distribution after vaccination has been introduced.

      Previous meta-analyses had showed that in ICC, HPV 16 was most common, followed by HPV 18,
      while HPV 16/18 prevalence was 52% among high-grade cervical lesions. However, the prevalence
      of HPV infection varies considerably across the world, and data were limited from
      less-developed countries, let alone multi-center studies. Knowledge of the detail pattern of
      HPV type-specific distribution in each region will be essential for public health policy
      decisions. This will also form the basis for determining which types should be included in
      future generation HPV vaccines targeted to specific regions. A tailed HPV vaccine according
      to regional prevalence would best serve the population in primary prevention for ICC.

      On the other side, while most studies were focus on ICC and high-grade cervical lesions, the
      association between HPV types and the progression of CIN1 has rarely been studied. CIN1 is an
      insensitive histopathological sign of HPV infection, most of which will spontaneously regress
      to normal with host immune system. However, some genotypes have been described as being more
      persistent and associated with progression from low-grade lesions to high-grade lesions, even
      ICC. Geographical data on type-specific prevalence of HPV in CIN1 with appropriately designed
      prospective studies would be helpful in identifying types preferentially associated with
      progression to malignancy and accurately predicting the future impact of vaccination in
      specific regions.

      Recently, a randomized, double-blind trial testing the safety and efficacy of the
      quadrivalent vaccine (Gardasil®, Merck & Co. Inc) in Chinese women (V501-041-00) has been
      conducting and is proposed to be finished in three years. The bivalent vaccine (Cervarix™,
      GlaxoSmithKline) also has applied the phase III double-blind, randomized controlled trial in
      Chinese women. These prophylactic vaccines might be licensed and commercially available in
      China after trials finish. However, free vaccination supported by the government appears to
      be unlikely at present according to current economic status of China. Thus, individuals at
      least presently need to pay the cost of vaccines for themselves.

      Yangtze River Delta Area, including Shanghai city, Zhejiang Province and Jiangsu Province, is
      the most economically developed regions in China. According to media report, the total GDP in
      Yangtze River Delta area was approximated 1.064 trillion U.S. dollars in 2010, and the per
      capita GDP has exceeded 4,000 U.S. dollars since 2005. As people here have the highest health
      awareness and needs, they may become the largest vaccinated population at their own expense
      in China. To the best of our knowledge, no multi-center study on HPV type-specific
      distribution and their associations with ICC and its precursors is available in Yangtze River
      Delta Area, China, except for the mono-center study in Zhejiang Province, which highlights
      the need for timely study in this region before large scale vaccination programs are carried
      out.
    
  