
    
      Subjects will receive MK-3475 at a fixed dose of 200 mg every 3 weeks (Q3W) (Figure 1).
      Subjects will be evaluated every 9 weeks (63 ± 7 days) with radiographic imaging to assess
      response to treatment. QoL and Self-reported Health Questionnaires, as well as geriatric
      follow-up will be performed at the same intervals. Investigators will make all
      treatment-based decisions using immune-related Response Criteria (irRC). However, for
      determination of overall response rate (ORR) and progression-free survival (PFS), the
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 will be used. Adverse events will
      be monitored throughout the trial and graded in severity according to the guidelines outlined
      in the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Treatment with
      MK-3475 will continue until two years of therapy have been administered, documented disease
      progression, unacceptable adverse event(s), intercurrent illness that prevents further
      administration of treatment, investigator's decision to withdraw the subject, subject
      withdraws consent, noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure requirements, or
      administrative reasons.

      After the end of treatment, each subject will be followed for a minimum of 30 days for
      adverse event monitoring (serious adverse events will be collected for up to 90 days after
      the end of treatment unless the subject starts a new anticancer therapy between days 31 and
      90). Subjects will have post-treatment follow-up for disease status, including initiating a
      non-study cancer treatment and experiencing disease progression, until death, withdrawing
      consent, or becoming lost to follow-up.

      Participation in this trial will be dependent upon supplying tumor tissue from a newly
      obtained formalin-fixed specimen from locations not radiated prior to biopsy. The specimen
      will be evaluated at a central laboratory facility for expression status of Programmed
      death-ligand 1(PD-L1) in a prospective manner. Only subjects whose tumors express Programmed
      death-ligand 1(PD-L1) as determined by the central laboratory facility will be eligible for
      inclusion in this study.
    
  