
    
      Study background and aims:

      Gratitude, defined as an "other-oriented" emotion, has shown to impact significantly on many
      relevant dimensions for palliative care (e.g. well-being, psychological distress and the
      quality of relationships). Various psychological interventions focused on the enhancement of
      the feeling of gratitude have been developed and assessed but mostly in non-clinical
      populations and never taking into account the relationship dimension as an outcome.

      The fact that the relational component has never been addressed in interventional studies is
      all the more surprising since several experimental and non-clinical studies have clearly
      shown an association between gratitude and feeling of social affiliation, relational
      commitment, satisfaction with relationships or partner reciprocal maintenance behaviours.
      These results appear to be very promising for palliative care since interpersonal (and
      particularly familial) relationships are crucial for palliative care patients: the relational
      sphere represents a major predictor contributing to both their meaning in life and their
      quality of life. We hypothesize that considering this concept in palliative care could
      benefit both the patients and their relatives.

      Thus, the purpose of this research is to conduct a pilot study before a possible randomized
      controlled multicenter trial whose final aim will be to examine whether a gratitude-based
      intervention in a palliative care setting can increase the quality of life and the quality of
      the relationship of patients and their caregivers and decrease their psychological distress
      and burden.

      The specific aims of this pilot study are:

      (i) to realize a cross-cultural translation of outcome measures that are not yet available in
      French (ii) to establish the feasibility of the study design (iii) to investigate the
      appropriateness of the gratitude concept and the gratitude-based intervention in the
      palliative care context, and finally (iv) to explore the sensitivity to change of our
      selected measures in order to calculate a sample size.

      Procedure and measures:

      Quantitative data will be collected at baseline (T0) and post-intervention (T1) with
      validated questionnaires. The intervention will last for one week. Five to ten days after T1,
      qualitative data will be collected from semi-structured interviews with the participants and
      from the content of the gratitude letters to explore their representations of the gratitude
      concept and their perception of the intervention.

      The intervention includes the following steps:

        1. Patients and caregivers recruitment: The clinical team (treating physician or advanced
           practice nurse) at each recruitment site will identify 10 patient-caregivers dyads. A
           research collaborator will then be in charge of giving information and get consent

        2. Data collection at T0: Before the intervention, patients and their caregivers who agreed
           to participate will meet the research collaborator to fill quantitative questionnaires.

        3. Intervention - 1-week duration: The intervention will be proposed to both the patient
           and the caregiver and consists of two steps: the "gratitude letter" and the "gratitude
           visit". In the "gratitude letter", the participant (at least one of the patient or the
           caregiver) writes about his feelings of gratitude through a letter, based on a written
           instruction. The "gratitude visit" consists of an extension of the gratitude letter
           where the writer of the letter (i) either personally reads the letter to the beneficent
           or (ii) gives it to him and asks him to read it in his presence or later in his absence.

        4. Data collection at T1: 5 to 10 days after the intervention itself, the patient and the
           caregiver, will meet with the research collaborator again to participate to a second
           quantitative assessment, similar to T0.

        5. Qualitative assessment: 5 to 15 days after T1: This part is facultative. During the
           qualitative interviews, the following topics will be explored: their meanings of the
           term "gratitude"; experiences of gratitude; their experience of the intervention itself;
           obstacles and facilitators of the intervention; the impact of the intervention for
           themselves and for their relationship.
    
  