
    
      The students of the Department of Nursing in the Faculty of Health Sciences at Ankara's
      Yıldırım Beyazıt University during the 2017-2018 academic year constitute the research
      universe. The research universe was randomly selected from the students who voluntarily
      accepted to participate in the research and met the research criteria. The Minitab software
      was used to calculate samples and 99% confidence interval with type 1 error 0.05 was
      accepted. A 0.5 score difference of the anxiety scale was accepted as a success and a sample
      of 76 students with 38 in the experimental and 38 in the control group was agreed upon. This
      calculation was based on the change in the anxiety scale score after the simulation education
      in Kameg et al.'s 2014 study. The power analysis at the end of the study indicated that the
      scale's average scores ranged between 0.56-0.98. Foreign national students were not included
      in the study in order to generate a common language. 83 students who will be trainees in the
      psychiatric clinics and community mental health centers (CMHC) were included in the study and
      constituted the experimental and control groups. Female and male students were ranked from
      the highest to the lowest by their academic success scores, and random numbers were assigned
      in excel to randomly divide these ranked students among the groups. This randomization
      procedure was done in class. Numbers greater than 0.5 were assigned to the experimental group
      and numbers lower than 0.5 were assigned to the control group.

      Before the study began, two students whose clinical practice locations had changed and two
      students who were absent in the theoretical class were excluded from the study, and 79
      students were divided into two groups as 40 students for the experimental and 39 students for
      the control group. In the experimental group, 2 students who were absent in the simulation
      practice and one student who did not properly fill out the data collection form were excluded
      from the study. In the control group, two students who did not want to fill out the data
      collection form were also excluded from the study. The study was completed with 37 students
      from experimental group and 37 from the control group - 74 individuals in total.

      Data Evaluation The research data was evaluated in SPSS 22.0 statistical software as
      appropriate to the quality of the data and research. Normality analysis was conducted by
      Kolmogorov Smirnov, Shapiro-Wilk, skewness and kurtosis values.

      To evaluate the impact size of the education program, variance analysis was used in the
      repeating assessment. In this study, the impact size of the education was found 1.45≤, and
      evaluated as very high levels.
    
  