
    
      Very low birthweight (VLBW) premature infants in the NICU (Neonatal Intensive Care Unit)
      frequently require respiratory support for prolonged periods of time. Invasive mechanical
      ventilation (which requires intubating the baby with a tube to provide breaths) can lead to
      ventilator induced lung injury. Because of this, noninvasive respiratory support has become
      increasingly popular, as this form of ventilation has been shown to reduce the incidence of
      permanent lung injury.

      There are several methods to provide non-invasive support. The gentlest is continual flow of
      air and oxygen via nasal cannula. However, premature infants often develop apnea, either
      because the signals from their immature brain are not yet sufficient or because the muscles
      in the back of their throat do not get enough nerve signals to maintain sufficient opening.
      As a result, babies on nasal cannula often develop clinical apnea/bradycardia/desaturations.
      Before putting these babies back on invasive ventilation, clinicians often try to provide the
      baby with machine breaths while still on non-invasive ventilation.

      This method is called nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation and studies have
      demonstrated that this method reduces the need for re-intubation in VLBW infants (1) and
      reduces the rate of apneic events.

      A newer method of non-invasive breathing support that has been FDA approved and used in VLBW
      infants, synchronizes the machine generated breath with the patient's own breath. Neurally
      adjusted ventilatory assist (NAVA) does this by replacing the standard nasogastric tube with
      a nasogastric tube that has sensors which detect the baby's natural diaphragm activity, which
      signal the ventilator to breath in synchronization with the baby. Studies have shown that the
      efficacy of nasal ventilation is significantly enhanced when the machine breath is
      synchronized with the patient breath (2). Synchronization also reduces diaphragmatic
      dysfunction (3). It can improve gas delivery, reduce work of breathing, and make patients
      demonstrably more comfortable (4).

      Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist (NAVA) is a mode of partial support. NAVA can be used
      both in intubated patients (invasive NAVA) as well as in extubated patients who require
      noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (noninvasive NAVA) (5). Invasive NAVA has been
      shown to deliver equivalent ventilation while requiring lower peak inspiratory pressure, as
      well as reduced respiratory muscle load, compared to conventional pressure support
      ventilation.

      Currently, the choice of using NIPPV or NAVA is at the clinician's discretion. Both are
      regularly and frequently used in the VCU (Virginia Commonwealth University) Health System's
      NICU. There are no studies that have examined whether NAVA triggered synchronized ventilation
      is more effective than nonsynchronized NIPPV. In addition, there is limited data on the
      synchronicity and mechanics of non-invasive NAVA in VLBW infants. Information comparing
      clinical and lung mechanical outcomes between NIPPV and NIV (Nasal noninvasive ventilation)
      NAVA would significantly benefit VLBW care providers and, consequently, their patients in
      getting the best evidenced based therapy.
    
  