
    
      Authors conducted a double blind randomized controlled trial. Informed consent was obtained
      from all participants and procedures were conducted according to the Declaration of Helsinki.
      The protocol (N° U0074917/11110) was approved by the Local Ethical Committee of Bergamo,
      Italy. A number of clinical trials have shown significant advances in upper limb recovery
      with the use of different sensory - motor techniques, including intensive repetitive
      movement, constraint-induced movement therapy, functional electrical stimulation treatment,
      the use of robot-assisted therapy in association with virtual reality. Robot-assisted virtual
      reality intervention has been shown more effective than conventional interventions and
      achieved more improvement in upper limb function, however the effect size reported by recent
      reviews was small and this datum is always reported as a cost-benefit ratio to challenge the
      use of virtual reality technology in rehabilitation. Robot aided rehabilitation is
      increasingly used in stroke rehabilitation, with a broad spectrum of applied technology from
      motor to non-motor aided systems, posing the problem to match the clinical need of the
      patient with the proper device. In the immediate post stroke period the motor recovery
      usually do not allow the use of non-motored robot device while the use of motored robot aid
      after months can be too delayed to obtain some valuable clinical results. The wide range of
      available devices are certainly a richness in the clinical possibility but also a critical
      factor in selecting a suitable technology tailored for the clinical feature of the patient at
      the actual state of the art. This can affect the comparison and interpretation of the
      literature so far published. Virtual reality therapy recreates favorable conditions to motor
      learning. Functional recovery is achieved through use-dependent cortical reorganization. The
      time/intensity of its application is therefore a pivotal point in this learning process. Its
      duration is not standardized and can varies from 3-4 to 20 hours of total treatment making
      results accordingly variable, adding further bias in data interpretation. A prerequisite to
      gain the best results is patients selection and early application when is possible.All these
      factors, have been ascribed as possible causes of small effect size reported in recent
      literature in comparing robot-aided virtual reality rehabilitation versus traditional
      rehabilitation alone.In a group of patients with hemiparesis following stroke, we compared
      the efficacy of a neurorehabilitation program consist of combination of non-motor
      robot-assisted therapy with virtual reality (Armeo®Spring) to conventional therapy with the
      primary aim to verify if the punctual application of what suggested by the single papers is
      able to improve differences of the efficacy between treatments and, therefore, creating a
      better effect size. And, as a secondary arm, if it is possible to improve the clinical
      picture also in post-acute stroke patients and as a secondary aim, if motor selection and
      intensive treatments can improve the small effect size reported by the literature.
    
  