
    
      Patients Who Complete the Surveys on Multiple Time Points:

      This study will teach researchers about changes in your sleep patterns that may happen during
      your cancer treatment. The participants will be recruited from the Melanoma Clinic.

      If you agree to take part in this study, during your cancer treatment, you will be asked to
      complete three written questionnaires that ask about your sleep, symptoms, and mood. These
      questionnaires will take about 20 minutes to complete. You will be asked to complete the
      questionnaires before, during and after your cancer treatment during 11 of your clinic
      visits.

      You will also be asked to fill out a sleep diary at home, in which you will be asked to
      record what time you go to bed, whether you get up during the night, and what time you wake
      up. You will be asked to fill out the diary every day, for one week. You will be asked to
      return it during a clinic visit or by mail, with a stamped envelope that will be provided.

      During the study, the research staff will collect information from your medical chart about
      your cancer, cancer treatment, and laboratory tests.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 570 participants will take part in this multicenter
      study. Up to 380 will be enrolled at MD Anderson.

      Patients Who Wear Actigraphs:

      This study will help researchers to understand how cancer and cancer treatments affect sleep
      patterns. The participants will be recruited from the M. D. Anderson outpatient clinics,
      including Breast, Neuro-oncology, Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Genitourinary Oncology,
      Gastrointestinal Oncology Gynecologic Oncology, Head and Heck, Thoracic Oncology, Leukemia,
      Lymphoma, Melanoma, Sarcoma, Internal Medicine, and the Ambulatory Treatment Center.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete eight written
      questionnaires that have questions about your sleep, symptoms, and mood. These questionnaires
      will take about 20 minutes to complete. You will be asked to fill out the questionnaires
      before wearing the actigraph and after one week of wearing the actigraph.

      During the study, the research staff will collect information from your medical chart about
      the cancer, cancer treatment, and laboratory tests.

      You will be asked to wear an actigraph on your wrist for one week. An actigraph is a small
      motion detector that is about the size and shape of a wristwatch. The actigraph will collect
      and store information on your activity levels and your sleep patterns. You will be asked to
      return the actigraph at the end of the week.

      You will be asked to fill out a sleep diary at home, in which you will be asked to record
      what time you go to bed, whether you get up during the night, and what time you wake up. You
      will only be asked to do this during the week you wear the actigraph.

      At the end of the "actigraph" week, you will be asked to complete a brief sleep
      questionnaire, which will take about 5 minutes to complete.

      This is an investigational study. About 20 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  