
    
      This study is randomised (patients are assigned different treatments based on chance),
      controlled, open-label trial to compare the efficacy, safety and tolerability of
      darunavir/ritonavir (DRV/r) 800/100 mg once a day (O.D.) as a monotherapy versus a triple
      combination therapy containing 2 nucleosides and DRV/r in 250 HIV-1 infected patients.
      Patients will be considered eligible if they have not changed any antiretroviral drugs for at
      least 8 weeks prior to screening and have documented evidence of plasma viral load (or plasma
      HIV-1 RNA) < 50 copies/mL for at least 24 weeks prior to being screened. The trial will
      consist of a screening period up to 4 weeks, a 48-week treatment period, followed by a 4-week
      follow-up (FU) period. The primary objective is to demonstrate non-inferiority in efficacy of
      DRV/r versus the triple combination therapy containing DRV/r, with respect to confirmed
      virologic response, defined as plasma HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mL at 48 weeks.Patients will be
      assigned a study medication based on a 1:1 ratio to either switch to a triple combination
      therapy containing 2 nucleosides and DRV/r 800/100 mg O.D, or initiate monotherapy with DRV/r
      800/100 mg O.D. Patients in the triple combination arm who are already on 2 nucleosides prior
      to randomisation may remain on these or switch them at baseline. Patients randomised to the
      monotherapy arm will discontinue Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) at baseline and
      commence DRV/r 800/100 mg O.D. A Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) has been
      commissioned for this study. The role of the DSMB is to review the progress of the trial and
      the accumulating data to detect evidence of early safety issues for the patients while the
      trial is ongoing. An interim analysis will be performed after 24 weeks of treatment. The
      results of the Week 24 analysis will be used to determine whether long-term follow-up to 72
      and 96 weeks will be done. The protease inhibitor (PI) component of the regimen cannot be
      changed until the end of the treatment period and the nucleoside reverse transcriptase
      inhibitors (NRTIs) cannot be modified until the end of the treatment period with the
      following exception: single antiretroviral (ARV) substitutions will be allowed for
      tolerability/toxicity reasons, as long as this can be linked to an adverse event (AE) or an
      serious adverse event (SAE). After withdrawal of the patient from the trial, changes in the
      ARV regimen are allowed after the assessments of the withdrawal visit have been performed.

      Temporary interruption of all ARVs will be allowed in the event of suspected toxicity, as
      long as the temporary interruption is associated with and can be linked to an AE or a SAE.
      For the control arm, the nucleoside analogues could be re-optimized at baseline or on study,
      and all approved ARVs allowed. However, PIs other than DRV/r are not allowed during the
      treatment period. Patients who cannot resume study medication will have to be withdrawn. A
      physical examination will be done at protocol-scheduled visits and vital signs will be
      monitored at each study visit. In addition, at each study visit, every patient will be asked
      about the occurrence of or change to AEs since they were last seen by the investigator.
      Laboratory samples for haematology and serum chemistry will be drawn and the results
      determined and transmitted to the investigator. Urinalysis will be performed. Pregnancy test
      will be done at each visit for female participants of child-bearing potential. The primary
      endpoint will be the proportion with virologic response, defined as a confirmed plasma HIV-1
      RNA < 50 copies/mL at Week 48.The study hypothesis is that DRV/r monotherapy will be as
      effective as a triple combination regimen and will be well tolerated in this early
      pre-treated HIV-1 patients. Two 400mg tablets of darunavir once daily orally within 30
      minutes after completion of a meal for 48 weeks.
    
  