
    
      Acute pancreatitis has been described as the most common cause of pancreatic disease with a
      global incidence of 33-74 per 100.000 people and a mortality of 1-16 per 100.000. Hydration
      with the purpose of preventing hypovolemia and hypoperfusion of organs is the cornerstone of
      initial disease management. "Aggressive" hydration, has been based on animal models and
      observational data from clinical studies, and has been associated with respiratory
      complications, compartment syndrome, sepsis, and mortality. Nowadays pulmonary ultrasound has
      been used in a wide array of clinical settings such as intensive care unit, emergency
      medicine, and nephrology. It has been a standardized tool in internal and pulmonary medicine.

      Authors design a prospective, longitudinal, descriptive study to identify the findings of
      thoracic point-of-care ultrasound in patients with acute pancreatitis. Patients will be
      included in the study since August through December 2019, admitted to the University
      Hospital, "Dr. José E. González", Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo León.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. Primary objective:

           Describe findings of pulmonary ultrasound and their correlation with severity in
           patients with acute pancreatitis of all etiologies. The authors will analyze variables
           such Systemic inflammatory response syndrome, severity according to the revised Atlanta
           criteria (2012), and systemic complications.

        2. Secondary objectives:

             1. to correlate the number of B-type lines measured by thoracic point-of-care
                ultrasound with severity in patients with acute pancreatitis.

             2. to correlate the diameter in centimeters of inferior vena cava measured by thoracic
                point-of-care ultrasound with severity in patients with acute pancreatitis

             3. to correlate the inferior vena cava diameter with the 48 hours post-admission
                mortality rate in patients with acute pancreatitis.

      STUDY DESIGN Prospective, transversal, descriptive.

      SUBJECTS AND METHODS

        1. Patients:

           In the time period of August 2019 through December 2019 the authors will include
           patients with pancreatitis.

           The investigators will include all patients that attend the Emergency department of
           Hospital Universitario, "Dr. José Eleuterio González" U.A.N.L, with a diagnosis of acute
           pancreatitis of all causes.

           Inclusion criteria:

             1. Patients with diagnosis of acute pancreatitis by means of clinical presentation,
                laboratory results and/or imaging.

             2. Both genders.

             3. All etiologies of pancreatitis.

             4. Ages above 18.

           Exclusion criteria:

             1. History of acute pancreatitis in prior 12 months.

             2. Patients with referrals from other institutions.

             3. Patients with other chronic comorbidities such as renal or cardiac insufficiency.

             4. Patients with acute pancreatitis and high suspicion of cholangitis.

             5. Patients with acute pancreatitis and acute cholecystitis.

             6. Pregnant patients with acute pancreatitis.

             7. Patients who decline being part of this study.

        2. Methods:

      The investigators will study all patients who come to the emergency room of the hospital with
      diagnosis of Acute Pancreatitis. Patients will undergo a pulmonary and vena cava ultrasound
      at admission, at 24 and 48 hours.

      Ultrasound will be performed bilateral intercostal with the patient in supine decubitus with
      the head at 30 degrees, after the application of acoustic gel on the skin. To improve
      imaging, the intercostal spaces will be extended by raising the ipsilateral arm of each
      patient to the level of the head or above it during the procedure.

      Each hemithorax is divided into 4 areas: anterior and lateral, superior and inferior. For
      each hemithorax, the anterior area was delineated between the clavicle and the diaphragm and
      from the parasternal line to the anterior axillary line. The lateral area was delineated
      between the axilla and the diaphragm and from the anterior to the posterior axillary line.
      The upper quadrants were demarcated from the 1st to the 3rd intercostal space and the lower
      quadrants from the 4th to the 6th intercostal space. A total of 8 areas of the chest will be
      visualized during normal breathing.

      Findings that will be reported upon pulmonary ultrasound:

      B lines: They are hydro-aerial artifacts in comet tail image, begin at the pleural line, are
      hyperechoic, well defined, disseminated towards the end of the screen, delete A lines , and
      accompany pleural movements.

      The lines separated from each other around 7 mm correspond to interstitial edema, while those
      that distance 3 mm indicate the presence of alveolar edema. The presence of more than 3 B
      lines indicate the presence of an alveolar-interstitial syndrome.

      Pleural effusion: It is visualized as a space free of echoes (anechoic image, "black")
      between the visceral pleura (pulmonary line), together with the parietal pleura (pleural
      line) and the shadow of the ribs. In M mode, the movement of the lung line or the visceral
      pleura to the pleural line or the parietal pleura upon inspiration is shown, creating the
      sinusoidal sign.

      Measurement of the inferior Vena cava:

      Intravascular volume status will be assessed by measuring the diameter and percentage of
      collapse of the inferior vena cava. It is performed in the subxiphoid window with the
      identification of the four cardiac chambers, then a 90º turn of the transducer is made in the
      cephalad direction, which shows the right atrium, the mouth of the vena cava and the hepatic
      gland above it. To measure its diameter, it will be beyond the confluence point of the
      hepatic veins, which is usually found approximately 2 cm from the mouth of the inferior vena
      cava-right atrium. Based on the measurement and collapse of the IVC, volemic state will be
      defined in a patient with spontaneous breathing as follows: a diameter of the Inferior cava
      vein <2 cm that collapses> 50% suggests lack of volume; however, a diameter of the Inferior
      cava vein > 2 cm that collapses <50% suggests a hypervolemic state.

      The authors will analyze variables such Systemic inflammatory response syndrome, severity
      according to the revised Atlanta criteria (2012), and systemic complications.
    
  