
    
      Intervention Building a health education team, developing protocols and training staff Two
      obstetric care specialists, eight registered nursing supervisors and two masters-level
      research nurses comprised a health education team for this study. Obstetric care specialists
      will be primarily responsible for guiding and monitoring the execution of the intervention.
      Registered supervisor nurses will organize education sessions for participating women and
      communicated with women in education sessions. Research nurses will lead the work of
      designing the study, collected data and conducted analysis, but in order to avoid critical
      biases in data analysis and interpretation, they do not participate in any education sessions
      designed in the intervention protocols.

      Two research nurses approach pregnant women on the day when they are just admitted to
      hospital for delivery with pregnancies that are considered full term (pregnancy week is
      between 37+0 and 41+6) but with no sign of labor or getting into the first stage of labor
      (Women can prefer to stay in hospital as their pregnancies turn full, and wait for delivery).
      The research nurses ask women to complete a questionnaire designed with perinatal maternal
      health literacy scale for baseline MHL assessment. Eligible pregnant women will be informed
      about the aims, contents, and procedures of the study. Participation will be based on
      voluntary, and informed consent was signed by each participating woman.

      Before commencing the trial, a one-day team workshop will be organized Building a health
      education team, developing protocols and training staff Two obstetric care specialists, eight
      registered nursing supervisors and two masters-level research nurses comprise a health
      education team for this study. Obstetric care specialists will be primarily responsible for
      guiding and monitoring the execution of the intervention. Registered supervisor nurses
      organize education sessions for participating women and communicated with women in education
      sessions. Research nurses lead the work of designing the study, collected data and conducted
      analysis, but in order to avoid critical biases in data analysis and interpretation, they do
      not participate in any education sessions designed in the intervention protocols. Before
      commencing the trial, a one-day team workshop will organized.
    
  