
    
      Each year over 500,000 children become HIV-1-infected in sub-Saharan Africa after exposure to
      maternal virus in blood, genital secretions, and breast milk. Identifying feasible, safe, and
      affordable interventions that prevent mother-to-child transmission remains a priority for
      HIV-1 prevention research. Interventions to reduce breast milk HIV-1 transmission are lacking
      and most urgently needed.

      We propose a randomized clinical trial to determine whether incorporating HSV-2 suppression
      with valacyclovir into standard prevention of mother-to-child HIV-1 transmission regimens
      will reduce plasma, cervical, and breast milk HIV-1 RNA levels and risk of transmission among
      HIV-1-infected and HSV-2-seropositive women. We plan to enroll a total of 148 HIV-1 and HSV-2
      co-infected pregnant women with CD4>200 cells/μl who seek antenatal care prior to 32 weeks
      gestation at a clinic in Nairobi, Kenya. Women will be randomized to receive either
      valacyclovir suppressive therapy or placebo at 34 weeks gestation and mother-infant pairs
      will be followed for 12 months postpartum. Follow-up visits will be scheduled at 38 weeks
      gestation; birth; 2, 6, 10 and 14 weeks; and 6, 9, and 12 months postpartum. Maternal blood,
      genital, and breast milk specimens obtained at follow-up visits will be used to determine the
      effect of valacyclovir suppressive therapy on plasma and breast milk HIV-1 RNA levels. Infant
      filter paper specimens for HIV-1 DNA assays will be collected at birth; 2, 6, 10 and 14
      weeks; and 6, 9, and 12 months in order to compare the proportion of infants acquiring HIV-1
      by 12 months in the two study arms and determine the timing of HIV-1 infection. In addition,
      we will monitor maternal and infant renal function in preparation for a larger randomized
      clinical trial in Africa. The results of this study will help guide the design of a
      multi-site clinical trial with adequate power to determine the effect of HSV-2 suppression on
      vertical (MTCT) transmission of HIV-1 infection.
    
  