
    
      Sometimes, in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), even though blood pressure is
      controlled, the patients are on cholesterol medication, not smoking, eating properly and have
      normal levels of physical activity; the investigators still see development of new blockages,
      progression of existing blockages, and sometimes even clinical events like heart attacks and
      strokes. Therefore, the investigators are always trying to find additional ways to decrease
      the progression of existing blockages and to prevent new ones.

      What the investigators are studying in this program is the function of the coronary arteries
      and in particular the inner lining of the arteries called the endothelium. It has several
      important functions; one of them is that under conditions of stress it releases a substance
      called nitric oxide which increases the size of the artery and increases blood flow. When it
      is not functioning normally the artery does not increase as much and blood flow does not
      increase during stress.

      The investigators study coronary artery function with magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI. MRI
      is a method of obtaining images of what is happening inside the body. MRI does not involve
      radiation, x-ray, and injection of contrast. The investigators can measure flow in the artery
      and the dimension of the artery at rest and with a handgrip stress and learn the extent to
      which the artery dilates and flow increases with the stress. The investigators believe that
      inflammation can interfere with normal function and that by decreasing inflammation abnormal
      endothelial function may be improved.

      Methotrexate and colchicine are anti-inflammatory agents approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) to treat arthritis and some other conditions. These drugs are not
      approved for use to suppress inflammation in patients with coronary artery disease and
      improve coronary artery endothelial function. The FDA is allowing the use of methotrexate,
      colchicine and/or their combination in this research study.

      This study will involve 24 weeks of anti-inflammatory drugs and 3 Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI) scans of the heart and other study procedures.
    
  