
    
      Overview of Study Design: This study is a pilot Phase I, open-label, non-randomized,
      single-arm, clinical trial of TP10 in 5 patients with C3G, aged 4 years or older. The study
      consists of a 4-week screening period followed by a 26-week treatment period. (See Schedule
      of Events, Table 1.) The 26-week treatment period is further divided into an Induction Period
      of up to 4 weeks, followed by a Maintenance Period, which allows for continued treatment to a
      total of 26 weeks.

      Screening Period: Patients will be identified for possible enrollment in this study through a
      number of mechanisms, including physician or patient-self referral and participation in an
      on-going study of C3G in which renal pathology is reviewed to confirm the diagnosis of C3G
      and genetic and complement studies are performed. Patients who appear to meet eligibility
      criteria for this study upon initial review will be asked to contact Drs. Nester and Smith if
      they are interested in this study. Those patients who express interest in this study will be
      scheduled for a screening clinic visit at which time they will meet the study team and review
      the study design and requirements. A consent for study participation will be obtained. During
      this visit those events/tests noted on Table 1, Screening Visit, will be completed. If not
      already vaccinated within the time period of active coverage specified by the vaccine
      manufacturer, patients will be administered meningococcal, pneumococcal and haemophilus
      influenzae vaccines prior to study drug administration.

      Treatment Period: All patients will be enrolled through the University of Iowa. This study
      will follow a patient-specific dose-escalation scheme during the Induction Period and
      subsequent dose adjustments based on complement levels during the Maintenance Period (as
      described under Investigational Product Dosing and Administration).

      Safety Monitoring: Safety data for this trial will be reviewed by a Data Monitoring and
      Safety Person (DMSP) consisting of one reviewer who is otherwise independent of trial
      conduct, as well as study investigators. The DMSP will review safety data on a periodic basis
      based on the accrual rate and emergence of safety data. The DMSP will evaluate patient data
      with the purpose of identifying safety concerns that may require a modification of the
      current study protocol and will also be responsible for determining if criteria for halting
      of the trial are met (see below).

      Study Stopping Rules: If any of the following criteria are met, further enrollment into the
      trial will be halted and the data reviewed with the DMSP. The trial will only be reopened
      after a mutually agreed plan is defined with the DMSP.

        -  Futility in the first three patients. Futility is defined as:

           - Failure during the Induction Period to normalize C3, C3 breakdown products or
           alternative pathway complement activity

        -  Any of the following toxicities in more than one patient:

             -  Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), defined as any Grade 3 or higher drug-related adverse
                event (AE)

             -  Grade 3 or higher infection caused by encapsulated bacteria, not responsive to
                appropriate medical intervention within 24 hours

        -  Drug-related death Investigational Product Dosing and Administration Each TP10
           administration will consist of a 60 (±5)-minute intravenous drip infusion using a 0.22
           µm in-line filter and a controlled-rate infusion pump. Administered doses will range
           from 5 mg/kg to 30 mg/kg, as determined by patient-specific dose-escalation and
           adjustment. Any change in weight of more than 10% will require re-calculation of the
           administered dose; otherwise, dosing may be based on the baseline weight. All dosing
           will be bi-weekly during induction and weekly during maintenance.

      To determine the effect of TP10 on complement and C3 convertase inhibition, complement
      studies will include measuring TP10 serum concentrations and serum levels of C3 and C3
      breakdown products and assays of alternative pathway function. Testing will be done on serum
      and plasma samples obtained prior to and approximately 15 minutes post each TP10 dose. All
      complement studies will be performed at the University of Iowa. The following treatment plan
      will be followed for each patient. However, given the limited experience with TP10 in the
      treatment of C3G, as well as the breadth of complement studies that may be used to assess the
      impact of treatment, it is acknowledged that the treatment plan within this pilot study may
      not account for all potential clinical scenarios. Therefore, adjustments to dose level or
      frequency that fall outside of this plan may be implemented when determined clinically
      appropriate by the lead investigators at the University of Iowa. In such cases, the IRB will
      be notified of the plan for dose change.

      Induction Period During the Induction Period, samples for complement studies will be analyzed
      at least weekly. The first two doses of the Induction Period will be 5 mg/kg. Intra-patient
      dose-escalation will subsequently occur weekly, in 5 or 10 mg/kg increments (as determined by
      the investigator, based on complement biomarker changes), up to a maximum dose of 30 mg/kg.

      The Induction Period schedule will be modified when either of the following criteria are met:

        -  Dose escalation will discontinue when normalization of C3, C3 breakdown products AND/OR
           measure(s) of alternative and/or terminal pathway complement activity is achieved.
           Thereafter, the patient will receive one additional TP10 dose at the same dose level as
           the prior dose, and then transition to the Maintenance Period.

        -  If the dose level of 30 mg/kg is reached without normalization of C3, C3 breakdown
           products AND/OR measure(s) of alternative and/or terminal pathway complement activity,
           the patient may receive one additional dose of TP10 at 30 mg/kg.

             -  If normalization of C3, C3 breakdown products AND/OR measure(s) of alternative
                and/or terminal pathway complement activity fails to occur, treatment will be
                discontinued.

             -  If normalization of C3, C3 breakdown products AND/OR measure(s) of alternative
                and/or terminal pathway complement activity occurs, the patient will enter the
                Maintenance Period and follow rules for Maintenance Period dose adjustments.

      In addition, study drug dosing will be discontinued if any additional criteria for
      discontinuation of study therapy (see below) are met.

      Maintenance Period

      Since it is quite possible that the dose required for maintenance may be significantly lower
      than that required during induction, the Maintenance Period will seek to identify the lowest
      dose that provides ongoing control of undesirable complement activity. The starting dose for
      TP10 Maintenance will be the same dose level as the last dose during the Induction Period;
      however, the Maintenance Period allows for dose decrease to 2 mg/kg, which is lower than the
      starting dose in the Induction Period. Samples for complement studies will be collected on
      each dosing day and analyzed at least weekly at University of Iowa during the Maintenance
      Period. Therefore, treatment decisions will be made at least weekly, and dose adjustments
      throughout the Maintenance period will be implemented as follows (see Section 8.3.2 for
      further details):

        -  If C3, C3 breakdown products AND/OR measure(s) of alternative and/or terminal pathway
           complement activity are normalized for two consecutive weeks, the next Maintenance dose
           may be decreased by 5 mg/kg (if the previous dose is 5 mg/kg, dosing will decrease to 2
           mg/kg).

           o Note: The dose level MAY be maintained if deemed appropriate by the treating
           investigator, with consideration to factors such as biomarker evidence of neo-C3
           convertase generation and overall profile of labs utilized for defining maintenance.

        -  If C3 levels have dropped >25% compared to entry into the Maintenance Period, C3
           breakdown products are present (greater than normal), AND/OR measure(s) of alternative
           or terminal pathway complement activity have significantly changed (>50% worsening in
           value), the next Maintenance dose will be increased by 5 mg/kg up to a maximum of 30
           mg/kg (if the previous dose is 2 mg/kg, dosing will increase to 5 mg/kg).

        -  If a patient has experienced dose reduction and subsequent dose escalation twice,
           further dose reductions may not be required, but can be implemented at the
           investigator's discretion. Otherwise, these patients may be maintained at the last dose
           that provided normalization of C3, C3 breakdown products AND/OR alternative and/or
           terminal pathway complement activity unless there are changes requiring a dose
           increased, as described above.

        -  If normalization of C3, C3 breakdown products AND/OR alternative and/or terminal pathway
           complement activity fails to occur despite receipt of 30 mg/kg twice weekly dosing for
           two weeks, the patient will be withdrawn from the study.

      The Maintenance Period will be continued until either:

        -  The total study treatment period of 26 weeks has elapsed;

        -  Any additional criteria for discontinuation of study therapy (see below) are met.

      Additional criteria for treatment discontinuation

      At any point during the study, treatment will be discontinued for any of the following
      reasons:

        -  Decrease in renal function, defined by an increase in serum creatinine by 50% over
           baseline (last assessment prior to first TP10 dose), persistent for 4 weeks.

        -  Development of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), defined as any Grade 3 or higher AE
           attributed to TP10 dosing, or any Grade 3 infection caused by encapsulated bacteria, not
           responsive to appropriate medical intervention within 24 hours. Patients who experience
           DLT but who are considered by the treating investigator to be potentially appropriate
           for further TP10 treatment may be retreated only after consultation with, and agreement
           from, the DMSP.

        -  The study is terminated (see early stopping rules).

        -  Request of the patient or the patient's legal representative.

        -  If, in the investigator's medical judgment, further participation would be injurious to
           the patient's health or wellbeing.

        -  Non-compliance of the patient.

        -  Pregnancy.

        -  Patient lost to follow-up.

      Criteria for Evaluation Safety Evaluations:

      Safety will be assessed by vital sign measurements, clinical laboratory tests, ECG (for
      patients ≥ 35 years of age) and routine physical examinations, including physical growth for
      children up to 18 years old and the incidence and severity of adverse events (graded
      according to CTCAE v 4.0).

      Activity Evaluations:

      Activity of TP10 in C3G will be assessed via complement studies (including but not limited to
      serum C3, serum C3 breakdown products, and alternate pathway activity), chronic kidney
      disease stage, renal biopsy (C3 deposition in the glomerular basement membrane), and renal
      function (proteinuria, serum creatinine).

      Pharmacokinetic Evaluations:

      Serum concentrations of TP10 will be measured concurrently with serum C3, C3 breakdown
      products, and alternative pathway complement activity in samples taken immediately before and
      approximately 15 minutes after TP10 infusion. No pharmacokinetic parameters will be
      determined in this study.

      Immunological Evaluations:

      Patients will be monitored for the development of antibodies to TP10.

      Pharmacodynamic Evaluations:

      Pharmacodynamics of TP10 will be assayed by changes in serum C3, serum C3 breakdown products
      and alternative pathway complement activity.

      Pharmacogenomic Evaluations:

      Patients will undergo genetic testing of CFH, C3, CFB and CFHR5; assays for C3Nef activity;
      and screening for factor H autoantibodies (FHAA) and factor B autoantibodies (FBAA).
    
  