
    
      Cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death globally with obesity as of one of
      the dominant modifiable risk factors. Obesity is also a precursor to several other
      cardiovascular risk factors including hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes. Almost all
      weight loss efforts utilize dietary modification with high protein/low carbohydrate diets
      serving as one of the most popular approaches. Despite the metabolic benefits of high dietary
      protein, recent studies have raised a concerning association with increased risk of
      atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. Although this remains controversial, there is
      some animal data showing evidence of dietary protein's proatherogenic role. These data are
      correlative and no mechanistic studies have been undertaken.

      The downstream events after protein ingestion involve digestion of the protein into amino
      acids, increases in blood amino acids, and distribution to target tissues. Mouse models have
      definitively shown that circulating monocytes and macrophages of arterial blood vessels are
      particularly sensitive to this amino acid load with robust activation of the mTOR (mammalian
      target of rapamycin) signaling pathway. This in turn leads to inhibition of essential
      degradative processes of the macrophage such as autophagy and promotes release of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines. Thus, macrophage function in vascular beds becomes pathogenic
      leading to atherogenesis and cardiovascular disease

      The translation of these mechanistic studies in animal models to human is the next obvious
      step in this research. However, no studies have elucidated the mechanisms of monocyte
      activation and function following administration of high dietary protein in humans. The
      investigators propose a pilot study to bridge an important gap in translational research
      which will elucidate the mechanisms by which dietary protein affects human monocyte function
      and the risk of atherosclerotic plaque formation. Specifically, the investigators will
      evaluate the acute activation of mTOR signaling and downstream sequelae in circulating
      monocytes following the administration of protein shakes. This study will address the
      hypothesis that humans exposed to high dietary protein will have significantly higher
      post-prandial monocyte mTOR activation with concomitant development of impaired degradative
      capacity and a proinflammatory state.

      An understanding of these mechanisms has broad implications in the evaluation and future
      therapeutic interventions of cardiovascular disease.

      In addition, this can provide a valuable clinical tool for health care providers in educating
      patients on dietary changes to ameliorate cardiovascular risk.
    
  