
    
      Joint proprioception can be defined as the body's ability to determine position and detection
      movement without vision perception. Proprioception is provided from the stimulation of
      specialized nerve endings and mechanoreceptors located in and around the joints, such as
      muscles, tendons, fascia, joint capsule, and ligaments. The muscle spindle and golgi tendon
      organ are the most important receptors involved in the proprioceptive sensation of the knee
      joint.

      In the literature, there are studies have investigated the effect of static stretching
      exercises on the sense of position. Some of these studies showed an improvement on position
      sense, while one study showed no effect. There are a limited number of studies have
      investigated the effects of Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation (PNF) stretching
      techniques on proprioceptive senses. However, the effects of static stretching and PNF
      stretching on kinesthesia have not been studied.

      The aim of this study is to compare acute and chronic effect of PNF stretching and static
      stretching in individuals with shortness hamstring in proprioception and performance.

      Hypothesis of research

      H01: The acute effects of static stretching and PNF stretching exercises on the results of
      proprioceptive sensation are similar.

      H02: The chronic effects of static stretching and PNF stretching exercises on the results of
      proprioceptive sensation are similar.

      H03: The acute effects of static stretching and PNF stretching exercises on the results of
      physical performance are similar.

      H04: The chronic effects of static stretching and PNF stretching exercises on the results of
      physical performance are similar.

      The Universe and Sample of the Research:

      A sample size calculation was performed using the G* Power software (version 3.1.9.2), taking
      into account the statistical tests to be used in the analyses, and the conventional effect
      size values proposed by Cohen. It was estimated that 27 subjects would be needed in each
      group (α=0.05, β=0.20, and Cohen d=0.8) in order to detect statistically significant
      difference in a Mann Whitney U test. Considering the samples that could not complete the
      study, this first sample size was increased by 10% and the final sample size was calculated
      as 30 in each group.

      Methods:

      The study will include volunteer sedentary male subjects aged between 20-29 years. The study
      will be carried out in the athlete's lab of the Eastern Mediterranean University.

      Participants in the study who have signed a voluntary consent form will be informed about the
      study. Then, the evaluation starts with the socio-demographic data of the participants (age,
      gender, height, weight, dominant side). Evaluations will be performed as knee extension
      angle, proprioceptive sense, flexibility assessment, balance, explosive power tests and
      muscle strength assessment. Individuals will be divided into two groups by minimization
      randomization method. 30 seconds contract-relax-antagonist-contract method (CRAC) of
      Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation stretching exercises for hamstring muscle will be
      performed to Group 1 and 30 seconds static stretching exercises for hamstring muscle will be
      performed to Group 2.

      To assess the acute effect, exercise will be performed after the first assessment and then
      all assessments will be repeated. To investigate the chronic effect, all exercises will be
      performed in 8 weeks and 3 times a week. After 6 weeks follow-up period, all participants
      will be evaluated again.

      Evaluations in the Research

      Knee Extension Test:

      The individual's hip will be stabilized at 90 degrees flexion with 1 hand supporting the
      subject's distal thigh and the other hand cupping the heel. Physiotherapist passively
      extended the knee until the individual feels mild tension in hamstring muscle. At this point,
      it will measured the angle using a goniometer. Full knee extension would be equivalent to an
      angle of 180°. The angle missing from the full knee extension will be recorded as 'degree'.

      Proprioceptive Sensory Measurements:

      Isokinetic dynamometer will be used to evaluate the knee joint proprioceptive sense of
      subjects. The subjects will placed in a 90° hip flexion sitting position. Subjects will be
      informed about the tests. Before the test, a trial will be performed. Between the three tests
      30 seconds rest period will be given. The difference between the target angle and the
      measured angle will be registered as absolute error. Averages of three measurements will be
      analyzed.

      For motion sense measurements, 10° knee flexion position was selected for kinesthesia
      measurements. The subjects will be instructed to press the dynamometer lock button as soon as
      they will perceive any movement in the knee joint. 45° knee flexion position will be used in
      the measurement of position sense. The knee will be started in the 90° flexion position and
      before the test, target knee position will be taught during 5 seconds. Afterwards, the knee
      will be placed to starting position. Subjects will be asked to push the warning button as
      soon as they feel they will reach the target angle.

      Room temperature will be kept at 25°C during the tests. Air splints will be used to eliminate
      the tactile sense. While care will be taken to preserve the silence of the environment,
      subjects will be dressed in headphones at the same time to prevent the sound coming from the
      isokinetic dynamo-meter that will affect the measurements.

      Flexibility Measurement:

      It will be evaluated using the sit and reach test. Individuals will be asked to reach the as
      far as possible they can reach by extending their arms to the forward and stand still for 1-2
      seconds at the last point without bending participants' knees. The distance will be recorded
      in 'cm' and the best value will be used in the analysis.

      Balance Measurements:

      Flamingo Balance Test:

      Static balance will be measured by Flamingo Balance Test. The subjects stood on the beam
      which was 50 cm long, 5 cm height and 3 cm wide. While balancing on the dominant leg, the
      free leg was flexed at the knee and the foot of this leg held close to the buttocks. Then the
      instructor will be started the stopwatch and the subjects tried to stand in this position for
      one minute. The stopwatch will be stopped each time the subjects lost the balance during 60
      second. The number of falls of the individual will be recorded. The test will be repeated 3
      times and a rest interval of 60 seconds will be given between repetitions. The best result
      will be recorded.

      Y-Balance Test:

      Dynamic balance will be measured with Y-balance test. Individuals will be asked to place one
      foot on the starting point on the center and both hands on the waist. Individuals will be
      reach the farthest point possible in the anterior, posteriomedial and posteriolateral
      directions with the free limb. The farthest point of the free limb will be measured with the
      tape measure. There will be 3 trials in each direction. In addition, the lower extremity
      length measurement will be used for scoring. (Spina Iliaca Anterior Superior-Medial
      Malleoli). The mixed reach distance will be calculated based on best value [(max anterior +
      max posteriomedial + max posteriolateral) / (3 x Lower Limb Length)] x100.

      Anaerobic Power Tests:

      Vertical Jump Test:

      Explosive force of lower extremities will be evaluated using the counter movement vertical
      jump test. The tape measure will be placed and fixed on the wall in the vertical direction.
      The individuals will be positioned on the side of the wall. In this position, the arm will be
      extended and the point at which the longest finger reaches will be recorded. The subject will
      be started with their hands on their hips, they will then instructed to sink (approximately
      120 knee angle) as high as possible. The distance between the touched point and jumped points
      on the tape measure will be measured and recorded in 'cm'. The test will be repeated 3 times
      and a rest interval of 60 seconds will be given between repetitions. The best result will be
      recorded.

      Horizontal Jump Test:

      Explosive force of lower extremities will be evaluated using the counter movement horizontal
      jump test. The tape measure will be placed horizontally and fixed on the hard ground. The
      individuals will be positioned on the '0' point of the tape measure. In this position, the
      arm will be extended and the point at which the longest finger reaches will be recorded. The
      subject will be jump with their hands on their hips (approximately 120 knee angle) as forward
      as possible with the double leg. The distance between the '0' point and jumped points on the
      tape measure will be measured and recorded in 'cm'. The test will be repeated 3 times and a
      rest interval of 60 seconds will be given between repetitions. The best result will be
      recorded.

      Muscle Strength:

      The evaluation of quadriceps and hamstring muscle concentric strength will be evaluated with
      the isokinetic dynamometer. Before the measurements, the bike will be used for warming for 5
      minutes without resistance. The test will be performed 5 times at 120 ̊/sec angular speeds.
      The peak torque values of the results will be recorded in 'N / m'.
    
  