
    
      One of the assumptions in stroke rehabilitation is that motor training will lead to motor
      re-learning and persistent improvements through mechanisms involving neuroplasticity, defined
      as the ability of the brain to change its structure and function in response to injury,
      activity, or change in environment. A way to measure a patient's capacity for neuroplasticity
      may be useful in guiding selection of patients for rehabilitative interventions, or to assess
      the effect of pharmacological agents on neuroplasticity which may aid in augmenting motor
      recovery. One method to assess neuroplasticity non-invasively in humans through the use of
      paired associative stimulation (PAS). PAS is a form of non-invasive stimulation that
      modulates corticospinal excitability through mechanisms related to long-term potentiation
      (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). In PAS, repetitive pairing of peripheral nerve
      stimulation with a transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) pulse over the contralateral motor
      cortex will increase or decrease corticospinal excitability, depending on the timing between
      the two stimuli. In healthy subjects and patients with stroke, PAS has successfully been used
      to facilitate corticospinal excitability as a means to enhance motor performance. In this
      study, we plan to use PAS as an assay of corticospinal plasticity rather than as a
      therapeutic intervention in patients with chronic motor deficits (>6 months) due to ischemic
      stroke.

      There is large interindividual variability in individuals' responses to PAS, which may be
      useful in examining its relationship to motor learning, but the reliability of the measure
      will need to be assessed prior to using this measure to make inferences about a subject's
      general capacity to learn motor tasks. The reliability of the response to PAS and its
      relationship to clinical factors such as stroke severity, has not been well studied in
      patients with stroke. Results from a preliminary experiment suggest that stroke patients who
      have a robust response to facilitatory PAS on their unaffected hemisphere have more severe
      motor deficits than those who do not have a significant response to PAS.
    
  