
    
      Study background:

      Effective early life programs that reduce the long-term non-communicable diseases (NCDs) risk
      could bring great economic benefits to the society. NCDs are responsible for roughly
      two-thirds of worldwide death and cause large burden of health care cost. Most policies
      nowadays that combat disease focus on treatment after disease occurs and on reducing risk
      factors in adult life. Early life interventions are an unexplored and promising new avenue of
      health policy . One of the oldest US early life intervention programs, the Carolina
      Abecedarian Project, started from 1970s has been shown to have substantial benefits in
      boosting adult health. However, most research on early life intervention focus on disease
      models such as obese women to improve offspring health outcomes. There is limited research on
      postpartum interventions in the community that optimize maternal and infant nutrition through
      improving success of breastfeeding, infant growth, diet quality and microbiota to enhance
      health in the adulthood

      Aim of study:

      To evaluate the effects of postpartum nutrition program on i) success of breastfeeding by
      comparing the average duration of breastfeeding between intervention group and control group
      (primary outcome) ii) diet quality of the infants and mothers (secondary outcome) The diet
      quality will be measured by 3-day dietary records using Diet Quality Index-International
      (DQI-I).

      Briefly, the DQI-I assesses four categories (variety, adequacy, moderation, and overall
      balance) and contains six food items and 11 nutrient items. This scoring scale is complex.
      The maximum possible score for each category ranges from 10 to 40 points, and the full score
      is 100 points.

      Paired t-tests will be used to compare the difference between intervention group and control
      group.

      iii) the infant growth by comparing the Z-scores of weight-for-age, length-for-age,
      BMI-for-age and head circumference-for-age at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 month old between
      intervention group and control group (secondary outcome) Z-score (or SD-score) = (observed
      value - median value of the reference population) / standard deviation value of reference
      population

      iv) the microbiota profiles (secondary outcome)

      Method of Investigation:

      In this project, a randomized controlled trial will be conducted which subjects will be 40
      pairs of local Chinese healthy postpartum mothers aged 18-40 years old and their infants. The
      participants will be randomly assigned into 1:1 ratio to the control group or the
      intervention group. A study coordinator will randomize subjects by means of a
      computer-generated list of random numbers in blocks of 4. Treatment assignments will be
      concealed in consecutively-numbered sealed envelopes, which will be opened sequentially upon
      subject enrollment.
    
  