
    
      -  Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths. Patients with pulmonary
           nodules often undergo multiple computed tomography (CT) examinations for diagnostic and
           follow-up purposes.

        -  Purpose: The main objective of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic performance of
           ultra-low dose CT using deep learning-based reconstruction in the detection of pulmonary
           nodules.

        -  Abstract: Despite recent advances, lung cancer remains the most commonly diagnosed
           cancer and the leading cause of cancer death worldwide because it is often diagnosed at
           advanced stages that are not surgically curable. Nevertheless, early detection of lung
           cancer allows surgical resection, offers curative treatment and the best chance of
           survival. There is currently no screening program in France, but individual screening
           can be carried out depending on risk factors. Many pulmonary nodules are discovered each
           year, most of which are benign. The challenge is to distinguish malignant lesions from
           the multitude of benign lesions. One of the most effective criteria is the doubling time
           of the nodules which leads to multiple follow-up examinations requiring ionizing
           radiation to assess the size and growth of the nodules. Great efforts are currently
           being made by CT manufacturers in order to reduce the radiation with equivalent
           diagnostic performance. Patients who were referred to our department for an unenhanced
           low-dose chest CT (LD CT) for pulmonary nodules check-up or follow-up, and had consented
           to participate in the study, will undergo an additional ultra-low dose acquisition
           (ULDCT, <0,25 mSv, similar to standard two-view chest X-Ray) with deep learning-based
           reconstruction (DLIR). The main objective of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic
           performance between ULD and LD CT protocols for the detection of pulmonary nodules. The
           impact of dose reduction will be assessed in this context. The data from each
           examination will be blindly interpreted from the results of the other one. No follow-up
           will be required for the study.
    
  