
    
      The last ten years has seen the introduction of a number of effective new anti-myeloma agents
      into the clinical arena. These agents have been shown to be highly effective in the relapse
      setting and now are being introduced as treatment earlier in the disease course.

      This study aims to address in the randomised setting some of the key questions concerning the
      use of thalidomide, bortezomib, lenalidomide, carfilzomib and vorinostat in the initial
      treatment of multiple myeloma patients.

      Newly diagnosed patients of all ages with symptomatic myeloma requiring treatment are
      eligible.

      For initial treatment, thalidomide in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone,
      the UK gold standard, will be compared with the newer combination of lenalidomide,
      cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone with or without carfilzomib.

      For patients with a sub-optimal response to initial therapy, the response to the proteasome
      inhibitor bortezomib will be assessed, as previous studies have demonstrated that it is able
      to induce responses and improve progression-free and overall survival in patients resistant
      to standard chemotherapy. Patients young and fit enough to tolerate an autologous transplant
      will then proceed to high dose melphalan with peripheral blood stem cell rescue and then on
      to maintenance randomisation. Older or less fit patients will go directly to a maintenance
      randomisation.

      The value of lenalidomide and lenalidomide combined with vorinostat maintenance will then be
      assessed by randomising eligible patients to receive either lenalidomide, lenalidomide
      combined with vorinostat maintenance therapy, or close observation.

      The primary end points of the study are overall and progression-free survival (OS and PFS).
      Secondary end points include response and toxicity.

      A number of laboratory based studies will also be performed in order to determine patient
      specific factors predicting overall and progression-free survival and response to treatment.
    
  