
    
      BACKGROUND: Inconsistent anticoagulation therapy in AF patients is associated with a higher
      risk of stroke and abnormal bleeding. However, control of oral anticoagulation therapy in AF
      patients has been frequently reported as inadequate. Few theoretical based interventions have
      been tested for enhancing medication adherence in this population. Previous studies showed
      that the health belief model may offer some advantage over other behavior change theories for
      enhancing medication adherence in adult with chronic conditions.

      PURPOSE: The purpose of the study is to investigate the efficacy of a health belief model
      based self-management of oral anticoagulant therapy intervention on the outcome of medication
      adherence and the mediators of knowledge, professional support, health belief, and
      self-efficacy in patients treated with oral anticoagulants for atrial fibrillation.

      METHODS: The study is a randomized clinical trial with repeated measurements. A convenient
      sample of 72 adults who were treated with anticoagulants for atrial fibrillation was
      recruited from two teaching hospitals in northern Taiwan. Participants were randomly assigned
      1:1 to either the control group (n = 36) or the intervention group (n = 36) after completion
      of baseline questionnaires. Allocation was balanced by site by using a minimization method.
      The health belief model based self-management intervention comprised two main components: a
      60-minute individual face to face instruction and six follow-up telephone calls. Participants
      in the control group received regular medication education, 10-minute individual instruction
      for health knowledge and six follow-up telephone calls for concerning health. Data were
      collected at baseline, third month, and sixth month in both groups, by using
      self-administered questionnaires. The investigator administered the study questionnaire after
      obtaining informed consent from each subject. The data collection took place at the waiting
      areas outside the outpatient clinics during the patients' visits to the clinics. For subjects
      who were unable to read the questionnaire due to vision or other problems, the investigator
      read each question to help them complete the questionnaire. The instruments include the
      Atrial Fibrillation Knowledge Scale, Satisfaction Scale about Service and Warfarin Treatment,
      Belief About Anticoagulation Survey, and Self-Efficacy for Appropriate Medication Use Scale.

      DATA ANALYSIS: Data were analyzed using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences 20.0
      (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Descriptive analyses were used to describe study variables.
      Independent t-tests and one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) were performed to analyze the
      baseline equivalent between study groups. The generalized estimating equations were used to
      analyze the efficacy of the intervention for enhancing knowledge, knowledge, perceived
      benefits, perceived barriers, self-efficacy, and adherence to anticoagulant therapies in
      patients treated with oral anticoagulants for atrial fibrillation.
    
  