
    
      Introduction Patients admitted to hospital with acute exacerbations of COPD are at risk of
      significant in-hospital morbidity and mortality. Current markers of treatment success involve
      the integration of basic physiological variables (respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen
      saturations), clinical examination and patient reported symptoms changes. Whilst the use of
      these physiological parameters are gold standard there remains concern that patient
      deterioration is often not detected and escalated effectively. This has led to the
      development and implementation of a range of clinical physiological composite scores such as
      the medical early warning score or the National Health Service (NHS) early warning scores.
      However, these scores have been validated in general rather than specific populations and
      there are concerns regarding their use in respiratory patient groups.The use of the
      parasternal intercostal muscle EMG (EMGpara) has been reported to track clinical change and
      identify treatment failure during hospital admissions with acute exacerbations of COPD
      (AECOPD) in selected and unselected cohorts. In these pilot works measurements were taken on
      research equipment and data analysed individually by a trained physiologist. The clinical
      physiologist ensured standardisation of recording conditions such as proximity to medication,
      patient position, time of day and recent activity. The effect of such clinical and
      physiological factors on EMGpara was minimised by the operator with preventive measures, such
      as the control for the measurement time, the limitation of the recording duration and the
      exclusion of any artefactual changes in EMGpara. The development of automated software allows
      for frequent sampling and continuous monitoring, which will potentially permit earlier
      detection of clinical deterioration. With an automated system however, clinical and
      physiological factors need to be carefully considered, in particular when the measurement is
      performed in an unsupervised or less closely supervised environment. This feasibility study
      is therefore designed to investigate repeatability of EMGpara in hospital-based AECOPD
      management (i.e. EMGpara changes reflect changes in clinical status). It will give us insight
      into potential control/mitigation measures and their implementation, in order to ultimately
      minimise false readings.

      Study objectives To investigate the clinical and physiological factors that may affect the
      measurement of EMGpara in acute setting so as to enhance the clinical effectiveness of
      EMGpara in identifying treatment failure and clinical deterioration.
    
  