
    
      Standard of care dosing of vancomycin in young infants is based on weight (eg. 15
      mg/kg/dose). There is evidence that many young infants who are prescribed vancomycin using
      this calculation will not have enough vancomycin in the blood at steady state to treat an
      infection effectively. In this study a dosing calculator will be used to generate each
      participant's dose with the aim to improve the number of participant's who achieve the target
      vancomycin level (10 - 20 mg/L) at steady state. The dosing calculator is based on a
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model of vancomycin which was built from prospective data.
      The participant's weight, post-menstrual age, creatinine and target vancomycin level will be
      entered into the dosing calculator (available on a web application), and the calculator will
      provide the dosing regimen for that participant. The participant will have the vancomycin
      level checked at 24-48 hours to assess if the target level has been achieved.

      This study is 'part 1' of the study protocol (version 4.0) as approved under HREC reference
      number HREC/51942/RCHM-2019. This protocol also includes a second study, 'part 2', which will
      be registered with clinicaltrials.gov separately. Part 2 will assess the use of early drug
      monitoring and early dose adjustment to achieve the target vancomycin level in the blood at
      steady state. Part 1 of this protocol will be completed before part 2 begins recruitment.
      Part 1 and part 2 are two separate studies and the results of each part will not be compared
      to one another. However, each part will be compared to a retrospective control arm - infants
      from the VANC randomized controlled trial (NCT02210169) who received standard intermittent
      infusion of vancomycin dosing (as per British National Formulary for children. 15mg/kg/dose)
      and standard therapeutic drug monitoring.
    
  