disturbances of the verbal body image.. a particular syndrome of sensoryaphasia .1. the pto syndrome of the dominant hemisphere varies according to theextent and depth of the lesion in the angular and supramarginal areas .the mildest clinical syndrome consists of a vague contralateral sensoryimpairment associated with dyscalculia, dysgraphia, dyslexia anddifficulty in naming . a more extensive lesion is needed to cause thewide variety of classical signs described in parietal lobe disease,among them being gerstmann's syndrome, which is usually found inassociation with other manifestations of parietal loss (case 1) . aneven more extensive corticosubcortical lesion in the area leads tocomplete disintegration of naming and understanding of speech (cases 3,4 and 5) .2. attention is drawn to the difficulties arising from lack ofdifferentiation between the concrete gnostic body image and the abstractverbal body image in investigation of these patients . the aphasicsyndrome should be differentiated from disturbances of gnosis byapplication of separate, non-verbal methods of testing to elicit theimpairment of the gnostic body image . the latter may be wellcompensated for and it is apparently unimpaired in the presence of anaphasic syndrome limited to the verbal body image .3. disturbances of speech in pto lesions if investigated alongquantitative scales of impairment of repetition, understanding andnaming, show a regular interrelation . nomination is the most affected,understanding is less affected . repetition is the best preservedfunction (cases 1-4) . the same interrelation of these functions isfound with regard to the verbal body image . however, understanding andnaming of parts of the body show far greater disintegration thanunderstanding and naming of any other categories of words (all casespresented here) . if the aphasic syndrome is subsiding, finger aphasiawith some other minor disturbances of verbal body image associated withacalculia may persist (case 1) . thus gerstmann's /finger agnosia/ mayrepresent a partial impairment of the verbal body image and be limitedto finger aphasia .4. it is assumed that the verbal body image differs from othercategories of verbal symbols owing to the mainly proprioceptive,vestibular and tactile experience forming its specific physiologicbackground . telereceptive experience is of minor importance in theinitial development of the understanding of words defining the bodyimage .in the patients described here, the selectively worse aphasicimpairment of the verbal body image, as compared with other categoriesof words, seem to confirm this assumption .