2344. respiratory and cardiovascular changes during rapid spon-taneous variations of ventricular fluid pressure in pa-tients with intracranial hypertensionin patients with intracranial hypertensionthe ventricular fluid pressure (vfp)curve is characterized by 3 main formsof spontaneous variations.  two of theseforms are of a rhythmical nature, andare here called 1-per-minute waves and 6-per-minute waves, respectively, inaccordance with the dominating frequency.the third form - irregularly appearingwaves of large amplitude and duration -is called plateau waves in accordancewith the usual shape of the fluctuations.respiratory and cardio-vascular changesaccompanying these variations of the vfpwere studied by simultaneous recording,in various combinations, of the vfp, thepulmonary ventilation, the pco2 of theexpiratory air, the arterial and the venousblood pressure, and the pulse frequency.it was found that the rhythmic vfp vari-ations of the 1-per-minute type occurredsynchronously with the respiratory peri-ods in cheyne-stokes breathing.synchronously appearing variations in systemicblood pressure, in pulse frequency,as well as in consciousness and in musculartone of the limbs were also noted.  therespiratory midposition shifted towards theinspiratory side during the periods ofhyperpnoea.  the 6-per-minute waves wereentirely synchronous with variationsin the systemic arterial blood pressure of thetraube-hering-mayer type.  longsequences of these waves were observed onlywhen the vfp level was considerablyelevated.  the plateau waves were not accom-panied by corresponding elevations ofthe arterial or venous systemic blood pres-sure.  simultaneously with the crestsof the plateau waves sudden changes oftenoccurred in the pulse frequency (frombradycardia to tachycardia), and in the res-piratory pattern, sometimes also in thedegree of consciousness and in the muscu-lar tone.  there were also long sequencesof 6-per-minute waves.  the deep, irre-gular breathing seen in this stage induceda considerable hypocapnia preceedingthe final critical fall in the vfp ending theplateau wave.  in most instances, how-ever, this fall did not begin until severalminutes after the appearance of the hypo-capnia.