cognitive functioning in early infantile autism: an examination of four casesby means of the wechsler intelligence scale for childrenthe results are communicated which were obtained from an examination,by means of the wechsler intelligence scale for children, of four cases ofearly infantile autism.  these cases had developed in such a way that areliable investigation by means of a mental test had become possible.according to their full scale iq's the four cases fell within the category ofdull normal intelligence or less.  all of them showed a considerablediscrepancy between the verbal and the performance iq, the performance iq beingof much higher value.  the composition of the autistic test profiles wascharacterized by a large variability in the subtest scores, discriminating theautistic group significantly from non-autistic control groups.  the subtestscore divergencies, responsible for the large variability, showed a distinctpattern, being specific for the autistic group as a whole.  this group couldbe considered as a distinct group particularly by a marked tendency to achievepoorly and far below the subject's average level in the subtests comprehensionand vocabulary, and to achieve superiorly and far above that level in thesubtests block design and object assembly.  by specifying the mental functions,conditional for success in these four subtests that occupy extreme positionswithin the autistic test profiles, it was concluded that the autistic patientsapparently were able to achieve well, or even superiorly, only if the taskcould be performed on a purely perceptual level.  but they failed as soon asan appeal was made to thinking proper.  this was thought to be due to adisability in dealing with imaginary things and imaginary situations, or,in other words, to an incapability to objectify what is not actually presentin the subject's concrete situation.  it is proposed that this impairmentcould be reduced to a lack of symbolic means, being the correlate of adefective or insufficiently developed language in the patients.  it is furtherproposed that children suffering from earlyinfantile autism might not be able,or at a later stage only, to reach that level of language development in whichwords can be used as symbols,representing absent things and absent situations.