eeg abnormalities in early childhood schizophrenia:a double-blind study of psychiatrically distrubedand normal children during promazine sedationeeg tracings during promazine sedationwere obtained on 58 children who hadautistic or symbiotic childhood psychosis.for comparison eeg's were done underidentical conditions on 4 other groups ofchildren: 44 with chronic undifferentiatedschizophrenia; 37 non-psychotic childrenwith severe, acting-out behavior disorders;10 with neuroses; and 13 psychiatricallynormal children.  final clinical diagnoseswere made without knowledge of the eegreadings as determined for this study, andthe eeg's were all placed in random orderand read without any knowledge of theclinical diagnosis.  eeg abnormalities ac-cepted were focal slowing, focal spikes,paroxysmal spikes and waves, and par-oxysmal spikes and waves with independentspikes.among the 149 patients 51% had abnormalrecords.  none of the psychiatrically normalchildren had eeg abnormalities.  exceptfor the neurotics, the eeg abnormalitieswere qualitatively and quantitatively sim-ilar in the psychiatric patients.  themost frequent abnormalities were ir-regular paroxysmal spike and wave com-plexes, often best seen during thetransition from wake to sleep.  of the 149patients, 33% had this complex, either aloneor with independent spikes.  although thesecomplexes were most frequent in the au-tistic-symbiotic group, the incidence wasnot statistically significantly different fromthe higher performing, chronic undiffer-entiated schizophrenics who had communi-cative speech or the non-psychotic childrenwith acting-out behavior disorders.of the 58 autistic-symbiotic children, 19%had seizures, which is similar to the 13%seizure incidence in the remaining 91 psy-chiatric patients.whether the cerebral dysfunction im-plied by this study is a primary disorderor is secondary to some factor such as theeffect of prolonged anxiety on body chem-istry cannot be decided at this time.  never-theless, an organic concomitant has beendemonstrated in 51% of the psychiatricallydisturbed children.  by increasing theamount of time included in the eeg sam-ple, the incidence of electrical abnormalitiesmight be even higher.