parathyroid function in chronic renal failure.  a statistical surveyof the plasma biochemistry in azotaemic renal osteodystrophy.a collection has been made of 134 personal andpublished cases of azotemic osteodystrophy in whichadequate information was available concerning thepathological state of the bones.  measurements wereavailable of the plasma calcium, plasma phosphate, andblood-urea-nitrogen in all cases, and of plasma bicarbonateand plasma proteins in a representative sample.the plasma levels of calcium and phosphate in the wholeseries of 134 cases were not related reciprocally butwere correlated directly.  these data were further analyzedby allocating each case to either of 2 sub-groups,according to the type of pathological lesions present inthe bones.  in one group there was evidence of defectivemineralization of skeletal tissues, in the form of eitherrickets or osteomalacia, and the plasma-calcium wasfound to be statistically sub-normal.  in the other groupthere was no primary defect of mineralization but thelesions of generalized osteitis fibrosa were present andthe plasma calcium was statistically normal.  there wasno significant correlation between the plasma levels ofcalcium and phosphate in either sub-group; and the plasmaphosphate was significantly higher in the group withthe higher plasma calcium levels.  the data indicate thatin patients with renal osteodystrophy, contrary to generalbelief, the plasma calcium varies independently of theplasma phosphate.  since these results imply differencesin parathyroid function among patients with azotemicosteodystrophy, a survey has also been made ofthe recorded parathyroid weights in chronic renal failure.generalized osteitis fibrosa and the accompanying normallevels of plasma calcium are associated with greaterparathyroid hypertrophy than is found in most casesof chronic renal failure or cases with defective mineralization.the various data are interpreted in relationto the known metabolic disturbances and natural historyof azotemic osteodystrophy.  by analogy with states ofsimple vitamin d deficiency, it is suggested that hypocalcemiaand relative unresponsiveness to the calcemicaction of parathyroid hormone are related to an acquiredresistance to vitamin d.  the group of cases with statisticallynormal plasma-calcium prove that the parathyroidglands can function effectively in some patientswith chronic renal failure, irrespective of the level ofthe plasma phosphate.  the size of the glands and theeffects of sub-total parathyroidectomy in patients of thisgroup suggest that the normal plasma calcium resultsfrom an increased production of parathyroid hormone.the more advanced renal failure in the normocalcemic,as compared with the hypocalcemic, cases could meanthat the development of an effective degree of secondaryhyperparathyroidism is a function of the duration of therenal disease.  it seems likely that when the parathyroidresponse is sufficient to overcome the effects of the vitamind resistance it also entails the development of generalizedosteitis fibrosa, healing of the defect of mineralizationand increased liability to metastatic calcification.