
    
      Objectives

        1. To assess the added value of RT-PCR for CHIKV on urine samples for diagnosing CHIKV
           infection in comparison to the reference methods.

        2. To describe the kinetics of RT- PCR for CHIKV on urine samples for diagnosing CHIKV
           infection over time.

      Study design, population, materials and methods:

      Prospective cohort study of patients with a confirmed CHIKV infection (positive RT-PCR for
      CHIKV on the sample at the time of inclusion or seroconversion defined as positive anti-CHIKV
      Immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibody assay on day 14), who attend the outpatient clinic of the
      Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp and the Horacio Oduber Hospitaal in Aruba within 72
      hours after fever onset. After signing informed consent, clinical and epidemiological data
      will be recorded in a standardized Case Record Form. Baseline blood and urine samples will be
      collected as required for routine clinical evaluation of the individual case; sampling will
      include serum CHIKV serologic assays, CHIKV E1 (or similar rapid test), as well as serum and
      urine for RT-PCR for CHIKV. After the initial evaluation, suspected CHIKV cases are scheduled
      for biweekly serum and urine collection for RT-PCR for CHIKV for a duration of 2 weeks, then
      after 3, 4 and 12 weeks. Serum at 4 weeks will be used for second serologic assay. Suspected
      cases that test negative for CHIKV by RT-PCR on serum will be excluded.

      Study population : patients with confirmed CHIKV infection Sample size : panel of 20 CHIKV
      confirmed cases Data analysis and reporting : The percentages of positive urine RT-PCR (over
      different time-points of duration of the CHIKV infection) will be calculated. Proportions of
      positivity rates will be tested by χ²-test for equality of proportions. Ct-values between two
      different sample types (serum/urine) will be compared by calculation of Spearman's rank
      correlation coefficient (ρ). The Ct-values measured will be subtracted (indicated by ∆Ct) and
      the mean of all ∆Ct-values (± 95% confidence interval) will be calculated. Reporting in
      accordance with Standards for Reporting of Diagnostic Accuracy (STARD) guidelines.

      Endpoints: diagnostic sensitivity of CHIKV RT-PCR on urine samples in patients with a
      confirmed CHIKV infection, comparison of analytical sensitivity (based on Ct-values) with
      RT-PCR on serum, positivity rates of RT-PCR urine samples over time Ethical issues: Informed
      consent will be obtained from study participants. Demographic, geographic, clinical and
      laboratory data will be obtained; the data are de-identified and stored in an encoded
      database (code known to the principal investigators). Ethical approval through the ITM/
      University Hospital Antwerp (UZA) Ethics Committee (EC) and the EC in Aruba.

      Expected results and relevance :

      Evaluation of the sensitivity of RT-PCR on urine samples for diagnosing CHIKV infection in
      the post-viremic phase in both endemic and non-endemic settings. Possible advantages of the
      use of PCR on urine over serological assays are:

        1. a shift in timeframe for accurately diagnosing CHIKV infection that could benefit
           returning travelers who consult after the acute phase.

        2. the use of single specimens that are obtained by non-invasive procedures

        3. high specificity

        4. the opportunity for typing of CHIKV strains.
    
  