
    
      Dentine hypersensitivity (DH) is a condition that occurs in non-pathological, non-defective
      teeth and is defined as "a short, sharp pain in response to stimuli, typically thermal,
      evaporative, tactile, osmotic or chemical and which cannot be attributed to any other dental
      defect or pathology". The incidence of DH ranges from 4% to 74% in several studies.
      Mandibular first molars, canines and premolars of both jaws are most commonly affected by DH.

      The pathogenesis of DH is linked to exposure of dentinal tubules that can occur in the oral
      cavity due to dental erosion from acidogenic diets, aggressive tooth-brushing, injudicious
      use of whitening products, gingival recession, periodontal debridement or surgery. The most
      commonly reported initiating factor is cold drinks. Management usually involves methods that
      can achieve one or both of the following objectives; i) alteration of fluid flow in the
      dentinal tubules and ii) modification or blocking of the pulpal nerve response.

      A broad range of products that achieve these objectives have been developed after rigorous
      trials and can be used in-office or at home depending on the severity of the condition. These
      products are commonly referred to as desensitizing agents. Grossman suggested that an ideal
      desensitizing agent should be non-irritating to the pulp, relatively painless on application,
      easy to apply, rapid in action, effective for long periods of time and should not stain the
      teeth.

      The use of dentine desensitizers has become one of the most common methods in managing DH.
      The most commonly used desensitizers contain components such as fluoride, triclosan,
      benzalkonium chloride, ethylene diaminetetraacetic acid and glutaraldehyde. Fluoraphat Pro
      (Neumunster, Germany) and VivaSens® (Ivoclar Vivadent, Schaan, Liechtenstein, Switzerland)
      are two agents that have been tested for use as dentine desensitizers and are currently
      available for commercial use. In the present study, two such varnishes VivaSens (Ivoclar
      Vivadent, Schaan, Liechtenstein, and Switzerland) and Fluoraphat (Promedical Neumunster,
      Germany) have been used. The present study aims to establish which of the two desensitizing
      agents has better efficacy in reducing hypersensitivity in patients who have been previously
      diagnosed with DH.
    
  