
    
      Purpose

      The principal aims of the HATI study are:

        1. To evaluate interventions aimed at increasing HIV testing and immediate antiretroviral
           therapy (ART), also known as the test and treat (T&T) strategy, in key populations in
           Indonesia;

        2. To develop capacity in implementation research in Indonesia through training and the
           active participation of local researchers as investigators on the study.

      The study will be conducted in two phases:

      i) Phase 1 -observing current practice (year 1) ii) Phase 2 - after implementation of an
      enhanced intervention package (years 2 and 3)

      Primary research objective

      The primary objectives are to assess the impact of enhanced community based intervention
      compared with current practice, on:

        1. Total number of virologically suppressed individuals from each key population (at the
           end of year 1 and year 4);

        2. Proportion of people from each key population who are virologically suppressed 12 months
           after HIV diagnosis.

      Analyses will be conducted separately for each key population

      Secondary research objectives

        1. To quantify and compare the HIV treatment cascade/continuum of care.

        2. To assess safety of early ART and acceptability of early ART initiation.

        3. To assess behavioural aspects of a T&T strategy, including impact on risk behaviours.

      Research capacity building objectives

        1. To enhance the capacity of senior local researchers as research leaders.

        2. To increase the research skills and experience of early career researchers.

      Study population

      The study population will include adults from the following three key population groups:

      i) Gay men and other men who have sex with men (MSM) ii) Female sex workers, including
      brothel and non-brothel based sex workers (FSW) iii) Waria (transgender people)

      Study Design This will be a prospective implementation research study assessing the impact of
      enhanced community based interventions, on the uptake of HIV treatment and retention in care
      among key populations as part of a T&T strategy in three urban settings in Indonesia. The
      enhanced package of interventions will be introduced in a series of steps over time.

      Phase 1- Pre-implementation of the enhanced intervention package (Year 1) Current standard
      practices for HIV treatment and care will be observed ('business as usual'), utilising a
      comprehensive data collection system at each participating site. In accordance with current
      national guidelines, all HIV positive participants will be offered immediate ART initiation
      after being diagnosed as HIV positive.

      Phase2-a - Partial implementation of the enhanced package of interventions (Year 2) The
      components of an enhanced intervention package will be implemented selectively across the
      participating service delivery sites. The allocation of enhanced intervention package
      components across sites will be determined after the content of the package is developed in
      year 1 (see below for details describing how this package will be developed). Allocations
      will be made so as to allow for comparison between intervention and non-intervention exposure
      for each key population group.

      Phase 2-b - Full implementation of the enhanced package of interventions (Years 3-4) The full
      implementation package will be implemented across all participating sites. Study outcomes for
      each phase will be compared. Participants will be followed up for a minimum of 12 months. The
      total study observation period will be 4 years.

      In addition, during the first year of the study formative research will be conducted to
      inform the development of an enhanced package of interventions to increase the uptake of HIV
      testing and treatment, improved treatment adherence and treatment outcomes (virological
      suppression). This formative research will include focus group discussions and interviews
      with people from key populations, service providers, and other key stakeholders. The enhanced
      package will be designed such that it is locally relevant, acceptable to affected communities
      and deemed likely to be sustainable beyond the study by stakeholders.

      Study sites The study will be undertaken in three urban locations in Bali, West Java and
      Yogyakarta. At each location a service providing HIV treatment will be designated as the
      Primary (Principal) Site; each Primary Site will be affiliated with a tertiary academic
      institution and will be responsible for overseeing the study activities in that location. A
      number of Satellite Sites will also be included in the study and will be involved in
      participant recruitment and/or follow-up.

      Recruitment of HIV positive participants and sample size Eligible HIV positive individuals
      will be invited to enter the study following a positive HIV test during Phase 1 (year 1) and
      Phase 2 (years 2 and 3). The target total sample size across all three locations is 600 HIV
      positive MSM and 600 HIV positive FSW, with the aim to recruit, on average, 200 individuals
      from each population in each year .

      Due to the considerably smaller overall waria population size there will be no specified
      target for the HIV positive waria sample.

      HIV positive MSM, FSW and waria will be recruited at all locations. It is anticipated that
      recruitment is likely to be slower in Phase 1 (year 1) when no strategies in addition to
      current practice will be implemented to increase HIV testing; it is also anticipated that
      certain locations may recruit greater or fewer participants from each key population group.
      HIVpositive participants will be followed for the duration of the HATI study as far as
      possible.

      Data on HIV testing among key populations Individuals from key populations receiving HIV test
      at participating study sites during Years 1-3 and who are found to be HIV-negative will not
      be recruited to the cohort in this study. De-identified data HIV testing among people from
      key populations will be analysed in order to examine patters in HIV testing during the study
      period.

      Participant procedures Phase 1 :In line with a government directive on HIV treatment for
      people from key populations, all HIV positive participants will be offered immediate access
      to ART irrespective of CD4 count,. Linkage to HIV treatment and care, clinical management
      (including diagnostics) will be conducted as per routine practice. Costs borne by patients
      will remain as per current practices with exception of CD4 testing, which will be provided to
      study participants at no cost to them. Viral load testing at the time of being offered or
      starting treatment and every six months thereafter at no cost to the participant. Resistance
      testing will be done on virological failure, at no cost to the participant. A short
      behavioural questionnaire will be administered to all HIV positive participants at entry to
      the study and then every 12 months.
    
  