
    
      People with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (CIPO) have problems digesting their food
      properly, due to a problem in their gut nerves or muscle. There are not many good tests to
      assess how a patient's stomach and bowels are working. Finding out more is the first step in
      developing a standardized clinical test using MRI to provide a faster diagnosis than is
      currently possible. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans allow the investigators to see
      inside the abdomen. Scans are not painful or harmful and are therefore ideal for repeated
      measurements. By scanning participants both before and after a test drink the investigators
      can see exactly how their digestion is working.

      The investigators are inviting 16 people who are at least 16 years old, 8 who have CIPO and 8
      with chronic constipation, so the investigators can compare the images. Participants will
      come in for one half day of scanning. The investigators will take a total of 8 scans of their
      abdomens, every half hour. Participants will also fill in symptom questionnaires at every
      scan, for example if they feel bloated or have any abdominal pain. Each scan will take about
      15 minutes and will require short breath holds. Participants will be able to get out of the
      scanner at any time point if they feel the need to.

      Participants will arrive fasted in the morning and will receive a test drink (a milk-based
      drink used as an oral nutritional supplement) right after the first scan. All participants
      will be asked to pause some of their usual medication that has a direct influence on
      digestion for 24h before the scan day and during the ~4h of the study.

      The primary outcome is peak small bowel motility, which the investigators hypothesize to be
      less active in people with CIPO. Other outcomes include gastric volume, small bowel water
      content and distribution, peak gastric motility, and gastrointestinal symptoms.
    
  