
    
      Phase 1: The implementation of the new Canadian Standardized PR program "Real life project"
      will be done after evaluating the existing pulmonary rehabilitation program in each of the
      four sites (G.F. MacDonald Centre for Lung Health, Mount Sinai Hospital, Montreal Chest
      Institute and West Park Health Care Centre). This will serve as pilot testing of the new
      pulmonary rehabilitation program to identify problems, adapt solution and improve the
      program, its content and delivery.

      Phase 2: A randomized parallel-controlled trial (RPCT) will also be implemented in one site
      at the G.F. MacDonald Centre for Lung Health. Entire PR classes will be block randomized
      according to a random numbers table to receive usual care (traditional PR) or the new
      Canadian Standardized PR program. Several rural Tele-health sites that participate in PR via
      the G.F. MacDonald Centre for Lung Health will also be included and randomized as well. Both
      groups will be exposed to the same exercise training component. The two groups will be
      exposed to different education components (described in detail elsewhere). The effectiveness
      of the new Canadian Standardized PR program (experimental group) will be evaluated relative
      to the Traditional PR program (active comparator group) in terms of clinical, behavioural,
      and psychological outcomes.

      Primary Objective: To determine if the new Canadian Standardized PR program delivered
      in-person and in satellites sites with the support of Tele-health improves and maintains
      specific self-management behaviors after rehabilitation more than the traditional PR program.

      Primary Outcome: Physical activity (in steps-per day as measured by Fitbit®) Secondary
      Outcomes: i) Medication adherence (measured by pharmacy refills); ii) exacerbation
      recognition and prompt decision-making (diary & phone calls).

      Secondary Objectives: To determine if the new Canadian Standardized PR program improves
      predisposing factors of behavior change (knowledge, self-determination theory constructs such
      as motivation, and self-efficacy) following rehabilitation more than the Traditional PR
      program and if there is variation according to the method of delivering the program, i.e.,
      via Tele-health technology vs in person.

      To determine if the new Canadian Standardized PR program results in greater improvement of
      clinical outcomes (exercise capacity, health status) and health service use (hospital
      admissions) following completion of rehabilitation compared to the Traditional PR program.

      Statistical Methods: Analysis for determining the potential benefit of the new Canadian
      Standardized PR program: Repeated measures ANOVAS will be conducted to evaluate changes over
      PR in behavioral outcomes (physical activity, medication adherence, exacerbation adherence),
      predisposing behavior change outcomes (self-efficacy, knowledge, self-determination theory
      constructs), and clinical outcomes (quality of life, exercise tolerance) between the
      Traditional PR group compared to the new Canadian Standardized PR group.

      Patients' adherence to action plan and regular medication, self-efficacy, symptoms/health:
      After carefully examining data for distribution (and transforming if warranted), the
      investigators will first calculate the proportion (and 95% CI) of patients who initiate their
      action plan, including seeking treatment and increasing medications as appropriate within 48
      hours of symptom onset. In the case of multiple exacerbations, only the first instance will
      be used. A separate analysis will be done for multiple exacerbations, to account for patient
      variables. The investigators will explore secondary objectives by evaluating changes over
      time in all patients in adherence to medication, self-efficacy, symptoms and, health related
      quality of life. Regression analyses will be used to explore changes in these outcomes while
      controlling for the effects of potential covariates and confounders such as baseline
      respiratory status, age, sex, disease severity, comorbidities and smoking status. The
      investigators will calculate means or proportions for acceptability to providers and resource
      use.

      Sample Size Determination: The investigators anticipate a sample of 200 COPD patients (100 in
      each group), with 40 of those patients participating in rural sites by Tele-health. Sample
      size calculations are based on evaluating change in the primary outcome - physical activity
      as measured by steps per day - between the Traditional PR and new Canadian Standardized PR
      groups. A literature search indicated that Traditional PR seems to have a small to negligible
      effect on COPD patients' physical activity levels. Given that the new Canadian Standardized
      program is designed to specifically target predisposing factors of behavior change, the
      investigators anticipate a medium effect size increase in physical activity compared to the
      usual care program. In order to detect a medium effect size, with power = .80, and alpha =
      .05, the investigators will be recruiting 100 COPD patients per group (G*Power 3).

      Data Handling and Record Keeping: Data will be collected and stored in a central Redcap
      database. Patients will all have a unique study code number, which will be the only unique
      identifier included within the Redcap database.
    
  