
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the proportion of patients with resectable hepatic metastases secondary to
           colorectal cancer who undergo surgical resection and achieve a R0 resection after
           treatment with neoadjuvant capecitabine, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab.

        -  Determine the probability of non-progression (i.e., stable disease or response [complete
           and partial, confirmed and unconfirmed]) in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Compare the proportion of patients treated with this regimen who undergo surgical
           resection and those who achieve a R0 resection with that described in the literature.

        -  Determine overall survival and disease-free survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine response by positron emission tomography in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Correlate clinical outcome with expression of biomarkers (e.g., thymidylate synthase,
           dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, thymidine phosphorylase, excision repair cross
           complementing 1, and hTERT) and telomere length in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive bevacizumab* IV over 30-90 minutes and oxaliplatin
           IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Bevacizumab is administered during courses 1-3 of neoadjuvant therapy.

        -  Surgery: Approximately 3-4 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients are
           evaluated. Patients with unresectable disease are removed from the study. Patients with
           resectable disease undergo surgical resection of liver metastases within 4-6 weeks after
           completion of neoadjuvant therapy.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning at least 28 days after surgical resection, patients with at
           least stable disease after completion of neoadjuvant therapy receive 4 courses of
           adjuvant bevacizumab**, oxaliplatin, and capecitabine as in neoadjuvant therapy.

      NOTE: **Bevacizumab is administered during courses 1-4 of adjuvant therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 4 months until disease
      progression and then every 6 months for up to 3 years from study entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 35-65 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  