
    
      Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is extremely aggressive and is the 4th most frequent
      tumor-related cause of death in the Western world. The one-year survival rate is 20 percent
      and the 5-year overall survival rate is only 5 percent. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma
      often become symptomatic at very advanced stages with only 15 to 20 percent of patients being
      able to undergo a therapeutic local resection. Patients who do not meet the criteria for
      local consolidative resection may either have advanced locoregional disease and/or distant
      metastases. Advanced locoregional pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma without metastatic disease
      has a survival rate of 6 to 12 months. Those with distant metastases have a survival rate of
      only 3 to 6 months.

      Locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma is defined by the involvement of the superior
      mesenteric artery, the celiac axis, and/or long segment portal vein occlusion on
      cross-sectional imaging. Resectable tumors will be free from the superior mesenteric vein,
      superior mesenteric artery and celiac axis, with no nodal involvement outside of the area of
      resection. Unresectable disease will have occlusion, thrombosis or encasement that extends
      for several centimeters of superior mesenteric vein and portal vein. Tumor abutment,
      encasement or thrombosis of the superior mesenteric artery is also considered unresectable
      disease. Involvement of lymph nodes outside of the area of resection also indicates that the
      patient is not resectable.

      For patients who have unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, chemotherapy and
      radiation can only provide short-term disease control. Chemotherapy and radiation regimens
      have not been shown to prolong survival significantly in this disease, and therefore, there
      is a need for additional adjunctive or consolidative treatment to provide improved local
      control, pain relief and possibly impact survival. Image guided ablation technique like
      irreversible electroporation has shown promise as a new treatment option for patients with
      stage III locally advanced pancreatic cancer.

      A unique advantage of Nanoknife is that it does not require heat to ablate tumor cells,
      rather it works by using high voltage but low energy direct current. The process in which low
      energy direct current ablates tissue is called irreversible electroporation. In order to
      understand how this process works, the investigators have to understand some background cell
      biology. The cell membrane separates the intracellular space and the extracellular
      space/fluid, and controls transport processes between the two compartments of the cell.
      Electroporation increases cell membrane permeability by subjecting it to an electrical field
      and uses rapid series of short electrical pulses delivered using high voltage but low energy
      direct current to create defects (pores) in the cell membrane that result in loss of
      homeostasis and cell death. The result is a well demarcated area of ablation. The Nanoknife
      system comes with 19 gauge needles that have depth markings. The needle surface is echogenic.
      The active electrode length is adjustable in 0.5 cm increments from zero to 4 cm. There is an
      external electrocardiogram synchronization device that automatically detects the R wave and
      energy is delivered synchronously to the R wave. The electrodes can be arranged in multiple
      configurations using two to six electrodes. The spacing between the electrodes can be from
      0.5 cm to 2.0 cm, and electrode exposure can be from 0.5 cm to 4.0 cm. Energy is delivered
      between the electrode pairs, and this results in an area of ablated tissue.

      Nanoknife is particularly useful in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma because of
      the proximity of pancreatic tumors to critical surrounding structures such as bile ducts and
      major blood vessels. Because it does not use heat to ablate tissue (which induces necrosis)
      but rather uses cell apoptosis, it theoretically has no impact on the surrounding structures
      that mainly consist of proteins like vascular elastic and collagenous structures as well as
      peri-cellular matrix proteins (protecting large blood vessels and bile ducts). Further study
      of Nanoknife is needed to see if this therapy can potentially impact survival and/or provide
      adequate local palliation to improve quality of life in patients with locally advanced
      unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
    
  