
    
      Cardiogoniometry is a technique to process and evaluate vectorcardiography from regular ECG
      acquisitions. Vectorcardiography has a long tradition in cardiology for providing
      comprehensive information on myocardial function and integrity. Compared to standard
      electrocardiography, vectorcardiography has shown to be more sensitive to detect structural
      and ischemic heart disease. Unfortunately, the interpretation of vectorcardiography is
      complex which has hindered its widespread application. In recent years, computer assisted
      analysis has allowed automated interpretation of vectorcardiography with promising results in
      comparison to standard ECG for identifying patients with ischemic heart disease. However, the
      underlying mechanisms and threshold of altered cardiac vectors in the presence of coronary
      artery disease are not well understood. This research aims at exploring the relationship of
      computer assisted analysis of vectorcardiography with the presence, extent, severity, and
      location of coronary artery disease in comparison to standard ECG evaluation. Furthermore,
      the investigators intent to follow up enrolled patients for the occurrence of adverse
      cardiovascular events for correlation with test findings. These data will provide
      comprehensive information on the diagnostic performance of noninvasive, inexpensive
      evaluation of cardiac vector loops for identifying patients at risk from coronary artery
      disease. Specifically, the study aims to:

        1. Compare the diagnostic accuracy of cardiogoniometry with standard ECG for detecting
           coronary artery disease as assessed by CT angiography

        2. Investigate the relationship between abnormal cardiogoniometry findings and the
           extent/severity/location of coronary artery disease by CT angiography

        3. Compare the intermediate term prognosis of patients according to cardiogoniometry,
           standard ECG, and CT findings
    
  