
    
      Nearly 65% of those with cancer diagnoses will survive for at least 5 years, with
      approximately 10.5 million cancer survivors in the United States. The time of transition for
      cancer patients, from active treatment to survivorship, has been identified as a time of high
      risk for depression and anxiety. Cancer survivors experience higher rates of anxiety and
      depression than those without a cancer history. Research has identified fear of recurrence,
      perceived loss of support, and social pressure to resume a "normal" life, among other
      phenomena, as sources for this emotional distress. However, only about 20% of all patients
      referred for psychotherapy ever enter treatment and of those who initiate treatment, nearly
      half drop out before completion. This suggests that there are significant barriers to
      receiving care. These barriers may be even higher for cancer survivors struggling with issues
      related to re-entry, such as returning to work, resuming household responsibilities and
      managing residual symptoms such as fatigue or pain.

      The internet promises to provide inexpensive access to treatment at any time of the day or
      night. Unfortunately, the potential for internet delivered services has not been realized.
      Studies examining treatments that simply provide access to an internet site commonly result
      in very high dropout after the first site visit, and typically little or no improvement
      target symptoms. A variety of methods to improve responses to internet interventions have
      been examined. In general, e-mail support improves adherence and telephone support can
      improve adherence even more. Another type of support that has only begun to be investigated
      is the use of social networks to help maintain adherence.

      This intervention will use an online social network, to increase adherence and promote the
      use of the website and the skills it teaches.
    
  