
    
      Previous research by our group using genetic microarray analysis of HNSCC and normal
      keratinocytes has identified two distinct groups of genetic expression based on clustering
      patterns of a subgroup of genes. Clinical data was summarized for each group and overall,
      patient segregation by gene expression profiling was a better predictor of outcome than
      clinicopathological variables. Further analysis identified 375 genes that discriminate
      between the genotypic subtypes of HNSCC. Overall, our preliminary data has shown that the
      pattern of global gene expression in a HNSCC specimen can be used as a predictor of
      prognosis. We isolated subsets of genes showing the greatest patterns of divergence in gene
      expression. We have also identified 366 over-expressed and 246 underexpressed genes when
      comparing primary tumor to normal surgical margins and have identified a similar number of
      genes whose expression has changed when comparing primary tumor to lymph node metastasis.
      Combining these data sets we have identified genes which consistently increase or decrease
      expression during progression from normal tissue to primary tumor, and subsequently to
      metastatic node. We have selected several candidate genes for subsequent analysis using HNSCC
      tissue arrays. Through DNA microarray analysis and other techniques for looking at genetic
      and molecular characteristics, a more detailed knowledge of the malignant transformation
      process, and alterations with therapy, in these patients may be obtained. This study will
      seek to perform comprehensive molecular and genetic profiling to improve biomarker
      development in HNSCC and correlate this data with patient clinical data. Ultimately it is
      hoped that tumor specific genetic abnormalities may be identified which could provide targets
      for treatment strategies such as gene therapy, immunotherapy, or other interventions.

      Study Objectives:

      To evaluate gene expression patterns in human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and
      correlate this with treatment response, both surgical and non-surgical.

      To identify a series of diagnostic markers in blood, urine and/or sputum for head and neck
      squamous cell carcinoma and study the mechanism of action of these proteins.
    
  