
    
      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Age 18 or older

        2. Primary diagnosis of SAD

        3. Physical examination, electrocardiogram, and laboratory findings without clinically
           significant abnormalities.

        4. Willingness and ability to comply with the requirements of the study protocol.

      Diagnostic Exclusion Criteria:

        1. A lifetime history of bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, psychosis, delusional disorders
           or obsessive-compulsive disorder; an eating disorder in the past 6 months; organic brain
           syndrome, mental retardation or other cognitive dysfunction that could interfere with
           capacity to engage in therapy; a history of substance or alcohol abuse or dependence
           (other than nicotine) in the last 6 months or otherwise unable to commit to refraining
           from alcohol use during the acute period of study participation.

        2. Patients with posttraumatic stress disorder within the past 6 months are excluded. Entry
           of patients with other mood or anxiety disorders will be permitted if the social anxiety
           disorder is judged to be the predominant disorder, in order to increase accrual of a
           clinically relevant sample. Patients with significant suicidal ideation (MADRS item 10
           score > 3) or who have enacted suicidal behaviors within 6 months prior to intake will
           be excluded from study participation and referred for appropriate clinical intervention.

        3. Patients must be off concurrent psychotropic medication (e.g., antidepressants,
           anxiolytics, beta blockers) for at least 2 weeks prior to initiation of randomized
           treatment.

        4. Significant personality dysfunction likely to interfere with study participation.

        5. Serious medical illness or instability for which hospitalization may be likely within
           the next year.

        6. Patients with a current or past history of seizures

        7. Pregnant women, lactating women, and women of childbearing potential who are not using
           medically accepted forms of contraception (e.g., IUD, oral contraceptives, barrier
           devices, condoms and foam, or implanted progesterone rods stabilized for at least 3
           months).

        8. Any concurrent psychotherapy initiated within 3 months of baseline, or ongoing
           psychotherapy of any duration directed specifically toward treatment of the GSAD is
           excluded. Prohibited psychotherapy includes CBT or psychodynamic therapy focusing on
           exploring specific, dynamic causes of the phobic symptomatology and provides management
           skills. General supportive therapy initiated > 3 months prior is acceptable.

        9. Prior non-response to adequately-delivered exposure (i.e., as defined by the patient's
           report of receiving specific and regular exposure assignments as part of a previous
           treatment) will exclude participants from the study.

       10. Patients with a history of head trauma causing loss of consciousness, seizure or ongoing
           cognitive impairment.

       11. Patients receiving isoniazid.

       12. Patients unable to understand study procedures and participate in the informed consent
           process.
    
  