
    
      Enrollment: The study includes two phases. Phase 1 includes focus groups among 30 Native
      Hawaiian/Pacific Islander women at risk of endometrial cancer. Focus groups will determine
      sociocultural influences on (i) dietary behavior including meal timing; (ii) dietary
      preferences; (iii) proposed meal plans and intervention design; (iv) perceptions of weight
      loss and body image. In the second study phase, the study team will recruit 10 Pacific
      Islander women to participate in a 14-week randomized dietary crossover study. Each woman
      will participate in both intervention arms and act as her own control.

      Focus Group: To accomplish all aspects of Aim 1 of this study, the study team will recruit 30
      Pacific Islander women at risk for endometrial cancer to conduct virtual focus groups. These
      focus groups will take place via private videoconference, like Zoom, and a language
      translator will be provided, as necessary. The focus groups will be attended by a Native
      Hawaiian/Pacific Islander Community Expert. Questions will be designed to understand
      sociocultural influences on dietary behavior (questions on social eating, meal timing, and
      dietary preferences, soliciting feedback on study intervention delivery design, and
      perceptions of weight loss and body image). An icebreaker will be conducted prior to formal
      questioning. Sessions will be audio-recorded on the videoconference and an additional device,
      transcribed verbatim, and checked for accuracy. Two additional team members will be present
      as note takers. Our Community Expert will be present to help facilitate the session.
      Questions will be provided at the beginning of the session to ensure cultural sensitivity.

      Dietary Intervention: The dietary intervention includes 5 study visits, and features a
      baseline visit, 2-week run-in period, 4-week control diet schedule, 4-week washout period,
      and a 4-week, 8 to 10-hour Time Restricted Eating (TRE) protocol (8 to 10-hour feeding and 14
      to 16-hour fasting periods). A follow-up questionnaire will be mailed 6-months post-
      intervention. For the control schedule, women will receive frozen lunch and dinner meals and
      a standardized breakfast and snacks menu. All meals and the breakfast/snack menu will be
      designed to be culturally competent with feedback from the focus groups, and meal plans will
      be individualized to meet weight maintenance energy requirements. For the TRE schedule, women
      will receive prepared frozen lunch and dinner meals as per the control schedule, but will be
      asked to consume daily meals, snacks, and calorie-containing beverages within an 8 to 10-hour
      period that fits their schedule. They will be asked to maintain their regular sleep and
      physical activity schedule. The fasting period will ramp up during the first week (Days 1-3,
      12-14 h per day, Days 4-6, 14-16 h per day, Days 7+, 16 h per day). Women will be asked to
      schedule the eating period at the same time each day. All meals (control and TRE) will be
      provided by the Metabolic Kitchen located at the University of Utah.

      Visit 1: During the baseline visit, a coordinator will obtain consent from the participant,
      and they will be asked to compete questionnaires asking about clinical and demographic
      factors, chronotype, and physical activity, and various anthropometric measurements will be
      taken. Following the baseline visit, participants will undergo a 2-week run-in period. During
      this time, the goal is to record women's usual times of eating episodes and appetite while
      following their habitual diet.

      Visit 2: Women will provide fasting blood and stool samples, and anthropometric measurements
      will be taken. Following visit 2, participants will undergo the control or TRE schedule for 4
      weeks.

      Visit 3: After 4 weeks, participants will undergo visit 3 and will be asked to provide
      fasting blood and stool samples, and anthropometric measures will be taken. Following visit
      3, participants will undergo a 4-week washout period, where women are able to return to their
      usual lifestyle.

      Visit 4: Visit 4 will occur after the 4-week washout period, and will include a telephone
      consultation to discuss the next study phase and schedule meal provision. For the following
      4-weeks, participants will then undergo the opposite feeding schedule (either control or
      TRE).

      Visit 5: During the final visit, women will provide fasting blood and stool samples, and
      anthropometric measures will be taken.

      During the run-in period, the TRE phase and the control phase, participants will record
      timing of eating episodes using the MyCircadian Clock phone app, complete 3 x 24-hour diet
      recalls, a single physical activity recall, and 7-days of sleep and physical activity will be
      objectively measured using an Actiwatch device. Hunger and satiety will be evaluated at
      random through the MyCircadian Clock phone app.

      A study exit interview will be conducted via Zoom conference call to debrief on the
      intervention and obtain detailed information on acceptability of the protocol. Approximately
      6-months after the end of the intervention period, women will complete a mailed follow-up
      questionnaire.
    
  