
    
      Studies show changes in alpha (7.5 - 15 Hz) and beta (15 - 30 Hz) frequencies before and
      during motor tasks. However, researchers still disagree on the origin, timing, and direction
      of this. The neurophysiological mechanisms of motor learning are not yet fully understood.
      The authors note that event-related beta desynchronization is most commonly associated with
      motor learning. Reduced beta wave power can be observed in motor cortex, but it is still
      unclear whether this change is related to motor learning, performance, or movement
      repetition.

      A comparative study of motor imagery and actual performance showed the occurrence of similar
      neurophysiological processes in the motor cortex. All the mentioned studies were conducted on
      adults and the results were mainly from the analysis of upper limb movements. In the present
      study, the investigators will comprehensively evaluate the upper and lower limb movements of
      children: from the recognition of visual stimuli to the generation of the motor program and
      the execution itself (behavioral data).

      Forty-five children (year 2009) will be recruited from local primary schools. In a
      single-blinded design, children will be randomized into three groups (1st - real execution,
      2nd - motor imagery, 3rd - control) and compared at baseline, immediately post-intervention
      and at follow-up 24 hours post-intervention. At pre-, post-, and follow-up assessments,
      participants will perform two different patterns of the Fitts Law task with the predefined
      difficulty: lower limbs/whole body and upper limbs/hands on an interactive whiteboard. The
      intervention period lasts approximately 10 minutes, during which participants perform the
      Fitts law task with different difficulty according to the intervention group to which they
      belong.

      During the upper limb/hand tasks, brain activity will be recorded with electroencephalography
      (EEG).
    
  