
    
      The project will address three aspects: a) analyze the activation of the deep pelvic floor
      muscles during the application of pelvic PNF patterns through electromyographic measurements;
      b) verify which diagonals of these pelvic patterns have a better effect on the recruitment of
      these muscle fibers; c) to analyze electromyographic activity after motor learning (repeated
      training of 12 sessions).

      Study Design: Randomized controlled trial.

      Sample: Will be part of the study 70 healthy women at menacme, eutrophic, nulliparous and
      aged between 18 and 35 years, recruited among students of the Department of Physical Therapy
      of the Federal University of Pernambuco. The initial sample will be divided into two groups:
      intervention group (GI) and one control group (CG), randomized through www.randomization.com
      by a researcher who will be blind regarding outcomes. The result of the randomization will be
      placed in sealed and opaque envelopes and the information will be revealed to the member in
      charge of the training only at the moment the intervention is performed, guaranteeing the
      secrecy of the allocation. The study will be triple blind, since the randomization and
      allocation of participants will be performed by researcher A, electromyographic evaluations,
      data tabulation and statistical analysis (researcher B) and intervention (researcher C).
      After the initial analysis, the sample calculation will be performed using GPower software
      version 3.1.

      Methodological outline:

      Three researchers (A, B and C) will be part of the study data collection. After the clear
      explanation of the procedures that will be carried out during the research and the
      application of the Informed Consent Form (TCLE), the individuals will be subjected to a
      screening to analyze the eligibility. Initially, a semistructured form will be used to
      collect data that may be important during the analysis of the results, such as personal and
      sociodemographic data, anthropometric characteristics, associated diseases, medication use
      and gynecological history. Afterwards, the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) will be
      applied to evaluate the sexual function of the participants, translated and validated for use
      in Brazil.

      After the application of the semistructured form, the volunteers will be submitted to a
      postural evaluation using photogrammetry and, physical examination for functional evaluation
      of the pelvic floor muscles, using the PERFECT protocol.

      Finally, the electromyographic activity of the pelvic floor and abdominal muscles will be
      recorded during the performance of the pelvic patterns of PNF with active and resisted
      movements.

      Recording of the electromyographic signal:

      Surface electromyography will be performed during the application of pelvic PNF patterns and
      when associated with an active contraction of the MAP. For that, self-adhesive surface
      electrodes, simple and low impedance MAXICOR medical products (Paraná, Brazil), positioned in
      the abdominal region and pelvic floor, will be used. Owing to the rules for the acquisition
      of the electromyographic signal, standardized by the International Society of
      Electrophysiology and Kinesiology (ISEK), low-impedance surface circular electrodes (25mm
      diameter), self-adhesive (solid cellulose gel) and disposable surface electrodes will be
      used. To eliminate external interferences, a reference electrode positioned on the right
      anterior superior iliac spine (EIAS) will be used following the recommendations of the SENIAM
      (Surface ElectroMyoGraphy for the Non-Invasive Assessment of Muscles) Project. To minimize
      noise, recording and capture devices will only be connected to the battery during data
      collection. In order to reduce the impedance of the skin, the area will be cleaned to be
      positioned the electrodes using moist wipes, drying it just before registration. Also, to
      reduce the impedance of the skin, the tricotomy of the area where the electrode will be
      positioned before data collection will be requested, as well as the bladder emptying before
      the procedures. The electromyographic recording will be performed with the patient in left
      lateral decubitus during the application of pelvic PNF patterns. The general guidelines for
      the positioning of the electrodes described by SENIAM will be followed, however, the muscles
      analyzed are not included in their specific electrode placement recommendations. Therefore,
      to capture the electromyographic signal will be positioned along the line of action of muscle
      fibers, always choosing the right side of the individual, in the following anatomical
      structures:

        -  Transverse abdominal / internal oblique muscle group: surface electrode positioned 2 cm
           proximal to the midpoint between the pubic symphysis and the anterior superior iliac
           spine (EIAS).

        -  Lumbar square muscle: surface electrode positioned 4 cm lateral, based on the vertebral
           sulcus of the muscle belly of the erector muscle of the spine with slightly oblique
           angulation at half the distance between the 12th rib and the iliac crest.

        -  Thigh adductor group: upper middle third in the midline of the thigh.

        -  Pelvic floor muscles: in the supine position, the surface electrodes will be positioned
           at the three and nine o'clock position of the perineal clock.

      The acquisition will be performed outside of the menstrual period and three maximal voluntary
      contractions (CVM) of each muscle or muscle group evaluated will be requested to obtain the
      highest activity during standardized tests (AEMP RMS). It will be requested the maximum
      contraction that the participant can perform and each contraction being sustained for 3
      seconds, with interval of 30 seconds between each contraction.

      After the acquisition of the AEMP RMS registry, the registry will be performed during the
      execution of the four isolated pelvic patterns (RMS AEMFNPI) and later when associated with
      pelvic floor muscle contraction (RMS AEMFNPA).

      To acquire the electromyographic signal, a Miotec® surface electromyograph (Miotool 400
      model, Miotec Equipamentos Biomédicos Ltd. Porto Alegre, Brazil) will be used with four
      channels and 14-bit analogue / digital (A / D) resolution, with internal gain of 1000 times.
      The sampling frequency per channel used will be 2000 Hz, 110 dB common mode rejection (CMRR),
      1010 Ohm // 2pF input impedance, and fourth order Butterworth analog filter. The captured
      signal will be recorded using the Miotec Suite Software version 1.0 (Miotec®, Porto Alegre,
      Brazil) and transferred to a portable computer.

      Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation Protocol:

      The pelvic movements that originate the patterns are: Anterior Elevation (EA); Posterior
      Depression (PD); Posterior Elevation (EP) and Anterior Depression (AD) of the pelvis,
      totaling four specific pelvic patterns and two diagonals [anterior elevation and posterior
      depression (Diagonal 1) and posterior Elevation and anterior depression (Diagonal 2)] In this
      study, the performance of the pelvic patterns, accompanied by the electromyographic signal
      capture, will be performed after learning the technique done through rhythmic initiation.
      After learning each pattern, electromyographic recording will be performed using the specific
      isotonic combination technique, which combines concentric, eccentric and stabilizing
      contractions of the agonist muscle group without relaxation.

      The protocol will be divided into four stages:

        1. st stage: Initial recording of the electromyographic signal during the execution of
           pelvic PNF patterns.

           The electromyographic signal (RMS AEMFNPI) during the four pelvic patterns: anterior
           elevation, posterior elevation, anterior depression and posterior depression will be
           made as the lateral decubitus individual and in each muscle or muscle group evaluated
           during the execution of the combination technique isotonic in each pattern. The
           electromyographic recording of the abdominal and pelvic floor muscles will be done three
           times to perform the weighted average in the following sequences:

           Combination of isotonic (concentric, stabilizing and eccentric) of the anterior
           elevation pattern; Combination of isotonic (concentric, stabilizing and eccentric) of
           the posterior depression pattern ; Combination of isotonic (concentric, stabilizing and
           eccentric) of the previous depression pattern ; Combination of isotonic (concentric,
           stabilizing and eccentric) of the posterior elevation pattern ;

        2. nd stage: Electromyographic evaluation during a maximal voluntary contraction of each
           muscle or muscle group evaluated.

      Participants will undergo a preparatory training to awareness of the correct contraction of
      the pelvic floor muscles with the guidance of a pelvic physiotherapist and later
      electromyographic recording (AEMP RMS) during a maximal voluntary contraction of the pelvic
      floor muscles as well as of the abdominal muscles, adductors of the thigh and lumbar square
      through the standardized tests. In order to reduce the activity of the accessory musculature
      during the capture of the electromyographic signal of the MAP, the individual will adopt
      dorsal decubitus posture with flexion and external hip rotation and knee flexion, simulating
      the frog posture of the Global Posture Reeducation (RPG) technique.

      Stage 3: Intervention - Motor skills training The training of the pelvic PNF patterns for
      motor learning in the GI will be performed twice a week by a trained and experienced
      researcher for six weeks. At each training session, there will be three repeated movements in
      each pelvic pattern.

      4th stage: Re-evaluation of electromyographic activity after intervention. In this stage, an
      electromyographic reassessment of the two groups (GI and GC) after the training period will
      be performed, following the same sequences of step 1 (isolated recording during the execution
      of the pelvic standards) and step 3 (recording during the execution of the associated pelvic
      patterns to the voluntary contraction of MAPs.
    
  