
    
      Fluid resuscitation remains the cornerstone for the care of severe trauma patients to
      compensate for blood loss, to compensate for capillary leak induced by systemic inflammation
      but also to prevent the detrimental consequences of traumatic rhabdomyolysis. Isotonic saline
      (NaCl 0.9%), called "physiological serum" is the standard fluid for the resuscitation of
      severely injured patients. However, the formulation of NaCl 0.9% is not really physiological
      since its chloride concentration is 1.5 higher than plasma. This excessive chloride
      concentration leads to hyperchloremic acidosis and to a drop in renal perfusion after
      isotonic saline infusion. A retrospective study conducted in the perioperative setting
      (abdominal surgery) reported a significant decrease in mortality and acute kidney injury in
      926 patients receiving balanced crystalloid solution compared to a propensity-matched
      population of 2778 patients receiving isotonic saline. Yunos et al. conducted a prospective
      sequential period study including 760 patients receiving chloride-rich solution during the
      first 6-month period and 773 patients receiving chloride-poor solution during the next
      6-month period. They reported a decrease in severe acute kidney injury (I or F in the RIFLE
      classification) in the group receiving chloride-poor solution. Large retrospective studies in
      intensive care confirmed a beneficial effect of the use of chloride-poor solutions on
      survival compared to chloride-rich solutions. A recent meta-analysis including 5 small size
      randomized controlled trials, 1 controlled trial and two retrospective studies, reported also
      a decrease in acute kidney injury. A recent multicenter study randomized 2778 patients to
      receive either Plasmalyte 148 or NaCl 0.9% during their ICU stay. No AKI or mortality
      differences were reported. However, this study included patients with low ICU severity score
      (mean APACHE II = 14) and at low risk of severe AKI (severe AKI incidence = 9%). Moreover,
      they received a median amount of fluid of 2000 mL during their ICU stay. This small fluid
      volume may not be enough to show any difference between rich-chloride and poor-chloride
      solutions on AKI in this population with low ICU severity scores.

      Trauma patients are particularly at risk of AKI during the acute phase of trauma because of
      hypovolemia (bleeding), rhabdomyolysis and systemic inflammation (traumatic tissue injuries
      and emergency surgeries). AKI is reported in 18 to 26 % of trauma patients. In our database
      (TraumaBase®, traumabase.eu) that included at the time of the study the 6 trauma centers of
      the Paris area (France), we reported a 24% incidence of severe AKI (stage I or F of the RIFLE
      classification) in the subpopulation of patients needing at least one red blood cell unit
      transfusion in the 6 first hours of care. Moreover, this subpopulation receives an average
      amount of 6000 mL of fluid during the first 24 hours of care. We postulate that trauma
      patients at high risk of AKI receiving high volume of fluid can be the best population target
      to demonstrate a beneficial effect of Plasmalyte vs isotonic saline on severe AKI occurrence
      in a prospective, blinded, randomized manner.

      Thus, we formulate the following hypothesis:

      In a population of trauma patients, at high risk of AKI, a fluid resuscitation with
      Plasmalyte Viaflo during the 5 first days of care will lower decrease the incidence of severe
      acute kidney injury (stage 2 or 3 according to the KDIGO classification) compared with a
      resuscitation with isotonic saline (NaCl 0.9%)
    
  