
    
      In the past few years, physicians have been proposing that an emergency department visit may
      act as a "teachable moment" and emergency medicine physicians should educate families about
      injury prevention. With an epidemic number of injuries occurring, every health care provider
      should play some role in combating the problem. However, emergency departments can be busy
      and overcrowded, making it difficult for staff, in a cost efficient manner, to be able to
      provide families with the appropriate injury prevention information. Kiosks have been shown
      to be effective in a pediatric emergency department setting to determine the needs of
      families and to educate them about safety practices. Thus, computerized kiosks may offer a
      more cost effective alternative to educating families, compared to a staff member, about
      injury prevention in the emergency medicine setting and they would have the ability to reach
      more individuals during the non-high peak emergency department hours which are difficult to
      staff. Also, a computerized kiosk may be more effective in eliciting a behavior change than a
      staff person as families may be inclined to answer more freely when asked questions
      anonymously, allowing them to receive more detailed safety information. In addition, the
      kiosk provides direct recommendations about behavior changes based on parental responses in a
      very short time period. Typically, families only hear about a few behavior change
      recommendations when discussing with an injury prevention staff person in an emergency
      department setting due to time constraints and family interest. With more directed injury
      prevention information and detailed recommendations on behavior changes in a cost efficient
      manner, kiosks may prove to be more effective in having families practice safer behaviors
      after leaving the pediatric emergency department.

      This is a comparative study performed in the emergency department of a level 1 pediatric
      trauma center during the normal business hours of the Safety Resource Center. Families
      entering the pediatric emergency department for care will be randomized on specific days of
      the week to receive IP information from an IP specialist or from a computerized kiosk in the
      waiting room. A twenty day block random numbers table will be used to determine which days
      families entering the ED will utilize the computerized kiosk and which days they will be
      screened by clinical research assistants (CRCs) and provided with safety instructions by an
      IP specialist.
    
  