
    
      Background Protection against Hepatitis B infection is a regulatory and safety cornerstone to
      infection prevention and control programs involving the healthcare workforce in the United
      States. Until 2018 when a new adjuvanted vaccine was released, immunization for this
      population has involved a three-dose series followed by an additional three-dose series for
      those demonstrating lack of seroprotection. If that lack continued following the second
      three-dose series, and verification of a negative Hepatitis B antigen status, that person has
      historically been deemed a non-responder to Hepatitis B vaccine and at potential risk for
      infection. This non-response status may be used to determine job responsibilities
      representing excessive risk for the healthcare worker resulting in potential career and
      practice limitations and decisions. With the release of the new adjuvanted vaccine, there is
      potential to determine the role that new vaccine may play in promoting an immune response
      among this non-responding subset of at-risk healthcare workers.

      Heplisav B is a standard of care vaccine that provides an alternative to a traditional 3-dose
      series by enabling use of a 2-dose series with doses one and two separated by one month. Work
      by Jackson and Janssen have indicated a greater than 90% seroprotection, perhaps closer to
      100%, with the 2-dose series of this adjuvanted vaccine where hyporesponsiveness to 3-dose
      vaccines has been noted, principally in persons who smoke, are diabetic, obese, and male.
      This shorter administration schedule and reduced number of doses, combined with the
      seroconversion data make this vaccine ideal for situations where rapid induction of
      immunization occurs, such as those working in exposure-risk jobs such as healthcare.

      The aims of this study include: 1) determining the effect of this adjuvanted vaccine in
      producing seropositivity in a population of healthcare personnel previously deemed as
      non-responders following administration of two rounds of the traditional 3-dose series of
      Hepatitis B vaccine and confirmation of negative Hepatitis B antigen; and 2) determining the
      personal and professional impact of the lack of immunity to Hepatitis B among healthcare
      personnel.

      Use of Heplisav B will follow the FDA labeling and will not involve off-label use. Study
      personnel will work with the employee/occupational health and infection control departments
      to identify healthcare personnel working in a Louisville hospital, long term care facility,
      or clinic meeting the definition of a non-responder. Work will be done with University of
      Louisville Campus Health Services leadership to identify students, residents, fellows, or
      faculty who meet the definition of a non-responder. After gaining consent for participation
      in the study, titers will be drawn to document current Hepatitis B quantitative antibody and
      antigen levels. Enrolled participants (those with negative antibody and antigen) will be
      administered one dose of the adjuvanted vaccine followed by repeat antigen and antibody
      testing 30-60 days after receipt of that dose of vaccine. If results of the antibody and
      antigen are again negative, a second dose of the adjuvanted vaccine will be administered
      followed by repeat antibody and antigen testing 30-60 days after receipt of that dose of
      vaccine. For those healthcare personnel enrolled in the study, a questionnaire will be
      administered designed to understand the personal and professional impact of a non-responder
      status to hepatitis B.

      All doses of Heplisav B vaccine will be provided by Dynavax and will be at no cost to the
      participants. All labs drawn will also be at no cost to the participant.

      Study participants will be seen for a total of up to 9 visits with participation in the study
      lasting approximately 3 months. Visits involving labwork, vaccine administration, and the
      survey will occur in-person at the University of Louisville International Travel Clinic
      located in MedCenter One (501 East Broadway, Louisville Kentucky 40202). Visits gathering
      information regarding adverse reactions to vaccination will occur via telephone call visits
      as well as during in-person visits after the vaccine dose(s) have been administered.
    
  