
    
      Previous studies have shown that 5-HT is strongly implicated in compulsive behaviours in
      experimental animals. Manipulation of 5-HT influences neuronal interactions underlying action
      selection. Reduced forebrain 5-HT causes perseveration and impairs goal-directed behaviour
      under reward but not punishment. Dysfunctional 5-HT neurotransmission has also been
      implicated in Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) based on the selective efficacy of
      relatively high doses of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in treating this
      disorder. Hitherto, it is unknown whether there is a primary defect in the serotonergic
      system or whether SSRIs ameliorate symptoms by modulating other brain neurotransmitter
      pathways. So far, only one study of central 5-HT release in OCD patients has been conducted
      and its methodology may be questioned.

      A number of behavioural and cognitive features of OCD, including endophenotype markers that
      appear to characterise the disorder have been determined. These include a shift in cognitive
      control from a goal-directed strategy to a habitual (stimulus-response, S-R) strategy,
      cognitive rigidity in terms of both reversal learning and attentional set-shifting, impaired
      response inhibition and planning, and a tendency to over-respond to spurious negative
      feedback in a probabilistic learning paradigm. Neural substrates of these deficits are being
      investigated using brain imaging methodologies based on magnetic resonance and preliminary
      evidence suggests an over-active medial prefrontal cortex-caudate nucleus circuits and
      underactive lateral prefrontal cortex-putamen circuits. However, little evidence exists that
      relates to the hypothesis of an over-active habit system in this disorder or to the role of
      serotonin in all these cognitive and behavioural deficits observed in OCD and compulsivity in
      general.
    
  