
    
      During the anesthesia consultation, the risk of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is
      evaluated by the Apfel score (Apfel CC, Anesthesiology 1999) and a preventive strategy
      correlated to this score is then determined. An order including anti-emetics and analgesics
      is given to the patient for the return home after the outpatient surgery.

      On the day of the outpatient surgery, patients receive in the operating room the prevention
      of PONV according to their level of risk (according to the recommendations of the Société
      Française d'Anesthésie et de Réanimation - SFAR 2008 and Guidelines 2014) and analgesics
      including a level II and NSAIDs (in the absence of contraindication).

      All patients underwent general anaesthesia with sufentanil and propofol. Mechanical
      ventilation was performed with laryngeal mask. A echoguided regional anesthesia was performed
      by injection of 20 ml of ropivacaine 3.75 mg/ml above and under the serratus muscle as
      described by Blanco and al (ref 3)" In the postoperative recovery room, PONV is treated if
      necessary by an anti-emetic class different from those used in the block. In postoperative
      pain with EVA> 3, morphine titration is performed as recommended.

      Patients are then monitored in an outpatient surgery unit until they have a home-based return
      capability assessed by the CHUNG score, including the level of pain (moderate and well
      relieved), the absence of persistent nausea, and the ability to ambulation.

      All outpatient surgery patients are called the day after their return home to ensure the
      absence of complications according to the regulatory procedure related to outpatient
      anesthesia.

      As part of this evaluation, information on the level of pain at rest and mobility, as well as
      the frequency of PONV are also recorded and this follow-up is repeated in D2 and D3 after the
      intervention.

      This information is then correlated with the type of anesthesia performed, the surgical
      procedure as well as the analgesic strategy (ALR) and the antinausea strategy performed.
    
  