
    
      Objective

      The purpose of this protocol is to evaluate several configurations of a prototype Extension
      Assist Knee-Ankle-Foot Orthosis (EA-KAFO) in patients with cerebral palsy (CP), muscular
      dystrophy (MD), spina bifida (SB), or incomplete spinal cord injury (iSCI) who have knee
      extension deficiency. Three forms of assistance will be provided at the knee joint including
      a passive-damper component, functional electrical stimulation (FES) to the quadriceps, and a
      motorized assist. One form will provide controllable 9 resistance at the knee to strengthen
      muscles and promote knee extension after the 10 resistance is removed.These will be compared
      to traditional bracing which typically improves crouch by blocking some or all motion at one
      or both joints. We hypothesize that all assistive configurations will improve gait alignment
      and performance compared to the non-assisted conditions. We further hypothesize that a best
      solution for each participant will exist, but may vary across subjects due to the
      heterogeneity of these movement disorders. Preliminary data on brain activation using EEG
      will be collected during all walking conditions.

      Study population

      Thirty (30) subjects, age 5 and above, diagnosed with crouch gait from diplegic CP, (30)
      subjects, age 5 and above, with knee extension deficiency from MD, SB, or iSCI (15 from each
      group) and 10 age-matched healthy volunteers will be recruited.

      Design

      This protocol will evaluate an EA-KAFO prototype consisting of a custom fabricated brace
      combined with a modular knee joint with three modes of operation: hinge (no assist), a
      passive spring-damper, and an active motorized assist. Since crouch can also be precipitated
      at the ankle, the orthotic ankle joint has an adjustable dynamic resistance (ADR) mechanism
      that can be locked (passive assist) to simulate a standard brace, free, or provide variable
      resistance to assist knee extension. Additionally, we will combine quadriceps FES with the
      hinge and the passive damper to create two hybrid configurations. The hinge and the passive
      damper (Ultraflex ) knee modules, and ADR ankle brace are FDA-approved (Class I),
      commercially available devices. This protocol for evaluation of the active motorized joint
      module, the two hybrid configurations, and the controllable resistance device (PowerWalk by
      Agilik Technologies) has been reviewed by the FDA as a medical device study and was
      determined by the FDA to be non-significant risk. Healthy controls will come for one visit,
      and participants with movement disorders will complete 6-10 visits: 1) initial assessment and
      casting for custom leg brace; 2) EA-KAFO configuration; 3) initial data collection and
      practice; 4-5) accommodation to brace configurations; 6) final data collection. Additional
      accommodation visits may be added if necessary, up to the maximum of 10 total visits. Motion
      capture, force plates, and electromyography (EMG) will be used for gait analysis while
      electroencephalography (EEG) will measure brain activity during walking.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcome is the amount of knee flexion during gait. The optimal solution for each
      individual will be that which provides the greatest reduction in peak knee angle. Secondary
      outcomes will include gait speed, knee extensor moment, and EEG activation profiles.
    
  