
    
      Ultrasound guided axillary brachial plexus blockade (USgABPB) is a commonly performed medical
      procedure which enables the performance of surgery on the upper limb without general
      anaesthesia. Its competent performance entails complex, simultaneous interactions between
      three processes. These are active management of the patient, acquisition and interpretation
      of ultrasound images, and the placement a needle tip close to specific nerves to facilitate
      deposition of local anaesthetic. Currently, the procedure is taught using two-dimensional
      drawings, cadaveric specimens, videos, 3D animations, live demonstrations, and/or supervised
      clinical practice. Simulated practice, using tofu-based or animal models, have been used to
      bridge the gap from knowledge to clinical performance. Training in medical procedural skills
      is currently undergoing important change. Factors including altered patient expectations and
      the European Working Time Directive (2000/34/EC amending Directive 93/104/EC) limit the
      number of clinical learning opportunities available to trainees. These changes are likely to
      decrease particularly the number of opportunities for trainees to learn and practice
      procedural skills in a clinical setting. The traditional Halstedian apprenticeship model of
      medical training is being challenged. In this model, training is associated with
      progressively less supervision as part of progressive independence. "See one, do one" is no
      longer an appropriate method for teaching procedural skills because patients are necessarily
      exposed to inexperienced practitioners. This model requires a large investment of time by
      both trainer and trainee in the clinical environment. Its application decreases the
      efficiency of operating room activity. These circumstances pose medical trainers and training
      bodies with a dilemma, a decrease in the number of individual opportunities implies that the
      total duration of training should increase or a lesser level of competence accepted at
      completion of training

      Simulation has been used widely for training in and assessment of medical procedural skills.
      Applied to essential anaesthetic skills, simulation may be more efficient than the
      apprenticeship approach. This may offer a partial solution to the problem of limited clinical
      learning opportunities for USgPNB. Simulated practice with formative feedback has been shown
      to be of benefit in the rapid acquisition of basic ultrasound skills by inexperienced
      clinicians. Ultimately, the purpose of simulated practice of medical procedures is to enhance
      clinical performance. One proven important role for simulation is to prepare novice
      clinicians to bridge the gap between acquiring knowledge and initial clinical performance.
      Significantly, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recently mandated that clinicians
      who perform carotid stenting using a particular stent should train to a defined level of
      proficiency on a simulator before they perform the procedure on a patient.

      With institutional ethical approval and having obtained written informed consent from
      participants (patients and anaesthetists) 20 College of Anaesthetists (RCSI) affiliated
      trainees who have no experience of performing ultrasound guided regional anaesthesia will be
      recruited. Participating anaesthetists will provide baseline personal data including previous
      experience with peripheral nerve blockade and simulators, using a web-based collection
      facility (www.surveymonkey.com or similar). They will perform baseline psychomotor tests
      prior to beginning training. Baseline visuo-spatial ability will be assessed using the card
      rotation, cube comparison, and map planning tests (Educational Testing Service) or similar.
      Psychomotor ability will be assessed using a grooved pegboard (Lafayette Instruments,
      Lafayette, IN) or similar. All participating anaesthetists will receive standardized two hour
      didactic training encompassing relevant anatomy, ultrasound (physics, function and
      interpretation), pharmacology of relevant agents, indications/ contraindications of the block
      and complications of the procedure. Participants will be taught to perform USgABPB using a
      technique as described in Appendix IV and V of 'The American Society of Regional Anesthesia
      and Pain Medicine and the European Society of Regional Anaesthesia and Pain Therapy Joint
      Committee Recommendations for Education and Training in Ultrasound-Guided Regional
      Anesthesia'. This technique uses a transverse (or short-axis) view, on ultrasound imaging, of
      the axillary brachial plexus and axillary blood vessels. The needle is inserted in a sterile
      fashion using an 'in-plane' approach, that is, the needle shaft and tip will remain visible
      on ultrasound view throughout it course towards the relevant nerves. Following this initial
      period of common training subjects will be randomly allocated (using computer generated
      random numbers) to one of two groups of equal size for additional training which will occur
      in parallel over a two hour period, namely a simulator trained group (SG) or a control group
      (CG). Following the educational intervention all subjects will be asked to give written
      feedback on the content and delivery of the session.

      Traditional training TG subjects will be offered multimodal training. This will be comprised
      of demonstration by suitably trained individuals of relevant anatomy using pre-existing
      cadaveric samples, performing ultrasound scans of the relevant areas on volunteers under
      expert supervision, and the practice of needle insertion under ultrasound-guidance using
      commonly used tissue phantoms (turkey breasts). All ultrasound examinations performed on
      volunteers or during the clinical performance on patients will use a Sonosite M Turbo (or
      similar device) with a 7-12 MHz 38mm linear probe. This training session will last two hours.

      Simulator training In addition to traditional training the SG group will participate in a
      period of simulator based training. Following initial familiarization with the simulator SG
      participants will identify relevant structures and follow their course in the virtual arm.
      They will insert a virtual needle into the virtual environment and advance it using an
      in-plane technique towards various target structures. They will be given immediate directed
      feedback by an expert and offered the opportunity for repetitive, deliberate practice. The
      simulator, which SG participants will use, will comprise of a PHANTOM Desktop
      (http://www.sensable.com/), an haptic immersive workbench and the H3D API
      (http://www.sensegraphics.se/). The SG subject will scan and perform procedure specific tasks
      on a virtual arm. The model of the arm will be informed using MRI or ultrasound supervolume
      DICOM datasets. This training session will last two hours.

      Assessment Within two weeks of the educational intervention all participants' first clinical
      performance of an ultrasound guided nerve block, specifically an ultrasound guided axillary
      brachial plexus blockade, will be video recorded for subsequent analysis by two experts in
      UGRA. Patients involved will require anaesthesia for forearm/wrist/hand surgery where USgABPB
      would ordinarily be offered as standard care. Subsequent care of the patient may include
      general anaesthesia, as clinically indicated. Intravenous sedation will be offered and
      administered as clinically indicated (Midazolam up to a maximum of 0.05mg/kg).

      Subjects will perform the procedure, using an in-plane approach and short-axis view (see
      above), in the presence of a supervising trainer, blinded to training group, who is available
      to intervene if required, for patient safety, or requested by the subjects themselves.
      Patients involved will also be blinded to subject allocation. Using a video recording device
      Sony Handycam HDR-XR520VE, or similar, the performance of a clinician indicated USgABPB for a
      scheduled operation on patients will be recorded. The video-taping will target primarily the
      anaesthetist performing the clinically indicated ultrasound guided regional anaesthetic
      technique in the usual fashion at Cork University Hospital. The recording will proceed in a
      manner aimed to conceal the identity of the patient and maintain confidentiality. All efforts
      will be taken to ensure the recording will not include images of the patients face. For the
      purpose of blinding, a similar effort will be made conceal the identity of the anaesthetists
      performing the block by avoiding shots of their faces. The recording will include a pan shot
      of the setup of the room the block will take place in. This will indicate the location of the
      patient, the ultrasound machine, the trolley with the sterile equipment required, the
      assistant, the monitor, the emergency drugs, and the anaesthetist performing the block.
      Before commencing the block the camera will be fixed in position focusing on the axilla, with
      needle insertion site, ultrasound probe and the movements of the anaesthetist's hands
      recorded. The acquired ultrasound image will be recorded concurrently. After expert
      assessment of trainee performance and completion of the dataset all recorded video will be
      destroyed.

      For the purpose of the study the subjects will be give some specific directions.

        1. Position the patient and equipment appropriately.

        2. They will be asked to perform a pre-procedure ultrasonic survey of the relevant area,
           specifically identifying the four relevant nerves (musculocutaneous, radial, median, and
           ulnar).

        3. Perform a sterile four nerve ultrasound-guided axillary brachial plexus block, utilizing
           a single skin entry point (where possible), short axis view of the brachial plexus, and
           needle in-plane approach.

        4. They will be asked to demonstrate the effectiveness of the blockade.

      Following the recorded performance of the procedure the subjects will be asked to complete a
      written questionnaire indicating their confidence in performing the procedure and their
      perception of the influence of external stressors (including the presence of a camera).
    
  