
    
      Incorporating healers as anti-retroviral therapy adherence counselors can help reduce the
      crisis of HIV treatment abandonment. Healers are often accused of encouraging patients to
      abandon HIV care, but they can also serve as strong advocates for patient health. When
      healers were engaged as tuberculosis adherence counselors in South Africa, their patients
      were as successful as those supported by non-healer counselors. An innovative solution would
      be to engage trained healers as treatment partners to support medication and appointment
      adherence for people living with HIV.

      Healers are well positioned to address reported patient concerns, including: (1) keeping a
      patients HIV status a secret while providing support; (2) assisting with partner disclosure
      and initiating community/clinical systems of assistance if gender base violence is
      threatened/occurs; and (3) advocating for patients during clinical visits to ensure quality
      care is provided. Other programs in sub-Saharan Africa have shown that incorporating healers
      into an allopathic health system as adherence supporters for TB treatment is feasible, but
      healer use in HIV treatment is not well-documented. This novel intervention would provide
      patients newly initiated on ART a choice to nominate a specially trained healer as a
      treatment partner, and assess acceptability, feasibility, and patient outcomes using an
      interrupted time series quasi-experimental design. Community-based treatment partners can
      improve pharmacy adherence and loss to follow up , while decreasing stigma and isolation.

      Engaging healers to conduct counseling sessions in a community setting to improve ART
      adherence necessitates technical clinical and psycho-social training. The ART Adherence
      Support Worker Training program will be adapted and used to train healers to be quality
      treatment partners and advocates. The training will ensure healers have the knowledge and
      skills to effectively: (1) Educate people living with HIV about treatment and HIV care; (2)
      Assess serious medication side effects or HIV co-infections; (3) Counsel patients about safer
      strategies for partner disclosure (with assistance if needed); (4) Accompany the patient for
      each clinical appointment; and (5) Advocate for quality health care delivery when assisting
      each patient. The training team will conduct training of the healers. All patients initiating
      treatment will be screened for interest in having a healer treatment partner. Control and
      intervention patients will be followed for one year, allowing the investigators to compare
      outcomes at 12-months to study the effectiveness of healers as adherence partners.
    
  