
    
      Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is one of the most common malignant tumors in southern China
      and Southeast Asia. While infection with Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) is believed to be necessary
      for the development of NPC, non-viral environmental factors have also been implicated in the
      carcinogenesis of NPC including consumption of salted fish and other nitrosamine containing
      preserved foods, formaldehyde and wood dust exposure, cigarette smoking, and betel nut
      chewing. In addition to environmental factors, it is widely accepted that genetic
      susceptibility plays an important role in the pathogenesis of NPC. Polymorphisms in genes
      involved in antigen presentation, nitrosamine metabolism and DNA repair have been suggested
      to be associated with NPC risk, and various chromosomal regions linked to NPC development
      have been reported. Two recently completed NPC GWAS have reported that the strongest evidence
      for disease association is observed for SNPs located on the 3.6 Mb Major Histocompatibility
      Complex (MHC) region on chromosome 6p21 where human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes are
      located. These associations highlight the role of both environmental exposures and genomic
      variation in the etiology of NPC. However, the specific role of EBV on NPC pathogenesis is
      not completely understood and studies to date have had difficulty pinpointing the specific
      genetic factors involved in NPC pathogenesis due to the complexity of the MHC region and
      limited sample size of candidate gene studies.

      DCEG investigators and their Taiwan colleagues have a longstanding history of studies to
      elucidate the role of environmental and genetic factors associated with NPC. A case-control
      study (375 cases; 327 controls) was conducted in the early 1990s and was followed by a large
      multiplex family study that was completed in 2006 (358 families; 3,216 individuals). Results
      from these studies have provided a substantial portion of the epidemiological evidence
      regarding factors linked to NPC development to date.

      At this time, we propose a new case-control study in Taiwan designed to 1) comprehensively
      evaluate environmental risk factors for NPC; 2) systematically evaluate genetic risk factors
      for NPC for which previous GWAS and candidate-gene studies have suggested an association; and
      3) explore gene-gene and gene-environment interactions for strong main effects identified in
      our study. In total, up to 2000 cases and 2000 controls are expected to be recruited from
      five participating hospitals in Northern Taiwan. Cases will consist of 550 incident cases
      ascertained retrospectively and 1350 incident cases ascertained prospectively. Controls will
      be hospital based; they will be frequency matched (1:1) to cases on age, gender and
      ethnicity, and will exclude individuals referred to the participating hospitals due to
      conditions associated with known NPC risk factors.

      This project is a collaborative effort between investigators in Taiwan and at the NCI.
      Investigators in Taiwan will fund the field recruitment and data collection effort. Results
      from this study have the potential to further clarify currently controversial environmental
      risk factors as well as elucidate genetic factors of NPC.
    
  