
    
      Cystic fibrosis lung disease is characterized by mucous retention which favors secondary
      bacterial infection and inflammation, which leads to lung damage and ultimately respiratory
      failure. Classically, therapeutic interventions are aimed to improve mucociliary clearance,
      to reduce both bacterial load and lower airway inflammation.

      Hypertonic saline (HS) has been used for the induction of sputum production in all age groups
      to obtain secretions from the lower respiratory for diagnostic purposes. Hypertonic saline is
      also used in older children with CF, who do not produce sputum spontaneously, to obtain
      representative samples for microbiology.

      There is evidence from studies in patients with cystic fibrosis that HS can improve
      mucociliary clearance. The improvement was more impressive in areas that were well
      ventilated, making it likely that HS will work better in patients with relatively preserved
      pulmonary function. Newer evidence also suggests that the osmotic effect on the airway
      surface that was expected to be short lived, may actually persist for longer time periods (up
      to 8 hours). All these data indicate that HS may be a useful agent in the treatment of CF
      patients.

      As the effect on mucociliary clearance was found to be better in areas with adequate
      ventilation, it is logical to assume that treatment with HS may be most efficacious when
      initiated early in the disease process. So far, no data on the tolerability of inhalation of
      HS are available for infants with cystic fibrosis. However, evidence from infants with AIDS
      as well as recent studies in infants with bronchiolitis suggest that hypertonic saline can be
      safely administered by inhalation in infants. Nevertheless, proof of tolerability in CF
      infants is a prerequisite for longer term studies of HS in this age group. In older children,
      tolerability has been tested by measuring pulmonary function both before and after inhalation
      of HS saline. Similar data are not yet available for infants.
    
  