
    
      The investigators will employ a comprehensive assessment battery to include
      vestibular/oculomotor, cognitive, and symptom domains using measures that are consistent with
      the NIH/NINDS common data elements (CDE) and current military clinical practice guidelines
      (CPG).

      Demographic and health history: Subjects will report medical, concussion and health history
      at your first visit including medications. Subjects may be asked sensitive personal and
      family history information. Subjects have the right to not disclose the information
      requested. This medical and concussion history, as well as your date of clearance/recovery
      from concussion will be abstracted from the medical record for research purposes.

      Neurolign Dx_100 I-PAS testing:

      I-PAS testing will be conducted by placing the I-PAS goggles on the head of a patient and
      asking the patient to follow instructions while a set of tests is performed. Each of these
      tests simply involves eye motions in response to a target. The I-PAS Goggles are FDA approved
      for the diagnosis of mTBI. Individuals will undergo a subset of tests from the tests listed
      below.

      Tests: Explanation/eye motion Calibration: Adjusting goggles to focus on eyes Gaze
      horizontal: Looking right and left Predictive saccade: Looking where a subject knows a light
      will appear Horizontal random Saccade: Looking right and left Vertical random Saccade:
      Looking up and down Smooth pursuit horizontal: Following an object right and left smoothly
      Smooth pursuit vertical: Following an object up and down smoothly Memory Guided saccade:
      Remembering where an object appeared and looking Self-Paced saccade: Self-generated
      horizontal saccades Anti-saccade: Looking away from an object that appears (opposite
      direction horizontally, same magnitude) Optokinetic: Following a moving textured background
      Visual reaction time: Time required to respond with a button press to a visual target Saccade
      reaction time: Time required to initiate an eye movement to a visual target Auditory reaction
      time: Time required to indicate with a button press that an auditory stimulus was heard
      Subjective visual vertical: Aligning a line to be earth-vertical Subjective visual
      horizontal: Aligning a line to be earth- horizontal Vergence and pupil tests: Binocular
      disparity step and sinusoidal pursuit tracking by eye and pupil Light Reflex Tests:
      Consensual pupillary response to light.

      Vestibular/Oculomotor Tests Vestibular/Ocular Motor Screening (VOMS) The VOMS will be used to
      screen for vestibular and oculomotor symptoms and impairment. The VOMS assesses impairment
      via patient-reported symptom provocation following each of the following components: 1)
      smooth pursuit, 2) horizontal and vertical saccades, 3) convergence, 4) horizontal and
      vertical vestibular ocular reflex (VOR) and 5) visual motion sensitivity (VMS). Patients
      verbally rate changes in headache, dizziness, nausea and fogginess symptoms compared to their
      immediate pre-assessment state on a scale of 0 (none) to 10 (severe) following each VOMS
      assessment, to determine if any domain provokes symptoms. Scores on any VOMS item of 2+
      reflects a positive screening cut-off for vestibular or oculomotor impairment (Mucha et al.,
      2014). Convergence is also assessed in the VOMS using both symptom report and objective
      measurement of the near point of convergence (NPC averaged across 3 trials. NPC values >5 cm
      reflect a positive clinical screening cut-off. The VOMS requires limited equipment: a 14 pt
      font NPC hand held fixation stick, metronome, and a 1 page paper scoring form. The VOMS
      requires approximately 5 minutes to administer and score.

      Dynamic Visual Acuity Test (DVAT) To assess vestibulo-ocular reflex function, the clinical
      version of the DVAT will be performed. First, the lens-corrected static visual acuity will be
      assessed using a standard Snellen or LogMAR eye chart. The lowest line that all letters can
      be read will be recorded. For dynamic visual acuity, the patient will flex their head down 30
      deg, then rotate their head in the yaw plane at a frequency of about 2 Hz and amplitude of
      20-30 deg. A metronome will be used to set the frequency. Again, the lowest line that all
      letters can be read will be recorded. A loss of greater than 2 lines suggests an impaired
      VORThe DVAT takes approximately 5 minutes to administer.

      Visual Vertigo Analog Scale (VVAS) The VVAS assesses how much dizziness (0-10 visual analog
      scale) an individual reports for 9 different activities, such as walking through a
      supermarket aisle, being in a room with fluorescent lights, going down an escalator, walking
      over a patterned floor, etc. A positive result occurs when an individual rates at least two
      of the nine items on the VVAS above zero (VVAS positive). The VVAS takes 5 minutes to
      administer.

      Cognitive Immediate Post-concussion Assessment and Cognitive Testing (ImPACT). ImPACT is a
      computerized neurocognitive test that includes six modules: 1) verbal memory, 2) design
      memory, 3) X's and O's, 4) symbol matching, 5) color matching, and 6) three letter memory
      (ImPACT Applications Inc.). These modules are used to form four composite scores: verbal and
      visual memory (%), visual motor processing speed (#), and reaction time (RT) (sec). The
      ImPACT also includes the Post-concussion Symptom Scale (PCSS), which is a 22-item
      self-reported symptom severity inventory of somatic, cognitive, affective and sleep-related
      symptoms. The ImPACT test takes 20-30 minutes to administer.

      Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Measure (ANAM). The ANAM will be used to assess
      neurocognitive performance. ANAM is a computerized neurocognitive test that includes eight
      test modules: 1) code substitution delayed, 2) code substitution, 3) matching to sample, 4)
      mathematical processing, 5) procedural reaction time, 6) simple reaction time, 7) simple
      reaction time repeated, and 8) go/no go (ANAM v. 4.3; Vista Life Sciences). These modules are
      scored based on accuracy, speed, and throughput (accuracy/mean reaction time). The ANAM takes
      approximately 20 minutes to administer.

      Symptoms Modified Balance Error Scoring System (mBESS) The BESS measures postural stability
      and consists of three stances including feet side by side, a tandem stance, and a single-leg
      stance on the non-dominant leg. The three stances are performed for 20 sec each, three on a
      firm surface and three stances on a dynamic (medium density foam) surface. All stances are
      completed with eyes closed and with hands on the iliac crests. Errors include lifting hands
      off the iliac crests, opening the eyes, stepping, stumbling, or falling, moving the hip into
      more than a 30 degree of flexion or abduction, lifting the forefoot or heel, or remaining out
      of the testing position for more than 5 seconds. Each error equals 1 point, with higher
      scores indicating worse performance. For the current study, the investigators will use the
      modified BESS (mBESS) that consists of the three stances performed on the firm surface only.
      Clinical cut-offs for BESS suggest that a total error score 9 or greater indicates clinical
      impairment in balance. The mBESS takes approximately 5-6 minutes to administer.

      Dizziness Handicap Inventory (DHI) The DHI is a 25-item self-report measure that examines
      dizziness-related handicap. It has good psychometric properties, is not prone to ceiling or
      floor effects, has been used in the mTBI population, measures deficits across the spectrum of
      impairments, activities and participation, and is brief to complete. Each item is categorized
      into one of three domains: functional, emotional, or physical. It was developed with the help
      of patients who complained of dizziness and uses a three-item response scale,
      "yes/sometimes/no" scored as "4/2/0" respectively. The DHI has good internal consistency for
      the total score ( 0.89). The test-retest reliability is high (r = .97) and it is responsive
      to change in a vestibular population. The DHI has been validated in individuals with mTBI.
      The DHI takes approximately 5 minutes to complete.

      Neurobehavioral Symptom Inventory (NSI) Per the recommendations of the JPC-8/CRMRP Complex
      Traumatic Brain Injury Rehabilitation Research Clinical Trial Award, the NSI will be
      completed by all participants. The NSI is a 22-item (i.e. symptom) scale in which
      participants rate the severity of symptoms on a 5-point scale (0 = None, 1 = Mild, 2 =
      Moderate, 3 = Severe, 4 = Very Severe) ranging from 0-60.

      Behavioral Symptom Inventory-18 (BSI-18) The BSI-18 is an 18-item symptom inventory that
      assesses the level of psychological distress during the past 7 days on 18 items. The BSI-18
      yields total global severity index ranging from 0-72, as well as somatic, depression, and
      anxiety sub-scale scores. Any sub-scale T-score >63 is reflective of clinical impairment on
      that sub-scale. The BSI-18 requires 5 minutes to complete and score.

      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) The PSQI will be used to assess sleep quality. The PSQI
      is a self-report measure including 18 items that comprise seven component scores: 1)
      subjective sleep quality, 2) sleep latency, 3) sleep duration, 4) sleep efficiency, 5) sleep
      disturbances, 6) sleep medication usage, and 7) daytime dysfunction. Subscale and global PSQI
      scores are calculated, with higher scores indicating poorer sleep quality.

      Administered Tests

      Total test time will be 85-90 minutes per subject and will be conducted in private exam rooms
      or the concussion research lab:

        1. ImPACT/PCSS (20-30 min)

        2. VOMS (5 min)

        3. DVAT (5 min)

        4. VVAS (5 min)

        5. mBESS (5 min)

        6. DHI (5 min)

        7. NSI (5 min)

        8. BSI-18 (5 min)

        9. PSQI (5 min)

       10. ANAM (20 min)

       11. Neurolign Dx_100 I-PAS (15-20 min)

      mTBI participants will complete 3 visits; Visit 1 within 10 days of injury, Visit 2 11-30
      days post-injury, and Visit 3 31 or more days post-injury.

      mTBI and control participants will complete their testing at either the UPMC Concussion
      Clinic in a private exam room or the concussion research lab in a research dedicated
      environment. No testing will occur in an open, non- confidential, public area.

      Control participants will complete 1 visit, completing all of the same assessments with the
      I-PAS system, surveys, and neurocognitive testing. Testing for Control participants will be
      completed at the concussion research lab in a confidential, dedicated research setting.

      Research Coordinators and Research Assistants and clinical faculty (Co-Is) will complete the
      above-listed procedures with mTBI and Control participants.
    
  