
    
      1. Study rationale 1-1.

             -  Predicting the treatment response of antipsychotic drug in schizophrenia patients
                has been an issue in psychiatry. However, it is not clear if the findings of
                structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) such as brain gray matter volumes and
                white matter connectivities, are related to the treatment response of antipsychotic
                drugs.

             -  The cognitive and behavioural symptoms of patients with schizophrenia are
                hypothesized to involve a disruption of neuronal interactions resulting in
                dysfunctional cognitive integration (Friston et al., 1995, 1996). This hypothesis
                is supported by reports about a decrease in white matter anatomic connections
                (Mitelman et al. 2006; Skudlarski et al. 2010; Zalesky et al. 2011) and brain
                structure alterations, especially decrease in volumes of specific brain regions for
                patients with schizophrenia. Several studies of brain connectivity have shown that
                functional connectivity depends strongly on the underlying anatomic structure
                (Sporns O et al. 2004). At the anatomic level, the pathology of schizophrenia has
                been related to a wide range of anatomic abnormalities, including ventricular
                enlargement, associated with anomalous neurodevelopment or neurodegenerative
                alterations (Shenton ME et al 2001). And schizophrenia is likely to be the result
                of both general and specific localized changes in both grey and white matter
                (Knochel C et al. 2012; Konrad A et al. 2008). Savas HA et al. found that
                responders to risperidone had greater hippocampal volumes than patients who failed
                to respond to risperidone (Savas HA et al., 2002). Vicente M et al. found an
                inverse association between striatal size and the degree of clinical improvement,
                and a direct association between the degree of insular volume deficit and its
                improvement. The non-responders to risperidone or olanzapine showed a significant
                decrease in their left rectal gyrus as compared with the responder group. (Vicente
                M et al., 2010).

             -  Nielsen et al reported that after 6 weeks of amisulpride treatment, patients with
                schizophrenia showed an increase in the anticipation-related functional MRI signal
                (Nielsen et al., 2012). This suggested that amisulpride could affect the brain
                structures and that responses to amisulpride could be associated by the brain
                structures as seen previous studies about treatment response to antipsychotics and
                brain structures. But to date, no study has examined the impact of brain structure
                alterations on amisulpride treatment for schizophrenia and its potential clinical
                significance..

        2. Study type: Clinical Study Phase IV

        3. Number of centers: a single center in Korea

        4. Number of subjects: N= 20 patients

        5. Study duration and dates (format date : dd/mmm/yyyy) 5-1. Protocol planned date:
           01/Apr/2013 5-2. First patient In: 01/Nov/2013 5-3. Last patient In: 01/Oct/2015 5-4.
           Last patient Out: 01/Dec/2015 5-5. Estimated enrollment duration: 2 years 5-6. Estimated
           average treatment duration: 8 weeks 5-7. Database lock planned date: 15/Dec/2015 5-8.
           Estimated Report/Publication date: 31/Dec/2015

        6. Indication: Schizophrenia

        7. Study Objectives (Primary / Most Important Secondary):

           7-1. Primary: To show the differences of the baseline brain structures on the structural
           MRI between the Solian® treatment responders and the non-responders 7-2. Secondary:

             -  To show the differences of the baseline polymorphisms of COMT and BDNF with
                molecular genetic analysis between the Solian® treatment responders and the
                non-responders; responder defined by PANSS

             -  To find out the correlates of baseline brain structures with symptom severity of
                schizophrenia at baseline; symptom severity defined by CGI-S and PANSS

             -  To assess psychotic symptom improvement after 8th week of Solian® treatment using
                positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS), scale for the assessment of negative
                symptoms (SANS), scale for the assessment of positive symptoms (SAPS) and clinical
                global impression scale (CGI)

             -  To assess safety after 8th week of Solian® treatment with Barnes Akathisia Scale,
                Simpson-Angus scale and vital signs

             -  To report all serious adverse event (SAE) within 24hrs regardless of relationship
                to investigational product. SAE or expedited reports are completed including:
                death, Requiring/prolonging hospitalization, Congenital anomaly/Birth defect,
                Life-threatening, Persistent/significant disability/incapacity, A procedure result
                only if symptomatic, considered by the investigator as clinically significant or
                meaningful or leading to permanent investigational product discontinuation or
                requiring corrective treatment, A symptomatic overdose, A pregnancy, AESI (adverse
                event special interest with immediate notification) in AEs( serious or non-serious)
                that need to be monitored, documented, and managed in a pre-specified manner
                described in the protocol.

        8. Inclusion Criteria:

           8-1. between 21 and 60 years of age 8-2. diagnosed with schizophrenia, based on the
           Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV(SCID) 8-3. first or second episode of
           schizophrenia patient 8-4. the presence of positive or negative symptoms or both,
           resulting in illness of at least mild severity (≥3 on the Clinical Global Impression
           (CGI) severity scale

        9. Exclusion Criteria:

           9-1. evidence of organic mental disorder or mental retardation 9-2. severe drug or
           alcohol dependence that required inpatient treatment and/or detoxification 9-3. other
           conditions, such as a serious medical condition, a history of bipolar or schizoaffective
           disorder, suicidality, possibility of pregnancy, lactation, or inability/unwillingness
           to use contraception 9-4. contraindicated with Solian® by the product label

       10. Study Design: Prospective/ Open label/ Interventional/ Controlled

       11. Treatments:

           11-1. Study medication - Solian® and there is no comparator medication. 11-2.
           Amisulpride (Solian) will be orally administered once or twice daily after meal intake
           for 8 weeks. Patients initially will receive a low dose of amisulpride (200-400mg/day).
           The dosage may be adjusted to between 400 and 800mg/day according to the clinical
           decision by treating physician.

           11-3. For efficacy assessment, psychotic symptoms will be assessed on baseline and 8th
           week by psychiatrists with positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS), scale for the
           assessment of negative symptoms (SANS), scale for the assessment of positive symptoms
           (SAPS) and clinical global impression scale (CGI).

           11-4. For safety assessment, Barnes Akathisia Scale, Simpson-Angus scale and vital signs
           will be assessed on 8th week of treatment.

           11-5. Treatment responders will be defined as patients whose PANSS score reduction by
           30% or more and patients whose PANSS score decrease by less than 30% will be assigned to
           non-responder group.

           11-6. The investigators will evaluate the differences of gray matter volume and white
           matter connectivity between responders and non-responders to amisulpride with images
           from brain 3T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and
           tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) at baseline. To examine a possible association
           between a specific brain region and response to amisulpride, the investigators will use
           methods based on the definition of regions of interest (ROIs).

           11-7. The investigators will evaluate the polymorphisms of COMT and BDNF with molecular
           genetic analysis using patients' peripheral blood, especially leukocytes at baseline.
           One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to assess variations in clinical
           symptoms and cognitive function according to COMT and BDNF polymorphisms.

       12. Evaluation Criteria:

           12-1 Primary endpoints

             -  Brain structures on the structural MRI will be observed before the treatment
                starts. Based on the clinical response after treatment, patients will be divided in
                the two different groups as follow and their baseline brain structure of will be
                compared:

             -  Treatment responders and non-responders; Treatment response will be defined as
                patients whose PANSS score reduce by 30% or more and non-responder as patients
                whose PANSS score decrease by less than 30% at 8 weeks from baseline.

           12-2 Secondary endpoints

             -  The relationship of baseline brain structures with symptom severity of
                schizophrenia; Severity will be determined by CGI-S and PANSS at baseline.

             -  The differences of the polymorphisms of COMT and BDNF with molecular genetic
                analysis using patients' peripheral blood, especially leukocytes, between the
                treatment responders and the non-responders

             -  Efficacy : PANSS, SANS, SAPS, CGI on baseline and 8th week

             -  Safety : Barnes akathisia scale, Simpson-Angus scale, Vital signs at 8th week

       13. Study Budget 13-1. Total Study Cost (euro): 13,848 euro (1 EUR = 1445 KRW) 13-2. Y (year
           of Study Outline approval): 5,539 EUR 13-3. Y+1: 5,539 EUR 13-4. Beyond Y+1: 2,770 EUR
    
  