
    
      A prospective comparative study will be carried out on 30 participant of both sex at
      Otorhinolaryngology Department, Benha University Hospital, it will include patients suffering
      from non infectious chronic rhinosinustitis symptoms in the form of nasal blockage,
      rhinorrhea, itching and/or sneezing.

      The patients will be divided randomly into two groups:

        -  Group A (topical group) : 15 patients

        -  Group B (injected group) : 15 patients

      All patients will be subjected to:

        1. Full clinical evaluation:

           A) Full history taking B) Clinical examination by

             -  anterior rhinoscopy to evaluate the nasal cavity to exclude purulent discharge ,
                nasal polyps or anterior septal deviation.

             -  nasal endoscopy to exclude nasal infection signs ,nasal polyps ,the posterior
                septal deviation or adenoid .

           C) Investigations:CT nose and paranasal sinuses coronal cuts to exclude fungal
           sinusitis, nasal polyps or other structural abnormalities e.g; posterior septal
           deviation, conchae bullosa or any other nasal pathology .

        2. Intervention :

             -  BTX -A available in the Egyptian market in the form of powder vial (Allergan)
                containing 100 Units, will be dissolved in 10 cc saline to obtain clear colorless
                solution in which each 1cc contain 10 Units.

             -  In group A (topical group) ,topical application in the form of merocel soaked with
                20 units of BTX_A (2ml) will be placed at each side of the nasal cavity for 30
                minutes.

             -  In group B (injected group), 20 units of BTX_A (2ml) will be injected submucosally
                in each inferior turbinate using insulin syringe needle after local anesthesia
                using 10% xylocaine spray .

        3. Follow Up Follow up visits will be at 1,2,4,6,8 weeks, patients will be assessed and
           questionnaired about severity of the symptoms and possible adverse effects including
           epistaxis and nasal dryness .
    
  