
    
      Shock Wave Lithotripsy (SWL) is widely and effectively used in the treatment of urinary tract
      stone disease. In the first applied lithotriptors, the energy density and maximum energy
      application at the skin level revealed the need for anesthesia in terms of pain. Later, with
      the development of new devices, the physics parameters were changed and shock was applied
      with lower energy levels, using large ellipsoids, the area where shock waves enter the skin
      is reduced and anesthesia is restricted. During the SWL procedure, patients can identify pain
      in the form of a subjective sensation that is difficult to identify. Pain occurs for two
      reasons. The first is the trauma caused by shock waves moving towards the kidney as they pass
      through the skin and muscles, and the second is the deep organ pain due to the trauma caused
      by shock waves in the kidney Also, various patient-related and environmental factors
      affecting pain should be considered. The sedation of patients greatly facilitates SWL
      tolerance. However, it has been noted in various studies that patients with anxiety
      experience more pain during SWL. Aromatherapy is a TAT (Tapas Acupressure technique) method
      in which essential oils created from fragrant parts of plants are absorbed from the body and
      show their effects. The therapeutic, disease-relieving or preventive properties of essential
      oils are utilized. Essential oils can be applied to the body by topical, internal, oral, and
      inhalation methods. The fastest and easiest way of entry of essential oils into the body is
      inhalation. When applied through breathing, evaporating molecules reach the olfactory bulb
      through the nose and the limbic system in the brain. Aromatherapy provides control of pain
      and anxiety by affecting the amygdala and hippocampus, which regulate fear and aggressive
      behaviors in the limbic system. Aromatherapy by Inhaler is used in hemodialysis, dental
      procedures, intrauterine contraceptive placement, pain and anxiety control in patients with
      arthritis. The literature shows that Lavender (lavandula officinalis) and Frankincense
      (Boswellia) essential oils are used in pain and anxiety management in procedural pain and
      anxiety control.
    
  