
    
      Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) is a clinical syndrome that results from an excessive vascular
      reactivity of the microcirculation of the fingers and/or other extremities of the body in
      response to a stress, mostly cold.

      Primary RP affects 4 to 6% of the general population and displays important geographic
      variations. Most secondary RP are linked to systemic scleroderma, a rare condition affecting
      mainly women. The systemic scleroderma is characterized by a cutaneous and visceral fibrosis
      and is associated with micro vascular damages and the production of self antibodies directed
      against specific cellular antigenes. The American College of Rheumatology in association with
      the European League Against Rheumatism has recently set diagnostic criteria that define this
      disease more precisely. Besides, clinical forms without cutaneous infringment have been
      described as limited scleroderma. Cutaneous limited forms are characterized by cutaneous
      fibrosis affecting mainly hands, arms and face.

      RP is the first clinical sign of these forms ; anti-centromer antibodies are found in 50 to
      90% patients. Diffuse cutaneous scleroderma is a fast progressing disease that affects most
      parts of the skin and internal organs and displays the presence of anti topoisomerase
      antibodies in 30% of the patients.

      Whether it is primary or secondary, severe forms of RP can result in an important functional
      disability. Besides that, iterative ischemic episodes contribute to the onset of trophic
      disorders that are associated with a higher morbidity. These trophic disorders are mainly
      encountered in the most severe forms, especially those that are secondary to systemic
      scleroderma ; a third of which will turn into gangrene or amputation, leading to an important
      disability for these patients. Up to now, no curative treatment of these ulcers has displayed
      a convincing efficacy.

      Despite its frequency and the potential seriousness of its complications, therapeutic care
      options for RP remain limited. Conservative measures are recommended in the first place,
      especially avoiding cold exposure and wearing warm clothes. When those measures do not
      suffice, pharmacological treatment can be introduced. Only calcic inhibitors are authorized
      for this indication but their effect on the frequency of the crises is modest (reduction of
      2.8 crises per week on average). In scleroderma secondary RP, the effect appears to be modest
      as well according to the severity of the affection and displays a reduction of 4 crises per
      week on average. Besides that, this kind of treatment, when taken continuously, exposes the
      patients to side effects (inferior limb edema in particular). Other vasodilators such as type
      5 phosphodiesterase have a significant effect, but the latter remains low in secondary RPs.
      Finally, intravenous injections of Iloprost on a sequential scheme have displayed a superior
      effect compared to Nifedipine, but result in intense and frequent side effects that limit
      considerably the use of this medication for a common practice.

      Therefore, there is a real need for new therapeutic targets in RP and this requires a better
      knowledge of the physiopathology of this phenomenon.

      Whether it is primary or secondary, microvascular dysfunction is now considered as a key
      element in the physiopathogeny of RP. Some ionic channels from the Transient Receptor
      Potential Channels' family react to temperature variations and are therefore involved in the
      microvascular response. In the cutaneous tissue, multiple TRP channels are present on the
      afferent neurons and are involved in the response to hot temperatures (especially TRPV1,
      TRPV3 and TRPV4) or to environmental cold (TRPM8) or hyper algic cold (TRPA1). Although they
      were initially reduced to an afferent role towards thermic or chemical stimuli, TRP channels
      have been lately recognized as having more complex functions, especially in the cutaneous
      homeostasis sustainibility, the growth and cellular differentiation and even the inflammatory
      response. Thus, the recent identification of numerous TRP channels (TRPV1, TRPV3, TRPV4,
      TRPM8, TRPA1, TRPC1, TRPC4, TRPV6) on the surface of keratinocytes suggests their involvement
      in the differenciation of these cells. Although their precise role and barrier function in
      the skin remain unknown, anomalies of the expression of some TRP channels have been
      associated with specific dermatologic diseases, and have recently being the issue of a
      review. Nevertheless, TRP expression in Raynaud's phenomenon has been investigated only few
      times in human skin .

      Considering the major role of the micro vascular dysfunction in RP and the involvement of
      specific TRP channels in the regulation of the cutaneous microvascular tone, the
      investigators put forward the hypothesis that the expression of some of these channels could
      be modified in primary and scleroderma secondary RP forms. This hypothesis is supported by an
      experimental trial (on mouse model of systemic cutaneous scleroderma), in which the
      activation of TRPV1 has been associated to the release of vasodilator peptides that displayed
      a protective effect against fibrosis and thus suggesting a plausible role of TRPV1 in the
      physiopathology of cutaneous systemic scleroderma.

      Although RP strikes different parts of the body (hands, feet, ears...), the essential
      topography of Raynaud's crises remains hands. In scleroderma secondary RP, the
      microcirculatory damages that are the easiest to reach are the areas surrounding nails. The
      latters can be examined using a non-invasive technique that is capillaroscopy and sometimes
      even to the naked eye. Histology by cutaneous biopsy can be made as well.

      The investigators propose here to sample cutaneous biopsies in these areas, that are on the
      one hand the most pathognomonic to display the microvascular damages and on the other hand,
      concerned by the Raynaud's crises.

      Now studied as potential therapeutic targets for many disorders, TRP channels could represent
      a very interesting track in severe RP forms. The current development of numerous agonists and
      inhibitors of TRP channels could allow to foresee a clinical trial in Raynaud's phenomenon.
      On a physiopathological point of view, a better knowledge of the potential role of TRP
      channels in this disease could also explain the differences that have been observed between
      primary and secondary Raynaud's phenomenons.
    
  