
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic degenerative and disabling disease of joint joints, in which
      metabolic impairment between the synthesis and degradation of cartilage and subchondral bone,
      involves progressive destruction of joint tissue accompanied by chronic pain and synovial
      inflammation. Currently, available therapies are mostly palliative and designed to mask
      symptoms. The study proposed here has been constructed on the basis of the scientific
      evidence reported in the literature regarding the etiology and the treatment of OA. As
      recently demonstrated, the use of mesenchymal cells obtained from the bone marrow was
      effective in the treatment of gonarthrosis by intra-articular injections. Even more recently,
      treatments aimed at treating the bone-cartilage interface in arthritic knees have been
      studied and proposed. In the 2016 Val et al. pilot study, stem cells from the tibial bone
      marrow injected into the percutaneous bone-cartilage interface were described as a new
      therapeutic approach to osteoarthritis of the knee. This procedure is able to repair
      cartilage by stimulating subchondral bone angiogenesis and alleviating ischemia associated
      with arthritic knee pain, generating extremely positive outcomes in patients with low-grade
      osteoarthritis and relieving long-term pain in patients with high-grade osteoarthritis. This
      treatment is also able to induce differentiation and proliferation of chondrocytes, leading
      to an increase in the size of the intra-articular matrix, demonstrating an effective and
      minimally invasive treatment for the resolution of OA. The study described here aims to
      evaluate the potential effectiveness of the synergistic effect of both injections, with the
      aim of improving the symptomatic picture of patients with OA of the knee. Combining
      percutaneous injections at the bone-cartilage interface with intra-articular injections will
      provide proven results for the use of stem cells such as cartilage repair, increased
      vascularity, and pain reduction, in both compartments of the knee affected by OA. The
      positive effects reported in the literature regarding intra-articular injections will be
      combined with those reported with respect to the use of percutaneous injections at the
      cartilage, in order to obtain a better outcome in the treatment of the disease than in
      previous studies.
    
  