
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of avelumab
      in combination with azacitidine (5-azacytidine) in patients with refractory/relapsed acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML). (Phase IB)

      II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) defined as complete remission (CR)/complete
      remission with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp)/complete remission with incomplete count
      recovery (CRi)/partial remission (PR)/hematologic improvement (HI)/morphologic leukemia free
      state (MLFS) of avelumab in combination with 5-azacytidine in patients with
      refractory/relapsed AML. (Phase II

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the number of patients achieve > 50% reduction in blasts on therapy with this
      combination.

      II. To determine the duration of response, disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival
      (OS) of patients with refractory/relapsed AML treated with this combination

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study immunological and molecular features at baseline and at predefined time-points
      on-therapy with avelumab and azacytidine in the peripheral blood and bone marrow to include
      quantify immune ligand expression by the AML blasts and AML stromal components
      (myeloid-derived suppressor cells [MDSCs] and mesenchymal stem cells [MSCs]) including
      4-1BBL, ICOSL, PD-L1, PD-L2, OX-40L, CD137L.

      II. To study immunological and molecular features at baseline and at predefined time-points
      on-therapy with avelumab and azacytidine in the peripheral blood and bone marrow to determine
      the quantitative expression of positive and negative co-stimulatory molecules on individual
      T-lymphocyte subsets including 4-1BB, CTLA-4, ICOS, PD-1, OX40, LAG-3 and TIM-3.

      III. To study immunological and molecular features at baseline and at predefined time-points
      on-therapy with avelumab and azacytidine in the peripheral blood and bone marrow to identify
      the immunophenotype of tumor-infiltrating T-lymphocytes (TILs) pre- and post-therapy with the
      combination: CD8+, CD4+ effector, or CD4+ regulatory.

      IV. To develop a micro-array based gene expression profile (GEP) predictor of response to
      anti-PDL1 and epigenetic therapy in AML.

      V. To determine the correlation of responses to the combination with baseline cytogenetic and
      molecular abnormalities

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of avelumab followed by a phase II study

      Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) over 10-40 minutes on
      days 1-7 or on days 1-5 and 8-9. Patients also receive avelumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1
      and 14 for 4 courses (or until complete response) and on day 1 for subsequent courses.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  