
    
      This trial is a randomized controlled trial recruiting subjects from dialysis units
      associated with designated Clinical Centers in the U.S. and Canada. A total of 250 ESRD
      patients receiving in-center HD will be randomized to continue with conventional HD, 3 days
      per week (control group), or switch to daily HD, 6 days per week (intervention group).
      Subjects will be treated and followed for 12 months. Two co-primary outcomes are designated:
      1) a composite of mortality with the change over 12 months in left ventricular mass, and 2) a
      composite of mortality with the change over 12 months in the SF-36 RAND physical health
      composite. In addition, main secondary outcomes have been designated for each of seven
      outcome domains: 1) cardiovascular structure and function (change in LV mass), 2)
      health-related quality of life/physical function (change in the PHC), 3) depression/burden of
      illness (change in Beck Depression Inventory), 4) nutrition (change in serum albumin), 5)
      cognitive function (change in the Trail Making Test B), 6) mineral metabolism (change in
      average predialysis serum phosphorus), and 7) clinical events (rate of non-access
      hospitalization or death). Hypertension and anemia are also main outcome domains, but without
      designation of single first priority outcomes.

      The objectives of this study are the following:

      Feasibility:

        1. To determine the feasibility of recruiting and retaining patients in a randomized trial
           of six times per week in-center daily HD versus conventional three times per week
           in-center HD.

        2. To determine patient adherence with and acceptance of in-center daily HD, and to
           identify reasons for discontinuation from or nonadherence with the therapy.

           Safety:

        3. To determine the safety of in-center daily HD with a particular focus on vascular access
           events and participant burden.

           Efficacy:

        4. To evaluate the efficacy of in-center daily HD compared to conventional three times per
           week HD on two co-primary outcomes: i) a composite of mortality with the change over 12
           months in left ventricular mass by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and ii) a composite
           of mortality with the change over 12 months in the SF-36 RAND physical health composite
           score (PHC).

        5. To determine the effect of in-center daily HD on nine secondary outcome domains: i)
           cardiovascular structure and function, ii) health-related quality of life and physical
           function, iii) depression/burden of illness, iv) nutrition and inflammation, v)
           cognitive function, vi) mineral metabolism, vii) clinical events, viii) hypertension,
           and ix) anemia.

           Characterization of the Intervention

        6. To better understand the complex therapy of in-center daily HD, by evaluating solute
           clearance, treatment times, volume removal, and non-dialytic factors such as differences
           in the frequency of medical surveillance and treatment.

           Implementation:

        7. To determine the feasibility of implementing in-center daily HD in practice, by
           evaluating barriers to implementation such as the incremental cost of daily HD compared
           to 3 times per week conventional HD.
    
  