
    
      Patients with NCFBE who require regular home airway clearance therapy will be eligible to be
      screened for inclusion in the study.

      After enrollment, baseline data including demographics, pulmonary related medical history
      including acute exacerbations (pulmonary-related hospitalizations, ED visits and physician
      office visits) will be collected Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) (spirometry), and a
      six-minute walk test will be completed. Quality of Life measures and inflammatory markers and
      will be collected.

      Patients will be randomized to HFCWO or OPEP therapy. Each device will be used within the
      approved product labeling. These will be the primary airway clearance devices for these
      patients during the 12 months of the study period.

      Following enrollment in the study and completion of a baseline visit, subjects will be seen
      for follow-up visits.

      Detailed documentation of health status and medical history will be collected during the
      12-month study period and/or at each study visit to document the occurrence of acute
      exacerbations and to determine time to first exacerbation, number of hospitalizations and
      hospitalization days, number of ICU admissions and ICU days, and number of outpatient visits
      (Physician's office visit, Urgent Care Visits, ED visits)

      At 3 months, 6 months and 12 months following the baseline visit, the following
      tests/procedures will be performed. At each follow-up study visit:

        -  Acute exacerbations that occurred during the prior 3-month period will be
           documented/verified

        -  Pulmonary function will be assessed using standard spirometry to obtain FEV1, FVC and
           FEV1/FVC.

        -  6-minute walk test will be completed to assess respiratory status and endurance

        -  The QoL-B quality of life survey will be conducted

        -  A sputum sample will be collected. Sputum samples will be transported to a central lab
           to test for inflammatory markers (sputum neutrophil elastase in μg/ml).

      Mean adherence to the prescribed treatment regimen will be collected and assessed using the
      validated Modified Self-Reported Medication-Taking Scale. Adherence data in the HFCWO arm
      will also be collected via the VisiView patient portal.

      Adherence results will be collected at the 3-month visit, 6-month visit and 12-month visits.

      Any device related adverse events which occur after initial therapy with The Vest® System or
      Acapella therapy will be recorded.

      Any equipment related complaints which occur after initial therapy with The Vest® System or
      Acapella therapy will be recorded.

      At the end of the 12-month study period, subjects randomized to the PEP group will be given
      the option of receiving HFCWO therapy for a 6 month follow up period with outcomes data
      assessed at the 6-month time point.
    
  