
    
      The Enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) pathway, initially introduced for colorectal
      surgery, is an evidence based perioperative pathway which has resulted in earlier recovery,
      less pain, and lower complication rates. Bariatric surgical patients, without severe
      co-morbidities, are good candidates for ERAS pathway, but the application of ERAS concepts
      has been limited in this field, specially, in Asia.

      Although the current literature shows that 2 randomized clinical trials (RCT) have been
      performed for application of ERAS in bariatric surgery, data is still scarce as per outcomes
      with respect to postoperative pain and analgesic usage. One of the RCTs has compared with
      historical controls and both the RCTs have not clearly defined their conventional standard
      pathways. In this study, the investigators have clearly defined both ERAS pathway and
      standard pathway leaving no ambiguity.

      This study is a prospective, randomized, parallel group trial comparing ERAS pathway and
      standard pathway after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy in relation to the hospital stay,
      postoperative pain, complications and other perioperative parameters.

      This is a single institute based trial, being conducted at GEM hospital and research centre,
      Coimbatore, TN, India. The trial has been approved by the GEM Hospital ethical committee.

      In this trial, the investigators are planning to enroll participants with morbid obesity
      planned to undergo laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. After full assessment, informed consent,
      these participants will be randomised using computer generated random numbers either into
      ERAS pathway group or into Standard pathway group.

      All the intraoperative and perioperative details with respect to anaesthetic drugs usage,
      intravenous fluid requirement, time to ambulation, time to oral liquids, postoperative pain
      score, analgesic requirement and hospital stay will be recorded in the proforma.
    
  