
    
      The primary objective is to create the PaTH Clinical Data Research Network (CDRN) Study of
      Healthy Lifestyles, Body Weight and Health Care, which will allow the conduct of
      patient-centered observational studies on weight across the multiple institutions of the PaTH
      network. Creating the PaTH Clinical Data Research Network (CDRN) Study of Healthy Lifestyles,
      Body Weight and Health Care will involve:

        1. Recruiting patients with longitudinal weight data in the EHR to participate in the PaTH
           Clinical Data Research Network (CDRN) Study of Healthy Lifestyles, Body Weight and
           Health Care

        2. Administering surveys to the PaTH Clinical Data Research Network (CDRN) Study of Healthy
           Lifestyles, Body Weight and Health Care approximately every 6 months to collect patient
           reported outcomes (PROs)

        3. Collecting individual patient health record data into the PaTH Clinical Data Research
           Network (CDRN) Study of Healthy Lifestyles, Body Weight and Health Care database

        4. Identifying potential participants for future research studies.

        5. Tracking whether the patient participant has biospecimens in a PaTH site biorepository
           and prepare for possible sharing of biospecimens in future studies.

      The secondary objectives are to use the PaTH Clinical Data Research Network (CDRN) Study of
      Healthy Lifestyles, Body Weight and Health Care to answer patient-centered research questions
      including:

      (1) How do survey response rates, sample demographics and survey responses differ by
      recruitment technique? (2) What are patients' weight management strategies? How much are
      health care providers contributing to their weight management approaches? Do these
      relationships vary by weight status, region, age, sex, or race; (3) What are patients'
      reasons for seeking bariatric surgery and expectations in terms of weight change?; (4) Among
      patients seeking bariatric surgery, what proportion with high risk for sleep apnea by survey
      responses have been evaluated for or diagnosed with this health problem? (5) How does
      physical activity vary with patients co-morbidity status?
    
  