
    
      All diabetes are the result of endrocrine deficiency. The endocrine deficiency may be
      absolute, as in type 1 diabetes, considered as an elective and exclusive attack of pancreatic
      Beta cell, or it could be relative, as un type 2 diabetes.

      More rarely, diabetes fit into a broader context of pancreatic failure, with diffuse
      involvement of the exocrine and endocrine function, suggesting an impairment of the whole
      endocrine secretion of the pancreas, affecting the entire islet of Langerhans, such as in
      type 3c diabetes, whose prototypes are total pancreatectomy, chronic alcoholic pancreatitis,
      cystic fibrosis.

      The diagnostic of type 3c diabetes is not always obvious, with several clinical
      presentations, without biological specific disease tag. Moreover, it also appears that the
      common form of diabetes, type 1 and type 2, may be associated with an exocrine function
      deficit and with a decrease of the pancreatic volume correlated with exocrine function
      abnormalities, and a decrease of insulin secretion capacity. The consequences of a spread of
      the disease beyond the Beta cells remain uncertain, but they could be linked, as in type 3c
      diabetes, with severe form of hypoglycaemia, due to glucagon deficiency, or nutritional
      deficiency due to the exocrine deficiency.

      The pancreatic polypeptide belongs to the neuropeptide Y family, it is produced by the
      endocrine pancreatic F cells, located in the hook and the head of the pancreas. Food intake
      stimulates its secretion. The role of the pancreatic polypeptide in human is uncertain.

      Investigators propose to study the pancreatic polypeptide in type 1 and type 3c diabetes
      before and after a mixed meal in order to study the other endocrine functions of the islet of
      Langerhans, to evaluate the possibility, or not, of a more diffuse pancreatic involvement in
      type 1 diabetes, considered as an elective pathology of the pancreatic Beta cell.
    
  