
    
      Aim- To define the diagnosis, stratification and monitoring of IPF, sarcoidosis and TB,
      providing targets and biomarkers for new therapy. The investigators will study asthma and
      COPD patients with inflammation of the airways, and to compare with healthy control subjects.
      Characterising inflammation using upper airway sampling may eventually remove the requirement
      for invasive diagnostic bronchoscopy in these patients. The investigators shall assess the
      presence of cytokines, chemokines, together with complement, coagulation and fibrosis. The
      investigators propose to obtain opportunistic nasal, bronchial and tracheal mucosal samples
      from patients with IPF, sarcoidosis and TB. The investigators will compare these samples with
      healthy controls and with patients with asthma and COPD.

      Objectives: Determining biomarkers and molecular signatures in terms of cytokines and
      chemokines, coagulation, complement activation and fibrosis in the MLF from the range of lung
      diseases Study design: This is a pilot study and the investigators shall obtain our study
      group from patients attending the bronchoscopy suite, specialist respiratory clinics and
      those being admitted to the wards at St Mary's Hospital under the Respiratory team. The
      investigators shall recruit patients with asthma and COPD,as well as age/ sex- matched
      healthy volunteers.

      IPF, sarcoid and TB patients are usually undergoing bronchoscopy or endobronchial
      ultrasound(EBUS) and transbronchial needle aspiration(TBNA) for diagnostic purposes. Their
      diagnosis may only be confirmed after sampling is done after the bronchoscopy.

      The patients included in the study will represent the following groups:

      IPF at least 12 subjects Sarcoidosis at least 12 subjects TB at least 12 subjects COPD at
      least 12 subjects Asthma at least 12 subjects Healthy at least 12 subjects Study visits:
      Having identified patients suitable for this study, the study involves a single bronchoscopy,
      during which all airway sampling takes place. The investigators will recruit patients with
      asthma, COPD and healthy volunteers and they will be reimbursed for their participation,
      since bronchoscopy is not routinely part of their normal clinical care. They will be
      recruited by advertisements to the general public. They will be given relevant participant
      information sheet regarding this study by email or post.

      Participants with confirmed or suspected IPF, sarcoidosis and TB who are due for a
      bronchoscopy will be identified during their routine clinical care and as part of their
      diagnostic work-up, and will not receive compensation.
    
  