
    
      The trial will be designed as randomized phase II clinical trial with comparison of the
      experimental protocol (prehospital discrimination using the TICCS) against the standard of
      care. Patients will be allocated in a 1:1 ratio in two groups: the intervention group will
      benefit from a prehospital evaluation using the TICCS and from a specific treatment protocol
      regarding the TICCS value. The control group will benefit from the standard local care.

      The trial will involve several participating prehospital and hospital teams across Belgium.

      Control and intervention group will only differ in the management of potential bleeding and
      coagulopathy. All patients will benefit from the recommended level of care regarding their
      situation, including airway management, Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) management, control of
      external bleeding, cervical spine and extremities immobilization if needed …

      Control group The patients allocated in the control group will be managed as recommended in
      the local guidelines and protocols. As the trial involves participating centers with
      different prehospital and hospital realities and local practices, the control group will
      reflect a wide panel of levels of care and will not be limited to a unique approach.

      Intervention group The TICCS will be calculated on the site of injury for the patients taken
      in charge in the intervention group. Those patients will be classified in two categories
      regarding their TICCS value. Patients with TICCS ≥ 10 will be classified as in need for DCR;
      while patients with TICCS < 10 will be classified as not in need for DCR.

      TICCS < 10 This subgroup will be considered without a need for DCR and without coagulopathy.
      There will not be any activation of the DCR components (no phone contact to the blood bank,
      to the surgical team, no prehospital transfusion). There will be any prehospital
      treatment/prevention of the hyperfibrinolysis using Tranexamic acid (TXA). Crystalloids
      infusion will be allowed. All patients will benefit from the recommended level of care
      regarding their situation (airway, TBI …), including trauma team activation if locally
      recommended.

      TICCS ≥ 10

      This subgroup will be considered with a need for DCR and with coagulopathy. They will be
      treated using the STTTOPPP the bleeding protocol. The STTTOPPP the bleeding protocol is the
      acronym for:

        -  Surgical team pre-activation

        -  Trauma team pre-activation

        -  Transfusion team pre-activation

        -  Tranexamic acid (administration of 1 gram of TXA if documented hyperfibrinolysis)

        -  O negative Red Blood Cells (RBC) transfusion as soon as possible

        -  Plasma and Platelets transfusion as soon as possible

        -  Permissive hypotension (restrictive use of crystalloids: no more than 500 milliliters
           before definitive control of the bleeding is achieved)

        -  Prophylaxis (initiate antithrombotic prophylaxis as soon as the bleeding is under
           control and coagulation tests are normal, first evaluation before the 24th hour after
           trauma)

      Data will be collected locally in each participating center and will be anonymously recorded
      on the trial website by the local Principal Investigator or his research assistant. The
      website has been designed to avoid incomplete data, will give feedbacks (about the number of
      patients included) to this respective centers every six months. The participating centers
      will only have access to their own center database. The trial coordination team will have
      access to the whole database and will not be able to record or change any data. After one
      year of inclusion and in the end of the 24 months period of inclusion, data will be extracted
      for interim and final analysis.
    
  