
    
      Objectives:

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate the impact of a multidimensional (patient, system, clinician)
      intervention on appropriate antibiotic use for adults with acute respiratory tract
      infections-- identifying factors that influence successful translation across VA hospital and
      non-VA hospital acute care. Specific Aim 2: To evaluate the impact of a rapid diagnostic test
      for c-reactive protein on antibiotic use for adults with acute cough illness when added to a
      multidimensional intervention.

      Methods:

      We propose to conduct a randomized controlled trial of a quality improvement program
      consisting of physician education (educational seminar, practice guidelines, performance
      feedback, and decision support tools) and patient education (waiting room print and
      audiovisual materials) in 8 VA hospital and 8 non-VA hospital emergency departments. Non VA
      study sites will be identified from an existing research network of hospital emergency
      departments--EDNet. VA hospital sites will be selected among academically affiliated hub
      facilities. Phase one will involve a hospital-level randomized trial of a multidimensional
      intervention to translate existing evidence based guidelines for antibiotic use in ARIs vs.
      usual care. Simultaneously, we will validate a new CRP-based diagnostic algorithm and
      incorporate it into the evidence based guidelines for antibiotic use in ARIs. Phase two will
      involve a second hospital-level randomized trial of the new antibiotic use guidelines that
      incorporate the CRP-based diagnostic algorithm vs. the original guidelines. Specific
      endpoints include the overall success of the intervention in each phase in terms of reducing
      antibiotic prescribing for ARIs, improving patient outcomes and reducing resource
      utilization. In addition we will examin the impact of VA and non-VA organizational factors on
      the successful translation of various components of the intervention in both phases. Data
      will be collected using existing administrative data as well as on-site enrollment of
      subjects in prospective follow-up studies.
    
  