
    
      This study was a post-marketing, open-label, single arm study in healthy volunteers who had
      never been vaccinated with any hepatitis B vaccine and who were seronegative to HBsAg,
      Hepatitis B core (HBc) and HBs antibodies. This study consisted of three periods: screening
      period (up to 1 month prior to first vaccination), treatment (Day 1 to month 6), and
      post-vaccination follow-up period (months 6 -12). Immunogenicity endpoints were examined one
      month after the first injection and at every month until month 6, then at months 7, 9 and 12.
      The primary safety endpoint was the frequency, severity, and duration of adverse events,
      including clinically-significant laboratory abnormalities after administration of Sci-B-Vac™.

      Statistical Methods: A total of 92 subjects were recruited into the study. Only subjects who
      fully complied with the study protocol, had no inclusion/exclusion criteria violation and
      subjects who early terminated the study but reached the primary endpoint prior to withdrawal
      (modified intention-to-treat (mITT) population) were included in the final population for
      statistical analysis. Eligible subjects were followed for a total duration of 12 months.

      Significance Level: The overall significance level for this study was 5% using two-tailed
      tests. Sample size determination was performed under the following assumptions:

      The primary endpoint for the study was the SPR, defined as the proportion of subjects with
      HBs antibody titer ≥10 mIU/ml by month 7 (i.e. one month after the third immunization with
      Sci-B-Vac™). Subjects terminated early from the study for any reason at any time and who met
      the primary endpoint were included.

      In compliance with the European Pharmacopeia, the SPR threshold was set at ≥ 95%. Based on a
      9% margin of non-inferiority, the study was considered successful if the lower bound of the
      95.0% exact confidence interval (CI) was 86.0% or more (lower non-inferiority limit) by month
      7.

      Demographic and baseline data as well as disease prognostic factors, medical history and
      prior medications were summarized for the mITT population, defined as the subset of the ITT
      set, which consisted of all enrolled subjects who were vaccinated at least once with
      Sci-B-Vac™ and had at least one post-vaccination follow-up visit, fully complied with the
      protocol and had no violation of the inclusion/exclusion criteria. For continuous variables,
      descriptive statistics (number [n], mean, standard deviation (SD), standard error, median,
      minimum, and maximum) were provided. For categorical variables, subject counts and
      percentages were provided. Categories for missing data as well as missing categories were
      presented if necessary.
    
  