
    
      Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) is actually a form of type 1 diabetes, which is
      caused by autoimmune damage of islet β cells and triggered by environmental factors based on
      genetic susceptibility. The goals of treatment for LADA are alleviation of autoimmune β cell
      destruction, preservation of islet function and prevention of diabetic complications. Insulin
      has been used as a routine therapy for LADA to alleviate the hyperglycemic status, yet cannot
      effectively prevent the progressing destruction of β cell or preserve its function.

      Stachyose is a naturally functional oligosaccharide and acts as prebiotics, that can shift
      gut microbiota with beneficial effects on host health. Berberine, a small alkaloid isolated
      from medicinal plants, has been reported to have many therapeutic effects, including
      anti-bacteria, anti-diabetes, and lipid-lowering. Besides, studies revealed that berberine
      exerts antidiabetic effects by modulating gut microbiota. In a multicentre, randomized,
      double-blinded, placebo-controlled 12-week clinical trial conducted in 409 drug-naive T2D
      patients, Wang et al. confirmed the hypoglycaemic effect of berberine in Chinese participants
      and demonstrated the berberine-induced changes in the human gut microbiome in comparison with
      the placebo. Moreover, Ho et al. conducted a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in 38
      children with type 1 diabetes using placebo or prebiotic oligofructose-enriched inulin for 12
      weeks, and found that oral supplement of the prebiotic could improve glycemic control and β
      cell function. So we speculate that berberine and stachyose combination can also protect the
      islet β cell function in the patients with LADA.

      This is a single-center, double-blind, 1:1 randomized controlled trial to investigate the
      effects of berberine and stachyose combination in LADA patients previously treated with
      insulin. The study comprises twice screening, the 1-month run-in period, the 3-month
      treatment period and the 9-month follow-up period. The first screening is to choose the LADA
      patients from the diabetes patients whose disease duration < 5 year. After obtaining the
      informed consent from the patient who is willing to participate the 3-month treatment will
      enter to the 1-month run-in period. The second screening will find out the eligible patients
      from the 1-month run-in period according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria, then the
      patients will be randomized to the 3-month treatment period. Patients will be randomized into
      two groups through simple randomization: insulin+berberine and stachyose combination,
      insulin+placebo. Glucose parameters, β cell function and gut microbiota, as well as
      gastrointestinal side effects and hypoglycemia events will be monitored.
    
  