
    
      Significance: Low back pain (LBP) is a common presenting complaint in the Emergency
      Department (ED), accounting for 2.63 million visits in the united states and 2.3 percent of
      ED visits annually.1 An estimated 100 billion dollars per year is lost from low back pain.
      One-third of this is direct costs.2 For the United States military, in 2015, 195,844 acute
      cases of LBP were identified, leading to significant loss of person-hours.3 The definitions
      of durations, or types, of LBP vary among sources. For example, the American Association of
      Family Physicians defines acute low back pain as six to 12 weeks of pain and chronic pain as
      anything more than 12 weeks.4 A more specific definition used by The American College of
      Physicians defines acute LBP from 0-4 weeks, subacute LBP as 5-12 weeks, and chronic low back
      pain as greater than 12 weeks.5 A specific definition of chronic low back pain is essential
      if including acute on chronic low back pain in a study. These specific definitions will not
      only be used for demographics, they will also aid in excluding other causes of LBP from the
      study such as fibromyalgia, rheumatoid arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis.6,7 The
      investigators will include exacerbations of chronic LBP, but they will have to satisfy a
      specific definition. An excepted definition of an exacerbation of chronic low back pain is an
      increase of 1.5 cm above baseline pain on a 10 cm visual analog scale (VAS). The
      justification is that this is outside the standard deviation of typical back pain
      estimations.8 As this study of LBP focuses on TPIs, the investigators are narrowing the
      definition of LBP to myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) of the low back. The investigators chose
      this definition as MPS is defined by trigger points.9 Use of MPS is also consistent with
      prior TPI studies of LBP.10-15 The trigger points of MPS are recognized clinically by having
      two out of three of the following criteria: a taut band of muscle on exam, reproduction of
      pain upon palpation, and referred pain along a band of muscle upon palpation.16-18 The two
      most promising TPI studies previously conducted in the ED have been published in the last two
      years.19,20 They both suffered from a small sample size. Additionally, they suffered from a
      combination of limitations including: lack of randomization, inconsistent medical management,
      lack of a follow-up assessment, and lack of patient centered functional outcomes.19,20 These
      studies were both two armed and either compared standard medical management to TPI with local
      anesthetic or TPI with local anesthetic to TPI with Normal Saline (NS).19,20 One of these
      studies concluded that TPIs are generally beneficial.19 The other concluded that TPIs with NS
      are superior.20 The investigators endeavor to complete a randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      that definitively answers whether TPIs with local anesthetic are superior to TPIs with NS in
      an ED setting. The investigators will also be comparing both of these treatments to standard
      therapy (ST). Bupivacaine was chosen as it is the longest acting commonly available local
      anesthetic in most EDs.21 The investigators hypothesize that TPIs with Bupivacaine are
      superior to TPIs with NS or ST. If the investigators are correct this simple and inexpensive
      treatment could have a large impact on the financial burden and loss in person-hours caused
      by MPS of the low back.1-3,21

      Innovation:

      The invistigators will innovate by building upon lessons learned from previous TPI studies
      for MPS conducted in the ED.19,20 The study has also been designed with the best practices of
      CONSORT standards in mind.22 Unlike previous studies, this RCT will include three groups, ST,
      ST plus TPI with Bupivacaine, and ST plus TPI with NS. Additionally, each of these treatment
      arms will be highly regimented to improve the quality of evidence the investigators produce.
      The investigators will also follow up with study participants via telephone at 60-72 hours to
      determine if the treatment provided more than temporary pain relief. Lastly, the
      investigators will incorporate a patient centered functional score.23 A measure of functional
      ability is particularly relevant to MPS given its associated cost in lost person-hours.2 To
      date, such an endeavor to investigate TPIs in the ED has not been undertaken.

      Approach:

      This study will be conducted in the Emergency Department at Madigan Army Medical Center on
      Joint Base Lewis-McChord in Tacoma, WA. This is an academic center and level II trauma center
      with an annual Emergency Department census of 60,000. It is home to an Emergency Medicine
      Residency program and serves as a tertiary referral center for Department of Defense
      personnel in the Pacific Region. This study has approval from the local Institutional Review
      Board.

      This study is a prospective 3-armed RCT. The first arm will be ST. The second army will be ST
      plus TPI with 8 mL of 0.5 percent Bupivacaine. The third arm will be ST plus TPI with 8 mL of
      NS. The first arm will be single blinded as it will be obvious to medical professionals that
      the patient is not receiving trigger points. The remaining two arms will be double blinded.
      The ST arm will be highly standardized to eliminate variation in treatment. It will also
      contain no narcotics or benzodiazepines. ST will consist of 975mg of Acetaminophen PO and
      either 30mg of Ketorolac IM or 15 mg IV. Upon discharge ST will consist of prescriptions for
      acetaminophen 650mg every 4 hours by mouth, Ibuprofen 400mg every 4 hours by mouth, and 10 mg
      of cyclobenzaprine nightly by mouth. If a potential participant is allergic to any of the
      study medications, they cannot participate. Additionally, participants will be provided a
      handout going over these medications and the use of heat for low back pain and instructions
      on the performance of McKenzie stretching exercises for low back pain.4 Bupivacaine was
      chosen as it is the longest acting local anesthetic commonly available in most EDs. With a
      toxic dose of 2mg/Kg, 8 mL is well within safety limits for the study population as it only
      contains 40mg of Bupivacaine.21 NS was chosen as the third arm as it is the primary TPI
      treatment that local anesthetic TPIs are compared to, Bupivacaine and NS are also identical
      in appearance.12,21 It is possible that participants will be able to tell which TPI they have
      received based on Bupivacaine's anesthetic properties.21 To address this, the investigators
      will be asking participants that received a TPI to guess which medication they received on
      the data collection form. 30-minutes following study medication administration, data will be
      collected. 60-72 hours after treatment is initiated, telephone follow-up will be completed by
      a member of the study team. This time frame was chosen as it is a clinically relevant
      timeframe for ED bounce backs.24 Additionally, this time frame is well beyond four half-lives
      of Bupivacaine (2.7 hours x 4 = 10.8 hours).21 This ensures that the data collected at
      telephone follow-up will not be influenced by any lingering impact of the medication.

      The investigators plan to begin enrolling participants January 2nd, 2021. The institution's
      Research Pharmacist will contact one of the institution's statisticians to obtain a
      randomization scheme. The investigators will then be sent pre-drawn up and pre-randomized
      medications for storage in the ED medication refrigerator. Participants randomized to ST will
      be represented by empty syringes.

      The investigators plan to enroll participants as a convenience sample. Although continuous
      enrollment would be ideal, the research team consists of nine investigators, five of which
      are Emergency Medicine Residents. Given off-service rotations and a small research team,
      providing 24-hour coverage for enrollment is not feasible. Review of the EDs census over the
      last three months revealed that the ED sees a minimum of 40 patients a month for the chief
      complaint (CC) of "low back pain". A review of the census in the three month prior to the
      COVID-19 outbreak revealed that this number is less than half of the number of patients the
      investigators usually see for the CC of "low back pain". This is very likely due to a
      decreased ED utilization rates for non-emergent CC's during COVID-19. The investigators
      suspect that as vaccinations become more widely available, these numbers will normalize.
      However, if the census remained as is and the investigators operate under the assumption that
      the investigators could reasonably capture 50 percent of the LBP patients that came through
      the Emergency Department, it would take us a minimum of nine months to complete the study.
      With these assumptions, enrollment would be complete in June of 2022.
    
  