
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of
      ipilimumab in combination with ibrutinib in patients with CLL/small lymphocytic lymphoma
      (SLL)/RT. (Part A) II. To determine the MTD and DLT of ipilimumab in combination with
      nivolumab and ibrutinib in patients with CLL/SLL/RT. (Part B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy (response rate, defined as complete response [CR] + complete
      response with incomplete marrow recovery [CRi] + partial response [PR]) of the combination
      therapy.

      II. To determine the progression-free survival and overall survival of the combination
      therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To study immunological and molecular changes in peripheral blood, lymph node, and bone
      marrow in response to the combination therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ipilimumab followed by a dose-expansion study.
      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 parts.

      PART A: Patients receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Beginning day 1 of cycle 1, patients also receive ibrutinib orally
      (PO) once daily (QD) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      who complete 4 doses of ipilimumab and are deriving benefit from it, without severe
      toxicities, may continue to receive ipilimumab every 12 weeks for up to a total of 2 years.

      PART B: Patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning day 7 of cycle 1, patients also receive
      ibrutinib PO QD in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who
      complete 4 doses of ipilimumab and nivolumab, and are deriving benefit from it, without
      severe toxicities, may continue to receive ipilimumab every 12 weeks and nivolumab every 4
      weeks for up to a total of 2 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 3
      months thereafter.
    
  