
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the proportion of participants who develop treatment failure at 2 years, defined
      as the occurrence of distant or any nodal metastases or recurrence of cancer requiring
      chemotherapy (CMT), defined as a cancer that no longer meets the definition of superficially
      invasive squamous cell carcinoma (SISCCA) or a cancer that cannot be excised with a clear
      margin or preservation of sphincter function, or those who develop SISCCA recurrence but
      elect to undergo CMT rather than repeat excision in patients originally treated with excision
      of anal canal and perianal SISCCA.

      II. To define the 1-year proportion of participants who develop incident anal squamous
      cancers at sites other than the location of the index SISCCA in patients treated with
      excision of anal canal and perianal SISCCA.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the proportion of participants who develop treatment failure at 3 years, defined
      as occurrence of distant or any nodal metastases or recurrence of cancer requiring CMT,
      defined as a cancer that no longer meets the definition of SISCCA or a cancer that cannot be
      excised with a clear margin or preservation of sphincter function or those who develop SISCCA
      recurrence but elect to undergo CMT rather than repeat excision in patients treated with
      excision of anal canal and perianal SISCCA.

      II. To determine morbidities associated with local excision of SISCCA, including non-healing
      ulcer, fissure, persistent pain and bleeding, stricture, incontinence, and colostomy 6 months
      after excision of SISCCA.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the human papillomavirus (HPV) type in cancer and compare to that of
      overlying high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) and HSIL biopsies collected
      concurrently that did not progress to cancer.

      II. To determine and compare the HPV integration site in the anal cancer as well as in HSIL
      overlying or contiguous with the cancer and HSIL biopsies collected concurrently that did not
      progress to cancer.

      III. Perform gene expression array analysis comparing expression in anal cancer with HSIL
      overlying or contiguous with the cancer.

      IV. Perform gene expression array analysis comparing expression in HSIL biopsies that
      progressed to cancer with non-progressing HSIL biopsies at other locations.

      V. Characterize genetic changes in anal cancers compared with HSIL overlying or contiguous
      with the cancer.

      VI. Characterize genetic changes in HSIL biopsies that progressed to cancer compared with
      non-progressing HSIL biopsies at other locations.

      VII. Perform gene expression array analysis and characterize genetic changes of SISCCAs that
      were cured with wide local excision for comparison with SISCCAs that progressed after wide
      local excision.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo surgery to remove anal or perianal cancer. Any HSIL remaining is treated
      with the goal for complete eradication in accordance with clinician and participant
      preference.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 36 months.
    
  