
    
      1. Objective: The overall objective of this study is to improve lower urinary tract
           symptoms (LUTS) in adult neurologically-intact women with underactive bladder through
           electrical stimulation of bladder sensory nerves or urethral sensory nerves.

        2. Background and Significance: The storage and elimination of urine is regulated by neural
           circuits in the brain and spinal cord to coordinate function between the urinary bladder
           and the urethra. During micturition (bladder emptying), the elimination of urine is
           facilitated by bladder muscle (detrusor) contraction and urethral and pelvic floor
           muscle relaxation. Urine flow through the urethra also activates sensory nerves to
           amplify bladder contractions and maintain efficient bladder emptying. Incomplete
           emptying and urinary retention occur when these mechanisms are disrupted or poorly
           coordinated.

           Incomplete emptying due to underactive bladder is a poorly understood health concern
           that symptomatically affects up to 40% of the population, with the highest prevalence of
           symptoms in older men and women. Despite the high prevalence of symptoms, the diagnosis
           of an underactive bladder remains low due to the lack of consistent terminology and
           standardized diagnostic criteria. This results in defining underactive bladder by a
           symptom complex that may involve reduced motor drive (detrusor underactivity) during
           bladder emptying and/or reduced sensory drive during filling and emptying. Symptoms
           experienced by persons with underactive bladder include nocturia, urinary frequency,
           urgency, incontinence, slow stream, hesitancy, straining, and sensation of incomplete
           emptying. The most common symptoms are nocturia, slow stream, frequency, hesitancy, and
           the impact of these symptoms on quality of life is substantial for many patients.

           The management options for persons with underactive bladder include double-void,
           intermittent self-catheterization, or pharmacotherapy. However, these treatments are
           associated with poor quality of life and patients often fail to completely resolve the
           lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). There is a need to clarify the pathological
           mechanisms underlying underactive bladder to improve therapeutic outcomes. One approach
           to clarify reduced sensory drive is to evaluate the functional integrity of sensory
           nerves with quantitative sensory testing. Current perception threshold (CPT) testing
           delivers electrical stimulation to activate nerve fibers that evoke sensory perception,
           and changes in bladder sensory pathways were demonstrated in persons with diabetic
           detrusor underactivity. These diagnostic tests, however, have not been applied to
           neurologically intact adult women with underactive bladder and may provide insight into
           pathological sensory dysfunction.

           The proposed research will quantify sensory nerve sensitivity in the bladder and urethra
           in adult women with underactive bladder. The investigators will then amplify sensory
           nerve activity via continuous electrical stimulation to improve LUTS associated with
           underactive bladder. Achieving the proposed objectives will establish a prognostic
           marker for rationally guided electrical stimulation in women with underactive bladder.
           Understanding how these mechanisms contribute to impaired emptying in underactive
           bladder will enable the development of novel therapeutics to enhance quality of life.

        3. Subject Recruitment: Established patients with underactive bladder will be identified by
           MaestroCare chart review. New patients with underactive bladder will be identified by
           Duke urogynecologists who see patients at one of two urogynecologic offices (Navaho
           Clinic in Raleigh or Patterson Place in Durham).

        4. Design and Procedures: The investigators will perform a parallel interventional study
           with two non-randomized study arms (bladder stimulation and urethral stimulation).
           Potential participants will be screened remotely by email via RedCap by completing a
           questionnaire to determine bothersome symptoms and perceptions of bladder function.
           Potential participants that meet eligibility criteria will be scheduled for an in person
           study procedure visit, where informed consent will be signed. Participants will then
           undergo current perception threshold (CPT) testing, where electrical stimulation will be
           delivered via a catheter to the urethra (intraurethral) and bladder (intravesical) to
           evoke sensation. The CPT results will inform whether the participant receives an
           investigational session of intravesical (bladder) electrical stimulation or
           intraurethral electrical stimulation. Following electrical stimulation, the participant
           will undergo urodynamic studies (cystometrogram, pressure-flow study) to assess bladder
           function after the investigational stimulation procedures. The participant will also be
           asked to complete remotely by email a post-study symptom RedCap questionnaire 7 days
           after study completion.
    
  