
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine disease-free survival of women with HER2-positive early breast cancer treated
           with neoadjuvant or adjuvant trastuzumab (Herceptin®) for 6 months versus 12 months.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the expected incremental cost effectiveness (cost per quality adjusted life
           year gained) for 6 months versus 12 months trastuzumab.

        -  Determine cardiac function as assessed by left ventricular ejection fraction every 3
           months during treatment.

        -  Analyze the predictive factors for development of cardiac damage.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to estrogen receptor
      status (negative vs positive); chemotherapy timing (adjuvant vs neoadjuvant); chemotherapy
      type (anthracycline based [no taxane] vs taxane and anthracyclines vs taxane-based [no
      anthracyclines]); and trastuzumab (Herceptin®) timing (concurrently vs sequentially [with
      respect to chemotherapy]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
           every 3 weeks for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
           every 3 weeks for up to 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      All patients also receive standard chemotherapy regimens as per local institutional protocols
      either concurrently with or sequentially to trastuzumab.

      Patients complete quality of life questionnaires using the EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) at baseline and
      periodically during study treatment. Patients also complete a diary on out-of-pocket expenses
      associated with their condition (i.e., travel expenses, over-the-counter medicines and
      supplements, complementary therapies not funded by NHS, home help, and time away from work)
      for cost-effective analysis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, then
      every 6 months for 1 year, and annually thereafter.
    
  