
    
      Sepsis and bacterial infections account for more than 50% of and intensive care (ICU)
      admissions and the mortality rates are as high as 40-60% reported in various studies.
      Although, antibiotics are crucial in deciding outcomes in children with sepsis, however, use
      of the same in non-infectious conditions has resulted in emergence of multi drug resistant
      strains with high morbidity and mortality. The number of deaths from antibiotic resistant
      bacteria is 700000 worldwide. A major driver for development of multi drug resistant bacteria
      is antibiotic use. This indiscriminate use is much more pronounced in the ICUs with
      observations from various studies indicating that 30% to 60% of antibiotics prescribed in
      ICUs are unnecessary, inappropriate, or suboptimal. This is because of two major reasons a)
      illness severity and b) difficulty in distinguishing true sepsis from other causes of SIRS.
      In order to address these problems, researchers have tried to explore the use of novel
      biomarkers to improve the accuracy, early diagnosis and stopping of antibiotic therapy of
      sepsis. One such marker that is widely studied is procalcitonin (PCT). Several studies and
      meta-analyses have demonstrated that PCT has excellent diagnostic accuracy for sepsis and has
      a potential role in de-escalating antibiotic therapy in adult patients. Unfortunately, there
      are only few observational studies and two RCT's in children published till date evaluating
      the use of PCT for diagnosis of infections or de-escalation of antibiotic therapy. Moreover,
      till date, there are no studies in critically ill children with sepsis who are faced with the
      problem of multidrug resistant infections and have the worst outcomes. Given this background,
      the investigators plan to conduct this pragmatic randomized controlled trial in children with
      sepsis admitted to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and already on antibiotics. The
      investigators' objective is to compare the risk of mortality and/or treatment failure in
      children admitted to the PICU with sepsis and managed by PCT guided therapy for stopping of
      antibiotics ('study' group) with those managed with 'standard practices' based on the
      evidence based guidelines ('control' group). Children with suspected or proven sepsis will be
      randomized to the PCT guided group or the standard practices group and will be followed up
      for the outcome measures that include treatment failure and mortality. The investigators'
      would also be comparing the duration and prescription rate of antibiotic therapy between the
      two groups as secondary outcome measures. The investigators plan to enroll 650 patients over
      a period of 3 years. The investigators believe that the proposed study will provide the
      answer to reducing unnecessary antibiotic usage in the PICU without causing any harm to the
      patient in the form of treatment failure and/or mortality. The investigators also believe
      that in due course of time, over the years, with restricted antibiotic usage, the issue of
      multi-drug resistant microbial infections in the PICU will be addressed.
    
  