
    
      CCTA has become the preferred diagnostic modality for symptomatic patients with low to
      intermediate risk of CAD. Of the patients examined, CCTA exclude cardiovascular disease in
      70-80% with an excellent negative predictive value of more than 95%. Having a low positive
      predictive value, however, CCTA often overestimates the severity of CAD, especially in
      patients with moderate to severe coronary calcification. Following CCTA, patients are hence
      unnecessarily tested using golden standard ICA-FFR. These ICAs often show no obstructive
      coronary stenosis and are therefore not followed by revascularization. The issues outlined
      raises the question of whether it is possible (1) to make a more precise risk stratification
      and consequently better selection of patients prior to CCTA and (2) to reduce the number of
      patients referred for unnecessary ICAs following CCTA.

      In patients with suspicion of coronary stenosis detected by CCTA, current guidelines
      recommend verification of myocardial ischemia. Dan-NICAD 3 investigate the diagnostic
      accuracy of advanced non-invasive myocardial perfusion imaging tests; Rb PET and 15O-water
      PET. These examinations have shown a high diagnostic accuracy in symptomatic patients with
      high risk of ischemic heart disease. However, the diagnostic accuracy is not investigated in
      patients as follow-up after CCTA. In addition, microcirculation may impact the correlation
      between PET and ICA-FFR which this study will investigate further.

      An alternative way to increase the diagnostic accuracy of CCTA and thus avoid unnecessary
      downstream testing using ICA is to utilize the ability to extract physiological information
      from the anatomical CCTA images. CT-FFR has in previous studies shown promising results. In
      addition, calculated estimation of microcirculatiory function is under development and this
      study will validated these algorithms. Furthermore, the prognostic value of CT-FFR is unknown
      and will be tested in the pooled cohort of Dan-NICAD 1, 2 and 3.

      Obtained during ICA, quantitative flow ratio (QFR) is a novel wire-free approach for fast
      computation of FFR with potential to increase the global use of physiological lesion
      assessment. QFR is superior to traditional assessment of intermediate coronary lesions based
      on quantitative coronary analysis of ICA. However, disagreement between ICA-FFR and QFR has
      been identified in up to 20% of all measurements. QFR will be validated compared to PET and
      ICA-FFR.
    
  