
    
      Daptomycin is a new antibiotic. It may be effective against a variety of bacterial infections
      that are difficult to treat.

      Aztreonam, Cefepime, Carbapenems and Augmentin are antibiotics that are used to treat certain
      types of bacteria.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be given daptomycin by
      vein for at least 10 days, depending on your certain type of bacteria. You will receive
      Daptomycin by vein for 30 minutes every 24 hours.

      The CVC associated with CRBSI (catheter-related bloodstream infection = CR-BSI) from all
      enrolled patients will either be removed or be exchanged over guide wire for a new CVC within
      96 hours of onset of the first blood culture. Your primary doctor will decide whether to
      remove or exchange the CVC with the willingness of you.

      If the study doctor and/or your primary physician knows or thinks that you have a mixed
      infection (both "gram positive" and "gram negative") or may have infection in lungs
      (pneumonia), you may also be treated with the antibiotic drugs Aztreonam, Cefepime,
      Carbapenems, or Augmentin by vein or by mouth in combination with the study drug Daptomycin.

      During each week of treatment, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine lab
      tests. The blood sample may be drawn from the CVC, if the CVC is still in place. In addition,
      blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn every other day until it no longer shows signs of
      infection. The catheter exit site may be examined at each visit until you have no more signs
      or symptoms of infection. If you are discharged from the hospital before completing the study
      medication, arrangements will be made to provide infusions on an out-patient basis or home
      infusion.

      During each week of treatment, you will be asked about any symptoms or illnesses that you
      have experienced. In addition, you will be asked to inform the study doctor and/or study
      staff of any medications or therapies that you are taking while on study. You will be taken
      off study if the infection gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Participation on this study will last for a no more than 60 days. If you have been discharged
      from the hospital, the end of treatment visit will take place within 7 -14 days of the last
      day of study drug. You will need to return for the visit on an outpatient basis.

      At this visit, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (heart
      rate, temperature, and blood pressure). Blood samples (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for
      routine test and to check for infection. The blood sample may be drawn from the CVC, if the
      CVC is still in place. The CVC exit site will be examined. You will be asked about any
      symptoms or illnesses that you may have experienced. In addition, you will be asked to inform
      the study doctor and/or study staff of any medications or therapies that you are taking.

      You will have a follow-up exam between 32 (+/- 7) days after your last dose of study drug.
      You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (heart rate, temperature,
      and blood pressure). Blood (about one tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests and to
      check for infection. The blood samples may be drawn from the CVC, if the CVC is still in
      place. The CVC exit site may be examined. You will be asked about any symptoms or illnesses
      that you may have experienced. In addition, you will be asked to inform the study doctor
      and/or study staff of any medications or therapies that you are taking. Participation on this
      study will end once you complete the follow-up visit.

      This is an investigational study. Daptomycin is approved by the FDA for the treatment of skin
      and soft tissue infection. However, for the use described in this study and at this dose
      level, Daptomycin is authorized by the FDA for use in research only. About 50 patients will
      take part in this study. All will be enrolled at the University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson
      Cancer Center (MDACC).
    
  