
    
      Pituitary suppression is strongly advised to be included within the follicular stimulation
      protocols to avoid the occurrence of a premature LH surge, which leads to cycle cancellation.

      However, whatever the drug and the schedule selected to achieve it, it is clear that
      pituitary suppression constitute a major perturbation of the endocrine milieu and that it has
      an impact on the outcome of the stimulation.

      Indeed, the data in the literature support the idea that pituitary down-regulation by GnRH
      agonists according to the so-called long protocol, resulting in a deeper suppression, result
      in better clinical outcomes as compared to the short protocol, at least in women of younger
      reproductive age. Conversely, it has been proposed that a less profound suppression (e.g.
      short protocol), that allows better background regulation from the pituitary, should be
      preferred in women of advanced reproductive age.

      However, the majority of the data currently supporting the decision makers in selecting their
      pituitary suppression strategies is based on studies focussed on standard, good prognosis
      patients whereas just a few studies have specifically addressed the special issue of the
      advanced reproductive age. Inasmuch, very few data are available in pure (non resistant)
      advanced age patients and, however, no studies have compared in the same setting younger vs
      aged subjects with an adequate sample size.

      Another intriguing aspect of the question is that the chronological age does not necessarily
      overlap with the reproductive age which, besides complicating the decisional process in the
      clinical practise, may also play as a confounding factor in the evaluation of the results
      from clinical trials. Several studies have validated the role of the so-called follicle
      antral count (AFC) and the anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) circulating levels as having a
      predictive role in the evaluation of the actual reproductive age. In particular the latter,
      the AMH, appears to be easier to standardise and to be used as the best reference in
      multicentre clinical studies focussed on the reproductive age.

      In summary, there is a clear lack of information on the performance of the different
      GnRH-agonist schedules in alternative chronological and reproductive age groups and the data
      from a large size prospective trial may generate valuable indications for the daily clinical
      practise.
    
  