
    
      Acute coronary syndrome is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity globally. The Principal
      Investigator (PI) has been conducting research on sleep medicine and cardiovascular disease
      since 2007. Our early work has shown that obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is prevalent in
      patients presenting with an acute coronary syndrome, and carries negative prognostic
      implications. This Clinician Scientist Award application is centered on the potential
      cardiovascular benefits of a Sleep Study-Guided Multidisciplinary Therapy (SGMT) that
      includes continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and behavioral therapy for patients
      presenting with an acute coronary syndrome, which could lead to a potential paradigm shift in
      patient management during the sub-acute phase of the syndrome. For this application, we have
      assembled a team of experts in cardiovascular medicine and sleep medicine. Using the leverage
      of the synergistic expertise of the assembled leaders and the knowledge generated in the
      early part of the program, we will embark on a therapeutic trial.

      In this randomized trial, 180 patients presenting with an acute coronary syndrome will be
      recruited and randomized into SGMT versus standard therapy (without sleep study) groups. Both
      groups will be treated with a guideline-mandated therapy for acute coronary syndrome
      (including regular cardiology outpatient clinic visits after discharge). In those allocated
      to SGMT, an overnight sleep study using a level 3 portable diagnostic device will be carried
      out. Those with OSA (an estimated 75% according to the pilot data) will be treated with CPAP
      and behavioral therapy. Plasma N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), ST2, and
      hs-CRP levels will be measured before hospital discharge and at 6-month follow-up. The
      10-year risk of cardiovascular mortality based on the European cardiovascular risk score
      (SCORE), which includes age, sex, smoking status, systolic blood pressure, and serum total
      cholesterol or total/high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol ratio, will be determined at
      baseline and at 6-month follow-up.

      Our specific aims are to compare the effects of SGMT and standard therapy on:

        -  Plasma levels of NT-proBNP (Primary endpoint), ST2 and hs-CRP. We hypothesize that SGMT
           will be associated with a lower plasma NT-proBNP, ST2 and hs-CRP levels than standard
           therapy at 6-month follow-up.

        -  Systematic COronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE). We hypothesize that SGMT will be associated
           with a lower SCORE than standard therapy at 6-month follow-up.

        -  Incidence of major adverse cardiac events (extended study). We hypothesize that SGMT
           will be associated with a lower incidence of major adverse cardiac events at 3-year
           follow-up (an application for additional funding will be made to accomplish this aim).
    
  