
    
      Primary biliary cholangitis is a chronic, progressive liver disease of autoimmune origin
      characterized by nonpurulent destruction of intrahepatic ductule, lymphatic infiltration of
      portal area and long-term intrahepatic cholestasis leading to liver fibrosis and cirrhosis in
      absence of treatment. The diagnosis is made in the presence of antimitochondrial antibodies
      (AMA) coupled with an increase in alkaline phosphatase (ALP), a histologic confirmation being
      mandatory only in seronegative cases or overlap syndrome. Treatment is based on
      ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) and obeticholic acid, which are proved effective in improving
      biochemical index and preventing disease progression. While obeticholic acid is only approved
      in USA and Canada, UDCA seem to be the only choice for PBC patients in China. Study has shown
      that liver function improvement can be expected in six to nine months when patients receive
      standard dosage( 13 -15mg/kg/d) of UDCA. Recovery of liver function takes two years in 20% of
      patients ,and five years in 15% to 35% of patients. Lifetime medication is recommended among
      patients with good respond to UDCA, while the high cost has placed great burden on patients
      as well as the medical service system. Exploration of the reducing medication regimen of UDCA
      among stable PBC patients is of great significance under this circumstance. In our study, the
      90 recruited patients of refractory PBC will be distributed randomly into two experimental
      groups and one control group. The two experimental groups will receive reduced dosage of UDCA
      at 250mg bid and 250mg qd respectively, while the control group will receive standard dosage
      of UDCA. The effect of therapy will be evaluated every three months, which includes
      assessment of symptoms, life quality, disease progression, complete blood count, urinalysis,
      liver biochemical markers (ALT, AST, ALP, GGT, TBIL, DBIL, TP, ALB), blood lipid (CHO, TG,
      LDL, HDL), immunoglobulins, ESR, AMA, liver morphology and cirrhosis degree, along with
      peripheral T lymphocyte subpopulations and cytokines test.
    
  