
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose/recommended phase 2 dose (MTD/RP2D) of selumetinib
      sulfate (selumetinib) + vinblastine sulfate (vinblastine) for children with progressive or
      recurrent low-grade gliomas (LGGs).

      II. To determine if selumetinib + vinblastine will lead to improved event-free survival (EFS)
      outcome compared with selumetinib alone for children with progressive or recurrent LGGs.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the objective response rates and overall survival associated with treatment
      with selumetinib + vinblastine versus single-agent selumetinib.

      II. To estimate the difference in EFS and response rate between patients with BRAF rearranged
      LGG and patients with non-BRAF rearranged LGG after treatment with selumetinib + vinblastine
      versus single-agent selumetinib.

      III. To evaluate toxicities associated with selumetinib + vinblastine and single-agent
      selumetinib for children with progressive or recurrent LGGs.

      IV. To compare the quality of life among patients treated with selumetinib + vinblastine and
      single-agent selumetinib.

      V. To examine the vision outcomes among patients with optic pathway gliomas (OPGs) treated
      with selumetinib + vinblastine and single-agent selumetinib.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To obtain paired blood and tumor specimens for future biology studies, including studies
      to correlate genomic drivers to response.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation feasibility study of vinblastine sulfate in combination
      with selumetinib, followed by a randomized efficacy study. Patients in the feasibility study
      are assigned to Arm I, while patients in the efficacy study are randomized to Arm I or Arm
      II.

      ARM I: Patients receive vinblastine sulfate intravenously (IV) over 1 minute or IV infusion
      on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and selumetinib sulfate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days. Patients receive selumetinib and vinblastine for a total
      duration of 17 cycles followed by 10 additional cycles of selumetinib alone in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive selumetinib sulfate PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 27 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for year 1,
      every 6 months for years 2-3, and annually for years 4-5.
    
  