
    
      The failure to place properly an endotracheal tube (ETT) and to secure the airway is still
      significantly impacting morbidity and mortality in surgical and critical care settings. In
      addition, no assertive predictor factor will foresee the presence of difficult airway, most
      of them being acknowledged after anesthesia induction. The incidence of difficult intubation
      reported in different studies varies from 0.1% to 13%.

      The gold standard device to place an ETT that has been used since 1943 is the Macintosh
      laryngoscope (ML). However, in contemplation of addressing these challenging factors related
      to endotracheal intubation failure, modern airway devices technology has been developed in
      order to improve orotracheal visualization, reduce orotracehal manipulation and ensure airway
      patency.

      As part of these novel devices, several video laryngoscopies (VL) have s been developed to
      secure the airway and improve the management of difficult intubation. Difficult Airway
      Society (DAS) guidelines recognizes the usefulness of VL in difficult intubation by providing
      an improved view of the airway to clinicians and directly observe/report the effects of
      laryngeal manipulation.

      Among several VL introduced recently, a McGrath MAC® VL was announced in 2012. McGrath MAC®
      is a self-contained VL with a single-use blade; its structure is similar to the ML, but
      without the channel that guides the tube and a mounted LCD screen on the handle that is
      connected to a miniature camera with a light source at the tip of the blade, allowing the
      clinicians to directly observe surrounding anatomical airway structures during a tracheal
      intubation. These features have shown a better glottis visualization and to be supportive
      during tracheal intubation of difficult airways.

      The McGrath MAC® VL and ML are standard of care devices used according to anesthesia care
      providers' criteria at our institution.

      A single-center, prospective, randomized, double arm study, will be conducted in order to
      test the following hypothesis:

      Reduced manipulation of the airway using McGrath MAC® VL will lead to less hemodynamic
      stimulation events following intubation when compared to ML.

      The non-disposable portion of the McGrath MAC® VL (upper mounted reusable video camera and
      the optic guide) will be cleaned between usages in accordance to manufacture catalogue and
      institutional policy (using disinfectants such as CIDEXTM OPA, a 0.08% paracetic acid
      solution or disinfecting wipes).
    
  