
    
      So far, granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is still currently the only effective
      and security therapy drug for neutropenia caused by cancer chemotherapy. At present, the
      widely used G-CSF products are of such short-acting G-CSF product in China. However, there
      existed some shortcoming about short-acting G-CSF, such as shorter half-life, continuous
      monitoring of the patient's blood neutrophil count and so on.

      Nowadays,long-acting G-CSF product,such as Neulasta®, has become the mainstream of the
      foreign G-CSF market for its superiority of long half-life and absence of monitoring of the
      patient's blood neutrophil count. The new drug Recombinant(Expressed by Pichia pastoris)
      Human Serum Albumin/Human Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor(I)Fusion Protein(GW003) is a
      long-acting G-CSF.Preclinical studies have shown that GW003 has accelerated neutrophil
      recovery and can shorten the duration of neutropenia symptoms, also reduce its extent,
      therefore minimize the likelihood of serious infections, reflecting a better efficacy and
      more long half-life.

      Phase I was performed as two parts, Ia and Ib. Ia was a sequential dose escalation to observe
      the dose-limiting toxicity(DLT) and Maximum Tolerated Dose of GW003 given subcutaneously to
      patients without receiving chemotherapy,6 dose cohorts(50、150、300、400、500 and 600μg/kg) with
      2-3 subjects in the 50、150μg/kg cohorts and 3-6 subjects（depend on the Dose-limiting
      toxicity） in the 300、400、500 and 600μg/kg cohorts, to evaluate safety and pharmacokinetics
      prior to the Ⅰb.

      Ib proposed two arms (150 and 300μg/kg；n=6-8/arm), and to determine whether to continue to
      increase other dose arm based on the safety and efficacy assessment. Subjects need to receive
      two cycles treatment of AT chemotherapy. In cycle 1, subjects received AT chemotherapy only;
      in cycle 2, subjects were administered subcutaneously GW003 24 hours after chemotherapy
      drugs.
    
  