
    
      Candidates will attend Multidisciplinary Clinic (MDC) as appointment date for examination
      then they will get surgery appointment (admit to ward) 7-14 days after MDC date. Eligible
      patients will be identified from name list available in the electronic medical record.
      Selection of patient will be done by assigned research team member then she will approach and
      inform with study procedures to all potential candidates (selected based on inclusion and
      exclusion criteria) while they attend MDC during study period. Participants will be
      randomized into two groups: the carbohydrate-protein (CHO-P) group and conventional (CO)
      group during admission to hospital via random numbers which are issued by computer program.
      For the concepts of the CONSORT flow diagram are followed [50]. The Patient Information
      Consent Form will be given to identify eligible subjects who agreed to be recruited in the
      study. Subjects are allowed to bring back consent form if she keen to seek advice from family
      member.

      Carbohydrate-protein group: Participants will attend dietitian clinic to have anthropometry &
      dietary assessment on the same day of admission (before admission). Subjects are given a
      specific drink to their group on the evening prior to surgery and three hours before
      operation. The CHO-P group received 474ml (evening drink) or 237ml (3 hours prior to
      operation drink) of a lactose-free clear tea-colour fruit flavoured fluid contains 14% whey
      protein, 86% carbohydrates and 0% lipids. Participants fast for solids for 6 hours from the
      operation. Participants will be given clear fluid (2 packs Resource peach) within 24 hours
      post-surgery (without present of bowel sound) and reviewed by dietitian. Staff nurse
      in-charged will monitor anesthetic risk of drinking whey protein and ensure subject to finish
      specific drinks prior surgery. When they tolerated at least 500ml of clear fluids, they were
      given a regular solid diet.

      Conventional group: Participants will attend dietitian clinic to have anthropometry & dietary
      assessment on the same day of admission (before admission). Participants followed
      conventional operation procedure whereby fasting start 12am until operation. On the first day
      of post-operation day, participants will be reviewed by gynaecologist and dietitian. They are
      allowed for clear fluid once there is bowel sound. After tolerated clear fluid, they will
      proceed for nourishing fluid, then soft diet and they were given a regular solid diet.

      On the day of operation and on the first day of post-operative day, blood samples are
      collected for hemoglobin, renal profile, albumin and C-reactive protein. Biochemical data
      will be record from electronic medical record. Upon discharge, all participants will be sent
      to dietitian clinic to assess anthropometry and dietary data.
    
  