
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess safety, tolerability and toxicity of SVN53-67/M57-KLH peptide vaccine (SurVaxM)
      in emulsion with incomplete Freund's adjuvant (montanide ISA 51) and given subcutaneously
      with sargramostim (granulocyte macrophage-colony-stimulating factor [GM-CSF]) in combination
      with a somatostatin analogue, octreotide acetate (Sandostatin LAR) in patients with survivin
      positive metastatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine clinical benefit (including complete response, partial response and stable
      disease as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] version [v]1.1)
      at 6 months, 9 months and 12 months from study entry.

      II. To evaluate the immunogenicity of SurVaxM in NETs by measuring anti-survivin antibody
      levels and anti-tumor T-cell responses in peripheral blood.

      III. To determine time to progression (TTP) compared to prior to study entry, in patients
      with metastatic NETs treated with SurVaxM and octreotide who experienced progression on
      therapy with a somatostatin analogue.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore immune markers associated with clinical responses to SurVaxM in peripheral
      blood of NETs patients.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive a SVN53-67/M57-KLH peptide vaccine in incomplete Freund's adjuvant
      subcutaneously (SC) and sargramostim SC on day 0. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 4
      doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive
      octreotide acetate intramuscularly (IM) on day 0. Cycles of octreotide acetate repeat every
      28 days for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      who remain free of tumor progression at 6 months and do not develop any regimen-related
      toxicity or serious adverse events will be eligible to receive additional doses of the
      vaccine and sargramostim every 3 months, for up to 1 year from the start of treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 months.
    
  