
    
      Parents report many positive dimensions of raising a child with IDD, yet at the same time,
      being a parent to an individual with IDD is associated with increased stress and poorer
      psychological wellbeing. Through the MAPS (see www.mapsresearch.ca) program, we have been
      studying the experience of parents of adults with IDD to better understand what contributes
      to their difficulties, and factors associated with their wellbeing. This research, combined
      with our recent systematic review on the experience of parents needing services, highlights
      the need for psychological supports to empower parents and to enhance their ability to care
      for their children. With the appropriate psychological supports, parents may be able to
      support their sons/daughters for longer. It is crucial that we invest in researching
      interventions and promising practices that may enhance the capacity of parents. However,
      limited research has considered what types of support make a difference in parental
      well-being.

      Parent empowerment, mindfulness and psychological acceptance are key psychological variables
      related to positive parent outcomes, including the ability to more effectively care for
      others. Parent empowerment refers to active attempts to change situations through the
      application of knowledge and skill. Empowerment is possible when parents feel more familiar
      with services, and more able to advocate and plan for their child. Person directed planning,
      orientation to services, practical tips and planning are all helpful for empowerment.
      Psychological acceptance is a process that involves embracing current difficulties without
      actively attempting to directly change them, thus facilitating positive action in line with
      an individual's or family's values. Such acceptance can be particularly helpful for parents
      when stressful events cannot be immediately resolved or addressed.

      Mindfulness is related to psychological acceptance, and is defined as the awareness that
      emerges through paying attention, on purpose, in the present moment, nonjudgementally to the
      unfolding of experience moment by moment. These latter processes may help parents preserve
      their emotional energy and reduce those thoughts, attitudes and judgments that can interfere
      with addressing their needs and the needs of their child. In this way, we expect that
      increasing psychological acceptance and mindfulness will facilitate parental and family
      empowerment. Mindfulness is an innovative support that shows particular promise because it
      may serve to strengthen parent capacity to care in times of stress, may fundamentally alter
      how parents spend time with their children, and it may help to make parents more effective
      advocates for their children. There is an emerging evidence base demonstrating the benefits
      of mindfulness and acceptance based interventions for a host of medical and psychological
      issues. Recent attention has been paid to teaching mindfulness to caregivers to help them
      with caregiving. Studies have included caregivers of patients with cancer, adults with
      dementia, youth with behavioural difficulties, and most recently, children with IDD.

      Preliminary research from the UK and the US has demonstrated the benefits that mindfulness
      based interventions have on parent ability to care for their young children and youth with
      IDD. Singh and colleagues published case series teaching parents of children with IDD the
      philosophy and practice of mindfulness. These papers demonstrated that with 12 training
      sessions, parents reported decreases in child behaviour problems and increased parenting
      satisfaction. Blackledge and Hayes applied Acceptance and Commitment Therapy to a group of 20
      parents of youth with autism and demonstrated significant improvement in general distress,
      depression, and maternal acceptance immediately following the therapy as well as 3 months
      later.

      Most recently, Dykens and colleagues demonstrated improved mood and reductions in in a cohort
      of 287 parents of children with IDD participating in Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction in
      Tennessee, compared to parents participating in a Positive Psychology Support Program. Neece
      and colleagues reported similar improvements in a group of 100 parents with preschool age
      children with IDD in California. Most impressive in both studies was the high attendance rate
      of parents, attributed in part to onsite childcare. A similar group, using a modification of
      Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT), developed by team member Zindel Segal and
      colleagues is currently being evaluated in Wales by team member Richard Hastings and
      colleagues.

      We will evaluate the impact of two community based interventions for parents of adults with
      IDD who are requesting services. The first intervention is considered current best practice
      (active control), which will offer parents support and information about services to enhance
      parent empowerment ("support and information for parents"). This will be compared to an
      intervention that will target both parent empowerment and psychological
      acceptance/mindfulness by blending parent support with mindfulness training ("mindfulness
      intervention for parents"). The idea of adding a psychological intervention to a more
      practical intervention has been explored in mindfulness research previously and also in the
      parent training literature more generally. We will compare this intervention to an "active
      control" so that we can determine the unique contribution of the mindfulness component of the
      intervention.
    
  