
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality
      worldwide, with the economic and social burden of disease anticipated to increase annually.
      Acute exacerbations of COPD (AECOPD) are associated with significant in-hospital mortality
      (6-8%), high readmission rates (60-80%), and even more dramatic 1-year mortality (23-49%).

      The use of non-invasive ventilation (NIV) has been extensively evaluated in both patients
      with stable disease in the home setting and in AECOPD during hospitalization. It is widely
      accepted that NIV used during AECOPD in the inpatient setting reduces rates of endotracheal
      intubation, as well as length of ICU and hospital stay. Long-term use of NIV, particularly at
      higher pressures, in the home setting in COPD patients with evidence of chronic compensated
      respiratory acidosis (PaCO2 >45mmHg) decreases elevated PaCo2 and serum bicarbonate levels,
      improves pulmonary function, and improves quality of life. Little is known about whether
      patients initiated on NIV during an AECOPD and subsequently transitioned to long-term home
      NIV on discharge demonstrate reduced AECOPD rates, readmission rates, or differences in
      morbidity and mortality. The few existing randomized trials aimed at this patient population
      suffer from criticisms of lack of power, varying degrees of patient symptoms, conflicting
      results, and inconsistent approaches in NIV strategies. Nonetheless, this is an important
      population to address, as AECOPD frequently leads to accelerated loss of lung function
      (pre-AECOPD function not recovered), decreased quality of life (QOL), more frequent
      exacerbations, and higher overall mortality. If NIV can minimize the loss of lung function
      during the transition period following AECOPD, QOL, physical activity tolerance, readmission
      rates and overall mortality may improve.

      Economic analyses of the use of NIV in patients with AECOPD transitioning from the inpatient
      to home setting are also sparse, but of high value as healthcare transitions toward bundled
      payments and penalties for readmissions. This pilot study seeks to better inform the
      literature on the role of NIV initiated during inpatient AECOPD and continued long-term
      following discharge home in patients with chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure due to
      COPD. The investigators hypothesize that the use of NIV during acute inpatient treatment of
      AECOPD followed by continuation of NIV therapy long-term at home will improve admission free
      survival, improve quality of life, reduce 1-year exacerbation rates, and reduce 30d
      readmissions.

      This is a prospective 1-year interventional pilot study that will occur at 4 Veterans Affairs
      (VA) hospitals (Sacramento, Durham, Pittsburgh, and San Francisco).

      The total enrollment goal across all sites is 50. Total study period expected includes an
      enrollment period of approximately 10-12 months and follow-up period of 12 months for a total
      study duration of approximately 2 years.
    
  