
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) is the most common hospital discharge diagnosis in elderly
      patients . Fatigue and dyspnea with exercise intolerance and a poor quality of life are the
      main characteristics of this syndrome , and it is associated with substantial mortality and
      morbidity , .

      Although the systolic dysfunction has been recognized as the primum movens of CHF, it is now
      generally accepted that the progression of the syndrome is not solely related to the pump
      failure.

      The neuro-endocrine model has reached a wide consensus as one of the basic mechanisms for
      progressive heart failure based on the good results obtained by ACE-inhibitor therapy . A
      decade ago the cytokine model was added to explain the syndrome of heart failure . The
      cytokines are highly potent endogenous peptides produced by different cell types . Elevated
      levels might be markers for cardiac cachexia, but they may also play an important role in the
      mechanism of CHF progression . Subsequently, the muscle hypothesis was proposed as an
      explanation for the deconditioning in CHF patients . In skeletal muscle from healthy
      individuals there is a balanced distribution between type I fibres (aerobic), type IIA fibres
      (both aerobic and anaerobic) and type IIB fibres (mostly anaerobic). In CHF a shift to type
      II fibres and a reduced capillary density as well as a reduced cytochrome oxidase activity is
      observed, but the mechanisms leading to such a shift have not been clarified . Deconditioning
      may be an important factor aggravating the underlying pathophysiology in CHF and exercise
      training has been shown to improve exercise performance and to reduce symptoms in this
      population . This is partly mediated by activation of the Protein PGC-1, a critical factor
      coordinating the activation of metabolic genes required for substrate utilization and
      mitochondrial biogenesis . The increase in this enzyme has been highly correlated to increase
      in peak VO2 after a aerobic interval training program in heart failure .

      One would expect that an improvement in exercise performance following improvement in central
      hemodynamics with cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) would be associated with improved
      muscular blood flow and energy metabolism. However, so far no reports have been published on
      the skeletal muscle response to CRT. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of
      6 months CRT pacing on skeletal muscle histology and mitochondrial mass and the association
      of these changes to alterations in functional capacity as measured with peak VO2. Moreover,
      we also sought to assess the relationship between changes in skeletal muscle and alterations
      in the inflammatory response in serum and in skeletal muscle.
    
  