
    
      Prostate cancer is one of the most important health problems in men. According to the
      information from Centre of Health Promotion (CHP) in January 2010, prostate cancer recorded
      the largest increase in incidence rate among the common male cancers in Hong Kong during the
      past two decades. In 2007, prostate cancer was the fourth most common cancer in men and there
      were 1 205 newly diagnosed cases of prostate cancer. It accounted for 9.2% of all new cancer
      cases in males. It is the fifth leading cause of male cancer deaths in Hong Kong. In 2008, a
      total of 282 men died from this cancer, accounting for 3.8% of male cancer deaths.

      For patients with disease confined to the prostate, several treatment alternatives are now
      available. However, radical prostatectomy remains the standard for long-term cure (Guidelines
      of American Urological Association, 2010). The incidence of incontinence and erectile
      dysfunction is higher after operation than other therapies for localized prostate cancer
      (Alivizatos, et al, 2005). Based on the literature review, the post prostatectomy urinary
      incontinence (PPUI) rates were ranging from 0.5-87% (Parekh, et al, 2003) and potency rates
      ranging from 11-87% (Alivizatos, et al, 2005). Various reasons are held responsible for this
      wide discrepancy, including surgical technique, definition of incontinence, time of
      evaluation, pathological stage, and patient age (Pannek & Konig, 2005). However, the majority
      of the patients undergoing radical prostatectomy would vote for the operation again as they
      put tumour free on their first priority (Alivizatos, et al., 2005). The cause of urinary
      incontinence after radical prostatectomy is not completely understood, but leakage is thought
      to result primarily from sphincteric insufficiency, resulting from sphincteric injury or
      detrusor overactivity and effects on the bladder detrusor muscle (Leach, 1995). Men afflicted
      with urinary incontinence must contend with shame, embarrassment, depression, avoidance of
      social activities and altered life style (Braslis et al., 1995; Herr, 1994). So, early and
      appropriate management of urinary incontinence can improve one's quality of life and reduce
      the adverse consequences of urinary incontinence such as lowering of the physical health
      causing disability and dependence, affecting the psychological well-being and social
      functioning; as well as escalating health care costs (White & Getliffe, 2003; Wyman, 2003).

      Sueppel et al. (2001) found that pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) taught pre operatively
      helped patients achieve continence quicker than if only taught post operatively. There was
      significant improvement in the intervention group objectively by weighting the pad in every
      visit (pad weight: 2.8 g in intervention group whereas 33.3 g in control group). Previously,
      Bales et al. (2000) recruited 100 men scheduled to undergo radical prostatectomy were
      randomized to receive PFMT with biofeedback 2-4 weeks before surgery by a nurse pre and post
      operatively or to a group only receive briefly verbal instruction on PFMT without
      biofeedback. Six months following surgery, the continence rates, as defined by the use of one
      pad or less per day were 96% (44 of 47) and 96% (48 of 50) in the biofeedback and control
      groups respectively. The authors concluded that pre operative formal PFMT and biofeedback
      training did not improve the outcome of PFMT on overall continence as measured by number of
      pads used or the rate of return of urinary control in men undergoing radical prostatectomy at
      6 months (p=0.596).

      Among all studies reviewed, the efficacy of pre operative PFMT in early regaining of urinary
      control after radical prostatectomy is still inconclusive. Thus, further studies on PFMT for
      PPUI are needed (Centemero & Rigatti, et al., 2010).
    
  