
    
      In a recent national survey, 11% of adults in China have diabetes and 50% have pre-diabetes
      defined by fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 5.6-6.9 mmol/l and/or 2-hour post glucose (PG)
      7.8-11.0 mmol/L using 75 gram oral glucose tolerance test (75g OGTT) and/or glycated
      haemoglobin (HbA1c) 5.7-6.4%. Depending on the presence of other risk factors, the annual
      conversion rate of pre-diabetes averages 3-10% with pre-diabetes associated with 1.5-2.0 fold
      increased risk for cardiovascular disease. Once diabetes is established, life expectancy is
      reduced by 6 years if not diagnosed, treated or controlled, especially in young-to-middle
      aged subjects who will face long disease duration of diabetes.

      In the Hong Kong Diabetes Registry, depending on control of glucose and other risk factors,
      3-10% of Chinese subjects with diabetes may die or develop a major event every year including
      heart disease, stroke, kidney failure and /or all-site cancer.

      Besides glycaemic control as defined by HbA1c, post prandial hyperglycaemia and glycaemic
      variability have also been shown to predict cardiovascular and renal events in both
      pre-diabetic and diabetic patient. Genetic variants discovered in large-scale epidemiological
      studies including those from China and Hong Kong have been found to be associated with beta
      cell dysfunction which can be further exacerbated by glucotoxicity and lipotoxicity, often
      due to co-existing obesity giving rise to early onset diabetes. Several studies including
      those from Asian populations indicated that subjects with pre-diabetes exhibit reduced early
      phase insulin secretion resulting in postprandial hyperglycaemia which can impose metabolic
      stress on the beta cells leading to eventual beta cell failure.

      BTI320, also known as SUGARDOWN®, is derived from galactomanan which acts by blocking the key
      carbohydrate hydrolyzing enzymes including amylase, maltose, lactose and sucrose in the
      gastrointestinal tract. It also acts to bind to ingested polysaccharides and slow their
      absorption with each meal thereby reducing post prandial glucose excursion. The mechanism of
      action for BTI320 is similar to Acarbose®, an alpha glucosidase inhibitor, which has been
      shown to improve glycaemic control and has been approved for prevention of diabetes in China.

      24-hour continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS) measures mean blood glucose (MBG), mean
      area under the curve for blood glucose above 10mmol/l (180mg/dl) (AUC-180), mean postprandial
      maximum glucose (MPMG), mean amplitude of glucose excursion (MAGE) over 72 hours. These
      parameters correlate well with plasma fructosamine (FA) alternatively known as glycated
      albumin, which reflects short-term glycaemic control during the preceding 2 weeks.
    
  