
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is a major cause of visual impairment in the United States. Diabetic
      macular edema (DME) is a manifestation of diabetic retinopathy that produces loss of central
      vision. Data from the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR) estimate
      that after 15 years of known diabetes, the prevalence of diabetic macular edema is
      approximately 20% in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM), 25% in patients with type 2
      DM who are taking insulin, and 14% in patients with type 2 DM who do not take insulin.

      In a review of three early studies concerning the natural history of diabetic macular edema,
      Ferris and Patz found that 53% of 135 eyes with diabetic macular edema, presumably all
      involving the center of the macula, lost two or more lines of visual acuity over a two year
      period. In the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), 33% of 221 untreated eyes
      available for follow-up at the 3-year visit, all with edema involving the center of the
      macula at baseline, had experienced a 15 or more letter decrease in visual acuity score
      (equivalent to a doubling of the visual angle, e.g., 20/25 to 20/50, and termed "moderate
      visual loss").

      In the ETDRS, focal photocoagulation (direct treatment to microaneurysms and grid treatment
      to diffuse edema) of eyes with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) reduced the risk
      of moderate visual loss by approximately 50% (from 24% to 12%, three years after initiation
      of treatment). Therefore, 12% of treated eyes developed moderate visual loss in spite of
      treatment. Furthermore, approximately 40% of treated eyes that had retinal thickening
      involving the center of the macula at baseline still had thickening involving the center at
      12 months, as did 25% of treated eyes at 36 months.

      Although several treatment modalities are currently under investigation, the only
      demonstrated means to reduce the risk of vision loss from diabetic macular edema are laser
      photocoagulation, as demonstrated by the ETDRS, intensive glycemic control, as demonstrated
      by the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and the United Kingdom Prospective
      Diabetes Study (UKPDS) and blood pressure control, as demonstrated by the UKPDS. In the DCCT,
      intensive glucose control reduced the risk of onset of diabetic macular edema by 23% compared
      with conventional treatment. Long-term follow-up of patients in the DCCT show a sustained
      effect of intensive glucose control, with a 58% risk reduction in the development of diabetic
      macular edema for the DCCT patients followed in the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions
      and Complications Study.

      The frequency of an unsatisfactory outcome with respect to proportion with vision improvement
      following laser photocoagulation in some eyes with diabetic macular edema has prompted
      interest in other treatment modalities. One such treatment is pars plana vitrectomy. These
      studies suggest that vitreomacular traction, or the vitreous itself, may play a role in
      increased retinal vascular permeability. Removal of the vitreous or relief of mechanical
      traction with vitrectomy and membrane stripping may be followed by substantial resolution of
      macular edema and corresponding improvement in visual acuity. However, this treatment may be
      applicable only to a specific subset of eyes with diabetic macular edema that have a
      component of vitreomacular traction contributing to the edema. It also requires a complex
      surgical intervention with its inherent risks, recovery time, and expense. Other treatment
      modalities such as pharmacologic therapy with oral protein kinase C inhibitors and use of
      intravitreal corticosteroids are under investigation. The use of antibodies targeted at
      vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), such as in the current study, is another treatment
      modality that has generated considerable interest, and is currently being investigated in
      phase 3 trials of choroidal neovascularization in age-related macular degeneration (with
      pegaptanib or ranibizumab) or diabetic macular edema (with pegaptanib).

      Increased VEGF levels have been demonstrated in the retina and vitreous of human eyes with
      diabetic retinopathy. VEGF, also known as vascular permeability factor, has been demonstrated
      to increase vessel permeability by increasing the phosphorylation of tight junction proteins,
      and has been shown to increase retinal vascular permeability in in vivo models. Anti-VEGF
      therapy, therefore, may represent a useful therapeutic modality which targets the underlying
      pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema.

      Bevacizumab is currently approved for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, and
      published case reports and widespread clinical use have suggested its efficacy in the
      treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration and macular edema associated with
      diabetes and central retinal vein occlusion. To date, no evidence of ocular inflammation or
      other adverse events has been noted in association with intravitreal injection of
      bevacizumab. However, a study has not been conducted to evaluate its efficacy and safety. In
      view of the widespread use of bevacizumab, such a study is important to conduct.

      From a public health perspective, an intravitreal bevacizumab study is also important to
      conduct because of the relatively low cost of the bevacizumab drug. As noted earlier,
      bevacizumab is marketed for systemic use for colon cancer. The dose used in the eye is a
      fraction of the systemic dose and costs $25 to $50 per dose.

      The two doses of bevacizumab being evaluated in this study will be 1.25 mg, which is the dose
      that has most commonly been used in clinical practice, and 2.5 mg, which has also been used
      though less commonly. A lower dose than 1.25 mg would create difficulties with dilution and
      the accuracy of injection of a small volume.

      The optimal interval for the bevacizumab doses is not known. Six weeks has been selected for
      this study as it is not believed that the effect will last longer than this. Retinal
      thickening and visual acuity will be measured at 3 and 6 weeks to provide the requisite
      information to judge the duration of effect.

      There is expected to be a beneficial cumulative effect of multiple doses. A total of two
      doses, spaced 6 weeks apart, was selected for the study with the primary outcome 3 weeks
      after the second dose.

      The decision as to whether to proceed to a phase 3 trial will be based on the observation of
      a substantial reduction in retinal thickening in the bevacizumab-treated eyes compared with
      the laser-treated eyes and at least a suggestion of benefit on visual acuity, plus a safety
      profile of minimal risk.

      Description: The study involves the enrollment of subjects over 18 years of age with diabetic
      macular edema. Subjects will have one study eye randomly assigned with equal probability
      (stratified by visual acuity) to one of 5 treatment groups:

      Laser photocoagulation at baseline

      1.25 mg intravitreal injection of bevacizumab at baseline and 6 weeks

      2.5 mg intravitreal injection of bevacizumab at baseline and 6 weeks

      1.25 mg intravitreal injection of bevacizumab at baseline (sham injection at 6 weeks)

      1.25 mg intravitreal injection of bevacizumab at baseline, laser photocoagulation at 3 weeks,
      and intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg bevacizumab at 6 weeks

      Follow-up includes 10 visits at 4 days, 3 weeks, 6 weeks, 4 days following 6 weeks, 9 weeks,
      12 weeks, 18 weeks, 24 weeks, 41 weeks and 70 weeks. At each visit, visual acuity and ocular
      exams are completed on both eyes, and an OCT is performed on the study eye (except at the
      4-day visits).

      During the first 12 weeks, no other treatment for DME is given. During weeks 13-24, treatment
      depends on the response to the treatment given during the first 12 weeks. After 24 weeks,
      follow-up is for safety and treatment is at the investigator's discretion.
    
  