
    
      Colorectal cancer is the fourth commonest form of cancer worldwide and remains a leading
      malignancy both in incidence and mortality. Erbitux is an immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal
      antibody that specifically blocks ligand binding to the EGFR with high affinity, thereby
      preventing downstream signal transduction and cellular responses. Erbitux enhances the
      effects of some common chemotherapy agents and radiotherapy and demonstrates minimal
      overlapping toxicities with these approaches. Erbitux in combination with other treatment
      modalities, has also shown efficacy in the treatment of a number of solid tumors, including
      mCRC, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, and non-small cell lung cancer. Based on
      several studies conducted in the past, Erbitux has been approved for the treatment of
      subjects with EGFR-expressing, KRAS wild-type mCRC, as a single agent in subjects who have
      failed oxaliplatin-and irinotecan-based therapy and who are intolerant to irinotecan or in
      combination with chemotherapy. The most common Erbitux-related adverse events (AEs) are
      related to skin, infusion, and hypersensitivity reactions. Other side effects with Erbitux
      monotherapy include asthenia, dyspnoea, mucositis, nausea, pain, fever and headache.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To obtain safety information on the use of Erbitux in subjects with EGFR-expressing,
           KRAS wild-type mCRC in terms of frequency and severity of AEs

      Secondary objective:

        -  To gather clinical efficacy information of the treatment

      The study will primarily collect safety data related to Erbitux treatment along with the
      clinical efficacy information from the start of treatment with Erbitux until progressive
      disease, Erbitux related intolerable toxicities, death, or withdrawal of Erbitux treatment
      whichever occurs first. All subjects will be enrolled in the order to visit the physician
      after making contract and each subject will be observed for a period of 4 months in average.
      Erbitux will be prescribed to mCRC subjects according to the approved national label as in
      routine clinical practice under the supervision of an investigator experienced in the use of
      antineoplastic medicinal products. Prior to the first infusion, subjects will receive
      pre-medication with an antihistamine and a corticosteroid. The initial dose of Erbitux is 400
      mg/m2 body surface area and the subsequent weekly doses are 250 mg/m2 each administered
      intravenously (i.v.) via in-line filtration with an infusion pump, gravity drip, or a syringe
      pump. The recommended infusion period for the initial dose is 120 minutes and for the
      subsequent weekly doses is 60 minutes with the maximum infusion rate not exceeding 5 ml/min.
      The observational period of this study is defined as from the first infusion of Erbitux until
      28 days after the last infusion of Erbitux in each subject, regardless the reason of
      discontinuation of Erbitux treatment.
    
  