
    
      Infants exposed to impaired parenting as a result of their mothers' major depression and
      other mental health disorders in the perinatal period are at risk for compromised social
      interaction and affective and behavioral regulation. Depression is the most frequently
      reported mental health condition during the perinatal period; about 9% of infants under one
      year have mothers who experience a major depressive episode. That rate nearly triples to 25%
      for infants of mothers below 200% of the federal poverty level. In addition to poverty, young
      maternal age, lack of social support, low education, and adverse childhood experiences are
      all risk factors for depression, anxiety, and other mental health conditions. Two strands of
      research point to the need for effective parenting support for mothers following treatment
      for mental health conditions in pregnancy. First, depressed mothers frequently fail to
      accurately notice, interpret, or respond sensitively to infant cues. Alarmingly, mothers'
      impaired parenting of their infants continues even after their depression has been
      successfully treated. Second, newborns of prenatally depressed women are physiologically
      dysregulated and hence more challenging to nurture. With the passage of the Affordable Care
      Act and Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting, the federal government is
      supporting states to implement high-quality home visiting programs as part of a comprehensive
      early childhood system for vulnerable families experiencing the risk factors associated with
      maternal depression and other mental health symptoms. But two important limitations of home
      visiting have been identified: child development home visitors are not trained to deal
      meaningfully with maternal depression and other mental health conditions, and they are often
      not sufficiently trained to support infant-mother relationships. Our study has the potential
      to inform intervention programs nationwide by testing the effectiveness of adding a short,
      attachment-based, home-visiting parenting program to an existing, evidence-based mental
      health treatment program delivered via community primary care clinics serving pregnant and
      parenting women from vulnerable populations. The goal of this research is to conduct a
      randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness of Promoting First Relationships®
      for English and Spanish-speaking low-income mothers who were treated for depression or other
      mental health conditions beginning in pregnancy and as needed in the perinatal year.
      Treatment will be coordinated through the publicly funded, evidenced-based Mental Health
      Integration Program for High-Risk Pregnant and Parenting Women (MHIP Moms) in primary care
      community health centers that target safety-net populations in King County, Washington.
      Promoting First Relationships® is a research-based, 10-week home visiting program that uses
      video feedback and strengths-based consultation strategies to increase mothers' parenting
      competence and confidence. Bilingual community providers will deliver Promoting First
      Relationships® after a baseline assessment and random assignment at infant age three months.
      Post tests will occur at infant age six and twelve months. The primary specific aims are to
      test the effectiveness of PFR to improve parenting quality for low income, English and
      Spanish speaking mothers who began mental/behavioral health treatment during pregnancy, and
      to improve social and regulatory outcomes for their infants.
    
  