
    
      Mortality rate of patients with severe melioidosis is still unacceptably high. Response to
      high dose parenteral ceftazidime treatment in survivors is also slow, as median time to
      abatement of fever is approximately 9 days. B. pseudomallei is susceptible to ceftazidime,
      imipenem, co-amoxiclav (Augmentin®), piperacillin and doxycycline, but unlike most other
      pseudomonads it is resistant to aminoglycosides, apart from kanamycin which has borderline
      activity. The fluoroquinolone compounds also have borderline activity. Two large published
      in-vitro studies have shown that the carbapenem group are the most active antibiotics against
      B. pseudomallei, with an MIC90 of 0.5 or 1.0 mg/L, and an MBC90 of 1 mg/L. We have tested the
      susceptibility to meropenem of 100 recently isolated strains of B. pseudomallei, all of which
      were assessed as susceptible (MIC90 = 0.5 mg/L; range 0.125-1 mg/L). Furthermore, 13 isolates
      in our collection assessed as resistant to ceftazidime were susceptible to meropenem. Using
      time-kill kinetic studies, ceftazidime did not show "significant" bactericidal activity
      whereas meropenem was bactericidal (99.9% kill) within 6 hours. Previous treatment trials
      have demonstrated the importance of the choice of antibiotic at the time of presentation. A
      study that compared a four-drug combination of chloramphenicol, doxycycline, and
      trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) with ceftazidime alone demonstrated a 50% reduction in
      the mortality rate from 80% to 35%. Several previous randomized controlled trials have been
      conducted to determine whether the administration of alternative antimicrobial drugs are
      associated with further improvements in outcome. A comparison of TMP-SMX plus ceftazidime
      versus ceftazidime alone demonstrated that the addition of TMPSMX did not reduce the acute
      mortality rate. A previous study comparing ceftazidime and imipenem/cilastatin in the
      treatment of severe melioidosis was performed in Ubon Ratchathani between 1994 and 1997. This
      showed that "treatment failure" rate (a potentially subjective endpoint in this open-labelled
      trial) in the imipenem/cilastatin group was lower than in the ceftazidime group. Endotoxin
      release, believed to be important to the pathogenesis of severe sepsis, was also lower in the
      imipenem group than the ceftazidime group. No difference in mortality was observed, but this
      study was underpowered following early termination due to a lack of imipenem supply from the
      manufacturer. As a result, ceftazidime has remained the treatment of choice for melioidosis,
      but the question remains as to whether a carbapenem drug would be more effective. A second,
      sufficiently powered clinical trial would address this important question.
    
  