
    
      Since a new generation of femtosecond lasers became available for cataract surgery in 2009,
      the use of this image-guided system has provided several benefits, including a reduction in
      phacoemulsification energy by prefragmentation of the crystalline lens, and the potential
      advantages of more precise corneal incisions and capsulotomy formation. However, as with any
      new surgical technique, femtosecond laser cataract surgery also has potential complications.
      Intraoperative miosis is one of the most common intraoperative complications of femtosecond
      laser-assisted cataract surgery, with a reported prevalence ranging from 9.5 to 32.0%.
      Significant pupillary constriction necessitates the removal of the anterior capsule flap,
      fragmented nucleus and remaining cortex, which is potentially associated with a higher rate
      of surgery-related complications.

      Intraoperative miosis may be due to the intraocular effects that occur after femtosecond
      laser pretreatment. The intraocular tissues may be exposed to laser emissions, and lens
      proteins can be released into the anterior chamber. Together, these events trigger the
      release of unwanted cytokines. In a previous study, intraocular prostaglandin concentrations
      were found to be increased immediately after femtosecond laser pretreatment. Prostaglandins,
      especially prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), are known to play a role in inflammation-induced miosis.

      Preoperative topical treatment with NSAIDs inhibits the release of prostaglandins in response
      to surgically-induced miosis by suppressing cyclooxygenase, the enzyme that transforms
      arachidonic acid into prostaglandin precursors. The effectiveness of ophthalmic NSAIDs in
      preventing miosis has been well documented in conventional phacoemulsification cataract
      surgery. However, whether this effect is also applicable to femtosecond laser-assisted
      cataract surgery is unknown. Yeoh has suggested the addition of NSAID eye drops to the
      dilation regimen during femtosecond laser cataract surgery, but no randomized study has been
      conducted to support this theory. Given the increasing popularity of femtosecond
      laser-assisted cataract surgery, the investigators sought to study whether topical NSAIDs
      might be beneficial in pupil maintenance and PGE2 inhibition during the procedure.
    
  