
    
      One of the markers of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) in infants and toddlers is impaired
      selective attention to faces. This impairment diminishes their ability to learn from and
      interact adaptively with others in real-world environments. Attentional selection in the
      social domain relies, in part, on one's ability to encode reward values of people and store
      these values in long-term memory as stable values. The 'stable' values (henceforth, 'values')
      are learned over the course of repeated learning opportunities, and once acquired, they are
      signaled rapidly, preferentially directing gaze to encoded faces of importance (high-value,
      HV) based on their hedonic or informative properties in the past. Automatic responses based
      on values stored in long-term memory are essential for survival when decisions have to be
      made rapidly (e.g., mother versus stranger). Learning about values is subserved by the reward
      learning system in the brain involving basal ganglia (BG) circuitry. This circuitry is
      implicated in the pathophysiology of ASD and extant evidence suggests that individuals with
      ASD exhibit specific impairments in learning the reward value of social stimuli such as
      faces. Based on this evidence, the investigators propose that limited attention to faces in
      toddlers with elevated autism symptoms (ASD+) is, in part, driven by impaired value learning
      in the social domain, affecting their ability to rapidly and preferentially select HV faces
      and ignore low-value (LV) faces in the complex real-world environment. Consequently, they
      exhibit diminished spontaneous attention to faces in general, and when they look at faces,
      they may distribute their limited attentional resources between high- (e.g., mother or
      therapist) and low-value (stranger) individuals in a trial-and-error fashion. The
      investigators further hypothesize that reinforcing attention of children with ASD+ toward
      specific faces through social value training (SVT) will increase their attention to these
      faces in real-world environments. In the proposed pilot study, ASD+ toddlers will undergo
      Social Value Training (SVT) using a gaze-contingent eye-tracking paradigm in toddlers with
      elevated symptoms of ASD (ASD+) (n=48). SVT will be administered over a two-day period and
      the training effects will be assessed by changes in visual attention to high-value (HV) faces
      as compared to low-value (LV) faces between baseline, post-baseline, and a follow-up
      assessment using two tasks: a laboratory selective attention (LSA) task and real-world
      selective attention (RWSA) task. The investigators will also evaluate acceptability and
      feasibility of the value training and contribution of sex, nonverbal developmental level, and
      severity of autism symptoms to response to the training.
    
  