
    
      1. Retrospective study:

           We will collect data of Korean patients with RA retrospectively. Subjects will be
           extracted from medical records of RA patients who had treated with TNF inhibitor or are
           currently using TNF inhibitor. Patients who have received or are receiving biologic
           agents including infliximab, etanercept, adalimumab, rituximab from Dec.2000 to Dec.2010
           will be enrolled.

           Data for this study which are sex, date of birth, previous and current medication, the
           results of laboratory test, disease activity of RA (DAS28ESR), comorbidity will be
           collected. Information of treatment, DAS28ESR, laboratory data and SAEs will be
           collected at baseline and predefined time points of follow-up (0, 3 month and recent
           follow-up data).

           During the first year of starting our study, we will focus to evaluate tolerability, the
           reason of discontinuation in elderly RA patients through this retrospective study.
           Tolerance could be analyzed by examining drug persistency of biologic DMARDs with the
           reason that led to drug interruption, and the drug persistency curves will be compared
           in the two groups. The length of time that patients remain on the drug therapy
           represents a useful measure of the treatment effectiveness and tolerability. The reason
           of discontinuation will be evaluate as descriptive analysis. And factors influenced on
           drug discontinuation in elderly RA patients and young RA patients using Cox-proportional
           analysis.

        2. Prospectively study:

      We will use the data of patients of Hanyang University Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases in
      web-based registry of RA patients with biologic DMARDs. Patients who start on receiving
      biologic agents including infliximab, etanercept, adalimumab, rituximab, abatacept will be
      enrolled. At registration, sex, date of birth, previous and current medication, the results
      of laboratory test, disease activity of RA (DAS28ESR), HAQ, comorbidity, socioeconomic
      status, etc. will be collected. Information of treatment, DAS28ESR, HAQ, laboratory data and
      SAEs, etc. will be collected at baseline and predefined time points of follow-up (0, 3 month
      and every 6 month). This prospective study will be progressed during three years.

      We will focus the response of biologic DMARDs and the occurrence of adverse event in elderly
      RA patients in this prospective study. The response could be evaluated with the change of
      DAS28ESR and functional disability (HAQ). We will compare the response in elderly RA patients
      versus young RA patients, and evaluate the impact of old age on the response using multiple
      logistic regression model with adjust various confounding factors. The occurrence of adverse
      events during three years will be described in two groups
    
  