
    
      Participants and power:

      Each group will include 6-12 participants. The target sample size is 36 participants, which
      would provide good power (0.90) to detect a medium effect size in a repeated-measures ANOVA
      with three time points and requires running at least 3 groups.

      All clinics on the Utah State University campus will be asked to refer their waitlist clients
      to the group, if appropriate (e.g., client presented with significant worry). Local private
      practitioners in the Cache Valley, Utah area may also be notified about the option to refer
      their waitlist clients to the group. Fliers will be posted on the Utah State University
      campus and in the local community and distributed to providers to provide more information on
      the study. Fliers will direct interested individuals to contact the researchers. The study
      will also be listed on the Utah State University Contextual Behavioral Science Lab website
      with a link to the pre-screening.

      Procedures:

      Individuals who contact the researchers expressing interest will be sent more information on
      study procedures and asked to complete a brief online pre-screening specific to this study.

      If potential participants are likely to be eligible based on the online pre-screening, they
      will be asked to schedule an initial assessment. They will be asked to review a consent form
      and given an opportunity to ask any questions. Those who decide to participate and sign the
      consent form will be administered the MINI International Neuropsychiatric Interview to check
      eligibility (i.e., GAD diagnosis, no serious mental illness), then asked to complete a series
      of self-report measures hosted on Qualtrics on an iPad to establish a baseline.

      The group intervention will begin when the groups are filled. There will be no cost or
      compensation for participating in the groups. They will be facilitated by two doctoral
      students with training in ACT. Participants will be informed about and trained in using the
      ACT Daily mobile app at the first group and reminded about how to use it at each weekly
      group. Reminders about using the app will also be sent weekly through email or text to
      participants in the follow-up period.

      Participants will be asked to complete a credibility questionnaire on paper at the end of the
      first session. They will be asked to complete an online post-treatment survey after the group
      sessions conclude, and a final online follow-up survey one month later.

      Intervention:

      The group therapy intervention consists of six weekly sessions of acceptance and commitment
      therapy (ACT). Each session will be two hours long. The intervention was developed based on
      established ACT protocols and adapted to fit the group format and generalized anxiety. The
      intervention uses metaphors, experiential exercises, and discussion to target the core
      elements of ACT: acceptance, defusion, present moment awareness, self-as-context, values, and
      committed action. Groups will be closed (i.e. new group members will not be added as sessions
      progress). Sessions will be video recorded for the purposes of training and supervision and
      to allow for a review of treatment fidelity.

      The ACT Daily mobile app is hosted on Qualtrics and teaches a variety of ACT skills targeting
      acceptance, defusion, present moment awareness, values, and committed action. Users will
      answer some brief questions regarding their current symptoms and psychological flexibility
      and then be recommended a tailored skill relevant to the psychological flexibility process
      that they report struggling with the most in the moment.
    
  