
    
      PROCEDURE:

      (1) Translation and cross culture adaptation:

      The cross-cultural adaptation process for the COMI will be done as described by (Beaton et
      al., 2000). This will include the following phases:

        1. Initial translation that includes forward translation to translate the questionnaire
           from the English language to Arabic by two independent bilingual translators one of them
           is familiar with the concepts of the COMI and the other translator doesn't have medical
           background. Both translators will be arabic native speakers.

        2. Synthesis of the translations by comparing the two Arabic translations and combine them
           into one version.

        3. Back translation to translate the Arabic version to the English language by two
           independent native english translators. It is preferred that both translator do not have
           any information regarding the concept being tested nor have a medical background. The
           two translations will be compared and a Consensus will be developed.

        4. Expert committee that at least consists of a research methodologists, a health
           professionals, language professionals, and the translators (forward and back
           translators). The committee will compare between versions of the translated and original
           COMI and consolidate the pre-final version. The role of the expert committee to detect
           and correct any conceptual errors or inconsistencies, grammatical or other errors.

        5. Test of the pre-final version of the instrument in a small sample (30-40 individual) to
           assess its content and face validity according to patients' feedback and collect
           comments about wording and clarity of the translated version via semi-structured
           interview. The sample will fulfill the study inclusion and exclusion criteria of the
           proposed LBP sample that will be recruited for the validation and reliability testing.
           Patients will be asked to complete the pre-final Arabic version of COMI and will be
           asked to comment on any linguistic ambiguity. Finally, researcher will discuss received
           comments and a consensus will be done to adapt any necessary changes.

        6. Submission of documentation to the developers or coordinating committee for appraisal of
           the adaptation process, IN this stage all reports will be submitted at the end of the
           translation process to explain details of the development of each.

      (2) Validation and reliability testing:

      One hundred male and female adults will be recruited from public physiotherapy outpatient
      clinics. This sample size has been recommended as an appropriate size for reliability and
      validity analyses (Terwee et al., 2007). Patients will be eligible to participate in this
      study based on study inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Testing procedure:

      First, eligible patients will have the purpose of the study and the procedures fully
      explained. Then, patients will be asked to participate in the study. If they accepted, an
      informed consent form will be signed.

      Validation:

        1. Concurrent validity:

           Eligible patients will be asked to complete a questionnaire booklet containing The
           Arabic versions of ODI, RMDQ, SF-36 and VAS.

        2. Content validity:

      Disability and function will be assessed by TUG, 50 feet walking and loaded reach test
      (Bennell, et al., 2011). All tests will be demonstrated to the patient in details before
      asking them to take the test as follow:

      Timed Up and Go test (TUG):

      First, a 3-meter distance will be marked on the floor. An armchair will be placed at one end
      of this distance. This test will be performed by measuring the time (in seconds) required by
      the patients to stand from sitting position and walk at his/her normal pace then turn back to
      the starting position(Bohannon, 2006; Herman and Hausdorff, 2011).

      50-feet walk test: The patient will walk 25 foot forward then return back to the starting
      position as fast as s/he could. The time spent in this task will be measured in seconds using
      a stopwatch (Simmonds et al., 1998)
    
  