
    
      In an ongoing safety trial of neural stem cell injections into the spinal cord of patients
      with ALS at Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, one patient has demonstrated clear
      improvement by objective clinical and electrophysiological measures, a finding that is
      unheard of in patients with ALS.

      This patient had an improvement in ALSFRS-R by 1.4 points per month. In 826 historical
      controls from the Northeast ALS Consortium (NEALS) and the Western ALS Consortium (WALS)
      database where ALSFRS-R was documented at 2 or more visits, there have been no patients that
      have shown improvement in ALSFRS as seen in this case. Additionally, 5 patients in the stem
      cell trial who were not on mechanical ventilators at the time of surgery seem to have very
      slow disease progression as compared to the expectation from current understanding of typical
      disease course. This observation raises consideration for a disease-modifying effect of the
      novel immunosuppression regimen used in this trial. Also, given that ALS is clinically an
      extraordinarily heterogeneous disease, the diagnosis of ALS may represent a group of
      phenotypically similar but pathogenically variable disorders. It is possible that there
      exists a subset of patients with an immune-responsive ALS subtype that has not been
      previously recognized.

      Recent studies have furthered the understanding of the immune mechanisms that contribute to
      ALS progression. Microglia and lymphocytes have both neurotoxic and neuroprotective functions
      depending on activation states and physiologic conditions within the nervous system.
      Therefore, targeted immunotherapies that proportionally suppress neurotoxic immune elements,
      while sparing or promoting protective elements, seemingly have more potential to modify
      disease course in ALS than previously tested regimens. It is postulated that the
      immunosuppression treatment given to the stem cell patients may have exhibited
      neuroprotective effects by favorably promoting the ratio of regulatory T cells and other
      protective immune mediators in relation to neurotoxic immune modulators. It is hoped that
      this trial will optimize the chance of replicating these findings and advance knowledge about
      the complex changes that occur within the immune system in patients with ALS before and after
      treatment with an immunosuppression regimen.

      The primary outcome measure will be rate of change of ALSFRS-R. A clinical response will be
      defined as a rate of change of ALSFRS-R of +6 points over a 6 month period (mean of change of
      +1 point per month).

      Secondary outcome measures will include slow vital capacity (SVC), grip strength, and hand
      held dynamometry (HHD). The change in rate of progression in clinical measures will be
      monitored to look for a potential disease-modifying effect of the immunosuppression regimen.
      Blood and cerebrospinal fluid immune system markers will be also be studied.

      If a clinical response is seen among study participants following treatment, further analyses
      will be conducted to explore any differential effects of immunosuppression in participants
      with early-stage disease and later-stage disease. To ensure adequate numbers of participants
      for conditional analyses stratifying by symptom onset date, participants will be enrolled
      based on symptom onset within 24 months of the screening visit or more than 24 months before
      screening. All participants will have the same treatment and will be treated as a single
      group for the analyses of the main study outcomes.
    
  