
    
      Introduction:

      The current population is ageing in a rapid pace. Currently elderly represent 17.8% of the
      Dutch population. Most recent estimates show this will increase to 25.6% 20 years' time. This
      rise in elderly will also reflect on the population of patients being referred for cardiac
      surgery. Especially elderly patients are at risk for postoperative complications, mortality
      or functional decline. In frail elderly this effect might be more pronounced. Frailty is an
      umbrella term that encompasses patient related factors such as weight loss, muscle wasting,
      inactivity, comorbidities and polypharmacy. Current scoring systems that are used to predict
      postoperative mortality and complications following cardiac surgery perform poorly in the
      elderly population and do not take into account frailty. Moreover they are designed to
      predict mortality and complications and are not validated to predict patient reported outcome
      measures such as quality of life or functional status. The aim of the AGE study is assess the
      value of frailty factors in predicting an improvement in quality of life one year after
      cardiac surgery.

      Methods:

      The AGE study is a prospective observational cohort study. All patients aged 70 years or
      older, scheduled for cardiac surgery, mentally competent and have signed informed consent are
      eligible for the study. During routine preoperative screening patients will be screened for
      frailty using different questionnaires and physical tests. The battery of tests exist of
      Short Form 36 (SF36), Multi Nutritional Assessment (MNA), Mini Mental State Examination
      (MMSE) and Nagi's scale for disability, Three physical tests: five meter walking speed, timed
      get up and go test and hand grip strength. A non-invasive measurement of Advanced Glycation
      Endproducts (AGEs) and a medication review. A blood sample will be taken to determine vitamin
      status, iron deficiency, pre-operative inflammatory parameters, CMV status, pneumococcal
      carriage and cardiac biomarkers. After surgery electronic patients charts will be studied to
      score postoperative complications or mortality. Three months and one year after cardiac
      surgery patients will receive SF-36 and World Health Organization Disability Assessment
      Schedule (WHODAS) 2.0 questionnaires to determine quality of life and functional status.
    
  