
    
      Methodology Children of either gender, between 6 months (> 5kg) and 10 years of age, with
      acute uncomplicated P. falciparum infection, who fulfil all of the inclusion and have none of
      exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study. They will be randomised to receive the
      three trial arms, i.e, Study Arm-A: artesunate-amodiaquine, Study Arm-B:
      dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and Study Arm-C: artemether-lumefantrine at the ratio of 2:2:1
      and will be hospitalised over a 3-day period to facilitate the supervised administration of
      the study drugs and full clinical and laboratory assessment and observation of early adverse
      effects. On discharge, participants will be required to report to the study clinic on days 7,
      14, 21,28, 35 and 42 or at any other time when clinical sign(s)/symptom(s) of malaria is
      suspected. The number of participants is about 720 children

      Inclusion Criteria

        -  Children of either gender, aged between 6 months (> 5kg) and 10 years.

        -  Suffering from acute uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria confirmed by microscopy using
           Giemsa-stained thick film with an asexual parasite density of 1,000 to 100,000
           parasites/μl.

        -  Presenting with fever (axillary temperature ≥ 37.5oC) or having a history of fever in
           the preceding 24 hours.

        -  Able to ingest tablets orally (either suspended in water or uncrushed with food).

        -  Willing to participate in the study with written assent from parent/guardian. Parental
           authorization will be obtained for children less than 8 years old and documented assent
           of parents/guardians for children 8-10 years.

        -  Willing and able to attend the clinic on stipulated regular follow-up visits.

      Exclusion Criteria

      • Any of the following "danger signs of severe malaria": Not able to drink or breast feed
      Persistent vomiting (>2 episodes within previous 24 hours) Convulsions (>1 episode within
      previous 24 hours) Lethargic/unconscious

        -  Signs/symptoms indicating severe/complicated malaria according to WHO criteria (WHO
           definition).

        -  Concomitant illnesses, underlying chronic hepatic or renal disease, abnormal cardiac
           rhythm, hypoglycaemia, jaundice, respiratory distress,

        -  Serious gastrointestinal disease, severe malnutrition (W/H < 70%) or severe anaemia
           (haemoglobin < 5 g/dl).

        -  Known hypersensitivity to the study drugs.
    
  