
    
      This was a randomized controlled trial on 222 pregnant women who admitted to our hospital
      from December 2016 and July 2017. After approval of the ethics committee and written consent
      of the patients were taken, 222 pregnant women were included in this study. They were
      randomized into study(111) or control(111) group when they delivered vaginally. Randomization
      was performed by means of a computer-generated randomization table.

      In study group; umbilical cord was clamped from fetal side but unclamped from maternal side.
      After that unclamped side of umblical cord was left open to drain the blood until the flow
      ceased. The blood was collected in the metal bowl and measured using a measuring jar. Care
      was taken not to mix the drained blood from the cord with the blood lost during the third
      stage. In control group the umblical cord was clamped both sides.

      The inclusion criteria were>37 weeks of gestation, singleton, alive pregnancy, with vertex
      presentation expected to have spontaneous vaginal delivery. The exclusion criteria were fetal
      malpresentation, history of postpartum hemorrhage, preterm delivery, multiple pregnancy,
      fetal anomaly, uterine malformation, fetal demise, women with immediate delivery indications,
      unable to give written informed consent, a clinically estimated fetal weight >4500,
      preeclampsia, antepartum hemorrhage, previous cesarean section, instrumental delivery and
      known coagulation disorders. Patients were recruited regardless of using cervical ripening
      agents.

      General physical and obstetric examination were performed after a detailed history taking. A
      sample of venous blood was obtained for hemoglobin concentration on admission. Labour was
      conducted according to the hospital protocol. Labour was augmented with oxytocin in active
      phase of labour. All patients were monitored with cardiotocography (CTG) before induction of
      labor and CTG was used continuously during labor. Oxytocin infusion was continued until
      delivery of both child and placenta, unless complications occurred. For all patients, blood
      lost in the third stage of labour was measured by collecting the blood in a disposable
      conical measuring bag. The time of delivery of the neonate was recorded and after then
      prophylactic uterotonic agents (Synpitan Fort, 5 IU) was given to all patients. Placenta was
      delivered by controlled cord traction andthe time of placental delivery was noted in both
      groups. If the placenta had not been delivered spontaneously by 30 minutes after birth, it
      was removed manually. The vital signs(blood pressure, pulse rate, temperature) uterine tone
      of the patients were monitored after delivery of neonate and placenta. The hemoglobin
      concentration was estimated 24 hours after delivery.

      The outcome measures were the duration of the third stage of labour, defined as interval from
      birth of the infant to delivery of the placenta, haemoglobin difference between admission and
      24 hours after delivery, visual analog scale (VAS) scores, weight of placenta, need for blood
      transfusion, blood loss from umbilical cord and blood loss in the third stage of labour. PPH
      was defined as a loss of more than 500 mL of blood within the first 24 hours following
      childbirth.
    
  