
    
      The total duration of the study is 38 months, starting in March 2021 with a recruiting period
      until 31. December 2021 and termination of all scheduled visits until 31 May 2024.
      Individuals having consented and fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria are included
      in the trial. A baseline visit will take place up to 60 days before the planned date of
      vaccination according to the Austrian vaccination plan. Scheduled vaccination with any
      COVID-19 vaccine approved in Austria will allow recruitment. If appropriate pre-vaccine
      samples from study participants exist in the biobank of the Medical University of Graz,
      patients may also be included in the study after vaccination starting with visit 3. In this
      case the biomaterial available at the biobank will be used for the analyses planned on visit
      1. The investigators will not influence the date of vaccination or the type of the vaccine
      used. After first vaccination a telephone visit (visit 2) will assess adverse events and
      schedule visit 3 at the appropriate time after the second vaccination. At visit 3 the
      patient's vaccination certificate will be checked to verify correct vaccination and document
      the type of vaccine received. Further visits (5-6) will be performed for up to two years
      after the second vaccination. This follow-up period will allow an assessment of the duration
      of the immune response. The data recorded directly on the Case Report Form (CRF) are
      considered to be source data. COVID-19 vaccination, COVID-19 infection, Vaccination history,
      Pregnancy test, Adverse Events, BMI (Body Mass Index), and Laboratory Specimen Collection are
      recorded directly on the CRF and therefore are considered to be source data. Data will be
      merged in an electronic database (RDA Research, Documentation & Analysis; Medical University
      of Graz, version 07.03.2019). Case Report Forms (CRFs) will be inspected in respect of their
      accuracy and completeness and compared to original data by the monitor.
    
  