
    
      Lymphomas are the malignant tumors of lymph nodes and considered as one of the most common
      primary hematopoietic malignancy. Multi slice computed tomography is the most readily
      available and most commonly used tool for staging lymphoma. But it has multiple limitations
      in diagnosis of lymphoma as the recognition of lymph node involvement is based only on the
      size of the lymph node without any metabolic information .

      The tumors rely on glucose as their substrate for energy production and replication, this
      metabolic information can be obtained from the 2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose Among the positron
      Emission Tomography Computed Tomography parameters, standardized uptake value is currently
      the most commonly used semi-quantitative index of 2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose metabolic rate.
      standardized uptake value reflects tumor glucose metabolism, and is commonly represented by
      the maximum standardized uptake value .2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose positron Emission
      Tomography Computed Tomography has been shown to be more accurate for the evaluation of the
      extent of disease and treatment response by providing these metabolic information in patients
      with malignant lymphoma .

      2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography , with the
      advantage of being able to perform whole-body detection of malignant lesions, is considered
      to be the current standard of practice for the management of lymphomas; however, positron
      Emission Tomography Computed Tomography is expensive, time-consuming, involves exposure to
      ionizing radiation and is not widely available because it requires large and expensive
      equipment . In contrast, Magnetic Resonance Imaging provides excellent tissue contrast, high
      spatial resolution, detailed morphological information without the use of ionizing radiation
      . Diffusion-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging is a noninvasive technique allows
      visualization of diffusion properties of water molecules in biologic tissues. .

      A supplemental tool in Diffusion-weighted imaging is the apparent diffusion coefficient map ,
      acquired by post-processing of the obtained Diffusion-weighted images . apparent diffusion
      coefficient allows for quantitative definition of diffusion parameters (in mm2/sec) .
      Diffusion-weighted images with apparent diffusion coefficient mapping could provide useful
      functional information regarding the characterization of lymphomas .Because of their high
      cellularity and high nuclear-to-cytoplasm ratio .
    
  