
    
      The potential benefits of a lower dose ( ≤ 400 mg of hydrocortisone or equivalent per day),
      and a longer duration at full dose ( ≥ three days) of treatment, have been investigated in
      numerous randomized controlled trials over the past three decades. In the past two years,
      guidelines for clinical practices about corticosteroids use in sepsis have been released. All
      but one of the guidelines, recommended against the use of corticosteroids in sepsis, except
      in patients with septic shock and poorly responsive to fluid replacement and vasopressor
      therapy. Some guidelines suggested that corticosteroids should be given as a continuous
      infusion rather than intermittent boluses.

      Corticosteroids survival benefit is not affected by age, gender, disease severity, type of
      infection, source of infection, or type of pathogens. There is currently no diagnostic test
      for CS sensitivity/resistance in sepsis. The scientific community is competing to identify
      markers delineating between patients who draw survival benefit from corticosteroids
      (CS-sensitive sepsis) and those who may be harmed (CS-resistant sepsis). In sepsis, the
      deregulated response may result in systemic inflammation and organs damage, or immune paresis
      and secondary infections. Obviously, patients with systemic inflammation may benefit from CS
      whereas those with immune paresis may deteriorate. The study team had have looked for an
      interaction between survival in response to corticosteroids and the presence of CIRCI
      according to the ACTH test results (cortisol increment of less than 9µg/dL). The benefits
      from corticosteroids were more important in patients with CIRCI in the Ger-Inf-05 trial but
      not in the APROCCHS trial. Thus, current sepsis guidelines suggest that the ACTH test may not
      reliably guide the use of corticosteroids. Indeed, this test provides information neither on
      corticosteroids bioactivity nor on patient's immune status, when this information should
      precede any corticotherapy. Recent studies suggested that a transcriptomic signature based on
      100 genes may identify a subset of paediatric sepsis that had increased risk of death when
      exposed to corticosteroids. Another study found transcriptomic based sepsis response
      signatures (SRS) associated with immune paresis (SRS1) or with systemic inflammation (SRS 2).
      In this study, patients with a SRS 2 transcriptomic signature had significantly higher
      mortality when treated with hydrocortisone. Thus, we have started exploring the mechanisms of
      sensitivity/resistance to corticosteroids in sepsis, namely by investigating endocan, as a
      surrogate of patient's inflammatory status, and GILZ expression as a marker of
      corticosteroids bioactivity.

      This is a new multicentre concealed-allocation multi-arms, parallel-group, adaptive blinded
      randomized controlled trial. The overall objective of the trial is to determine whether
      different signatures of immune status and/or corticosteroids biological activity influence
      the responses to hydrocortisone plus fludrocortisone of adults with sepsis. To remain
      pragmatic, this trial has broad eligibility criteria and includes all patients admitted to
      the ICU with a primary diagnosis of sepsis. Patients will be randomly assigned to
      hydrocortisone plus fludrocortisone or placebo for 7 days, targeting 1800 patients with full
      follow-up up to 6 months.
    
  