
    
      RELEVANCE TO VETERANS' HEALTH: Lack of a good strategy to identify prediabetes - probably ~10
      years prior to the development of diabetes that is recognized clinically - may be the
      greatest present impediment to diabetes care. We are developing a new way to screen for
      prediabetes, and it should constitute a major opportunity to improve the health of ~4 million
      veterans; early recognition of glucose intolerance would permit institution of preventive
      strategies which are efficacious, convenient, and cost-effective - improving the health of
      individual veterans, reducing diabetes-related health care resource use and costs for the VA,
      and helping to spare VA funds for management of other disorders.

      BACKGROUND: Prediabetes is a major public health problem which confers risk of diabetes and
      cardiovascular disease (CVD), but veterans with prediabetes are not detected, and cannot
      receive interventions to reduce their risks; CVD events, health resource use, and cost all
      rise before diabetes is diagnosed. Diabetes can be prevented or delayed by lifestyle change
      or medication, but since we do not identify prediabetes, glucose intolerance progresses for
      5-10 years, and many patients have early diabetes complications and increased CVD risk when
      they are finally recognized. We are developing a new screening test for prediabetes, a
      "glucose challenge test" (GCT): patients have a 50g oral glucose challenge at any time of
      day, regardless of meal status, with a single 1 hr sample. If the GCT exceeds a cutoff, they
      have a 75g oral glucose tolerance test after an overnight fast, with 0 and 2 hr samples
      (OGTT). Our GCRC-based Preliminary Data show ROC AUC 0.83 (70% specificity, 82% sensitivity)
      and $51 per case identified; the GCT should constitute an effective, convenient, inexpensive,
      cost-effective screen for prediabetes - a critical indicator of individual, VA health care
      system, and societal risk.

      OBJECTIVES: To translate our findings into improved health for VA patients, the GCT will need
      to be implemented in VA primary care settings - where practitioners often do not screen for
      prediabetes, or manage diabetes optimally. Such barriers must be overcome in order to conduct
      definitive studies aimed to show that use of the GCT to detect prediabetes (and previously
      unrecognized diabetes) in primary care leads to improved outcomes. Thus, VA policies for
      system-wide implementation of GCT screening must be preceded by logical next steps:
      validation and demonstration of likely cost-effectiveness.

      METHODS: AIM #1. Validation: (A) To establish feasibility, we will interact with VA primary
      care providers to solve logistical problems, and determine optimal screening strategies. (B)
      To assess test performance, we will (a) perform GCTs and measure A1c in ~1,800 patients, (b)
      evaluate OGTTs in all subjects, and (c) compare sensitivity, specificity, and ROC curves from
      GCT vs. A1c or "predictive model" screening in primary care to those in our GCRC studies.
      Availability of this dataset will also permit (d) subsequent management of
      diabetes/prediabetes to be evaluated relative to standardized guidelines. AIM #2. Costs: To
      evaluate impact, we will (a) capture the costs of diagnostic tests, staff effort, and patient
      time; (b) express cost per case identified from both VA health system and societal
      perspectives; and (c) compare GCT vs. alternative strategies with a wide range of assumptions
      about false-(+)/false-(-) costs to reflect downstream cost implications of test
      imperfections. Engagement with this process will also provide (d) for those study patients
      with prediabetes who go on to develop diabetes, an opportunity to explore VA resource use and
      costs before and after the diagnosis of diabetes. This will provide preliminary data for
      subsequent proposals to compare resource use and costs vs. those of other VA patients who are
      newly diagnosed with diabetes in settings where there is no screening for prediabetes.
    
  