
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common, neurodegenerative condition. Although mostly a
      late-onset disorder, 10 percent of people with PD are reported to develop symptoms before the
      age of 50. To date, six genes have been found to be associated with PD, however the majority
      have been found in rare PD 'families'. Some studies have also identified a number of
      environmental risk factors, such as pesticide use, that appear to increase the risk of PD.

      In a previous study, Dr. Karen Marder and her research team found that close family members
      of people with both early- and late-onset PD have a three-fold increased risk of PD compared
      to close family members of people without PD.

      The purpose of the Consortium On Risk for Early-onset Parkinson's Disease (CORE PD) study is
      to identify the genetic factors that contribute to the development of early-onset Parkinson's
      disease, and to understand how these genetic factors interact with other genes and the
      environment to cause PD.

      Participation in the study involves a blood draw (to look for genetic factors associated with
      PD), questionnaires collecting information on family and medical history, and a neurological
      examination. In addition participants may be contacted in the future and asked to participate
      in a more detailed interview. At that time, study investigators will also ask participants
      for permission to contact family members to invite them to participate in the study.

      This research study requires participants to sign a consent form, which states that the
      research is voluntary and confidential. In addition, since this is a research study, genetic
      results are not released to participants or their family members now or in the future.

      Scientists hope this multi-center study will increase the current knowledge of PD and that
      the identification of factors that cause PD will lead to better diagnosis and treatment.
    
  