
    
      This rigorous, cluster-randomised trial will evaluate the impact of long-lasting insecticidal
      nets (LLINs) distributed in Uganda through the 2020-21 national universal coverage campaign.
      A cluster has been defined as the catchment area of a Malaria Reference Centre (MRC). A total
      of 64 clusters have been included in the study, covering 32 high malaria burden districts in
      Uganda where IRS is not being implemented. Clusters have been randomised in a 1:1 ratio in
      blocks of two by district to receive one of two types of LLINs: (1) pyriproxyfen (PPF) LLINs
      (Royal Guard) [n=32] and (2) piperonyl butoxide (PBO) LLINs (PermaNet 3.0) [n=32].

      The intervention, including delivery of the LLINs and social and behaviour change
      communication (SBCC), will be led by the Ugandan National Malaria Control Division (NMCD) and
      other stakeholders. Currently, LLINs are scheduled to be delivered in the study areas from
      October 2020 to January 2021. The evaluation will include health facility surveillance at the
      MRCs to generate continuous estimates of malaria incidence for each MRC catchment area,
      cross-sectional community surveys at baseline (if additional resources are available), and at
      12- and 24-months after LLIN distribution to gather information on net survivorship and use,
      and parasite prevalence in children 2-10 years of age, entomology surveys, and assessment of
      net durability and efficacy. The primary outcome of the trial will be malaria incidence as
      estimated using the health facility surveillance.

      For each cluster the study will use a 'fried egg' approach for delivering the intervention
      ('egg white') and measuring our outcomes ('egg yolk'). The 'white' of the egg will include
      one sub-county per cluster, where the MRC is located. PPF LLINs and PBO LLINs will be
      distributed to the designated sub-county, as allocated in the randomisation. The 'yolk' of
      the egg will be the catchment area directly surrounding each MRC, where care-seeking at the
      MRC is expected to be high (i.e. if someone within the catchment area develops malaria, they
      are likely to seek care at the MRC). To determine the population of the MRC catchment areas,
      and to generate a sampling frame for the community surveys, the investigators will do the
      following: (1) define the catchment area of each MRC before the onset of the trial using data
      on village of residence from patients attending the MRCs, (2) map and enumerate all
      households within the MRC catchment areas before the 12-month community survey, and (3)
      conduct a census survey within each MRC catchment area to generate an accurate estimate of
      the study population in which study outcomes will be measured concurrently with the 12-month
      community survey.
    
  