
    
      A urinary tract infection (UTI) is the infection of kidney that affects urinary tract. It
      affects the urinary bladder (cystitis) and kidney (pyelonephritis). Symptoms of urinary
      bladder infection are painful urination, frequent micturation, and urinary incontinence.
      Symptoms of infection in kidney include pyrexia and lumber pain also in addition to symptoms
      of a lower urinary tract infection and rarely blood in the urine. In older age and in young
      adults, symptoms may be unclear or non-specific [1].

      Urinary tract infections are grouped into two types; complicated and uncomplicated. In
      uncomplicated cases of urinary tract infections, the function of urinary tract system does
      not disturb. In complicated UTI, the normal function of UT system disturbs [2].

      Uncomplicated UTI is usually caused by E. coli Staphylococcus saprophyticus Klebsiella
      pneumonia Proteus mirabilis Enterococcus spp. While complicated UTI is caused by Similar
      organisms which causes uncomplicated UTI Staphylococcus spp. Enterococcus spp. P. aeruginosa

      Current studies on the prevalence of urinary tract infections approximately one third
      population of the world has been suffering from this disease. This disease causes Pyuria,
      burning urination, heamaturia, pyrexia, Vaginal itching, Offensive" smell and turbid urine,
      urinate frequent, urgency to urinate and suprapubic pain or pain in pelvis. It is not
      life-threatening disease. Different antibacterial/ antibiotics are available such as
      Co-trimaxazole, amoxicillin, nitrofurantoin, trimethoprim, combination of trimethoprim and
      sulfamethoxazole and quinolone antibiotics is taken as a choice for the treatment of UTI [3].
      The antibacterial agents/ antibiotic available but they are limited in number, have adverse
      effects, resistance of bacteria to these agents and relapse of the UTI. In order to overcome
      the problem of less availability of drugs needed to treat urinary tract infection, with
      traditional medicine derived from medicinal plants. This encouraged the search for new and
      dynamic antibacterial agents from plant sources.
    
  