
    
      Various questionnaires and test batteries are available to evaluate the functional activities
      of the upper extremities in children with upper extremity involvement. Among these
      questionnaires and test batteries, there are different performance tests evaluating the grip,
      wrist, and elbow movements in the upper extremity due to rheumatic disease. In the
      literature, the most common performance tests used in children diagnosed with rheumatic
      disease are the 9-hole peg test and the Jebsen Taylor hand function tests. Although these
      tests have advantages such as being able to be applied in a short time, providing objective
      data, being easily applicable in the clinical environment, and being accessible in terms of
      cost, these tests are non-specific performance tests. There is no test battery that examines
      the mobility and position of each segment of the upper extremity during a function in detail
      for motor skills specific to children with rheumatic diseases.

      The Shriners Hospital for Children Upper Extremity Evaluation (SHUEE) is a video-based
      assessment validated for use in children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy. In addition to
      spontaneous functional movement, it also evaluates the dynamical position, grip, and release
      movements of the upper extremity segments. Approved with a total of 22 questions/tasks
      observed for children aged 3-18. While the evaluation takes about 15 minutes, it takes about
      15-30 minutes for the participant to score after the evaluation. The test battery can be
      created with the materials found in the physiotherapy clinic and is therefore very practical
      in terms of cost.

      SHUEE provides detailed information about the location of the upper extremity segments during
      the function. In addition, due to the video recording of the evaluation, it provides a
      detailed examination opportunity to the evaluator after the evaluation. However, it is
      superior to other tests in terms of creating a patient archive due to video recording.

      This study aimed to introduce SHUEE to the literature as a new assessment tool to be used in
      pediatric rheumatic pathologies.
    
  