
    
      In four phases we will develop (Phase 1), fidelity- and feasibility test (Phase 2), efficacy
      test (Phase 3) and adoption test the intervention (Phase 4). The project will use a
      combination of qualitative (Phase 1-4) and quantitative methods (Phase 2-3) and consists of
      two parallel tracks - WALK-Intervention and WALK-Implementation. Phase 1 of the study has
      been completed. Through workshops with patients, relatives, health professionals and
      researchers we have developped an intervention to enhance physical activity. Phase 2 will be
      carried out in October 2018 and January 2019 at Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre and
      in February 2019 at Copenhagen University Hospital, Frederiksberg. The developed intervention
      will be fidelity tested through daily observations at the wards. Also, the intervention will
      be feasibility tested in a prospective cohort study aiming at qualifying the intervention,
      testing recruitment strategies, testing patient willingness towards the intervention, testing
      randomization and blinding procedures and estimating an inclusion rate for Phase 3
      (randomized controlled trial) to be conducted in 2019.

      Update March 2019:

      Due to a political decision to close down the medical ward at Copenhagen University Hospital,
      Frederiksberg in the spring of 2019, it was decided to change Phase 3 to a cohort study at
      Copenhagen University Hospital, Hvidovre. This decision was based on the fact that the
      methodological setup of the study (cluster RCT) was unintentionally changed due to the close
      down of one of the intervention wards.

      Update November 2019:

      Due to changes in characteristics of patients admitted to the intervention ward and thus a
      very slow inclusion rate in Phase 3 (Cohort Study), it was decided to terminate inclusion of
      patients. Qualitative data will still be collected as anticipated.
    
  