
    
      1000 patients suffering from insomnia will be recruited in this study.Participants with
      insomnia will be taken from: A. the WeChat platform, B. the customer group of intelligent
      hardware/software, and C.outpatient department. 1000 participants with insomnia will be
      randomly divided into eCBTI group and eSHE group equally that each group will have 500
      participants.

      Participants will be requested to accept online structured questionnaire, including social
      and demographic data and insomnia disorders diagnosis process (adapted from "A guide to
      diagnosis and treatment of insomnia in China"). If the interviewee meets the criteria of
      entry, then participants are requested to fill online informed consent and then enrolled into
      the baseline assessment.

      Baseline assessment includes two parts:

      1, Self-reported questionnaire: Insomnia Severity Index, ISI, Dysfunctional Beliefs and
      Attitudes about Sleep, DBAS, Sleep Hygiene and Practices Scale, SHPS, Pre - Sleep Arousal
      Scale, PSAS, Epworth Sleepiness Scale, ESS, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS,
      Short - Form 12 - Item Health Survey, SF - 12; 2. Researcher Interview: Clinical Interview of
      depression in the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI).

      Therapeutic intervention: Both groups will be treated for 4 weeks, and multiple follow-up
      visits within 12 months.

      The research specifically tailored the third-party application of the smartphone to complete
      the online insomnia therapy program. The eCBTI group and the eSHE group included four weeks
      of core courses: daily listening to five minutes of sleep hygiene education, and recording
      sleep diaries. Every week, eCBTI group will receive guided individual customized sleep
      restriction and stimulus control therapy whereas eSHE group will be given sleep health
      education and the guidance regarding questionnaires.

      Previous studies have shown that the annual prevalence of depression in people with insomnia
      is about 2 to 3 percent. Based on investigators previous research results, new cases of
      depression were 7.4%, and patients with chronic insomnia eCBTI treatment can effectively
      reduce the depression incidence rate by 50%, such as the need to achieve 80% Confidence
      Interval at p-value of 0.05, 300 patients will be needed in each group. Considering the loss
      rate of about 30-40%, the study required 500 cases per group (eCBTI group and eSHE group) in
      the baseline.

      Outcomes will be measure in continuous variable data with mean and standard deviation (SD),
      classifying data with numerical value or percentage. Compare parametric data and
      non-parametric data (2 groups) through independent t-test. The variance analysis of repeated
      measures will be used to compare the difference between the two groups in treatment and
      follow-up (e.g., ISI, etc.). The 2 classification variables of clinical results will be
      calculated by survival analysis, such as the new suicidal thoughts in two groups. Bilateral
      5% significance level is statistically significant. All statistical programs are implemented
      in the 22.0 version of the social science statistical package (IBM SPSS 22.0) that runs in
      Windows.
    
  