
    
      Participants will be recruited to take part in a randomized crossover trial using media
      advertisements and group events within the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. In order to be part of
      this intervention, the participants will have to be men or women aged between 65 and 90
      years-old, physically active, and engaged in structured exercise at least twice a week for
      the past 6 months. People who have diabetes or any type of physical limitation that would
      prevent them from performing exercise will be excluded. Power and sample size calculations
      (G-Power 3.1.9.2) were based on an effect size of 0.78 for the glucose iAUC, a power of 0.80,
      and a significance of 0.05. The calculation yielded a sample size of 15 participants. This
      study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Human Kinetics (approval number:
      06/2019) and conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and with the Convention
      on Human Rights and Biomedicine. Written informed consents were obtained from all
      participants.

      Participants will be followed in a randomized crossover trial undertaken at Faculty of Human
      Kinetics between April and August 2019. Participants will attend the laboratory on twelve
      separate occasions: visit 1 (day 1), baseline assessments for body composition; visit 2 (day
      2), cardiorespiratory fitness assessment; visit 3 (day 3), OGTT and the first randomized
      experimental protocol; visit 4 (day 4), follow-up OGTT; visit 5 (4-6 days after the first
      experimental protocol), OGTT and the remaining experimental protocol; visit 6 (day following
      the previous experimental protocol), follow-up OGTT. An additional 6 visits will be performed
      following the same rational, after a 2-week period of detraining, where participants will be
      instructed to refrain from structured exercise and reduce their physical activity. The
      follow-up assessments for body composition and cardiorespiratory fitness will be accomplished
      after the protocols. Experimental protocol order will be randomized at baseline and on the
      follow-up period after the detraining process by a third party using a computer-generated
      list of random numbers (block randomization with balanced block sizes).

      On the morning of each intervention day, participants will arrive at the laboratory at 8:00
      a.m., after a 10h fast. For 48h prior to intervention day, participants will be asked to
      refrain from structured moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), caffeine and alcohol
      consumption. Each intervention day will have a total duration of 9.5h and will start with an
      oral glucose tolerance test. After a baseline blood collection, participants will be
      instructed to drink an oral glucose drink of 75g dissolved in water (200 ml). Two hours
      after, another blood sample will be drawn.

      At 10:30 a.m., a mixed standard meal (breakfast) will be given to the participants, marking
      the begging of the 7 hour protocol. The same standard meal will be provided at 1:30 p.m.
      (lunch). The 200-ml meal will consist of 303 kcal, 42g carbohydrate, 10g fat and 11.2g
      protein, vitamins and minerals (Nestle Health Science - Resource Energy). The participants
      will be encouraged to consume the entire meal within 5 minutes. The protocols performed will
      be: 1) uninterrupted sitting: participants will remain seated throughout 7 hours (SIT); 2)
      Sitting + moderate intensity breaks: participants will be instructed to sit throughout 7
      hours, while interrupting the sitting position every 30 minutes to perform 2 minutes of
      moderate-intensity physical activity. The breaks will consist of walk up and down the stairs
      and squats. Each person will perform these exercises alternately. During the protocol,
      participants will be allowed to go to the bathroom in a wheelchair and al-libitum water will
      be granted. The following morning after the protocol, the OGTT will be repeated.
    
  