
    
      Randomization:

      The randomization list is electronically generated through specific software. A block
      randomization is conducted with varying block sizes at the rate of 1:1. Confidentiality of
      the randomization list is ensured by the central automated randomization system, through the
      Internet, available 24 hours a day (ACT Clinic - Sistema de Estudos Clínicos do IEP HCor).

      Blinding Scheme:

      Because the study involves a surgical procedure, investigators and patients cannot be blind
      for treatment allocated to patients.

      Roux-en-Y Gastroplasty Patients allocated to surgical treatment will be admitted to the
      hospital to be subjected to a Roux-en-Y gastric bypass with a biliopancreatic loop of 100cm
      and a alimentary limb of 150cm.

      Antihypertensive Treatment:

      The treatment of hypertension will be standardized for all study patients. Prescribed drugs
      will include preferably a renin-angiotensin blocking system drug and a calcium channels
      blocker, except if these are contraindicated or the patient has achieved good blood pressure
      control using other drugs prior to study recruitment. Other drugs can be added at discretion
      of the attending investigator to achieve a target blood pressure of 130 x 80 mmHg. Patients
      are treated individually for the other associated comorbidities. Obesity treatment in the
      control group includes dietary advice, motivation for the practice of physical activities,
      and drug treatments for diabetes and dyslipidemias if applicable.

      Laboratory tests and other exams:

      All patients will be subjected to the following measurements throughout the study:

        -  Outpatient Blood Pressure Monitoring (ABPM)

        -  Blood pressure measurements taken in doctors' offices:

        -  Central pressure and associated measurements (SphygmoCor®)

        -  Polysomnography

        -  Anthropometry

        -  Nutritional survey

        -  Laboratory tests

        -  Echocardiogram

        -  Electrocardiogram

        -  Abdominal ultrasound

        -  Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with H.pylori testing
    
  