
    
      The potential participants will be contacted via telephone, email and/or post by the study
      team. They will be screened for their eligibility, and if they are interested in
      participating, the first study visit (Visit 1) will be arranged where the written informed
      consent will be obtained then before any study related procedures.

      Visit 1 will be held as soon as possible following screening, aiming up to 16 weeks and 6
      days gestational age (early in pregnancy). Visit 2 will be aimed to coincide with the routine
      20 gestational week appointment or any time in second trimester from 17 weeks and 0 days
      gestational age to 27 weeks and 6 days gestational age (middle of pregnancy). Visit 3 will be
      aimed to coincide with the routine 28 gestational week appointment or any time in the third
      trimester from 28 weeks and 0 days gestational age onwards (late in pregnancy), Visit 4 will
      be aimed to coincide with the participant's routine admission on the labour ward or postnatal
      ward after giving birth, or anytime from the time of birth to 1 week postnatal age
      (postpartum period).

      At each study visit, the participants will be performing their own study samples of saliva,
      urine and vaginal secretions using the study specific self-sampling instructions provided.
      These self-samples will be tested for the presence and quantity of CMV DNA detected via a
      molecular technique called polymerase chain reaction (PCR). If consent is obtained, a blood
      sample will also be collected at each study visit to test for cellular mediated immunity. At
      the last visit, the participant will be offered to have her newborn baby tested for
      congenital CMV by collecting the newborn's saliva sample which will be tested for CMV DNA via
      PCR.

      At each study visit, the participant will complete a short questionnaire on the participant's
      contact with their child(ren)'s saliva and urine (to identify risk factors for CMV shedding).
      At Visit 1, the participant will complete a background questionnaire (also to identify risk
      factors for CMV shedding)and at Visit 4 a feedback questionnaire (to assess feasibility).

      Where possible the study visits and blood samples will be aimed to take place alongside the
      participants' routine antenatal appointments and routine blood tests respectively.

      At the end of the study, up to 20 participants will be invited to take part in a process
      evaluation in the form of an interview by phone, skype or face to face to explore in depth
      the experiences of participation in the study.
    
  