
    
      One of the most challenging aspects of Pediatric Dentistry is the management of child
      behavior. Anxiety is often manifested by children during dental appointments, and may
      represent a challenge in the dental surgeon's clinical practice. Among the procedures
      performed, local anesthesia is one of the factors that influence the increase in fear and
      anxiety in children in relation to dental procedures. In view of the basic techniques used to
      manage children's behavior, distraction has been widely used to provide a more relaxed and
      effective experience during dental treatment for children. Thus, this study aims to evaluate
      the effect of the use of virtual reality glasses as an audiovisual distraction technique
      during anesthesia in behavior, anxiety and pain perception, comparing it with traditional
      behavior management techniques. A sample of 44 children was estimated and will be selected
      with the following inclusion criteria: be between 5 and 9 years of age; good general health;
      no prior dental experience involving anesthesia in the last 2 years; need for restorative
      treatment or exodontia under local anesthesia. Children with physical or mental disabilities
      will be excluded and those who report poor behavior in dental consultations will be excluded.
      The sample will be randomized through the draw of envelopes at the time of the service, being
      22 envelopes for the group that will use the glasses during the procedure(G0) and 22
      envelopes containing group that will not use the glasses in consultation (G1).

      The treatments will be performed in 2 visits, the first for initial examination, and the
      other for performing the procedures are either extraction or restorative treatment with the
      use of local anesthesia. During dental treatment, the dentist will explain the procedure in
      layman&#39;s terms using the basic techniques of behavior management, such as the
      &quot;tell-show-do&quot; technique, positive reinforcement, conventional distraction in all
      consultations. When using the distraction technique with virtual reality during the
      procedure, the virtual stereo glasses model HDMI-MHL 98 Inches (98) will be used. In all two
      consultations, VENHAM anxiety will be assessed through VENHAM scale and heart rate
      measurement at the beginning, during and at the end of the visit, as well as the perception
      of pain during the procedure (FLACC) and after finishing the service through the FPS-R scale.
      During the visits, the data will be collected using a previously tested tab. The data will be
      entered into a worksheet in the Microsoft® Excel® 2016 program and analyzed in the Stata 14.0
      program. There will be a single blind blinding: both for the typist and who will analyze the
      data. A descriptive analysis of the data will be performed, obtaining the absolute and
      relative frequencies. Comparisons in the outcomes of interest between groups G0 and G1 will
      be performed using the chi-square test for dichotomous variables and the t-test for
      comparison of means. A significance level of 5% will be adopted for all analyzes.
    
  