
    
      Bladder exstrophy patients who have undergone primary bladder closure, but have a bladder
      capacity too low for bladder neck reconstruction (Group 1), have limited additional surgical
      options that permits urethral voiding and urine storage within a native bladder. Previous
      studies have demonstrated a positive correlation between bladder capacity and success of
      bladder neck reconstruction. Likewise, patients who have undergone bladder neck
      reconstruction but continue to have urinary incontinence (Group 2) are also faced with
      limited options. Often, both groups are considered for augmentation cystoplasty with closure
      of the bladder neck requiring intermittent catheter voiding through a surgically constructed
      continent catheterizable channel. Such major reconstruction has significant associated short
      and long-term morbidities. Endoscopic injection of MDCs for the treatment of urinary
      sphincter insufficiency is a potential alternative therapy for these patients. By increasing
      the outflow resistance and rhabdosphincter contractility, MDC injection may permit more
      efficient bladder cycling and bladder expansion in Group 1 patients allowing them to proceed
      on to bladder neck reconstruction. This same increase in resistance and sphincter
      contractility may allow Group 2 patients to attain urinary continence and avoid any further
      reconstructive surgical procedures.

      Eligible and consented patients would undergo rectus muscle biopsy and immediately
      transferred to the Cell Therapy Lab for tissue processing and MDC expansion.The MDC expansion
      process takes approximately 21 days after which cells are harvest and cryopreserved for
      future injection.Each vial will be filled with cells at a concentration of approximately 2.0
      x 107 cells/ml. At the time of planned MDC injection, enrolled patients will return for
      cystoscopy under anesthesia. At that time, aliquots of MDCs will be removed from the freezer
      and be allowed to thaw passively in the 30 minutes preceding the time of planned injection.
      MDC product will be endoscopically injected using an FDA approved DEFLUX™ needle at the level
      of the external urethral rhabdosphincter and bladder neck. Patients would be assessed for
      toxicity and adverse events postoperatively at day 1 and 40 followed by semiannual visits for
      36 months. variables measured are:

      group 1: Bladder capacity, detrusor leak point pressure, bladder filling pressure, post-void
      residual urine volume, urodynamics, periurethral electromyographic activity, renal - Bladder
      Ultrasound, cystoscopy.

      Group 2: Detrusor leak point pressure, bladder filling pressure, maximum cystometric
      capacity, post-void residual urine volume, periurethral electromyographic activity, 24 hour
      pad / diaper weight assessment, voiding diary including incontinence grade and maximum
      daytime dry interval, renal - Bladder Ultrasound, cystoscopy
    
  