
    
      The size and composition of the population of seizure alerting dogs is still widely unknown,
      particularly the population of non-trained alerting dogs. Previously published studies have
      focused on anecdotal reports, single case studies, or small samples of the population. Some
      studies do not make a clear distinction between response and alert dogs and/or include only
      one type of alerting dogs. The objective of this study is to create an international alerting
      dog database including trained Seizure Alert Dogs (SADs), spontaneously alerting Seizure
      Response Dogs (SRDs) and spontaneously alerting pet dogs. This information will be used to
      select a representative sample of the population for subsequent work packages and to perform
      a descriptive analysis of the population of alerting dogs in and international context. For
      the database, two questionnaires will be developed: one will be directed to SDR and SAD
      trainers and a second one to epilepsy patients owning a dog.

      Questionnaires

      The Trainer Questionnaire will be sent to training organisations via email and will request
      the following information:

        -  Number of active working dogs.

        -  Dog demographic information and selection criteria.

        -  The type of patient inclusion criteria they use

        -  Training methods used.

        -  For SRD that spontaneously started anticipating seizures: information about further
           training that may have been provided.

      The questionnaire directed to epilepsy patients owning dogs will be accessible from our
      website and will collect the following information:

        -  Demographic information

        -  Information about the seizures

        -  Type of dog: SAD or spontaneously alerting SRD or pet dog

        -  Approximate date when the dog started alerting, if it's an untrained dog.

        -  Demographic information about the dog.

        -  Type of alerting behaviour.

        -  Monash Canine Personality Questionnaire refined (MCPQ-R): Defines 5 traits of dog
           personalities.

        -  The Monash Dog-Owner Relationship Scale (MDORS) ) that studies the perceived bond
           between the patient and the dog. It consists of 28 items with a score ranging from 1 to
           5 that characterizes the emotional closeness, the dog-owner interaction and the perceive
           costs of dog ownership (Only for patients older than 18 year old)

      Recruitment

      Collaboration with epilepsy research groups has been stablished inside and outside the EU
      (Belgium, UK, US, Italy< Germany and Spain).

      A systematic online search was performed to identify all SRD and SAD training organisations
      across the world. These organisations were contacted via email and telephone (see email
      example document) and asked to participate in the study by completing the trainer
      questionnaire and by distributing information about the study and an invitation to
      participate between their clients.

      To reach epileptic owners of non-trained dogs that presumably alert, the following
      organisations were contacted:

        -  Epilepsy support organizations.

        -  Medical non-profit organisations

        -  Social media groups and forums.

        -  neurology departments and epilepsy centers

      Milestones

        -  To create an international database of alerting dogs (SAD and spontaneously alerting SRD
           and pet dogs) to be used in subsequent work packages.

        -  Descriptive analysis of the population of alerting dogs and their owners.

        -  A description of the human-dog relationship between epileptic patients and their dog
           (separated according to whether the dog is one that alerts or not). A description of
           "Personality traits" of alerting and non-alerting dogs.
    
  