
    
      Comprehensive pre-operative counseling and education has been shown to play an important role
      in quality of life, anxiety and depression among cancer patients. Traditionally, patients are
      counseled in the office at the time of informed surgical consent. However there are several
      problems to this model including patient anxiety, confusion, information overload, and time
      constraints that may lead to sub-optimal counseling. Additionally, multiple studies have
      reported that patients forget half of what they have been told within 5 minutes of a health
      consultation and remember only 20% of the information passed on to them. Centering patient
      counseling has been used in other fields of medicine and has been shown to improve outcome in
      Obstetrics, Psychiatry, Gastroenterology, and Medical Oncology. In Obstetrics, centering
      pre-natal care with group counseling sessions has shown to be an effective model for
      improving perinatal outcomes and patient satisfaction. Pregnancy, not unlike cancer, is a
      medical condition that rapidly change's one life, is marred by anxiety, nervousness and
      innumerable potential symptoms. The rationale behind centering care is that providers can
      spend more time counseling and educating a larger audience at once, and it allows the whole
      group to benefit from individual questions, concerns, and complaints. Additionally, it
      establishes a network for patients to connect with other women going through similar
      stressors.

      Prior to initiating this study, we conducted an Institutional Review Board exempt survey
      (STU00209351) of patients scheduled to undergo surgery with one of our Gynecologic
      Oncologists. Over 68% of patients expressed an interest in participating in a study to
      receive additional counseling. However, re-occurring themes that were mentioned were the time
      constraints and commuting issues in which patients experience in coming to our clinic in
      downtown Chicago. Given this feedback and the strong interest that our patient population has
      for this type of intervention, we have modified the traditional in-person centering model to
      an internet base, video conference group counseling session.
    
  