
    
      Major surgical procedures may require transfusion of several units of blood. Blood
      transfusions from other people may be associated with transfusion reactions that cause fever
      or with viral infections that can be carried (and donated) in blood. However, self-donations
      of blood may cause anemia in a patient who will be undergoing surgery a few weeks later.
      Previous research with epoetin alfa suggests that epoetin alfa speeds up the rate of red
      blood cell production and has a beneficial effect on anemia. This randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, multicenter study is designed to determine whether treating patients with
      epoetin alfa will stimulate a person's bone marrow to produce red blood cells and therefore
      increase a patient's ability to self-donate blood prior to major surgery for joint diseases.
      Patients will be randomly assigned to receive 150, 300, or 600 units of epoetin alfa per
      kilogram of body weight, or matching placebo, injected into a vein on the first study day,
      and every 3 to 4 days thereafter for 21 days. Effectiveness will be determined by the number
      of units of blood that can be donated by patients during the study, the number of units of
      non-self-donated blood used during surgery, the total red cell volume of the self-donated
      blood, the total red cell production, and the percentage of sub-standard units of blood that
      are self-donated. Safety evaluations including the incidence of adverse events, physical
      examinations, and clinical laboratory tests will be performed throughout the study. The study
      hypothesis is that patients treated with epoetin alfa will be able to donate more units of
      blood than those patients who receive placebo. Epoetin alfa, 150, 300, or 600 units per
      kilogram of body weight, or placebo, injected into a vein every three to four days for 21
      days (6 doses) during the period before surgery.
    
  