
    
      Atrio-ventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) is the most common form of
      supraventricular tachycardia in adults. The substrate of AVNRT is dual nodal
      atrio-ventricular (AV) physiology represented by the presence of slow (SP) and fast pathway
      (FP) conduction. Selective radiofrequency (RF) ablation of the slow AV nodal pathway can cure
      the arrhythmia with acute success rates varying from 95 to 98% and low recurrence rates
      during long-term follow-up.

      The compact AV node sends two posterior extensions with node-like tissue distributed towards
      the coronary sinus and tricuspid annulus (right posterior extension) and towards the mitral
      annulus (left posterior extension). Earlier literature suggested that the right posterior
      nodal extension is involved in the tachycardia circuit of most patients with AVNRT (slow
      pathway input). The tachycardia circuit may rarely involve the left posterior nodal
      extension, in which case a left-sided ablation procedure is needed. The right-sided approach
      is sufficient for the majority of cases and represents today the standard protocol for AVNRT
      ablation.

      Lee et Al., in view of current anatomical and electrophysiological knowledge concerning the
      AV node, proposed the following sequential approach for SP ablation:

      I. the isthmus between tricuspid annulus and coronary sinus ostium (the usual site of slow
      pathway), II. the tricuspid edge of coronary sinus ostium (by moving the ablation catheter
      tip slightly in and out of the coronary sinus), III. the septum lower than coronary sinus
      ostium, moving higher up on the half of Koch's triangle along the septum, IV. one or two
      burns inside the first few centimeters of the coronary sinus, V. left side of the septum
      (last).

      The investigators hypothesize that the use of a standardized electro-anatomical guided
      strategy, using a sequential approach as follows:

        1. Right-side postero-septal tricuspid annulus

        2. Coronary sinus

        3. Left-side postero-septal mitral annulus

      for slow pathway AVNRT ablation is safe and efficient, increasing the chance of a successful
      ablation in difficult cases, while reducing the need of re-do procedures and the risk for
      high-degree atrio-ventricular block.

      The protocol will be applied in all patients undergoing slow pathway ablation for typical
      AVNRT. Those with unsuccessful right-sided attempt and who undergo coronary sinus and
      left-sided ablation attempt will be eligible for registry inclusion.
    
  