
    
      12 patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have received at least one
      hormonal therapy and at least one chemotherapy in the metastatic setting will be enrolled to
      receive treatment. Once patients are consented and have completed on study screening,
      eribulin and Aromatase Inhibitor (AI) treatment will be alternated for up to 9 months, until
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicities, whichever is sooner. Patients will then
      attend a safety follow-up visit 4 weeks after completing treatment.

      Eribulin (Halaven®) is a non-taxane microtubule dynamics inhibitor. Eribulin inhibits the
      growth phase of microtubules without affecting the shortening phase and sequesters tubulin
      into non-productive aggregates. Eribulin exerts its effects via a tubulin-based antimitotic
      mechanism leading to G2/M cell-cycle block, disruption of mitotic spindles, and, ultimately,
      apoptotic cell death after prolonged mitotic blockage.

      Eribulin is licenced for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast
      cancer who have previously received at least one chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment
      of advanced disease. Prior therapy should have included an anthracycline and a taxane in
      either the adjuvant or metastatic setting unless patients were not suitable for these
      treatments.

      The aim of this study is to alternate eribulin and aromatase inhibitors, examining whether
      there may be breakthrough relapse during the AI therapy or on the other hand we can extend
      the duration that eribulin may be used for. Importantly, blood based biomarkers, the tumour
      derived fraction of circulating free DNA (cfDNA) termed circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), and
      circulating tumour cells will be measured. A major aim of this study is to test whether
      biomarkers fluctuate between chemotherapy and AI treatment in the setting of advanced breast
      cancer.
    
  