
    
      This is a Phase 4, multicenter, prospective, active-controlled, real world, study in
      approximately 225 adult subjects undergoing posterior lumbar spine surgery under general
      anesthesia.

      Subjects will be screened within 30 days prior to surgery; screening on the day of surgery
      will be allowed but is discouraged. If a subject can only be screened on the day of surgery,
      the informed consent process must still be started at least 24 hours prior to the conduct of
      any screening procedures that are not considered SOC at the institution and such procedures
      may not be performed until written informed consent is provided. All screening procedures
      that are not SOC must be performed and documented within the 30-day time window (inclusive of
      the day of surgery for those subjects who can only be screened on the day of surgery) as
      described here.

      During the screening visit, subjects will be assessed for any past or present medical
      conditions that in the opinion of the investigator would preclude them from study
      participation. After the ICF is signed, the following information will be recorded and
      procedures done: medical history, surgical history, medication history, the subject's opioid
      use history will be recorded to calculate mean daily mg oral morphine equivalent dosing (MED
      PO) in the last 30 days, demographic and background information, height, weight and body mass
      index (BMI), a urine pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential, and the subject's
      current adverse experiences (AEs), if any.

      Subjects will be asked questions and/or be asked to fill forms as part of the following
      assessments: Brief Pain Inventory - short form (BPI-sf), 5-item Opioid Compliance Checklist
      (OCC), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Survey of Pain Attitudes (SOPA), Numeric
      Rating Scale (NRS) ti assess pain and Opioid Related Symptom Distress Scale (ORSDS).

      Based on the planned surgical procedure, subjects will be placed in one of three cohorts:

        -  Cohort 1 - Open lumbar spinal fusion technique; ("open" cohort)

        -  Cohort 2 - Minimally invasive tubular and/or percutaneous pedicle screw insertion for
           lumbar decompression with or without fusion;("tubular/percutaneous without midline
           incision" cohort)

        -  Cohort 3 - Lumbar decompression surgery (LDS) without fusion (discectomy or laminectomy
           outpatient cohort)

      The initial sample size in each study cohort (i.e., cohort 1, cohort 2 and cohort 3) is
      estimated at 75 subjects (50 subjects with EXPAREL and 25 subjects with Control group), for a
      total of 225 subjects in all three cohorts. Within each assigned cohort, subjects will be
      allocated in a 2:1 ratio to the EXPAREL (50 subjects) and Control group (25 subjects).

      The following sequence will be followed for all cohorts: First, the subjects who meet
      eligibility criteria will be treated according to the institution's SOC. Their data will be
      collected prospectively. Next, at each investigational site, the administration of EXPAREL
      and bupivacaine HCl to the first 1 to 3 subjects in each cohort will be observed to ensure
      that the correct procedure for infiltration as described in the infiltration guide is being
      followed. If the infiltration was performed correctly, the subject will be included in the
      study. If the infiltration was performed incorrectly, the subject will continue in the study
      but will be removed from statistical analysis and will be replaced to ensure at least 50
      evaluable EXPAREL patients are enrolled per cohort. If subjects are discontinued for other
      reasons, they will be replaced such that a total sample size of 75 fully evaluable subjects
      is obtained in each study cohort, with 50 in the EXPAREL group and 25 in the Control group.
    
  