
    
      Surgical options have been repeatedly evaluated in large multicenter randomized controlled
      trials that unfortunately have not demonstrated improved outcomes. Recently, MISTIE III study
      concluded that minimally invasive surgery with thrombolysis was safely adopted by doctors,
      but did not improve the proportion of patients who achieved a good long-term outcome.
      However, subgroup analyses of MISTIE cohorts showed that patients with GCS≥9, time from
      stroke to treatment initiation <36 h, and reduction of ICH to ≤15 mL had a higher likelihood
      of achieving mRS of 0 to 3. Thus, we designed this study, considering the reality of clinical
      practice in China and the limitations of previous studies, to determine the optimal dose and
      safety of urokinase intra-hematoma irrigation, and to validate whether stereotactic
      aspiration plus urokinase irrigation (STAPLE) is superior to conservative treatment in
      improving long-term outcomes (1 year) in early (within 24h) dICH patients. This is a
      multicentral, randomised, controlled, open-label, trial, which will enroll about 500 deep ICH
      patients in 20 qualified hospitals all over China. The eligible patients should be treated
      within 24h after bleeding，without cerebral hernia, but with contralateral hemiplegia and
      GCS≥9. This study is conducted in 2 steps. The first step is a dose climbing test to
      determine the safety and optimal dose of urokinase irrigation. One hundred patients will be
      randomly assigned to five groups (20000 U, 40000 U, 60000 U, 80000 U, 10000 U urokinase/2-3
      mL saline solution) with a block size of 10 patients. Participants within a block will be
      assigned equally (2:2:2:2:2) to the five dosage groups. Primary outcomes are safety outcomes:
      30-day mortality, 7-day procedure-related mortality, 72 h symptomatic bleeding, and 30-day
      brain infections. The second step is to validate whether STAPLE ( using the optimal dose
      determined in step one) is superior to conservative treatment in improving long-term outcomes
      (1 year) in early (within 24h), non-hernia, contralateral limb hemiplegic dICH patients. Four
      hundred participants will be randomly allocated by local site personnel using a central
      web-based interactive response system. Block randomization (size =4) is performed, and
      participants within a block are assigned equally (2:2) to STAPLE group and Conservative
      treatment group. Three stratification factors are considered including age (40-64 years
      versus 65-85 years), initial ICH volume (25-44 ml versus 45-65 ml) and GCS (9-12 scores
      versus 13-15 scores). Primary outcome is good functional outcome, defined as the proportion
      ofpatients who achieve a modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score of 0-3 at 1 year after hemorrhage.
      Analysis of the primary efficacy outcome is performed in the modified intention-to-treat
      (mITT) population, including all eligible, randomly assigned participants who have been
      subjected to treatment. Clinical data and radiology data will be collected by electric case
      report form (CRF) and uploaded online by each neurosurgery center to form the prospective
      clinical database in First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University. This RCT study
      will be across a 3-year period with a 2 years interval of enrollment and 1 year follow up for
      each patient.
    
  