
    
      Complex perianal fistulas represent one of the most challenging manifestations of Crohn's
      disease. Combined surgical and medical therapy with biologic drugs today represents the
      first-line treatment option but the overall success rate does not exceed 60%. The treatment
      of patients in which complete closure cannot be achieved despite the combination of
      biological therapy and surgery, is still not well defined. These patients may benefit from
      innovative therapeutic approaches such as mesenchymal stromal cells. The adipose tissue is an
      ideal source, due to its abundance and easy access. The investigators evaluate safety,
      feasibility and effectiveness of local injections of micro-fragmented adipose tissue in
      patients with refractory complex fistulizing perianal Crohn's disease.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a no profit interventional prospective study without drugs. A cohort of
      patients (15) with complex perianal Crohn's Disease, refractory to standard treatment with
      biologic drugs, or with secondary failure after initial effectiveness or presenting clinical
      contraindications to biological treatment are enrolled in the study.

      After the enrolment, medical history and clinical data are collected and pre-operatory exams,
      pelvic MRI, and laboratory tests (erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein) are
      performed. Health-related quality of life is assessed by a disease-specific (Inflammatory
      Bowel Disease Questionnaire) and a generic (Short-Form 36 Health Survey) questionnaire.

      METHODS

      - Harvesting of the adipose tissue

      The lower/lateral abdomen or, eventually, the inner/outer thigh are chosen as donor site for
      adipose tissue harvesting under general or spinal anaesthesia. Before the harvesting, the
      donor site is injected with 100 cc of Klein Solution (500 cc saline, 1 cc epinephrine 1/1000
      IU, and 40 cc lidocaine 2%) using a disposable 17 gauge blunt cannula connected to a 60-cc
      luer-lock syringe. The fat is then harvested (50-100 cc) using a 13 gauge blunt cannula
      connected to a 20-ml VacLok® syringe.

      - Processing of the adipose tissue with the Lipogems® device

      The harvested fat is immediately processed in the Lipogems® processing kit (Lipogems
      International Spa, Milan, Italy). Lipogems® is a disposable device that mechanically reduces
      the size of the adipose tissue clusters while eliminating oily substances and blood residues
      with pro-inflammatory properties. The entire process is carried out in one surgical step in
      complete immersion in physiological solution minimizing any traumatic action on the cells and
      microarchitecture. The processed micro-fragmented fat is collected in a 60-cc syringe and
      positioned to decant the excess of saline solution. At the end, the product is transferred in
      several 5-cc syringes to be re-injected in the patient.

      - Surgical procedure and micro-fragmented adipose tissue (Lipogems®) injection

      Examination under anaesthesia is performed in order to identify all the fistula tracts and
      abscesses; eventual purulent material is drained and the fistula tracts curetted. Necrotic
      and inflamed tissues are excised using a "cone-like" fistulectomy at each fistula tract.
      After local surgical drainage of the perianal disease, 20 cc of micro-fragmented adipose
      tissue are injected circumferentially into the submucosa surrounding the internal fistula
      orifice and in the perianal tissue along the residual fistula tract.

      - Follow-up visits and outcome measures

      All patients are assessed at 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24 weeks after the procedure. During all
      follow-up visits, laboratory tests and clinical examination are performed. health related
      quality of life questionnaires are also administered. A second pelvic MRI is performed at 24
      weeks to radiologically assess the results.
    
  