
    
      Brain abscess is a fatal infectious pathology of the central nervous system for which our CHU
      provides a referent function and supports patients suspected and diagnosed with a cerebral
      abscess in the area of the regional hospital group (GHT). Through the routine activity of the
      Microbiology laboratory of the IHU Méditerranée Infection, more than 180 diagnosed patients
      have been investigated in 9 years, an average of 20 patients per year. The mortality of brain
      abscesses is currently measured at 15% despite well-established diagnostic and therapeutic
      protocols in the literature, associating surgical drainage of abscess and administration of
      probabilistic antibiotics. Our hypothesis is that established protocols take into account
      incomplete microbiological documentation of cerebral abscesses and therefore anti-infectious
      therapy that may not be strictly adapted to the causative microorganisms. Our hypothesis is
      based on our own work as well as the literature data, showing that current approaches only
      target bacteria but that these approaches leave aside other living worlds such as Archaea.
      Indeed, investigators have recently shown for the first time that methanogens, which are
      Archaea microorganisms, constitute part of the flora responsible for certain cerebral
      abscesses and that they have a direct pathogenic role in cerebral abscesses. More
      specifically, the diagnosis of cerebral abscess includes several clinical and microbiological
      situations that are not all of the same therapeutic. Investigator propose to collect 20
      abscesses. A collection of abscesses is performed systematically during the diagnosis for
      bacteriological analysis. There will be no further examination. The main objective of this
      clinical research project is to establish the repertoire of microorganisms responsible for
      brain abscesses; and as a secondary objective to define the different clinical entities
      forming the cerebral abscesses.
    
  