
    
      This is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study to evaluate the efficacy, safety
      and tolerability of OT-101+Artemisinin when used in combination with SoC in hospitalized
      subjects with severe COVID 19. Written informed consent must be obtained from all subjects or
      their legally authorized representative (LAR) during screening (up to Day 3 prior to dosing)
      and prior to study related procedures being performed. Following completion of all screening
      assessments and meeting of eligibility criteria, subjects will be enrolled and randomized on
      Day 1 to either receive OT-101+Artemisinin or placebo+Artemisinin in a 2:1 ratio for 7 days
      in combination with SoC therapy per local SoC policies, followed to Day 28.

      Subjects: includes subjects with severe COVID 19 (WHO COVID 19 Clinical Improvement Ordinal
      Scale 5 - non-invasive ventilation or high flow oxygen, or 6 - intubation and mechanical
      ventilation) at screening.

      Subjects will undergo assessment during hospitalization or could discontinue their treatment
      with OT 101 or placebo during the 7 day infusion period or any time later during the study.
      All subjects will be closely monitored for adverse events (AEs) from signing the informed
      consent form (ICF) for at least 21 days after the final dose of study treatment (until Day
      28). Standard of care treatment may continue as clinically indicated (after the 7 day dosing
      completion) as per local institutional guidelines. If subjects are discharged after Day 7
      (after completing dosing), post discharge assessments can be done either at home (home health
      visit) or at the site. For subjects who are discharged before Day 28 or who withdraw from the
      study early will have follow up phone calls or will be followed up at site or a home visit to
      collect safety data until End of Study on Day 28. On days of laboratory assessments,
      discharged subjects may have a home visit.
    
  