
    
      The accuracy of IOL calculation is important for the visual outcome of patients undergoing
      cataract extraction and IOL implantation. Different formulas such as Holladay I, HofferQ,
      SRKT have been used with excellent results. All formulas use the corneal power among other
      factors to calculate the IOL power. Corneal refractive surgery i.e. radial keratotomy (RK),
      photorefractive keratectomy (PRK), and Laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) changes the
      corneal power; therefore, it is difficult to measure the true corneal power after surgery by
      any form of direct measurement, such as keratometry, or corneal topography. Keratometry and
      topography assume a normal relationship between the anterior and posterior corneal
      curvatures, and measure the anterior corneal radius. RK for myopia flattens both the anterior
      corneal radius and the posterior corneal radius while PRK and LASIK for myopia flattens the
      anterior corneal radius but leaves the posterior corneal radius mostly unchanged.

      Standard keratometry measures an intermediate area and extrapolates the central power based
      on some very broad assumptions. For this reason, keratometry, autokeratometry and simulated
      keratometry by topography will typically over-estimate central corneal power following
      keratorefractive surgery for myopia. This inaccuracy leads to an inability to meet the
      patients' rising expectations and with the increasing popularity of refractive surgery,
      calculating intraocular lens (IOL) power after refractive surgery is becoming increasingly
      important.

      Different methods to calculate the effective corneal power (keratometry) after refractive
      surgery have been described (historical data, effective refractive power, modified Maloney
      method, etc), however, intraocular lens power calculations in eyes with previous refractive
      surgery remains difficult because of the inaccuracy of keratometry power measurements.

      The Galilei dual Scheimpflug analyzer is a non-invasive, diagnostic system that combines dual
      rotating Scheimpflug camera measurements and Placido optical system for corneal topography
      and 3D analysis of the anterior eye segment. It provides pachymetry as well as elevation and
      curvature mapping of the cornea. Additionally, the Ray tracing system delivers a more
      accurate total corneal power and anterior chamber depth. The total corneal power that the
      Galilei provides is an alternative that seems to be more accurate to calculate the IOL power
      in patients who have undergone keratorefractive surgery prior to cataract extraction and IOL
      implantation.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the accuracy of the Galilei to calculate the
      effective corneal power (keratometry, corneal curvature) in patients who have undergone both
      corneal refractive surgery and lens extraction with intraocular lens implantation.
    
  