
    
      In preparation for a full-scale study via a subsequent R01 proposal, our study objective is
      to examine the feasibility and acceptability of conducting a yoga RCT among active-duty
      military personnel with CLBP/CNP in military and community settings. The study will be
      conducted in two phases: Phase 1 (completed) involved obtaining IRB approval to conduct
      research in military settings, collecting qualitative data from stakeholders on attitudes and
      preferences for yoga interventions, and refining the existing Yoga for CLBP intervention for
      the needs of active-duty military and persons with CNP. Phase 2 will recruit and randomize 50
      military personnel with CLBP or CNP to either active hatha or restorative yoga. Pain
      interference, pain severity, physical function, opioid medication use, and mental health
      outcomes are of primary interest. Mechanisms will also be studied.

      The specific aims are as follows:

      Aim 1: Evaluate and navigate barriers and facilitators for obtaining IRB approval to conduct
      randomized controlled intervention studies with active-duty military personnel.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the acceptability of and preferences for yoga interventions among active-duty
      military personnel with CLBP/CNP.

      Aim 3: Refine and modify the existing Yoga for CLBP intervention to address CNP, and the
      needs of active-duty military personnel.

      Aim 4: Evaluate the feasibility of recruitment of active-duty military personnel with
      CLBP/CNP into a yoga RCT.

      Aim 5: Evaluate the adherence of this population to the two yoga interventions. Aim 6: Obtain
      effect size estimates to inform power analyses for a full-scale RCT.

      Accomplishing these aims will prepare us for an R01 proposal to study the efficacy of yoga
      for military personnel with CLBP/CNP in a full-scale randomized, controlled trial. To be
      successful and maximize the scientific knowledge obtained from an R01 study, it is crucial to
      first establish working relationships with military researchers, ensure that recruitment and
      randomized assignment are feasible, pilot test measurement strategies, and ensure that both
      interventions will be well-attended and have been optimally chosen.
    
  