
    
      Central hypersomnias are characterized by severe excessive daytime sleepiness despite long
      sleep periods (>10 hours/night) and the absence of nocturnal sleep pathology. They
      preferentially affect young adults, may result in loss of employment, and can lead to motor
      vehicle accidents (1). Despite these health, safety, and quality of life consequences, there
      are no FDA-approved therapies for several forms of central hypersomnia, including idiopathic
      hypersomnia (IH). Currently, IH is treated using therapies approved for narcolepsy, despite a
      lack of clinical trial data and a consensus that treatment response is poor (2). Treatments
      include traditional psychostimulants (e.g., amphetamine derivatives) as well as
      wake-promoting agents with unknown mechanisms of action such as modafinil and sodium oxybate.
      In addition to side effects including high abuse potential, tachycardia, and altered mental
      status, treatments are often ineffective and substantial residual sleepiness frequently
      persists despite poly-therapy.

      The investigators hypothesize that pathology in the GABA neurotransmitter system, the brain's
      major inhibitory system, underlies these central hypersomnias. Currently, there are no
      hypersomnia therapies that are GABA-antagonists. However, the macrolide antibiotic
      clarithromycin has been shown to have GABA-modulating properties, resulting in the
      development of insomnia or mania in a subset of patients. Clarithromycin is therefore a
      potentially viable, promising therapeutic agent for hypersomnia related to positive
      modulation of the GABAA receptor. Open-label use of clarithromycin in six hypersomnia
      patients with known (n = 4) or suspected (n = 2) excess GABAA potentiation resulted in marked
      improvements in vigilance, as measured on the psychomotor vigilance task (PVT) (unpublished
      data). The investigators therefore propose a pilot, crossover trial comparing clarithromycin
      to placebo for the treatment of hypersomnia in patients with excess GABAA potentiation. The
      primary endpoint will be a decrease in PVT reaction time. Secondary endpoints will include a
      decrease in PVT lapses and changes in Epworth, Stanford, and FOSQ sleep scales. Successful
      results from this trial would provide early evidence for a more rational and efficacious
      treatment for hypersomnia that could avoid the potential abuse, toxicities, and treatment
      failures associated with traditional treatments.

      This will be a pilot crossover trial of clarithromycin and placebo to treat central
      hypersomnia. Subjects who are untreated for hypersomnia or who experience persistent symptoms
      despite traditional therapies will be eligible. Subjects who are on medication for
      hypersomnia at the beginning of the study will be asked to maintain stable doses of these
      medications for one month before and throughout the study period. Twenty subjects will be
      assessed at baseline and one and two weeks after being on each study drug (clarithromycin 500
      mg bid and matched placebo bid). After two weeks on study drug, they will undergo a one week
      washout period, then change to the other study drug for an additional two weeks. Patients
      will be randomized to order of presentation of study drugs such that ten subjects will be
      randomized to each group. Random sequence generation will be performed our pharmacy. All
      study investigators and subjects will remain blinded to group assignment.
    
  