
    
      Background Neck pain is one of the most common and costly musculoskeletal disorders in
      western societies with a high rate of recurrence and chronicity. In chronic neck pain, the
      persistence of symptoms is highly associated with changes in the biomechanics of the neck
      region that are related to the muscular imbalance between the neck muscles and specifically
      between the deep and superficial neck flexors. Manual techniques are special techniques
      applied by hand from the therapist that focus on reducing symptoms and improving disability.
      Both spinal manipulation and soft tissue mobilization techniques have a positive effect in
      individuals with chronic neck pain, especially when they are combined with the appropriate
      therapeutic exercise programme. However, it has not been determined which of the
      above-mentioned combinations is more effective in patients with chronic neck pain.

      Aim The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of two different kinds of manual
      technique, when they combine with the same therapeutic exercise program in the management of
      patients with chronic neck pain.

      Method An assessor-blind randomized control trial with a duration of ten weeks and a 6-month
      follow up will be performed in 80 women with chronic neck pain. The participants will be
      allocated into four groups of 20 persons each (three intervention groups and one control
      group). The first three groups will follow the same exercise program. Only exercise will be
      applied to the first group. The second group will apply a combination of soft tissue
      mobilization techniques and exercise. The third group will follow a combination of spinal
      manipulation and exercise, while the fourth group will not receive any treatment. The neck
      pain will be evaluated with the visual analogue scale, the disability related to neck pain
      with the neck disability index, the pressure pain threshold of the neck muscles with pressure
      algometry, the active range of motion with a bubble inclinometer, the maximum isometric
      strength of the neck muscles with a hand dynamometer, the muscular fatigue of the flexors of
      the neck with the craniocervical flexion test and the quality of life with the sf-36
      questionnaire before, during and after the intervention, while follow-ups will take place six
      months later.
    
  