
    
      A cohort of adolescent (ages 13-18) patients with bipolar disorder and current manic symptoms
      will be approached for participation in this 3-month outpatient study. Taurine or matching
      placebo will be administered orally, in capsules, and added to whatever medication(s) the
      patients are receiving from their clinicians. The specific medications and dosages will be
      determined solely by the subjects' non-study clinicians ("treatment-as-usual"). During the 3
      months of the study, subjects will be required to keep their medications nearly constant
      (minor dosage adjustments for side-effects or to maintain therapeutic levels will be
      permitted) for the duration of the trial. Since taurine will be an adjunctive therapy,
      patients currently taking mood stabilizers can continue to do so. The research team will work
      closely with the subject and their outpatient clinician(s) to coordinate the medication
      issues. The results from standard rating scales for bipolar disorder research will be
      compared between the group receiving the taurine and the group receiving placebo.

      The sample will include thirty adolescent (ages 13-18) outpatients with bipolar disorder,
      type I. The study will be 3 months long.

      Study Drugs: The cohort will be randomized to receive either taurine or matching placebo
      (microcellulose). Taurine and placebo will be provided in 500 mg vegetable capsules.

      Follow-up visits and clinical ratings:

      During the baseline visit, a detailed psychiatric and medical history will be obtained. The
      adolescent will start study medicine at that time. The following standard rating scales will
      be performed:

        1. Kiddie Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age
           Children-Present and Lifetime Episode (K-SADS-PL) with additional mood onset and offset
           items derived from the WASH-U K-SADS (K-SADS-PL-W) (Kaufman 1997).

        2. Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS; 11 item structured interview; Young et al 1978).

        3. Children's Depression Rating Scale - Revised (CDRS-R; Overholser 1995).

        4. The ADHD Rating Scale (ARS-IV; DuPaul 1998).

        5. Clinical Global Impression scale - Bipolar version (CGI-BP; Guy 1976).

        6. Children's Global Assessment Scale (CGAS; Shaffer 1995).

        7. Montgomery-Asberg Depression rating Scale (MADRS; Montgomery & Asberg 1979).

        8. Brief Adverse Effect Rating Scale.

        9. Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale for Children (BPRS-C; Overall & Pfefferbaum 1982).

       10. Safety Assessment (derived from our group's ongoing treatment studies).

      After the baseline evaluation, subjects will be evaluated every week for 1 month, and then
      every 2 weeks for the remainder of the 3 months. The same rating scales will be performed at
      each follow-up visit, except for the KSADS-PL-W and the ARS-IV. Instead of the full
      KSADS-PL-W at the follow-up visits, only the screening questions for mania and depression
      will be performed in order to aid in the determination of syndromic recovery or recurrence.
      In addition, patients will maintain a daily Mood Diary, which will be reviewed at each study
      visit to elicit symptom recall.

      All ratings will be performed by blind study personnel, who will not know whether the patient
      is receiving taurine or placebo.
    
  