
    
      Project plan Population: Patients are recruited from the hospital Stockholms Sjukhem. When
      discharged, or 6-7 months after stroke, the patients are informed about the study. All
      positive answers are registered in a coded list. Patients are contacted by the investigators
      around eight months after the stroke. Patients are included in the study after informed
      consent, and if the inclusion criteria are fulfilled.

      Inclusion criteria: ≥ 65 years of age. First stroke 8-12 months earlier. Remaining subjective
      and objective swallowing difficulties. Can eat. Can perform the training by himself/herself
      or with assistance. Natural teeth corresponding to category A according to Eichner's index.

      Exclusion criteria: Moderate to severe impressive aphasia: <4.0 points by A-ning (Aphasia
      screening tool). Moderate to severe cognitive impairment: <23 points by MoCA (Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment). Unilateral neglect according to the baking tray task.

      Procedure: The speech therapist screens the patient with the instruments A-ning, MoCA and
      Baking tray task. The dentist categorizes their dental status according to Eichner's index.
      Patients who do not fulfill inclusion criteria are excluded.

      The patients are randomized to intervention or control group by central randomization.

      At baseline, the patients in the intervention group receive an oral screen (IQoroTM) and get
      oral and written instructions on how to use it. They are instructed to train three times per
      day with an effective training time of 1.5 minutes, and to record sessions in a training
      diary. The patients in the control group do not get any intervention, but will be offered the
      corresponding training after the end of the study.

      At baseline, 1.5 (intervention group only) and 3 months following intervention onset, lip
      force, swallowing capacity and chewing function are determined. At baseline and 3 months,
      oro-facial functions are screened with NOT-S and subjective swallowing problems with EAT-10
      (Eating assessment tool). In order to relate these specific oral and swallowing instruments
      to the patient's life situation, we also include the validated instruments ESAS (Edmonton
      symptom assessment scale) and LiSat (Life Satisfaction) at baseline and 3 months.

      Compliance in the intervention group will be evaluated by a training diary. Methods: Lip
      force is determined with an oral screen in the oral cavity. A hand held digital force gauge
      is linked to the oral screen with a wire. The patient is instructed to keep the oral screen
      in place as long as possible while the wire is stretched. The maximum force during tension is
      recorded three times.

      Chewing function is evaluated with regard to bolus formation and mixing efficiency, by the
      use of a two-colored wax or chewing gum. The shape of the bolus and how well the colors are
      mixed after 30 chewing cycles is determined by visual assessment and colorimetric measures.

      Swallowing capacity test (SCT) is preceded by a water swallowing test with 3-5 tea spoons of
      water in 4-5 rounds, in order to secure that the SCT is safe to perform. SCT: The patient is
      instructed to drink 150 ml of water. Swallowing speed is expressed as ml/s. Less than 10 ml/s
      is considered as an index of abnormal swallowing.

      Power: Based on 10 ml/s as the lower limit of normal swallowing speed, we assess that 54
      subjects are needed to finish the study. The estimation is made on the basis of a previous
      study. With 54 subjects, we will be able to determine a 40% higher proportion in the
      intervention group reaching 10 ml/s in SCT after finishing the training program, with 80%
      power and significance level 5%. To compensate for expected drop outs, we aim to recruit 35
      subjects per group.

      It is estimated that it will take about one year to recruit all participants to the study.
    
  