
    
      Patients will be enrolled with alternative (mismatched/haplocompatible) related donors or
      unrelated donors either for an initial transplant or as a rescue following rejection of a
      previous graft or relapse following a previous transplant. For patients with mismatched
      related donors, the majority of clinical experience has been with a T cell-depleted PBSC
      product. Currently, no FDA-approved method for T cell depletion exists. Recent experience
      with the CliniMACS® device has produced excellent results with a 70-75% survival in children,
      many of whom were high risk patients.

      Patients that receive transplants from unrelated donors usually receive stem cells that are
      not T cell-depleted. However, this is associated with a high risk of GVHD. The excellent
      results with mismatched related donor transplants justify expanding this approach to
      unrelated donor transplant recipients if the HLA mismatch is sufficiently great. It is
      anticipated that the use of the CliniMACS® device will result in a very low risk of GVHD
      without the need for post-transplant immunosuppression. The outcomes in relatively small
      studies for children receiving unrelated donor transplants using the CliniMACS® have been
      comparable to or better than those receiving T replete transplants with post-transplant
      immunosuppression.

      This protocol will allow the use of patient-specific conditioning regimens. Some patients
      have contraindications to certain components of the conditioning regimen used for our ongoing
      study under BB-IND 8817 (CC# 01151). An example is a patient with pre-existing organ
      dysfunction that would be better served by the use of a reduced intensity conditioning
      regimen. Another example is a patient for whom total body irradiation is contraindicated due
      to very young age or prior radiation therapy. Finally, patients who would be otherwise
      eligible for the predecessor study but who do not have an eligible related donor or a closely
      matched unrelated donor would be eligible for this study. The target CD3+ T cell dose that
      will be given will be 3 x 10^4/kg. The UCSF 01151 protocol uses a dose of 3 x 10^4/kg. The T
      cell dose in the graft is usually < 1 x 10^4/kg after processing and T cells are added to the
      product.
    
  