
    
      Growing interest in the relationship between epilepsy and sleep has resulted in a number of
      investigations demonstrating the high prevalence of sleep disturbances and disorders in
      people with epilepsy (PWE). PWE frequently report daytime sleepiness, insomnia, and other
      sleep problems.

      Insomnia is among the most common sleep complaint in PWE. The prevalence of
      moderate-to-severe insomnia using the ISI ranges from 15% to 51%. A recent case-control study
      found an association between insomnia symptom severity and poorer seizure control. Difficulty
      maintaining sleep is the most common insomnia presentation followed by difficulty initiating
      sleep. Both patterns are accompanied by a decrease in total sleep time and an increase in the
      number of awakenings, arousals and wake time after sleep onset, leading to a state of
      relative sleep deprivation. Like epilepsy, insomnia disorders are commonly associated with
      co-morbid depression in the general population, confirmed in a cohort of adults with epilepsy
      from our own epilepsy center. In turn, treatment of depression has been shown to improve
      insomnia in the general population. Further, improved seizure control has been observed
      following treatment of other comorbid sleep disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea and
      poor sleep hygiene. Innovative sleep treatments for PWE are needed.

      To date, there are no studies exploring sleep and seizure outcomes with treatment of insomnia
      in PWE. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia(CBT-i) is generally the preferred initial
      treatment for most cases of primary insomnia. CBT-i examines and promotes modifications in
      thoughts and behaviors that perpetuate insomnia. The validity of CBT-i has been well
      established and the American College of Physicians has acknowledged CBT-i as the first-line
      therapy for insomnia with treatment effects that outlast those of sedative-hypnotic
      medications. Despite its established efficacy, CBT-i is not widely accessible due to the lack
      of trained clinicians, stigmatization in receiving psychological services, geographical
      remoteness to trained providers and cost. Treatment typically involves a series of up to 10
      visits at weekly or biweekly intervals.

      In recent years, CCBT-i programs have been developed that offer web-based treatment. One such
      program is GoTo sleep (GTS), developed and validated by investigators at the Cleveland
      Clinic. GTS constitutes 6 weeks of therapy based on the principles and methods of CBT-i
      presented as a series of daily lessons, learnable skills, and personalized recommendations
      supported by graphics, animations, audio and video. The program includes the basic elements
      of CBT-i including sleep hygiene, sleep restriction, stimulus control, cognitive
      restructuring and relaxation training. The efficacy of CCBT-i has been demonstrated in
      several randomized controlled trials involving patients with primary insomnia including one
      using GTS where the program was found to be superior to usual care (sleep hygiene
      instruction) after 6 weeks of therapy. Further, we recently conducted a pilot study comparing
      GTS and standard sleep hygiene instruction in Parkinson's disease patients with insomnia and
      found a greater reduction in ISI scores with CCBT-i (-7.9 vs -3.5; p=0.03).

      Given the prevalence of insomnia in epilepsy and the known association between seizure
      occurrence and sleep impairment, the investigators hypothesize that treatment of insomnia
      with CCBT-i will improve insomnia symptoms and seizure control in PWE.
    
  