
    
      The vast majority of children with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome respond well to
      corticosteroid treatment. However, as many as 70% experience at least one relapse, and 30%
      develop a more complicated course with frequent relapses (FRNS) with or without steroid
      dependency (SDNS). Extended steroid exposure in these children often results in long-term
      complications. The management of patients with SDNS is challenging and expensive. Relapses
      may lead to serious complications, e.g. related to anasarca, hypertension, life threatening
      infections (peritonitis, pneumonia, meningitis), thrombosis and malnutrition. Repeated
      courses or even continuous steroid treatment lead to considerable medication related toxicity
      and morbidity.

      The goal of treatment is to reduce the rate of relapses, the cumulative dose of
      corticosteroids, and the incidence of serious complications. Various prospective studies
      suggest that Rituximab, a B cell depleting monoclonal antibody, could be a safe and effective
      alternative to steroid or immunosuppressants to achieve and maintain remission in this
      population. Single rituximab infusion have been shown to be efficacious for 6 to 12 months
      and the side effect profile observed to date is very benign but after 6-8 months there was
      relapse due to regeneration of B-lymphocytes, hence for maintenance of remission MMF has been
      considered. In spite of good initial response, rituximab responders always remain prone to
      further relapse with regeneration of B lymphocytes, necessitating either repeat course of
      rituximab or addition of another steroid-sparing immunosuppressant. Reports suggest efficacy
      of rituximab may vary depending on disease pathology, clinical course, and simultaneous use
      of other immunosuppressants.

      The aim of the RITURNS II study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Repeat courses of
      Rituximab to that of maintenance Mycophenolate Mofetil following single course of Rituximab
      in maintaining remission over 24 months among Children with Steroid Dependent Nephrotic
      Syndrome (SDNS).
    
  