
    
      Patients with metabolic syndrome are at increased risk of thrombotic complications, including
      myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death. A meta-analysis of the studies assessing
      cardiovascular risk in metabolic syndrome found a pooled relative risk for incident
      cardiovascular events and death of 1.78. This propensity for thrombotic vascular events is in
      the context of an increasing prevalence of metabolic syndrome, which in the 2003-2006 NHANES
      Survey was found in 34% of the US population over the age of 20.

      Two important contributors to the development of myocardial infarction and stroke are lipid
      rich atheromatous plaques and concomitant platelet aggregation in response to the fissuring
      of these plaques. A growing body of evidence implicates oxidative modification of lipoprotein
      lipids and apolipoproteins in the genesis of plaques. Platelet hyperactivity and the variable
      response to antiplatelet therapy are features of the metabolic syndrome. Oxidative
      modifications of LDL enhance activation of platelets, which themselves are oxidatively
      stressed. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) initiates lipid peroxidation leading to dysfunctional HDL
      production. Therefore, the hypotheses for the proposed investigations will address the
      effects of resveratrol on platelet hyperactivity and HDL protein modifications in patients
      with metabolic syndrome. Resveratrol, as predicted from its structure, is an electron rich
      molecule that can reduce free radicals. It has distinctive actions, however, that differ from
      compounds that are conventionally referred to as "anti-oxidants". It has particular potency
      as an inhibitor of radical formation by a number of peroxidases that likely participate in
      the pathophysiology of metabolic syndrome. These include MPO, the peroxidase site of
      prostaglandin H synthase-1 (PGHS-1; cyclooxygenase-1(COX-1)) and cytochrome c.

      We will test the hypothesis that:

        1. resveratrol reduces platelet activation in patients with metabolic syndrome. and

        2. that resveratrol reduces the oxidative modification of HDL proteins in patients with
           metabolic syndrome.
    
  