
    
      New York University School of Medicine, Division of Neurogenetics is conducting a new
      research study for patients with CADASIL (cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with
      subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy). We are inviting anyone age 18 or older with a
      confirmed diagnosis of CADASIL to participate. We greatly appreciate your help in this
      regard. Please be assured that if you participate, all the information you, your relatives or
      your physicians provide will be held in strict confidence.

      CADASIL is often misdiagnosed due to lack of awareness of this condition among health care
      providers and because the disease can closely mimic other neurological conditions. People
      with CADASIL struggle to find a doctor who has knowledge about this condition. The purpose of
      this study is to better understand the early symptoms of CADASIL so doctors may learn to
      diagnose it early.

      This research study will be based on review of medical information provided by you or your
      health care giver. If you are interested, please contact us by telephone. We will mail a
      questionnaire for you to fill out and return to us, and request a copy of your brain MRI,
      test results and office notes from your doctor. We will contact some people for a more
      detailed telephone interview. Your responses and questionnaire are still valuable even if we
      do not get other records. The estimated time to complete the questionnaire is about two
      hours. The telephone interview (if applicable) is expected to last for 30 to 45 minutes. It
      may be helpful to involve a family member or a friend while completing the questionnaire.

      If you wish to participate in this study, please call our research office.We will tell you
      about the project and then, if you wish to participate, will mail you the questionnaires with
      return envelopes. Your participation and support is deeply appreciated.
    
  