
    
      The aim of the study is to

        1. To produce an educational curriculum and teaching material for three groups

             -  Key stage one (KS1)(4-7 yrs)

             -  Key stage two (KS2) (8-11 yrs)

             -  Parents

        2. To undertake pilot evaluation to establish

             -  the feasibility of running the different education sessions, addressing access and
                other practical issues

             -  the educational value of the packages produced with the aim of further refinement
                of the curriculum

             -  the acceptability of the sessions to participants and parents

             -  a process evaluation of the individual components of the packages

             -  potential biomedical and psychological benefits, to provide data for a power
                calculation for a larger randomised controlled trial of the effectiveness of the
                educational package

      The first phase of the project involves development of curriculum for the education of 4-11
      yr old children with type 1 diabetes. Participants in key stage one will be taught a basic
      understanding of carbohydrate, exercise and insulin balance, hypoglycaemia and
      injections/pump basics and blood glucose testing. Older participants (Key stage two) will be
      taught similar topics but with increasing complexity appropriate to their age and
      understanding. The teaching will use approaches similar to those employed in schools and
      therefore the research team will work with primary school teachers and experts in education
      to ensure appropriate techniques and resources are employed. The focus of the education for
      parents will be to help them teach and encourage their children to develop their diabetes
      skills as they grow up.

      The second phase of the project involves delivery of courses to each age group. The main
      focus of this will be to assess the acceptability of the curriculum. Feasibility in terms of
      practical arrangements, timing, use of resources etc will be examined. Feedback from an
      independent expert observer as well as from participants and educators will allow the
      curriculum to be assessed and adapted if necessary prior to larger scale study.

      Some outcome measures are being examined. The investigators aim to assess whether older
      children's knowledge has changed pre and post course, whether diabetes self management within
      the family has altered and whether there is any impact on glycaemic control and quality of
      life.
    
  