
    
      Perihilar cholangiocarcinoma (pCCA) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) both are common
      primary hepatobiliary tumors, which often require extensive hepatic resection and challenge
      perioperative management as surgery remains the only chance of long-term survival for such
      patients. PVE induces effective hypertrophy on one side of the liver parenchyma ahead of a
      planned liver resection of the other side which becomes atrophic.

      Technically, the percutaneous transhepatic approach becomes the standard of care for PVE.
      PVEs themselves with different embolization materials could vary in the degree of liver
      hypertrophy, though some techniques, such as TAE, HVE and stem cell, have been already used
      in combination with PVE and could promote the hypertrophy. Several aspects on the use of PVE
      are insufficiently studied and most recommendations are based on low-grade evidence. Large
      clinical studies that compare the effect of different embolic materials on the hypertrophy
      response are lacking. PVE using multiple coils to completely occlude all the target segmental
      and sectional branches is a conventional and fundamental approach in our center, which
      ensured a reliable hypertrophy response with a low PVE-related morbidity and post-hepatectomy
      liver failure rate in the past decades. PVE using with tris-acryl gelatin microspheres (TAGM)
      distally and coils proximally, which needs more interventional experience, has become one of
      standard approaches in our center. However, the study of high-grade evidence regarding the
      hypertrophy effect of PVE with TAGM and coils is still lacking.

      In this randomized study, the investigators aim to compare PVE using TAGM plus coils to PVE
      using coils alone, in term of PVE-related complications, hypertrophy degree, hepatectomy
      completion rate, post-hepatectomy liver failure rate, features of immunohistochemical
      examination on parenchyma, for patients stratified by either pCCA or HCC.
    
  