
    
      Twenty five (25) outpatients with pulmonary (e.g. asthma, cystic fibrosis) or rheumatic (e.g.
      rheumatoid arthritis, dermatomyositis) illnesses scheduled to receive a brief course
      ("burst") of prednisone will be enrolled. The subjects will be randomized to receive
      memantine, riluzole or placebo beginning immediately prior to the corticosteroid therapy and
      continuing for one week. Measures of cognition and mood will be compared between the two
      groups at baseline, day 3, and day 7.

      Demographic information including age, gender, frequency and duration of prior corticosteroid
      therapy and current anticipated dose and duration will be collected at baseline. Baseline
      measures of mood will be assessed with the Activation subscale of the Internal State Scale
      (ISS) (primary measure), Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (17-item version), and Young Mania
      Rating Scale (YMRS). Cognition will be assessed with the RAVLT (primary measure), Stroop, and
      Digit Span Backwards. The subjects will be given memantine (10 mg), riluzole (50 mg), or
      identical appearing placebo 1 tablet daily for 3 days and then at the first follow up
      appointment (day 3) the dose will be increased to BID if no side effects are reported. The
      subjects will be reassessed twice, at day 3 and day 7. Mood and cognitive measures will be
      repeated. The study visits will last approximately an hour and a half. Participants will
      discontinue memantine when they discontinue prednisone. The RA administering assessments will
      be blinded at all times. Alternative but equivalent versions of the RAVLT and Digit Span
      Backwards will be given to minimize practice or learning effects. Current and cumulative
      corticosteroid dose (mg each day X number of days) will be determined and recorded.

      HVLT-R test total words recalled scores will be compared between baseline and exit of the
      active medication phase and placebo phase using a within subjects design and paired t-tests.
      Based on our prior experience working with corticosteroid-dependent patients we have found
      them to be very compliant with clinical treatment. Thus, we do not anticipate large numbers
      of dropouts or missing data. In the case of missing data we will use the last observation
      carried forward. In our lamotrigine study in a similar population, we found a change in total
      words recalled on a word list and on the Stroop. Assuming a similar change with memantine,
      using double-sided, paired t-tests, we could detect a difference with a change in the placebo
      group with participants on the HVLT-R and up to with participants on the Stroop. Thus,
      although this is primarily a pilot study to obtain effect sizes for future, larger trials
      funded by NIH, it should have power to detect clinically meaningful differences between
      medication and placebo.
    
  