
    
      This is a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicentre study in
      patients with CAD. The study will be conducted at approximately 10 centres in 3 countries
      (Denmark, Finland and Sweden).

      Patients suitable for the study will be identified and screened for eligibility after being
      hospitalized for Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) (Visit 1) comprising ST Elevation Myocardial
      Infarction (STEMI) or Non-ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction (non-STEMI). At Visit 1, after
      signing informed consent, study measurements will take place at days 1, 2, 3 and 5 post ACS,
      where feasible. It is planned that approximately 138 CAD patients will be randomized to
      ensure at least 66 evaluable patients receiving AZD5718 Dose B or placebo are included with
      12 weeks treatment. For supporting dose selection in future studies, a treatment arm with 28
      randomized patients receiving AZD5718 Dose A is included in the study. The study was
      originally designed to be a 4-week study and was amended to be a 12-week study. Therefore,
      the total number of patients is greater than required for a 12 weeks study (about 100), since
      some patients will only have 4 weeks of treatment.

      An evaluable patient is defined as a patient with a valid Coronary Flow Velocity Reserve
      (CFVR) measurement at Visit 2 and one post baseline visit as judged by the CFVR Core lab.

      On Day 1 (Visit 2), 7 to 28 days after the ACS event, patients willing to participate in the
      study will complete the screening procedure and, if eligible, be randomized. Treatment
      duration will be 12 weeks. During the treatment phase, patients will come in to the clinic
      for study measurements at 2 weeks (visit 3), 4 weeks (visit 4), 8 weeks (visit 4b) and 12
      weeks (visit 4c).

      A follow-up visit (Visit 5) will be performed at 4 weeks (±4 days) after last dose in order
      to ensure safety and well-being of the patients
    
  