
    
      This five-year study will evaluate the effectiveness of the administration of buprenorphine
      bridge treatment (BBT) to probationers and parolees compared to treatment as usual (TAU),
      which consists of referral to a community buprenorphine treatment program. Project
      implementation will occur at Guilford Avenue, the primary intake unit for Baltimore City
      Community Supervision (Probation and Parole). The proposed study is a parallel two-group
      randomized controlled trial in which 160 men and 160 women with OUD on community supervision
      in Baltimore will be randomly assigned within community supervision status (probation or
      parole) and gender to one of two treatment conditions: (1) Buprenorphine Bridge Treatment
      (BBT): Participants will begin buprenorphine pharmacotherapy using the MedicaSafe
      buprenorphine dispensing device immediately after an on-site intake at a community
      supervision office and continue such treatment until they are transitioned to community
      buprenorphine treatment; or (2) Treatment as Usual (TAU): Participants will receive a
      referral to buprenorphine treatment in the community. Both conditions will receive
      information on overdose prevention. Participants will be assessed at baseline, and 1, 2, 3,
      6, and 12 months post-intake using a comprehensive assessment battery. The Primary Aim: To
      compare the relative effectiveness of BBT to TAU in terms of: (a) illicit opioid drug test
      (oral saliva) results. The Secondary Aim: To examine the extent to which BBT is superior to
      TAU in terms of: (b) number of days receiving opioid treatment; (c) number of days using
      illicit opioids; (d) quality of life (i. physical health; ii. mental health); (e) HIV risk
      behaviors (i. sexual behavior; ii. needle use or sharing); (f) criminal activity; (g)
      re-arrest; and (h) re-incarceration. The proposed study is significant because the large
      number of probationers/parolees with OUD have limited access to an efficacious treatment,
      buprenorphine pharmacotherapy. The proposed study is innovative because it would be the first
      trial in the US assessing the effectiveness of interim buprenorphine initiated at a community
      supervision office compared to referral to a community treatment program. The public health
      impact would be widespread, as this model of care could be scaled-up throughout many areas of
      the US with criminal justice populations with high rates of OUD.
    
  