
    
      216 eligible adolescents, along with one accompanying parent, will complete a Qualtrics
      baseline battery via a secure video-conference platform. This battery will be followed by a
      3-week (ESM) period. In preparation for this 3-week period, adolescents with a personal
      smartphone will be assisted in downloading the ecological sampling method (ESM) app during
      the initial lab session. The participants will then receive an ESM tutorial, and a research
      team member will review each survey question with the adolescent to ensure comprehension. At
      the end of the initial session, participating families will schedule a second, brief meeting
      with the lab to help the adolescent set up the online intervention, which will be completed
      after the ESM period.

      During the ESM period following the baseline battery, adolescents will be prompted to
      complete the same 2-minute, 8-item survey 5 times per day for 21 days, via a
      smartphone-based, encrypted data collection app (LifeData). Notifications to complete surveys
      will occur every 2-3 hours. Responses will be deemed valid if completed within 2 hour of
      notification, ensuring at least 1-hour lags between surveys.

      Once the 3-week ESM period is complete, adolescents will be randomly assigned to receive 1 of
      3 web-based single session interventions (SSIs) at a second secure video conference session.
      The second video conference session will be brief and is meant to help adolescents access the
      online intervention, which they will complete by themselves. This second session will take
      place within 2-3 weeks after the ESM period. Immediately pre- and post-SSI, adolescents will
      complete a limited number of self-report questionnaires by themselves to index shifts in
      proximal outcomes.

      The adolescent and parent pairs will, on their own, complete follow-up assessments at
      post-intervention. These assessments are abridged versions of the baseline battery. To enable
      longitudinal analysis of outcome trajectories, adolescents and parents will complete online
      follow-up questionnaires (including subjective reports of clinical and functional outcomes)
      3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months post-intervention. All follow-up surveys will be completed via
      Qualtrics, through personalized links sent to the family.

      All families will be debriefed by email, and the intervention SSI condition assignment will
      be revealed, after 24-month follow-up is complete. At this time, adolescents will be offered
      the opportunity to remotely complete the SSIs they did not originally receive.
    
  