
    
      Background: The diagnosis and treatment of pediatric cancer is often a distressing time for
      patients and families. Moreover, a subset of patients experience significant negative
      psychological symptoms at time of diagnosis. Often times, these symptoms persist throughout
      treatment, and, possibly, for years after their diagnosis. Available evidence suggests that
      early identification and intervention for these psychological symptoms may reduce their
      short-term and long-term impact. Yoga has emerged as a potential therapeutic intervention to
      improve psychosocial wellness with promising preliminary results in adult cancer populations.

      Objective: To determine the feasibility of a 10-week, weekly yoga intervention for
      adolescents with cancer currently receiving cancer therapy.

      Methods: This pilot study will consist of 45-minute yoga sessions administered weekly for 10
      (+/- 2) consecutive weeks. Three sessions will take place in-person, timed in conjunction
      with participants' clinic appointments, with the remainder of sessions administered at home,
      through SkypeTM. Each session will be one-to-one and conducted by a yoga instructor.
      Participants will also complete home exercises in between these weekly sessions. Adolescents
      ages 10 to 18 with any cancer diagnosis will be eligible for this study. Feasibility, the
      primary objective, will be determined by 1) the number of patients who are recruited for this
      study, and 2) the number of patients who in attend at least 60% of administered sessions. The
      feasibility, acceptability and utility of measuring participants' emotional distress and
      quality of life will be examined as secondary outcomes. These outcomes will be measured at
      baseline, mid-way and at the end of the intervention. The Patient Reported Outcomes
      Measurement Information System measures for anxiety, depression and anger will be used to
      measure emotional distress. Patient's fatigue and quality of life will be determined using
      the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory Fatigue and Acute Cancer Modules. Study enrollment is
      planned at 10 participants, as this sample size will enable to assess if our intervention and
      measurements tool are appropriate.

      Significance: This study represents an important first step in determining if yoga programs
      can be offered at home, and if such programs influence patient well-being. If feasible,
      outpatient yoga programs may offer a practical and cost-effective tool to provide enhanced
      psychosocial wellbeing among adolescents undergoing cancer therapy.
    
  