
    
      Objectives

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the skeletal effects of hormone
      replacement therapy with HPTH in hypoparathyroidism.

      Study Population

      This study will enroll up to 69 subjects with physician-diagnosed hypoparathyroidism.<TAB>

      Design

      This study will treat hypoparathyroid individuals with synthetic human PTH 1-34 (HPTH) for up
      to 5 years, periodically assessing skeletal changes through biochemical markers and
      iliac-crest bone biopsies, which will allow for ultrastructural, cellular, and molecular
      analyses.

      With respect to HPTH treatment, this study is a single group, within-subjects, repeated
      measures treatment trial. With respect to all bone biopsy analyses, the design is a parallel
      group design with each subject allocated to one of the 3 biopsy follow-up times: 1, 2 or 4
      years after initiation of HPTH therapy. Post-baseline biopsy timing will be randomly assigned
      (1:1.2:1.4, respectively) to each subject, stratified by gender and by menopausal status,
      when relevant. Changes from baseline (time 0) to 1, 2 and 4-years will be compared. Subjects
      who were on conventional therapy in the former version of the protocol will also be
      randomized into the new study design. In contrast to new subjects, whose biopsy is performed
      at the end of the conventional care run-in period, the pre-conventional care biopsy will be
      used as the baseline for the those subjects entering the new design after having been on
      conventional care in the older protocol. Because it is not known with certainty what effects
      duration of time on conventional therapy will have on biopsy results, randomization will also
      be stratified on status of prior study participation. The subjects who were on HPTH therapy
      at the time of the protocol redesign are followed as a separate group under this protocol.

      Outcome Measures

      Primary:

      Changes in static and dynamic bone histomorphometry after 1 year, 2 years, and 4 years of
      HPTH therapy. Primary outcome measurements include:

        -  Mineralized perimeter

        -  Bone formation rate

        -  Cortical width

        -  Cortical area

        -  Osteoid width

        -  Osteoid perimeter

        -  Mineral apposition rate

      Secondary:

      Changes in bone mineralization density distribution at 1, 2 and 4 years of HPTH therapy. The
      specific outcomes that will be measured include:

        -  Spectral calcium-mean

        -  Calcium-peak

        -  Calcium-width

      Changes from baseline will be assessed in the following outcomes:

        -  Biochemical markers of bone metabolism: osteocalcin, bone-specific alkaline phosphatase,
           collagen cross-linked N-telopeptide.

        -  Serum and urine calcium; 1,25-OH2-Vitamin D

        -  Bone density assessed by DXA and quantitative CT

        -  Nephrocalcinosis by ultrasound and CT

        -  Fatigue Symptom Inventory

        -  6-Minute Walk Test

        -  SF-36 Health Survey

      Tertiary:

      Changes in blood chemistries and FGF23, renal mineral handling, and PTH sensitivity with the
      initiation of HPTH, which include:

        -  Serum albumin, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, sodium, potassium, chloride, Total CO2,
           creatinine, glucose, urea nitrogen, and FGF23

        -  Urine cAMP, creatinine, phosphorus, calcium, and pH
    
  