
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the clinical effectiveness of self-acupressure using wristbands in addition to
           standard care in the management of chemotherapy-induced (acute and delayed) nausea
           compared to patients receiving standard care with sham-acupressure wristbands and
           standard care alone.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the cost effectiveness and extent of use of usual care in patients using
           acupressure wristbands in addition to standard care for the management of
           chemotherapy-induced nausea compared to patients receiving standard care with
           sham-acupressure wristbands and standard care alone.

        -  To assess the level of quality of life in patients using acupressure and standard care
           alone.

        -  To assess the clinical effectiveness of self-acupressure using wristbands in addition to
           standard care in the management of chemotherapy-induced (acute and delayed) vomiting
           compared to patients receiving standard care with sham-acupressure wristbands and
           standard care alone.

        -  To ascertain for which emetogenic level of chemotherapy regimens (i.e., high, moderate,
           or low emetogenic chemotherapy) self-acupressure using wristbands in addition to
           standard care is more or less effective in terms of nausea compared to patients
           receiving standard care with sham-acupressure wristbands and standard care alone.

        -  To ascertain whether any improvement in chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting from
           using acupressure wristbands is different in males and females.

        -  To ascertain whether there is an age effect from the use of acupressure wristbands in
           relation to chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to gender, age in years (16 to 24 vs >24 to 50 vs
      > 50), and level of emetogenic chemotherapy (high vs moderate vs low). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 3 intervention arms:

        -  Arm I (acupressure group): Patients receive standard antiemetics comprising an oral
           5-HT3 receptor antagonist (i.e., Zofran) and oral or IV dexamethasone before and for 3
           days post-chemotherapy (for highly emetic chemotherapy); an oral 5-HT3 receptor
           antagonist (i.e., Zofran) and dexamethasone IV before chemotherapy and a 5-HT3 receptor
           antagonist or dexamethasone for 2 days post-chemotherapy (for moderately emetogenic
           chemotherapy); or oral dexamethasone before chemotherapy (for low-emetogenic
           chemotherapy). Beginning on the morning before chemotherapy, patients wear a pair of
           SeaBand™ elastic wristbands on each arm for 7 days. Each wristband has a 1-cm protruding
           round plastic button (stud) pressing the P6 acupoint, located on the anterior surface of
           the forearm, approximately three-finger width up from the crease of the wrist between
           the tendons of the Palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis.

        -  Arm II (sham acupressure group): Patients receive standard antiemetics as in arm I.
           Beginning on the morning before chemotherapy, patients wear a pair of elastic wristbands
           on each arm for 7 days. Each wristband has a flat button pressing the P6 acupoint,
           located on the anterior surface of the forearm, approximately three-finger width up from
           the crease of the wrist between the tendons of the Palmaris longus and flexor carpi
           radialis.

        -  Arm III (control group): Patients receive standard antiemetics as in arm I. Patients are
           assessed periodically by questionnaires.
    
  