
    
      All patients follow the same fast-track program including same day surgery for elective knee
      replacement surgery at the Silkeborg Regional Hospital in Denmark, which includes detailed
      preoperative written information, multidisciplinary education course for patients and
      relatives, optimized multimodal pain treatment and early postoperative rehabilitation. Before
      the admission for surgery, patients will be asked to fulfill several questionnaires and
      baseline information regarding work situation, educational level and previous treatments. At
      two weeks there, there is a scheduled follow up by a physical therapist and a nurse at the
      hospital. At three months there is a scheduled follow up by telephone with a physical
      therapist.

      The study will adhere methodologically to the STROBE guidelines and checklist for prospective
      cohort studies (www.strobe-statement.org).

      Further description is provided elsewhere as eligibility criteria and outcome measures.

      Addition to the description:

      In January 2019 we started collecting 1 year follow-up data and included questions regarding
      treatment succes, satisfaction and willingness to repeat the surgery.

      In March 2019 we decided to make a change in the baseline collection of relevant predictors
      for primary outcome. The reason for the change was to be able to answer more relevant
      scientific questions in the cohort study. We replaced "The General Self-efficacy Scale" with
      "Pain Catastrophizing Scale" and excluded "The General Self-efficacy Scale" from the 12 weeks
      follow-up collection of outcome measures.

      December 2020:

      The first substudies are planned using data from the SIKS cohort:

        1. Predictors of knee pain and functional outcome following Total Knee Arthroplasty - a
           prospective cohort study with 12 months follow up

           Primary outcome:

           Oxford Knee Score at 12 months

           Secondary outcome:

           Global Perceived Effect at 12 months

        2. Is it feasible and safe to discharge patients on the day of surgery after a total knee
           arthroplasty?

      Primary outcomes Feasibility measured as length of stay Safety measures as readmission (phone
      calls, outpatient visits and inpatient visits) and the related reason

      Secondary outcomes Oxfodr knee score (90 days) Pain intensity (90 days)
    
  