
    
      The large central airways (i.e. trachea and bronchi) act as a conduit to enable lower airway
      ventilation but also facilitate airway clearance during dynamic manoeuvres, such as coughing.
      It is becoming increasingly well recognised however, that in a significant proportion of
      individuals with chronic airway disease (e.g. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or
      chronic asthma) and in those with an elevated body mass index (BMI), that the large airways
      may exhibit a tendency to excessive closure or narrowing. This large airway collapse (LAC)
      can be associated with exertional breathlessness and difficulty clearing airway secretions. A
      variety of terms have been used to describe LAC including excessive dynamic airway collapse
      (EDAC) or if the cartilaginous structures are involved then tracheobronchomalacia (TBM).

      At the current time, there is considerable debate regarding the definition of LAC. Typically
      the 'excessive' collapse underpinning a 'diagnosis' of EDAC is defined as excessive bulging
      of the posterior tracheal membrane into the airway lumen during expiration without associated
      collapse of the cartilaginous rings, however the degree to which the trachea closes, to
      constitute EDAC is debated, with literature varying from >50% to >90%. Moreover, partial
      expiratory airways collapse (up to 50% reduction in airways cross-sectional area) can be
      identified in 70-80% of healthy individuals during dynamic computed tomography (CT).

      One clear limitation of the current approach to diagnosis is the fact that many of the
      'diagnostic' tests employed, utilise static, supine measures +/- forced manoeuvres. These are
      somewhat physiologically flawed and differ markedly from the reality of the heightened state
      of airflow that develops during exertion. i.e. forced manoeuvres likely induce very different
      turbulent and thoracic pressure changes, in contrast to the hyperpnoea of real-life physical
      activity (i.e. walking or cycling). A current unanswered question is therefore, what happens
      to the large airway dynamic movement of healthy individuals (and ultimately patients) during
      real-life exercise and how does this compare with the measures taken during a forced
      manoeuvre, either during a bronchoscopy or during an imaging study such as CT or MRI scan.

      The key aim of this study is therefore to evaluate and characterize large airway movement in
      a cohort of healthy adults during a real-life exercise challenge and to compare this with
      findings from a dynamic expiratory MRI and MRI during exercise. In order to achieve this, the
      investigators propose to develop and test the feasibility of an exercise-bronchoscopy
      protocol.

      As a clinical service, the investigators have extensive experience of evaluating movement of
      the upper airway and larynx during strenuous exercise. The Principal Investigator currently
      performs over 100 continuous laryngoscopy during exercise (CLE) tests per year, whereby a
      small laryngoscope is placed in the upper airway and is secured on a headgear to allow
      visualisation of the laryngeal and subglottic movement during exercise. i.e. whilst a subject
      performs running exercise. This test has an established role in patient evaluation and a
      proven safety record in the assessment of laryngeal closure during exercise. The research
      team has performed approximately 500 CLE tests in the Royal Brompton Hospital, with no
      serious adverse outcome.

      The investigators thus now propose to utilise a similar exercise technique but to advance the
      scope (using a bronchoscope because this is needed to evaluate the lower airways) slightly
      more distally to allow visualisation of the large airways during an exercise challenge.
      Others have also utilised a similar approach. Specifically, a study evaluated military
      personal with symptoms of exertional dyspnoea. As part of this study the research team
      performed dynamic bronchoscopy with real-time observation on a bicycle ergometer.

      Therefore, the investigators recommend the application of a similar approach, termed
      continuous bronchoscopy during exercise (CBE) to evaluate large airway movement during
      exercise and to report the feasibility and tolerability of the technique and to compare
      findings with imaging techniques (i.e. as is often used to diagnose EDAC) using MRI. In this
      initial study however, the investigators propose to study only healthy subjects to assess
      feasibility and provide comparator data for later work. i.e. to use this data to provide
      pilot feasibility work and thus to utilise results to inform and power later work, as
      indicated.

      Study Rationale The investigators hypothesise that exercise bronchoscopy is feasible to
      perform for the investigation of EDAC. It is also hypothesised that findings on dynamic
      static manoeuvres (i.e. when subjects are asked to perform a forced dynamic breath out) with
      both a bronchoscope in situ and also during MRI will exaggerate a tendency to closure and not
      relate to the real-life physiological airway stress encountered during exercise.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate the feasibility and safety of
      continuous bronchoscopy during exercise.

      The following hypothesis will be tested:

        1. Continuous bronchoscopy during exercise is feasible

        2. Continuous bronchoscopy during exercise is well-tolerated

        3. Continuous bronchoscopy during exercise provides stable large airway images; to enable
           reliable assessment of any propensity to large airway collapse.

      Secondary objectives include:

        1. To evaluate the degree of LAC apparent in normal subjects during exercise and to compare
           this with static forced expiratory manoeuvres in MRI and MRI during exercise.

        2. To evaluate the degree of LAC from MRI in normal subjects during forced expiratory
           manoeuvres and during supine MRI cycling.

      To compare findings between modalities (treadmill vs supine cycling) and to compare all
      findings with simple baseline physiological measures, such as lung function.
    
  