
    
      -  This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the
           safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in
           treating a specific cancer. "Investigational" means that the study drug, Olaparib, is
           being studied for use in this setting and the research doctors are trying to learn more
           about it-the side effects it may cause and if the drug is effective in treating this
           type of cancer.

        -  What is a DNA repair gene mutation?

           -- In order to survive, all cells, even cancer cells, must be able to repair their
           genetic material (DNA) when it gets damaged. A mutation is an alteration or change in a
           gene- either inherited from a parent or acquired over time- that prevents the gene from
           working properly. Faulty genes (or genes that carry a mutation) have been linked to
           increased risk of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer.

        -  What is Olaparib?

             -  Olaparib is a drug that may stop cancer cells from growing. Olaparib is a PARP
                inhibitor which means that it blocks an enzyme (proteins that help chemical
                reactions in the body occur) in cells called PARP. PARP helps repair DNA when it
                becomes damaged. It has been shown that the tumors in individuals who have
                inherited or acquired a mutation in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes are often sensitive to
                killing by PARP inhibitors.

             -  In normal cells and many other tumors, repair of damage to the DNA requires
                pathways of genes that work with BRCA1 and BRCA2. Therefore, when a drug that
                inhibits PARP from working is given to people with a BRCA mutation, or a defect in
                another gene that works with BRCA1 and BRCA2, both ways of repairing damaged DNA no
                longer work. The combined effect of knocking out both DNA repair mechanisms is so
                severe that the cancer cells could die. This might stop the growth of type of
                breast cancer, but this is not known.

             -  The FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved Olaparib for use in
                advanced ovarian cancer with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. Olaparib is not approved
                for breast cancer.
    
  