
    
      Patients with episodic migraine who were followed up by department of neurology in regional
      hospital will be included in the study. The Clinical Research Ethics committee approved the
      study (protocol no 10840098-604.01.1-E.6803).

      Inclusion criterias are aged between 18-55 years, the patients with episodic migraine by
      neurologist according to ICHD-3 Beta criteria, headache frequency in 1 month < 15 days and
      pain severity according to VAS above 40 mm.

      Exclusion criterias are other headache types, contraindication for KT technique, cervical
      disc disorders, systemic rheumatic disease, fibromyalgia pain syndrome, myofascial pain
      syndrome, temporamandibular joint dysfunction, pregnancy, overuse medication, patients who
      had gotten rehabilitation programme before at least 3 months ago and anaesthetic blockage
      before at least 6 months ago.

      All patients will allocate two groups. The patients with episodic migraine were randomly
      assigned to control group (n=22) and experimental group (n= 23).

      Outcome measures Demographic data and headache characteristics of the patients (frequency,
      duration, onset of headache, family history, onset age of headache, pain triggering factors,
      and localization of headache), presence of neck pain and disability of the last 1 month will
      evaluate before and after 6 weeks of treatment via self-administered questionnaire. Pressure
      Pain Algometry (Baseline Dolorimeter), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Migraine Disability
      Assessment Scale (MIDAS) and Short Form-36 (SF-36) will use as the assessment method in the
      6-week follow-up.

      Intervention All two groups will give a 6-week exercise programme for 2 days per week.
      Exercise programme that included neck and head isotonic and isometric exercises show by
      physiotherapist. The participants will administer the exercises every day for 45 minutes.
      Kinesiotaping will be applied to the trapezius and deep cervical muscles twice a week for
      experimental group. The taping replace every 3 days.

      Statistical Analyses Data will be expressed as mean, standard deviation and median.
      Significance between pre- and post-treatment pain, disability and quality of life variables
      was statistically significant with Paired Stutend's t - test and Wilcoxon signed rank tests;
      The differences between groups will be analysed using the Mann-Whitney U-test to determine
      statistical significance. For statistical significance p <0.05 probability value will be
      accepted.
    
  