
    
      Volunteers will be provided with an outline of the study and asked to complete a medical and
      lifestyle questionnaire (in person, email or over the phone). Potentially suitable
      participants will be identified and asked to attend a screening session during which the
      study will be explained in more detail before a consent form is signed. Anthropometric
      measurements will then be taken such as weight, height and blood pressure. Subjects who meet
      the inclusion criteria will be invited to a further screening session during which time a
      dentist will check for dental diseases (e.g. current dental cavities or periodontal
      infection). The oral bacteria samples will be collected in the morning on site at the
      Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences (Hugh Sinclair Unit of Human Nutrition) on four
      visit days (including screening visit).On the day before each study visit the volunteers will
      need to have a low nitrate diet, refrain from strenuous exercise and alcohol, and drink low
      nitrate mineral water. They will be required to fast overnight and only drink water. In the
      morning, they will be asked to refrain from brushing their teeth or using mouthwash.

      When they arrive in the unit in the fasted state, they will then be randomised to one of
      three treatments:

        -  Rinse mouth with low nitrate Buxton mineral water followed by holding 10 ml of beetroot
           juice (~6 mmol nitrate) for 5 min,

        -  Rinse mouth with low nitrate Buxton mineral water followed by holding 10 ml of low
           nitrate mineral water in the mouth for 5 min or

        -  Rinse with antiseptic mouthwash before holding 10 ml of beetroot juice in the mouth for
           5 min.

      After 5 mins of holding low nitrate water or beetroot juice in the mouth, they will then spit
      the whole mouth rinse into a sterile ice-chilled tube.

      To evaluate the nitrate reduction in different areas of the oral cavity, the researchers will
      put filter paper squares which have been soaked in water or beetroot juice in different areas
      of their mouth (rear, mid and front tongue, tooth surface, buccal surface, hard palate, and
      sublingual). Volunteers will be required to keep the filter papers in their mouth for 90
      seconds before they are removed.

      Finally, the oral bacteria will be collected from the 7 sites by sliding a piece of sterile
      oral floss between the 2 back molars and by swabbing a micro brush along the buccal cervical
      margin of premolars and rear, mid, front tongue. Saliva will be obtained using a sterile
      cotton swab. All samples will be placed into sterile tubes (Eppendorfs). Mouth rinse will be
      collected in sterile ice-chilled Falcon tubes.

      Volunteers will then be provided with a light breakfast before they leave the unit.
      Facilities will be available for participants to brush their teeth before they leave the
      clinical unit.

      The study visits will be separated by at least 1 week.
    
  