
    
      Until 2011 no therapy with proven overall survival benefit was Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) approved for the treatment of stage IV (disseminated) melanoma. In 2011 ipilimumab, an
      inhibitor of CTLA-4, was FDA approved for the treatment of stage IV melanoma representing the
      first immunotherapy to confer an increase in overall survival. CTLA-4 is expressed on the
      surface of activated T cells and binds to B7 on antigen-presenting cells with higher affinity
      than the co-stimulatory protein CD28. By competing for and disrupting the binding of CD28 to
      B7, CTLA-4 prevents T-cell co-stimulation which leads to a dampening of the immune response.
      Ipilimumab is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody that binds CTLA-4 in an inhibitory manner. Treating
      stage IV melanoma with ipilimumab confers an overall survival benefit when compared in
      randomized fashion to peptide vaccine treatment, with median survival increasing from 6 to 10
      months and 2-year survival increasing from 14% to 24%. Benefit is durable as the overall
      survival rate plateauing at 21% by year 3 with follow-up extending up to 10 years.

      The regulation of immune T-cell activity is complex involving multiple activating and
      inhibitory protein interactions with antigen presenting cells. T-cells express the protein
      programmed death-1 (PD-1) which when bound to its ligand PD-L1 normally expressed on
      peripheral tissues inhibits T-cell activity. Many melanomas select for aberrant expression of
      PD-L1. When T-cells infiltrate the melanoma metastasis tumor microenvironment the PD-1 on the
      infiltrating T-cells binds the tumor expressed PD-L1 leading to inhibition of T-cell
      activity. Blocking the interaction of PD-1 to PD-L1 in stage IV melanoma leads to clinical
      efficacy. Two inhibitors of PD-1, nivolumab and pembrolizumab, were FDA approved in 2014 for
      the treatment stage IV melanoma with response rates approximating 40% and 5-year survival
      post-nivolumab treatment of 35%. In 2015 concurrent treatment with ipilimumab and nivolumab
      was FDA-approved on the basis of a 57.6% response rate.

      Ipilimumab is infused intravenously as a single agent every 3 weeks for a total of four
      treatments. Nivolumab is administered intravenously every two weeks at dose of 240 mg or
      every four weeks at a dose of 480 mg while pembrolizumab is infused every three weeks at dose
      of 200 mg or every 6 weeks at 400 mg per dose. With concurrent ipilimumab and nivolumab
      treatment the combination is administered every three weeks for 4 doses and then nivolumab is
      infused as a single agent every two weeks.

      The inhibition of immune cell activity in the tumor microenvironment through the selection of
      PD-L1 expression on tumor cells is not specific to melanoma. Clinical efficacy has been
      appreciated in a range of malignancies leading to multiple FDA approvals for stage IV
      disease. Specifically pembrolizumab is also FDA approved for treatment of stage IV non-small
      cell lung cancer and recurrent or metastatic HNSCC. Nivolumab is also FDA approved for the
      treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, advanced renal cell carcinoma, classical
      Hodgkin lymphoma, and recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

      Given the mechanism of action of CTLA-4 and PD-1 inhibitors toxicity is largely immune
      mediated. The incidence of grade3 or higher immune mediated toxicity following single agent
      ipilimumab treatment is approximately 25%. Following nivolumab or pembrolizumab treatment the
      risk of such toxicity is 17-20% while following combined ipilimumab and nivolumab treatment
      the risk is 55-59%. Toxicity can manifest based on organ or tissue involved such as rash,
      colitis, hepatitis, nephritis, pancreatitis, myocarditis, pneumonitis uveitis, neurologic or
      endocrine.

      Autoimmune endocrinopathies (thyroid disease, hypophysitis, adrenal failure and diabetes)
      have been reported in 6-25% of patients on anti-PD-1 therapies in different case series. With
      concurrent CTLA-4 and PD-1 inhibition the rate of thyroid immune mediated toxicity is
      approximately 15%. Autoimmune thyroid disease can easily be detected on routine blood tests
      before the patient develops symptoms, is associated with known autoantibodies that have
      clinical assays, and autoimmune thyroid disease can be treated with thyroid hormone
      replacement, if needed.

      Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels have been inversely correlated with the levels of
      anti-thyroperoxidase (TPO) antibodies in some cohorts. Vitamin D deficiency has also been
      linked to an increased risk of autoimmune thyroid disease. Vitamin D supplementation has been
      reported to suppress CD4+ T cell and NK cell function in pre-clinical and clinical studies.
      It is not known whether vitamin D deficiency plays a role in the development of the irAEs in
      patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Furthermore, it is not known if vitamin D
      deficiency or supplementation alters the rate of response to immune checkpoint inhibitors.

      PD-1/PD-L1 inhibition has demonstrated clinical efficacy in a range of malignancies with
      treatment leading to durable benefit. However this type of treatment can lead to immune
      mediated toxicity that if high grade can necessitate interventions or management with high
      dose steroids. As such identifying biomarkers for toxicity and strategies to minimize
      toxicity risk are very important. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels have been inversely
      correlated with the levels of anti-thyroperoxidase (TPO) antibodies in some cohorts. Vitamin
      D deficiency has also been linked to an increased risk of autoimmune thyroid disease. This
      study plans to determine if baseline deficiency in serum 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels
      correlates with altered risk of developing immune mediated toxicity of the thyroid gland in
      patients being treated with anti-PD1/PD-L1 immunotherapy.
    
  