
    
      1. Purpose of the Study Modern way of life characterized by decreased physical activity and
           poor dietary habits seems to be an important trigger for the onset of metabolic
           disorders. Accumulating evidence indicates that the gut microbiota is involved in host
           metabolism by increasing energy extraction, immune system modulation, and altering lipid
           metabolism, which play an intricate role in metabolic disorders, such as obesity and
           diabetes. Diet has a major role in shaping the composition and activity of gut
           microbiota. Consumptions of whole-grain and polyunsaturated fatty acids are known to
           exert certain extent of impacts on gut microbial communities in terms of the
           participants' richness and diversity. In this study, the investigators aim to evaluate
           the impact of dietary intervention on gut microbiome in Hong Kong obese population.

        2. Method of investigation

           The study will last for 9 weeks. 48 eligible subjects aged 30-60 years old will be
           randomly allocated into 4 groups, to 3 of which nutrition advice on healthy diets and
           preferred food choices will be given while the remaining one will keep the participants'
           usual diets. Dietary surveys will be conducted to reveal the participants' dietary
           habits. Meanwhile, blood, stool and buccal swab will be collected to examine the effect
           of dietary intervention for example, changes of composition of gut microbiota, fasting
           blood glucose levels and lipid profiles as well as other metabolic indicators.

        3. Approach

      Subjects will be recruited via convenience sampling through internet and poster promotion.
      Screening for eligible subjects will be conducted by Research staff in PolyU on phone. If the
      participants are interested to join the study, the staff will explain study details and
      appointments will thus be made on a first come first serve basis. The study starts upon
      obtained consensus from subjects. Blood collection and testing will be outsourced to health
      check centre to further confirm the eligibility of subjects.

      Eligible subjects will be randomly allocated into either control or intervention groups, in
      which subjects will receive dietitian consultations provided by registered dietitians. Also,
      stool, blood and buccal swab samples of subjects will be collected at various time points to
      examine changes of the investigators' desired parameters within the study.
    
  