
    
      Cochlear implants are medical devices that restore a remarkable degree of hearing to people
      who would otherwise be profoundly deaf. These devices generally restore enough hearing that
      recipients can understand spoken speech even in noisy environments. However, most recipients
      express dissatisfaction with music. This proposal centers on understanding the challenges
      that implant users face and the strategies that they adopt as they learn to appreciate music
      with this new way of hearing.

      The proposed research is organized into three aims:

      Aim 1: Characterize music appreciation after cochlear implantation. The proposed research
      balances qualitative and quantitative methods to examine the emergence of music appreciation
      after cochlear implantation. Qualitative methods will include semi-structured interviews and
      focus groups designed to clarify the obstacles that implant users face as they learn to
      appreciate music with their new sense of hearing. Quantitative methods include surveys of
      music appreciation and quality of life, and auditory assessments of music and speech
      perception. The primary hypothesis is that music appreciation is predictive of key domains of
      quality of life including positive affect and well-being, and satisfaction with social roles
      and activities.

      Aim 2: Determine if pitch training improves cochlear implant speech comprehension. The
      proposed research tests for a causal relationship between pitch salience and key features of
      speech perception including talker discrimination, prosody detection, and speech recognition
      in competing speech. Cochlear implant users and their normal-hearing peers will take part in
      a crossover study to determine if pitch training improves aspects of music and speech
      perception compared to a visual task used as a control. The primary hypothesis is that pitch
      training will improve speech comprehension for cochlear implant users, but not for their
      normal-hearing peers.

      Aim 3: Test the limits of pitch coding in cochlear implants. The proposed research bypasses
      conventional sound processing to study the salience of pitch provided by electrode location
      and stimulation rate. These two stimulation cues are the primary cues for providing a sense
      of pitch to cochlear implant users. New research has shown that implant users are able to
      learn to use this information to hear pitch with better resolution far better than previously
      thought. The primary hypothesis is that cochlear implant users have a latent ability to hear
      pitch associated with stimulation rate, but that they require experience to learn how to hear
      this new information.

      In each aim, psychophysical methods are combined with measures of EEG and near-infrared
      spectroscopy. The results will establish the importance of music training for improving
      cochlear implant outcomes, both in terms of hearing abilities and quality of life. The
      results will lead to changes in how music is encoded into implant stimulation, providing
      better outcomes for recipients. More generally, this project will shape understanding of
      neural coding of music and its role in social adjustment following traumatic experiences.
    
  