
    
      Patients: Eligible patients aged between 25 e 65 years old with a recent diagnosis of
      moderate OSA evaluated in the sleep laboratory, Pulmonary Division, Heart Institute (InCor).
      We will exclude patients with one or more of the follow conditions: body mass index (BMI) >40
      kg/m2; facial malformations; regular use of hypnotic medications, hypothyroidism, previous
      stroke, neuromuscular disease, heart failure, coronary disease, and severe obstructive nasal
      disease.

      Polysomnography: All patients will be evaluated by full polysomnography. The person who
      analyzed the sleep study will be blind to the group allocation.

      Questionnaire: We will employ questionnaires previously validated and used in Brazil: Snoring
      frequency (derived from the Berlin questionnaire); subjective daytime sleepiness (Epworth
      questionnaire); quality of sleep (Pittsburgh sleep quality questionnaire).

      Control Group: Sham therapy will consisted of a weekly supervised section (~30 min) of deep
      breathing, through the nose, while sitting, followed by a practice of bilateral alternate
      chewing. The patients will be instructed to perform the same procedure at home once a day (30
      min), plus alternate bilateral chewing and nasal lavage with application of 10 ml of saline
      in each nostril three times a day.

      Study Group: The same schedule and set of instructions will be applied to the control group
      was given to these patients. Oropharyngeal exercises are derived from speech language
      pathology and include soft palate, tongue and facial muscles exercises as well as
      stomatognathic function exercises.

      Experimental Design: After fulfilling entry criteria, the patients will be randomized for 3
      months of control or treatment group, with oropharyngeal exercises. All patients will be
      evaluated by the speech language pathologist once a week for 30 minutes. Patients that failed
      to return for 3 consecutive weeks or failed to comply to the exercises schedule at home were
      excluded from the study. Polysomnography and questionnaires will be performed at the
      beginning and at the end of the study.

      Primary outcome: Apnea-hypopnea index.

      Secondary outcomes: Lowest oxygen saturation and sleep related questionnaires.
    
  