
    
      Roles and responsibilities:

        1. Aalaa Mohamed Nabil Amin Abdullatif (A.N.) Operator, data enterer and corresponding
           author; Assistant lecturer, Conservative Dentistry Department, ModernTechnology
           University, Egypt.

        2. Mohamed Riad (M.R) Main supervisor, data monitoring, auditing Professor, Conservative
           Dentistry Department, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

        3. Rasha Haridy (R.H.) Co-supervisor, data entry and auditing; Conservative Dentistry
           Department, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

        4. Ahmed Refaat Mohamed (A.R.) Outcome assessors and data collection; Lecturers,
           Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo
           University, Egypt.

        5. Heba fathy (H.F) Outcome assessors and data collection; Assistant lecturer,,
           Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo
           University, Egypt.

        6. Ahmed Mamdouh Ahmed (A.M.) Base line data collection, recruitment, sequence generation,
           allocation concealment, patient retention and taking participants' consents; Resident,
           Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo
           University, Egypt.

        7. Eman Desouky (E.D.) Sample size calculation; Statistician, Faculty of Oral and Dental
           Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

        8. Evidence Based Dentistry Committee (CEBD) Help in reporting study protocol following
           SPIRIT guidelines; Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

        9. Research Ethics Committee (CREC) Protocol reviewer of the clinical trial in order to
           protect the right, safety, dignity and well-being of the participants; Faculty of Oral
           and Dental Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.

      1-Intervention: A.N. will treat the lesion with 2 % NaOCl for 20 sec, then rinsed and dried.
      A.N. will etch the lesion with 35 % Phosphoric acid for 20 sec to open up the pores to the
      subsurface lesion and sub¬sequently rinsed with water for 20 sec and air-dried. A.N. will
      apply (CURODONT™ REPAIR,Credentis, Switzerland) for two to three minutes. A.N. will advise
      the patients to rinse the quadrant containing the treated teeth using chlorhexidine mouthwash
      (Corsodyl, Herrenberg, Germany) until Day 4 and avoid teeth brushing. At D4, A.N. will ask
      the patients to use a soft tooth brush and tooth paste until Day 8. At this point they will
      be reverted to their normal oral hygiene procedures.

      2-Comparator: A.N. will apply (2.26% F, Duraphat, WoelmPharma,Gesellschaft mit beschränkter
      Haftung, Germany). onto the tooth surfaces with White Spot Lesions using a brush, with the
      applicator dabbed repeatedly onto the tooth surface without contacting soft tissues. After a
      few minutes, a thin and clear layer is formed. A.N. will advise the patients not to brush
      their teeth or chew food for at least 4 hrs after treatment; during this time, soft food and
      liquid might be consumed.

      3-Outcomes:

        1. Patient satisfaction:

           H.F.& A.R will measure patient satisfaction using Visual Analogue Scale scores. The mean
           and standard deviation for the VAS scores of the patients recorded preoperatively, at
           the time of materials application, 3,6 months review for aesthetics

        2. Color change assessment:

      H.F.& A.R will perform visual color evaluation using the Vita Easyshade Compact (Vita
      Zahnfabrik, Bad Sa¨ckingen,Germany).

      The shade tab may now be measured by holding the probe tip at 90° to surface at the middle
      1/3 of the tab, pressing the measurement button on the Hand Piece, and waiting until the
      Easyshade "beeps" to indicate successful completion of the measurement H.F.& A.R will hold
      the probe tip 90ᴼ to the WSL on tooth surface and pressing the measurement bottom on the hand
      piece and waiting until the easyshade beeps to indicate successful completion of the
      measurement , Three images will be captured for each tooth at each time point, and the
      average values for L* (lightness, achromatic color coordinate), a* (green/red coordinate), b*
      (blue/yellow coordinate), and the resultant color difference (ϪE*) over the three
      measurements will be calculated H.F.& A.R will perform the visual color assessments at
      baseline (T0) to record the color characteristics of the WSLs immediately after treatment,
      (T1) to record the color characteristics of the WSL after 3 months, (T2) to record the color
      characteristics of the WSL after 6 months. The instrumental color measurements will be
      performed using the Commission International de I'Eclariage (CIE) L*a*b* color notation
      system (CIELAB).
    
  