
    
      The study objective is to determine in a high bleeding risk patient population undergoing PCI
      under standardized treatment (within current guidelines and instructions for use and
      including the bioresorbable polymer coated Ultimaster sirolimus-eluting stent), whether
      abbreviated DAPT is non-inferior to prolonged DAPT regimen in terms of NACE within 12 months,
      whether abbreviated DAPT is non-inferior to prolonged DAPT regimen in terms of MACCE within
      12 months and whether abbreviated DAPT is superior to prolonged DAPT regimen in terms of MCB
      within 12 months.

      There are two treatment strategies:

        -  abbreviated dual anti-platelet therapy: dual antiplatelet therapy is discontinued and a
           single antiplatelet agent is continued until at least 11 months post randomization (i.e.
           12 months post stent implantation). In patients on oral anticoagulants, dual
           antiplatelet therapy is discontinued and either Aspirin or Clopidogrel is continued
           until 5 months post randomization (i.e. 6 months post stent implantation). Oral
           anticoagulation is continued until at least 11 months post randomization (i.e. 12 months
           post stent implantation) OR

        -  prolonged dual anti-platelet therapy: aspirin is continued for at least 11 months post
           randomization (i.e. 12 months post stent implantation), the P2Y12 inhibitor being taken
           at the time of randomization is continued for at least 5 months and up to 11 months post
           randomization (i.e. 12 months post stent implantation). In patients on oral
           anticoagulants, aspirin and Clopidogrel are continued for at least 2 months post
           randomization (i.e. 3 months post stent implantation) and up to 11 months post
           randomization (i.e. 12 months after stent implantation). Therefore either aspirin or
           Clopidogrel is continued up to 11 months post randomization (i.e. 12 months post stent
           implantation)

      The study design is an investigator-initiated, randomized, multi-center, clinical trial to be
      conducted in approximately 100 interventional cardiology centers in across the globe
      excluding USA. The study includes 2 x 2150 patients (i.e. 4300 patients) Randomization will
      occur at one month after the PCI procedure. The expected duration of participation for each
      patient is 14 months.
    
  