
    
      The study will recruit patients who smoke from a general practice clinic and randomize them
      either to: (1) form implementation intentions by linking in memory situations in which they
      are tempted to smoke with strategies to avoid smoking in those situations using a volitional
      help sheet, or (2) to consider the situations in which they are tempted to smoke alongside
      possible strategies to avoid smoking as presented in the volitional help sheet but not to
      form implementation intentions. The effects on self-reported smoking will be assessed 1 month
      post-intervention.

      Design: This study will use questionnaires to assess participants smoking habits and then
      employ planning strategies to help then quit. Follow up questionnaires will be used to
      ascertain the success of planning on smoking cessation.

      Sample Size: Upon entry to the General Practice (GP) clinic participants will be made aware
      of the study by the receptionist and asked to complete a copy if they are a smoker. The
      investigators are looking to recruit a minimum of fifty participants for each condition, but
      aim to collect data from as many participants as possible during the recruitment phase.

      Recruitment: To participate in this study a person must be over the age of 18 and a smoker.
      The receptionists at the GP clinic will inform people of the study on entry and ask that they
      complete the questionnaire should they be 18 (or older) and smoke.

      Procedure: Participants will be recruited from a GP clinic in Birmingham. They will be asked
      by the receptionists, upon entry to the clinic, to take one of the investigators'
      questionnaire packs if they are a smoker. These packs will be displayed on a table beside the
      reception desk. The packs begins with a briefing sheet that provides information about both
      how to complete the questionnaire and the reason for the study. The sheet will also inform
      participants that they do not have to complete the questionnaire that day, and they should
      feel free to come back and take part at a later date. It will also indicate to participants
      that they can withdraw from the study at any time, and a reason does not need to be provided.
      Once they have read the briefing sheet and generated their personal identity code, as
      instructed, they will complete the questionnaire. Completed questionnaires will be returned
      to the returns box. This will be securely stored in the GP clinic and collected once a week.
      Data from all packs will be collected and transferred to a secure university server before
      being shredded. A month after the participants have completed the initial questionnaire they
      will receive a follow-up questionnaire; either via e-mail or a hard copy via post where
      indicated. Data from the online questionnaire will be collected immediately, hard copy
      questionnaires will be returned via a pre-paid envelope (enclosed with the hard copy
      questionnaire) and transcribed onto a secure university computer before being shredded.
      Participants contact information will be kept separate from the data. Once participants have
      completed the follow-up questionnaire their involvement in the study is over.

      Outcomes and Analysis: The main purpose of this study is to explore the role of planning in
      encouraging people to quit smoking when recruited by receptionists in a GP clinic.
      Quantitative analysis will be conducted to assess the effects of planning on smoking
      cessation. The investigators expect to find that planning is effective in helping people
      quit, and that the questionnaire is compatible for use within a healthcare setting.
    
  