
    
      The study's major theme is "to examine the efficacy of a brief Acceptance and Commitment
      Therapy (ACT) intervention in treating perinatal depressive symptoms, as compared to
      psychoeducation."

      The perinatal and postpartum periods are known to be a vulnerable time for the development of
      mental health symptomatology, with approximately 7% of women developing postpartum depression
      in the first three months following childbirth. The impact of postpartum depression extends
      beyond the mother, whose distress and daily functioning are affected, with adverse effects on
      infant development and care. The need for interventions and preventive interventions has been
      widely indicated for over two decades.

      This protocol will describe two intervention conditions, the effects of which will be
      contrasted to determine the efficacy of ACT in treating depressive and anxiety symptoms among
      perinatal women. The effects of the intervention will be determined in terms of self-report
      measures (depression, flexibility, mindfulness, social satisfaction), diagnostic interviews
      (depression, anxiety), behavioral measures, and physiological assessments. The impact of
      trauma history and psychodiagnostic history will be examined as moderating factors and/or
      covariates in the examination of the intervention's efficacy.

      This protocol will test the hypothesis that ACT is effective in reducing depressive and
      anxiety symptoms during the perinatal and postpartum periods. Secondarily, the investigators
      will examine the impact of the intervention on psychophysiological measures, including heart
      rate variability, distress tolerance, and genetic markers. Additionally, the investigators
      will examine the transgenerational impact of the intervention on the offspring via offspring
      birth outcomes, as reported by the mother. Finally, the investigators will explore mediators
      and moderators of the treatment outcomes. This work will advance the understanding of the
      impact of brief interventions on perinatal well-being and improve the ability to disseminate
      empirically supported interventions for pregnant mothers.
    
  