
    
      Four-week prospective single centre exploratory study in adults with bronchiectasis suffering
      a pulmonary exacerbation.

      The study will endeavour to recruit ten adult subjects (male and female) who attend the
      Cambridge Centre for Lung Infection (CCLI) at the Royal Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, United
      Kingdom. The study will include individuals with a known diagnosis of bronchiectasis (defined
      as symptoms of chronic or recurrent bronchial infection with radiological evidence of
      abnormal and permanent dilation of bronchi) not from cystic fibrosis; and a current pulmonary
      exacerbation (defined as a 'deterioration in three or more of the following key symptoms for
      at least 48h: cough; sputum volume and/or consistency; sputum purulence; breathlessness
      and/or exercise tolerance; fatigue and/or malaise; haemoptysis AND that a clinician
      determines a change in bronchiectasis treatment is required).

      In order to maximise subject recruitment and understanding of the study, all CCLI patients
      with bronchiectasis that are known to suffer frequent exacerbations (>2 per year) will be
      sent details of the trial including the Patient Information and Consent Form at the time of
      study commencement, prior to their individual enrolment. Subjects then seen during their
      usual clinic review with a pulmonary exacerbation will be invited to participate and enrolled
      to commence the study that same day (day 0). Participants enrolled will undergo clinical
      review and a series of standard testing including pulmonary function tests and blood
      analysis. Additional to these standard investigations, participants will also undertake a
      series of patient reported outcomes via validated respiratory questionnaires (Quality of Life
      - Bronchiectasis - QOL-B; & Leicester Cough Questionnaire - LCQ) and functional respiratory
      imaging (FRI). FRI consists of low dose high-resolution CT at total lung capacity (TLC) and
      functional residual capacity (FRC), combined with computational fluid dynamic testing (CFD).

      Participants will be treated without delay according to standard usual care as per the
      current European Respiratory Society (ERS) and British Thoracic Society (BTS) Bronchiectasis
      Guidelines. Participants may be treated as either an inpatient or outpatient determined by
      the treating consultant respiratory physician.

      Follow up will occur on day 7, 14 and 28 post enrolment. Participants will undergo clinical
      review and repeat testing according to the below schedule. No scheduled follow up testing
      will be required beyond the day 28 visit, however all participants will receive a follow up
      phone call at day 35.

      Day 0: Initial consultation - presentation with a pulmonary exacerbation

        -  Recruitment, consent and enrolment

        -  History and clinical examination

        -  Bloods (WCC; neutrophil count; CRP)

        -  Pregnancy test (urine dipstick) - if appropriate

        -  Lung function testing (FEV1; FVC; TLC)

        -  Sputum collection

        -  Functional respiratory imaging (HRCT at TLC and FRC; may occur + 48 hours of enrolment)

        -  Patient reported outcomes / questionnaires (QOL-B; LCQ)

        -  Usual treatment commencement (as per current bronchiectasis guidelines)

      Day 7: Mid-treatment follow up (as per usual standard of care)

        -  History and clinical review

        -  Bloods (WCC, neutrophil count; CRP)

      Day 14: End of treatment follow up

        -  History and clinical examination

        -  Bloods (WCC; neutrophil count; CRP)

        -  Pregnancy test (urine dipstick) - if appropriate

        -  Lung function testing (FEV1; FVC; TLC)

        -  Functional respiratory imaging (HRCT at TLC and FRC; may occur +/- 48 hours of day 14)

        -  Patient reported outcomes / questionnaires (QOL-B; LCQ)

      Day 28: Completion of study testing

        -  History and clinical examination

        -  Bloods (WCC; neutrophil count; CRP)

        -  Pregnancy test (urine dipstick) - if appropriate

        -  Lung function testing (FEV1; FVC; TLC)

        -  Functional respiratory imaging (HRCT at TLC and FRC; may occur +/- 48 hours of day 28)

        -  Patient reported outcomes (QOL-B; LCQ)

      Day 35: Phone call by research team member

      - No scheduled investigations

      No scheduled follow up testing will be required beyond the day 28 visit other then a follow
      up phone call at day 35 (see above).

      The investigators hypothesize that changes in FRI parameters will be seen pre and post
      exacerbation treatment and will correlate well with changes in lung function and patient
      reported outcomes. This will confirm FRI as a surrogate biomarker for assessing therapeutic
      response in future clinical trials in bronchiectasis.
    
  