
    
      Participants will be given individual, standardized instructions and demonstrations for each
      device as per the manufacturers' instructions. The participants will practice with
      instructor's feedback on an infant mannequin with a normal airway until he/she feel
      comfortable with each of the three devices. The investigator will record the prior experience
      of the participant in using each of the 3 devices in clinical situations. Each subject will
      be asked to intubate each of the mannequins with each of the devices. The choice of the order
      of device and mannequin will be based on a Latin square design and the sequence will be
      assigned to participants based on a computer generated random number. A closed envelope
      technique will blind participants and investigators to the order of airway device and
      mannequin till the start of the individual trial. Participants will first finish the test on
      unchanged conditions and then repeat the process using the same order of mannequins and
      devices but with the neck held immobile to simulate a scenario of a child with an unstable
      cervical spine. Data from different scenarios will be recorded from a total number of 18
      attempts of tracheal intubation per participant. Participants will be asked to proceed as
      though they were in the operating room with an assistant available to follow their commands.
      The order of presentation of each mannequin, airway device and scenario will be randomized as
      described above. The time from placing the device in the mannequin's mouth to the time the
      Ambu bag is connected to the end of the tracheal tube and a positive pressure breath is given
      will constitute the intubation time. During each intubation the participant will be asked to
      state when he or she has obtained the best view for intubation and this time this will be
      recorded as the time for visualization. The subject will assess the quality of the best
      glottic view on the Cormack - Lehane grade of 1 -4. The investigators will record all
      maneuvers to optimize visualization of the larynx such as tracheal pressure, lip retraction,
      pulling the tongue forward etc. The time from entry of the device in the mouth to the time
      the tracheal tube is started to be advanced is the visualization time. The time a positive
      pressure breath is given at the end of the tracheal tube will constitute the end of the
      attempt of intubation. A failed attempt is defined as removal of the laryngoscope from the
      mouth without a successful intubation. The number of times the endotracheal tube is advanced
      will also be recorded. Failure of intubation will be defined as unrecognized esophageal
      intubation, abandoned procedure, intubation taking longer than 120 seconds and intubation
      requiring more than 3 attempts. The observer will estimate the maximum force applied to the
      maxilla on a 0 -10 scale where 0= no force and 10 = maximum force with distortion of the
      maxilla. The observer will also estimate potential damage of laryngeal structures on a 0 -10
      scale.
    
  