
    
      This is a Phase I, open-label, multicenter study of HMPL-523 administered orally to patients
      with relapsed or refractory lymphoma who have exhausted approved therapy options. This study
      consists of a dose escalation stage (Stage1) and a dose expansion stage (Stage 2).

      Dose Escalation Stage (Stage 1)

      Dosing will begin at 100 mg once daily (QD). A cycle of study treatment will be defined as 28
      days of continuous dosing. The modified 3+3 design will be applied for dose escalation and
      MTD determination to limit the number of patients exposed to potentially ineffective or
      unsafe doses. The study will enroll 1 patient and the patient will be treated for a 28-day
      cycle in the initial dose cohort. If there is no Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) and no more
      than 2 treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events (CTCAE) Grade ≥2 in the first treatment cycle, the study will be escalated to the next
      dose cohort and continue with the standard 3+3 design. Otherwise, the trial will revert to a
      standard 3+3 design from the initial dose cohort. A minimum of 3 patients will be enrolled
      and observed for toxicity in each successive dose cohort after the initial dose cohort. If
      the 3 patients initially enrolled in a given dose cohort complete the DLT assessment window
      (Cycle 1, Days 1-28) without experiencing a DLT, 3 patients will be enrolled at the next
      higher dose level. If 2 or more of the initial 3 patients enrolled at any dose level
      experience a DLT during the DLT assessment window, the dose escalation will be halted. If 1
      of the initial 3 patients enrolled at any dose level experiences a DLT during the DLT
      assessment window, additional patients will be enrolled at that dose level for a minimum of 6
      evaluable patients for DLT. If a DLT is observed in 1 of the 6 valuable patients at this dose
      level, dose escalation will proceed to the next pre- defined dose level. If DLTs are observed
      in 2 or more of the 6 evaluable patients at a given dose level, the dose escalation will be
      halted. If the dose escalation is completed due to 2 or more DLTs at a dose level and that
      dose level is ≥50% higher than the previous dose level, then an intermediate dose level may
      be evaluated for toxicity in the same manner as described above. If the dose level is <50%
      higher than the previous dose level, in which only 3 DLT evaluable patients were enrolled, 3
      additional patients will be enrolled at that dose level to comprise 6 DLT evaluable patients.

      The proposed dose escalation scheme comprises Cohorts 1 to 5 with dosing levels of 100 mg QD,
      200 mg QD, 400 mg QD, 600 mg QD and 800 mg QD, respectively. The need for dose escalation
      beyond 800 mg QD, the specific dose to be tested and the potential for twice-daily (BID)
      dosing will be evaluated jointly by investigators and the sponsor based on the cumulative
      clinical safety, pharmacokinetic, and preliminary efficacy data. Safety monitoring and
      evaluation of dose escalation will be carried out by the Safety Review Committee, which will
      be comprised of the sponsor's study team members (including medical monitor, safety monitor
      and and Pharmacokinetic scientist) and the site principal investigators. The adverse event
      profile and serum concentration of HMPL-523 data will be evaluated to determine whether it is
      safe to continue the assigned HMPL-523 dose for dose escalation or whether the dose should be
      de-escalated to the lower dose level.

      Dose Expansion Stage (Stage 2)

      The adverse event profile, serum concentration, and preliminary anti-tumor activity of
      HMPL-523 at the maximum tolerated dose(MTD)/recommended phase 2 dose(RP2D) will be further
      evaluated in approximately 50 patients with relapsed or refractory indolent B-cell
      non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. The tumor types of the dose expansion stage are restricted to:

        -  10 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma

        -  10 patients with mantle cell lymphoma

        -  10 patients with follicular lymphoma (Grade 1-3a)

        -  10 patients with marginal zone lymphoma

        -  10 patients with Waldenström's macroglobulinemia/lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma.

      Patients will receive HMPL-523 at the MTD/RP2D for continuous 28-day treatment cycles until
      disease progression, death, intolerable toxicity, at investigator's discretion that the
      patient can no longer benefit from the study treatment, patient withdrawal from the study, or
      the end of study, whichever comes first.
    
  