
    
      Hypothesis:

      ATIII supplementation prior to initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) to neonates will be
      safe and result in less postoperative bleeding and transfusion of packed red blood cells
      (pRBC) as compared to placebo controls.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To determine the safety and feasibility of ATIII supplementation prior to initiation of
           CPB in neonates.

        2. To determine the pharmacokinetics of ATIII supplementation prior to initiation of CPB in
           neonates

        3. To compare the postoperative blood loss and pRBC transfusion requirements in an
           experimental group of neonates undergoing surgery requiring CPB who receive ATIII prior
           to initiation of CPB to that of a placebo control group that did not receive ATIII.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      All sequential neonates (4-30 days of age) undergoing surgeries that require CPB at CHW are
      eligible to be included in the study.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Patients with a prior operation utilizing CPB, weight less than 2 kilograms, prematurity less
      than 37 weeks estimated gestational age, previously diagnosed pro-thrombotic or hemorrhagic
      disorder, known intracranial hemorrhage, prior ATIII supplementation, and prior therapeutic
      anticoagulant use.

      Protocol:

      After informed consent, patients will be risk stratified into two groups based on whether the
      planned surgery will result in a cyanotic or acyanotic palliation. The patients in these two
      groups will then be randomized to either the ATIII group or the placebo group. A preoperative
      ATIII blood level will be obtained. This level will guide the dosing of ATIII or placebo, as
      neonatal congenital heart disease patients have variable baseline ATIII levels. The dose of
      ATIII or placebo will be determined by the following formula, in order to obtain ATIII blood
      levels similar to adults and older children (1.0 U/mL):

      ATIII dose given to patient (U) = [(1.0 U/mL - patient's measured ATIII concentration in
      U/mL) X weight (kg) X 80 mL/kg]

      This formula is derived by taking into account the volume of distribution of ATIII in the
      patient's blood volume. 80 mL/kg is an average blood volume for an infant. 1.0 U/ml is the
      normal level for older children and adults, and the target level we are trying to achieve.
      The patient's baseline level is subtracted from the target level to determine the relative
      ATIII deficiency in terms of U/mL. That amount is then multiplied by the estimated blood
      volume of 80 mL/kg and the patient's weight in kg to determine an ATIII dose in Units. The
      CHW pharmacy will use the above formula to obtain the appropriate dose of ATIII or placebo
      for each patient. ATIII or placebo will be administered after induction of general anesthesia
      and prior to administration of heparin and initiation of CPB. All treating physicians and
      study personal except for the preparing pharmacist will be blinded.

      Heparin management during CPB will be accomplished according to the current standard practice
      at CHW. Anticoagulation during bypass will be monitored and titrated by use of the Medtronic
      Hepcon® HMS Plus Hemostasis Management System. A 3mL sample of the patient's blood is drawn
      pre-incision, after ATIII or placebo dosing, and is used by the HMS device to determine the
      in vitro individual response to heparin. A patient-specific heparin dose of between 300 and
      800 units/kg will be administered before initiation of CPB, with the appropriate level of
      anticoagulation maintained at a minimum activated clotting time (ACT) of 480 seconds. The
      level of anticoagulation will be measured every half hour during CPB, with additional doses
      of heparin periodically administered as dictated by the HMS System measurements. At the
      completion of CPB, the heparin will be reversed with a patient-specific protamine dose, as
      calculated by the HMS System. Repeat measurements of ACT and heparin levels with the HMS
      device will be done after protamine administration to insure adequate reversal of the heparin
      effect.

      ATIII levels will be measured within 5-10 minutes after administration (prior to start of
      CPB), within 30 minutes of start of CPB, just prior to discontinuation of CPB (prior to
      protamine dosing), and upon admission to the ICU. These levels will be kept blinded to all
      treating physicians and study personal.

      An additional 2 mL of blood will be drawn at each time an ATIII level is obtained (total of
      10 mL) to measure markers of activation of the coagulation and inflammatory systems, in order
      to better characterize the derangements in this patient population over time. We intend to
      use these results to develop future studies.

      Intraoperative blood loss while on the CPB machine will be collected and placed back in the
      CPB circuit as per standard practice at CHW. Blood loss (mL/kg) will be determined
      intraoperatively from 10 minutes after protamine administration until admission to the
      intensive care unit (ICU). Chest tube output will then be recorded as a measure of blood loss
      for the first 24 hours after admission to the ICU.

      After admission to the ICU, a transfusion protocol will then be used to ensure common
      indications for blood product replacement. Patients will be transfused with pRBC (10-15
      mL/kg) if their hematocrit is less than 42% (higher target for evidence of inadequate oxygen
      delivery such as low SvO2, decreased cerebral NIRS, rising lactate, etc.). This protocol is
      consistent with our current standard practice at CHW.

      If the bedside clinician decides a transfusion is/is not indicated outside of these
      guidelines, it will be recorded as a protocol variation and will be analyzed inclusively and
      separately. Volume of whole blood transfused will be multiplied by 0.5, as the concentration
      of red blood cells in whole blood is about 0.5 times the concentration present in packed red
      blood cells.

      Additional serum blood samples will be drawn preoperatively and postoperatively (on the day
      the last invasive line is in place or 28 days postoperatively whichever is first) to
      determine antibody formation to recombinant antithrombin and goat milk proteins as a measure
      of safety of the specific ATIII product used.

      Data Collection, Analysis, and Power Calculation:

      Data will be recorded on a standardized data collection forms and stored in a RedCap data
      base which allows for menu driven options, inbuilt checks and generation of reports.

      Safety (Aim 1): We hypothesize that measurements of safety in the experimental group will be
      the same or less than in the placebo controls We will record the mortality rate, incidence of
      extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support within 24 hours postoperatively, incidence
      of mediastinal exploration for bleeding and other indications within 24 hours
      postoperatively, incidence of thrombotic disease at discharge (ultrasound or other
      radiographic evidence if obtained for routine patient care), incidence of intracranial
      hemorrhage (ultrasound or computed tomography if obtained for routine patient care), days to
      delayed sternal closure, days to cessation of mechanical ventilation, and days to hospital
      discharge in the experimental and control groups. We will compare these data using a
      chi-square for categorical data, a t-test for continuous data, and Kaplan Meir curves with a
      Wilcoxon rank sum test for censored data. We will also compare serum samples at baseline and
      postoperatively for antibody formation to recombinant antithrombin or goat milk proteins. An
      internal data safety monitoring board (DSMB) will be in place to review the safety of the
      study after every patient for the first five, and then after every subsequent five patients.
      In addition, the DSMB will convene to review any serious adverse events potentially related
      to ATryn administration. A serious adverse event will be defined as death, intracranial
      hemorrhage, or >60 ml/kg/day in pRBC transfusion volume and/or 120 ml/kg/day of chest tube
      output (2 standard deviations above the mean in historical controls). At all points when the
      DSMB is planned to meet, the study will be placed on temporary hold, and no subsequent
      patients will be enrolled until after the DSMB convenes. If the DSMB concludes that ATryn
      administration contributed to a serious adverse event, or that the rates of safety measures
      described above are significantly worse in the ATryn-treated group at the time of a review,
      the study will be stopped.

      Feasibility (Aim 1): We hypothesize that recruitment will be at a rate of 5 enrolled patients
      per month.

      During the course of this project, the number of subjects approached for consent, the number
      consented, and difficulties in measurement (including unobtainable measures) will be
      summarized overall and by demographics. Associations will be investigated with scatter plots,
      Loess smooth curves, and Pearson correlation coefficients.

      ATIII Pharmacokinetics (Aim 2): ATIII levels measured within 5-10 minutes after
      administration (prior to start of CPB), within 30 minutes of start of CPB, just prior to
      discontinuation of CPB (prior to protamine dosing), and upon admission to the ICU will be
      assessed to determine if the single dose of ATIII sustained normal ATIII levels in the
      experimental group throughout these time periods, and will be compared to placebo control
      patients. If any ATIII level is above 1.2 (20% higher than anticipated based on dose
      calculation) at the time of a review by the DSMB, the study will be placed on temporary hold
      in order to review the dose calculation protocol.

      Postoperative Blood Loss and pRBC Transfusion Volume (Aim 3): Our primary efficacy hypothesis
      for this study is that blood loss and pRBC transfusion volumes will be less than placebo.
      Blood loss will be measured in terms of volumes (mL/kg) of blood loss and chest tube output
      from 10 minutes after protamine administration to 24 hours after ICU admission. If a patient
      requires re-exploration of the chest in the first 24 hours postoperatively, the volume of
      chest tube output for the duration of exploration will be recorded as a time-weighted average
      equal to the chest tube loss for the 2 hours prior to and 2 hours after the exploration.
      Volumes (mL/kg) of packed red blood cells and 0.5 X volume (mL/kg) of whole blood transfused
      from 10 minutes after protamine administration to 24 hours after ICU admission will be
      recorded. Patients who require ECMO within the first 24 hours postoperatively will be
      analyzed separately, as this is a known risk factor of increased bleeding and transfusion
      support. We will compare the blood loss and pRBC transfusion volumes in the two groups using
      a t-test or a Mann Whitney test. Further, we will allow for demographics such as sex and
      race, using a regression model with blood loss or pRBC volume as the outcome and group, and
      demographics as the independent variables.

      Power analysis: Since there are two primary outcomes of blood loss volume and pRBC
      transfusion volume, we will use a Bonferroni adjustment and an alpha of 0.05/2= 0.025. With
      30 patients in the experimental group and 30 controls, we will have at least 80% power to
      detect a difference of 0.81 standard deviations.
    
  