
    
      Primary Hypothesis:

      Compared to patients in Standard Antiretroviral Therapy (ART), patients in Mega-ART assuming
      full compliance, will experience a 30% reduction in the hazard of reaching a clinical
      endpoint (AIDS event or death).

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      Time to development of a new, non-HIV related serious adverse event, health related quality
      of life, the incidence of grade 3 or 4 clinical or laboratory adverse events and changes in
      virological and immunological markers (CD4 cell count, viral load, resistance profiles) will
      vary between the different treatment strategies.

      Interventions:

      Eligible patients will be randomized to one of four treatment strategy arms:

        1. No Antiretroviral Drug-Free Period (No ARDFP) and Standard-ART

        2. No Antiretroviral Drug-Free Period (No ARDFP) and Mega-ART

        3. Antiretroviral Drug-Free Period (ARDFP) and Standard-ART

        4. Antiretroviral Drug-Free Period (ARDFP) and Mega-ART

      Note: The 'first' randomization will be ARDFP vs No ARDFP. Patients randomized to No ARDFP
      will receive their 'second' randomization at the same time. However, patients randomized to
      an Antiretroviral Drug Free Period (ARDFP) will receive their 'second' randomized assignment
      (Standard or Mega-ART) at the end of the ARDFP.

      Note: All Serious Adverse Events were coded using the MedDRA coding dictionary; other (not
      serious) Adverse Events were collected as part of the study but were not coded using MedDRA
      or any other standardized coding dictionary.

      This is the first trial of a Tri-National collaboration effort between the UK MRC, the
      Canadian CIHR and the VA CSP. The OPTIMA Trial was reviewed and approved by CSEC on October
      12, 2000. The pre-kickoff meeting was held on March 21, 2001 in Washington, DC. The VA study
      kickoff meeting was held in Dallas, TX on May 16-18, 2001 and the Canadian kickoff was held
      in Toronto on May 29, 2001. The UK will have individual site initiation. As of October 17,
      2005 there have been 357 patients enrolled in OPTIMA, at 64 sites in the three countries (279
      in the VA, 41 in Canada and 37 in the UK). To date there are 64 sites actively participating
      in the study (24 in the VA, 19 in UK and 21 in Canada). Last date of patient follow-up was
      December 31, 2007.
    
  