
    
      Recently a new and novel noninvasive imaging-based technique known as Magnetic Resonance
      Elastography (MRE) was developed that is capable of quantifying stiffness of soft tissues
      such as liver, spleen, kidney, heart brain, breast, aorta etc. In MRE a person is laid into
      an MR scanner which is similar to all MR scans. In addition, a drum (passive driver) is
      placed on the body (area close to the region of interest), which is connected by a long
      plastic tube that runs outside the scan room. This drum is tightly strapped by a Velcro to
      the body for better contact. Then the other end of the plastic tube is connected to an active
      driver that produces vibrations of frequencies in the range of 20Hz -2kHz. These frequencies
      of vibrations are transferred to the passive driver which produces vibrations on the body.
      These vibrations are tracked using MR scanner to produce wave images. A post-processing of
      these wave images are performed to obtain spatial stiffness maps. Currently, MRE is a
      clinical tool to assess hepatic fibrosis at many institutions. MRE is superior to many
      invasive techniques (i.e. biopsies, catheter based Pressure-Volume measurements) and
      mechanical testing in that it is noninvasive and can be performed in vivo under physiologic
      conditions. MRE could make stiffness widely available and could revolutionize the diagnosis
      and treatment of numerous diseases affecting stiffness of soft tissues. For example in Liver:
      diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis, Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, liver tumors etc. Heart:
      diagnosis of diastolic dysfunction, myocardial infarction, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy,
      contractility etc. Aorta: Aortic aneurysms, hypertension etc. This technology is completely
      noninvasive and the vibrational energy is way below the required standards. Previous
      experiences of these vibrations are like massaging the body. The risks of this research study
      are minimal, which means that we do not believe that they will be any different than what you
      would experience at a routine clinical visit or during your daily life. This study will not
      make participants' health better. It is for the benefit of research.The specific aim of this
      study is that MRE can be used as a noninvasive tool to diagnose different disease states in
      soft tissues. In this study we will be applying this technique in adult volunteers to test
      the feasibility and validation of the technique in different organs.
    
  