
    
      Severe lower back pain radiating anteriorly in a belt-like distribution is characteristic of
      pancreatic cancer. The pain is thought related to involvement of the celiac nerve plexus,
      located behind the pancreas; due to either macroscopic compression or microscopic perineural
      invasion.

      Contemporary approaches (narcotic analgesics, celiac nerve blocks and systemic chemotherapy)
      each have drawbacks, and as a consequence many patients suffer from severe pain. We
      hypothesized that ablative radiosurgery (high dose, precise X-ray treatment) focused on the
      celiac plexus would succeed in palliating these patients, possibly by interrupting pain
      transmission. It is important to emphasize that bringing pain relief to cancer patients is
      not only humane, but also associated with improved mood, quality of life and possibly
      improved survival. Our preliminary results suggest that the treatment is both effective and
      well tolerated; furthermore it appears that the patients tolerate subsequent cytotoxic
      treatments better. We will perform a prospective phase II multicenter clinical trial to test
      our hypothesis Compared to the small pilot trial the follow-up trial will: 1) Enroll a larger
      number of patients (n=100). 2) Be performed across a number of institutions, in both the
      Middle East and the United States. 3) Include improved measures of quality of life and
      functional capacity. 'Caregiver burden' and 'Patient hope' will also be assessed. 4)
      Incorporate exploratory translational endpoints relating to immune activation.

      Target population Adult patients with severe, poorly controlled lower back/abdominal pain
      (intensity at least 5/10 on the Numeric Pain Rating Scale) thought to originate in the celiac
      plexus (generally, but not exclusively, from pancreatic cancer). Patients with a poor
      prognosis, and those with previous radiation to the upper abdomen will be excluded. Systemic
      therapies will need to be stopped several days prior to, and following, treatment.
    
  