
    
      Background Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and EUS-guided fine needle aspiration (EUSFNA) are
      well established techniques in clinical practice. In routine gastrointestinal endoscopy such
      as gastroscopy, only the mucosal layer of the digestive tract is visualized. In the case of
      EUS, an ultrasonic transducer located at the tip of the echoendoscope allows the endoscopist
      to visualize the wall of gastrointestinal tract as a series of definable layers corresponding
      to histology, rather than as a single entity, and also enables detailed images of areas
      outside of the digestive tract, such as intra-abdominal lymph nodes, and solid organs such as
      liver, pancreas to be seen. EUS has a significant clinical impact because it allows
      assessment of submucosal GI lesions, loco-regional staging of gastrointestinal malignancy,
      tissue diagnosis by EUSFNA and staging of pancreaticobiliary lesions, non-small-cell lung
      carcinoma, and mediastinal disease. EUSFNA is a minimally invasive technique of tissue
      acquisition under EUS guidance. A FNA needle is inserted through the accessory channel of a
      curvilinear echoendoscope. Both the target lesion and the needle tip are visualized under
      real time ultrasound guidance, and any potential intervening vessels can be excluded by
      turning on the Doppler mode prior to needle puncture. The lesion is then punctured under
      real-time ultrasonic guidance and material aspirated by the needle for cytological
      assessment.

      In prospective trials, EUSFNA has been clearly established to be an important diagnostic
      tool, with excellent safety profile. The overall diagnostic yield of EUSFNA should exceed
      80%, with higher rates in EUSFNA of lymph nodes, where rates of >90% may be expected, as
      compared to pancreatic masses, where lower diagnostic rates were reported. The somewhat lower
      rates for solid pancreatic lesions compared to lymph nodes could be due to the underlying
      desmoplastic changes associated with pancreatic malignancies.

      EUSFNA may be performed with rapid on site cytopathological assessment (ROSE) of the
      aspirated material to guide the number of needle passes being performed. In most practices,
      rapid on site cytopathological assessment is not feasible and it has been recommended that in
      such situation, in order to maximize the diagnostic yield, at least 3 needle passes should be
      performed for lymph nodes and at least 4 passes should be performed for pancreatic masses.
      Even without onsite cytopathological assessment, excellent results with greater than 90%
      diagnostic yield have been reported by expert centers.

      Needles for EUSFNA are available from four manufacturers, namely Cook Endoscopy, Boston
      Scientific, Olympus Corporation and Mediglobe. The available needle diameters are 25, 22 and
      19 gauge. These needles have a sharp tip for puncturing and a hollow core for aspiration
      after the puncture. The hollow needle core is covered by a stylet which is withdrawn after
      the puncture to facilitate aspiration. Aspiration is usually facilitated by application of
      suction using a syringe which is attached to the entry port of the hollow core of the needle,
      after the stylet has been withdrawn, although it must also be acknowledged that there are
      endoscopists who prefer to apply no suction in order to reduce the possibility of bloody
      aspirates. Olympus has recently made commercially available a new 22 gauge FNA needle with a
      side port at the needle tip. The theoretical basis for introduction of the side port is to
      facilitate the process of fine needle aspiration, and to increase the diagnostic yield. There
      have been preliminary unpublished retrospective data that suggested the yield might be
      raised. However, there are no prospective multicenter randomized controlled studies to
      ascertain the validity of the assumption. Currently two needles with similar designs, apart
      from absence and presence of side port, are available from Olympus Corporation. These are the
      EZ-Shot 2 (model: NA-220H-8022) and EZ-Shot 2 with side port (NA-230H-8022)

      Aim The aim of this prospective randomized study is to determine whether there is a
      difference in diagnostic yield between EZ-Shot 2 (model: NA-220H-8022) and EZ-Shot 2 with
      side port (NA-230H-8022) in patients with pancreatic masses for evaluation.

      Materials and methods

        1. Setting and trial design:

           Setting: International; multicenter. Trial design: Randomized prospective comparative
           study.

        2. Subjects:

           Inclusion criteria: 1) all patients referred for EUSFNA of pancreatic masses; 2)
           informed consent is obtained for performance of EUSFNA.

           Exclusion criteria: 1) presence of active gastrointestinal bleeding; 2) presence of
           coagulopathy as defined by platelet count <50000/mm3 or/ and international normalized
           ratio >1.5; 3) the current use of thienopyridines (e. g. clopidogrel) in patents
           requiring anti-platelet therapy; 4) absence of procedural informed consent.

        3. Informed Consent:

           The protocol will be approved by local Institutional Review Board. Patients will be
           giving informed consent for the procedure.

        4. Interventions:

           Randomization: Randomization of the needle used for initial puncture will be carried in
           blocks of 5 with equal assignment to the EZ-Shot 2 (model: NA-220H-8022) and EZ-Shot 2
           with side port (NA-230H-8022) needles. Once the first 2 punctures have been performed,
           the alternative needle will be used to obtain the subsequent needle passes.

           EUS and EUSFNA technique: EUS and EUS will be performed using a curvilinear
           echoendoscope according to standard techniques9 by a credentialed endoscopist or under
           the direct supervision of a credentialed endoscopist in the case of procedures performed
           by trainees. The patient will either undergo the procedure without sedation, under
           sedation or under general anesthesia as clinically indicated. As per standard technique,
           the lesion is visualized using EUS, and then the 22gauge EUSFNA needle (depending on
           randomization either NA-220H-8022 or NA-230H-8022) is introduced into the accessory
           channel of the echoendoscope and the lesion is punctured under real time ultrasonic
           guidance. After withdrawal of the stylet and application of suction by attachment of a
           syringe with negative pressure, the needle is moved to and fro within the lesion for
           approximately 30 seconds, and then the needle is withdrawn and the material aspirated is
           expressed onto glass slides by reinsertion of the stylet and direct smears are made
           either by the endoscopist or cytotechnician. This process is repeated once using the
           first needle. The alternative needle is then used to make 2 further punctures..

           Preparation of aspirated material and definition of cellular adequacy and diagnostic
           yield10,11: The material aspirated is expressed onto glass slides by reinsertion of the
           stylet and direct smears are made either by the endoscopist or cytotechnician. After
           expressing the cellular material onto glass slides, half the slides will be air-dried
           and half will be alcohol fixed (95% ethanol) for subsequent cytological assessment. When
           no further material can be expressed, the residual contents of the needle are flushed
           with 5 to 10 mL of sterile saline solution into a balanced salt solution. After flushing
           the needle, the outside of the needle and the stylet are vigorously wiped with saline
           solution-soaked sterile gauze to reduce cross contamination between passes.

           An adequate specimen is defined as the clear presence of target organ cells. In the case
           for the pancreas there must be at least 4 clusters of pancreatic acinar cells with or
           without the presence of malignant-appearing cells. A cytopathologist blinded to the
           needle used for FNA, will characterized each individual needle pass for assessment of
           adequate cellularity (0 [inadequate] or 1 [adequate]) and a diagnosis of malignancy
           (insufficient, normal, "suspicious," malignant). . The diagnosis arrived at for each
           needle pass will be compared with the final diagnosis which will be based on composite
           of cytology, histology and clinical course. The EUSFNA findings will be classified as 1)
           inadequate for diagnosis; 2) true positive for malignancy; 3) true negative for
           malignancy; 4) false positive for malignancy; 5) false negative for malignancy.

        5. Statistics Sample size: As this is an exploratory study, a sequential trial design will
           be used to determine the ideal sample size. For the initial assessment, a total of 30
           pancreatic masses will be targeted. Dependent on the outcome and trend, this may be
           further increased to 100 cases.

           Outcome variables:

           Primary 1. Compare 1st pass cellular adequacy rate each needle: 2. Compare the overall
           cellular adequacy rate each needle 3. Compare the overall diagnostic accuracy rate
           between both needles 4. Compare 1st pass diagnostic accuracy adequacy rate of each
           needle

        6. Timetable of work Complete study within 6 months, but may extend to 24 months
    
  