
    
      Sleep apnea is the most common disorder observed in the practice of sleep medicine and is
      responsible for more morbidity and mortality than any other sleep disorder.(1) Although
      characterized over 40 years ago, sleep apnea has only recently gained recognition as one of
      the world's most prevalent undiagnosed disorders. Due to associated morbidity and mortality,
      sleep apnea has been identified as a major public health concern. Currently, sleep apnea is
      diagnosed by performing a sleep study. This requires a patient staying overnight in a sleep
      laboratory while being monitored, which is often inconvenient for patients and is relatively
      expensive to perform. The development of a device that allows for simple home monitoring of
      patients when assessing for sleep apnea would be a significant development in the field of
      sleep medicine.

      The differentiation of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) from central sleep apnea is an important
      aspect of diagnosing and treating OSA. In central apneas/hyponeas, the lack of airflow is due
      to lack of respiratory effort. In OSA, effort to breathe continues, but airflow is prevented
      by an occluded airway. More recently, subtle obstructive events without a defined
      desaturation, characterized by increasing respiratory efforts against a partially closed
      airway and terminated by an arousal, have been described as Upper Airway Resistance Syndrome
      (UARS). UARS can lead to daytime somnolence due to these frequent arousals. Although nasal
      pressure signal has been used as a surrogate, by definition, distinguishing UARS from OSA
      requires the use of esophageal manometry. This syndrome is characterized by increased upper
      airway resistance (IUAR) that was defined by increasingly negative inspiratory esophageal
      pressure. (2) To better understand the clinical significance of esophageal manometry, let us
      briefly review some basic physiology. Taking a breath requires that the inspiratory muscles
      generate sufficient force to overcome the elastic recoil of the chest wall and lungs,
      frictional lung and chest wall tissue resistance, and the frictional resistance of airflow
      through the airways. At the end of inspiration, the potential energy stored in the tissues of
      the lungs and chest wall is available to allow rapid passive exhalation when the inspiratory
      muscles cease contraction and the distending force disappears. All intrathoracic structures
      are subjected to the pressures generated by breathing. The esophagus is a thin walled
      muscular tube that, from the view of pulmonary physiologists, is ideally placed in the
      thoracic cavity between the lung surface and the chest wall. Measurement of differential
      pressure changes in the lumen of the esophagus accurately reflect changes in intrathoracic
      pressure. These changes in intrathoracic pressure are in turn reflective of inspiratory
      effort and have become the gold standard for detecting and quantifying inspiratory effort.

      Unfortunately, measurement of esophageal manometry requires the placement of an esophageal
      catheter via the nose or mouth. This procedure in invasive, time consuming, and requires
      specialized training. For this reason, esophageal manometry is not routinely performed during
      sleep studies, although it is performed in patients at the WRAMC sleep lab who are suspected
      of having UARS. Instead of esophageal manometry, the most frequently used method of
      monitoring respiratory effort is to record thoracic cage expansion. In this procedure, bands
      are placed around the rib cage and abdomen. The change in circumference of these two
      compartments with breathing is measured. This procedure yields a qualitative change in
      inspiratory volume and paradoxical movement of the rib cage or abdomen can indicate effort
      against a closed or partially collapsed airway. This device is impractical for
      self-application by patients. Given the limitations of the latter procedure and the invasive
      nature of esophageal manometry, a non-invasive quantitative method for measuring respiratory
      effort would be a significant advancement in sleep medicine.

      Over the past five years, investigators from Advanced Brain Monitoring, Inc. developed and
      validated the Apnea Risk Evaluation System (ARES). This device was initially developed to
      provide a highly accurate method of in-home diagnosis of OSA that maximized patient comfort
      and ease of use. The ARES Unicorder was designed as a single site (forehead) system to
      acquire oxygen saturation, pulse rate, snoring, airflow (nasal pressure), and head
      position/movement. Recently, investigators determined that a number of signals that were
      being acquired with the Unicorder could be used to measure respiration.(1) Pulsations
      observed in the red and infrared optical signals used to compute oxygen saturation and the
      forehead sensor pressure signal appear to reflect central venous pressure changes. These data
      has been termed the Forehead Venous Pressure/Respiratory Movement (FVP/RM) measure. If FVP/RM
      data proves to correlate with esophageal manometry data, the long sought after non-invasive
      quantitative measurement of intrathoracic pressure and respiratory effort would be available.
      This would represent a significant advancement in the diagnostic evaluation of sleep
      disordered breathing.

      To better illustrate how forehead venous pressure could reflect intrathoracic pressure, let
      us again review some physiology. During inspiration, the central venous pressure (CVP)
      decreases, aiding the return of blood to the heart. Changes in pleural and intrathoracic
      pressure due to respiration are reflected by and can be timed to changes in central venous
      pressure. When recumbent, the internal and external jugular veins are open and provide the
      primary cerebral and superficial forehead venous return. The communication between the
      superior vena cava and the veins of the headallows intrathoracic pressure changes to be
      reflected by the superficial veins of the head. In a sense, the forehead veins offer a direct
      fluid filled catheter into the thoracic cavity, and when the correct compressive force is
      applied against the skull, respiratory effort linked venous pressure changes can be
      accurately measured.

      In summary, current evaluation of UARS requires esophageal manometry testing, an invasive and
      time consuming procedure for accurate diagnosis. Currently, no non-invasive quanitative means
      of measuring intrathoracic pressure changes linked to respiratory effort exists. This study
      is a pilot trial of a new non-invasive method of determining intrathoracic pressures. If
      intrathoracic pressure data from this device is found to correlate with esophgeal manometry
      data, this could have significant implications on the way in which UARS is diagnosed. This
      technology also has the potential to develop a non-invasive means of measuring CVP.
    
  