
    
      Angiotensin-II (ANG-II) is the end-product of the renin-angiotensin cascade, and acts as a
      potent endogenous vasoconstrictor through binding to the angiotensin receptor (AT1) on
      arteriolar vascular smooth muscle. With advancing age, there is a notable decline in plasma
      renin activity accompanied by decrements in circulating ANG-II and an increase in AT1
      receptor density. However, the functional consequence of this age-related adaptation of the
      renin-angiotensin system (RAS) on the peripheral circulation is not well understood.
      Likewise, in recent years it has become apparent that cardiovascular disease is a major cause
      of morbidity in COPD, which may be related to vascular dysfunction and associated adoption of
      a sedentary lifestyle. In these patients, changes in RAS activity have been linked to
      peripheral vascular dysfunction, with compelling evidence for improvements in peripheral
      oxygen use following angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. Like the aging
      population, systematic studies evaluating AT1 receptor sensitivity and the efficacy of AT1
      receptor blockade on peripheral hemodynamics have not been undertaken.

      The ubiquitous substance nitric oxide (NO) is now recognized as a key pathway for
      endothelium-dependent vasodilation, with the bioavailability of NO serving as an indicator
      for overall vascular health. Cardiac risk factors have been shown to cause impairment in
      endothelial vasodilator function in both the peripheral and coronary arteries. Coronary
      vascular dysfunction is an important phase in atherogenesis and is associated with myocardial
      ischemia. Furthermore, peripheral vascular function has been linked to coronary vascular
      dysfunction which could have important clinical implications in terms of health screening.
      Impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation has been associated with the elderly, patients
      with COPD, and most cardiovascular diseases including pulmonary hypertension, and heart
      failure (HF), though the functional consequence of this adaptation on peripheral blood flow
      regulation remains unclear. Thus, we propose the use of a compound which inhibits the enzyme
      responsible for NO production in endothelial cells, N-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), to
      temporarily block production of NO and thus determine the importance of this pathway at rest
      and during physical activity. Additionally, we propose the use of acetylcholine (Ach) to
      determine endothelial-dependent vasodilation and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and nitroglycerin
      (NTG) to determine the endothelial-independent vasodilation in the coronary arteries and the
      periphery. Oxidative stress associated with aging has been shown to reduce vascular function
      and antioxidant supplementation restores vascular function to levels that are
      indistinguishable from healthy young adults. The manner by which this improvement in vascular
      function occurs is not known by may be acting through a NO dependent mechanism.

      Histamine has been reported to mediate sustained post-exercise vasodilation through
      histamine-1 (H1) and histamine-2 (H2) receptor activity, which results in a ~50% elevation in
      femoral artery blood flow (above resting levels) that lasts for more than 100 minutes after a
      single bout of moderate-intensity dynamic exercise. Vasodilation can be markedly reduced by
      giving either fexofenadine (Allegra, a selective H1-receptor antagonist) or ranitidine
      (Zantac, a selective H2-receptor antagonist). The combination of H1/H2 blockade abolishes
      ~80% of the post-exercise vasodilation seen after whole-body exercise such as cycling and
      this observation has been observed in multiple studies in young sedentary, recreationally
      active, and endurance trained men and women. The impact of histamine on the post-exercise
      vasodilatory response is substantial; however, the role of H1/H2 receptors in regulating
      skeletal muscle blood flow during exercise is unknown. Thus, we intend to investigate the
      role of H1/H2 receptors in the regulation of skeletal muscle blood during exercise as this
      may be an important pathway in age and disease related reductions in blood flow during
      exercise.

      Exercise training and rehabilitation can be used as an alternative approach to combat the
      deleterious effects oxidative stress on aging and disease. An effective exercise training
      intervention can decrease sympathetic nervous system activity, improve arterial compliance
      and vascular endothelial function, and alter the pro- and antioxidant balance resulting in
      improved endogenous antioxidant defense mechanisms. Moreover, exercise training concomitantly
      improves musculoskeletal strength and function, glucose regulation and insulin sensitivity,
      cardiovascular function, body composition, blood chemistry (decreased triglyceride and
      cholesterol levels), and overall well-being. The physiologic effect of an exercise
      rehabilitation program in diseases such as COPD, and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is
      incompletely understood. However, recent studies suggest that exercise training in this
      patient population is well tolerated and associated with clinically significant physiologic
      improvements as well as improvements in various quality of life scores.

      A unique feature of the proposed studies identified herein is the inclusion of a novel
      methodological approach to comprehensively evaluate the functional outcome of the proposed
      pharmacologic interventions. The recent development of a unique combination of nuclear
      magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques by members of our group enables near-simultaneous
      measurements of both muscle perfusion and metabolism in vivo. The arterial spin labeling
      (ASL) technique allows the measurement of both spatially and temporally resolved
      quantification of perfusion, while the kinetics of phosphocreatine (PCr) depletion and
      recovery provide high resolution measurements of muscle energetics. The interweaving of these
      imaging and spectroscopic modules provides the opportunity for determination of skeletal
      muscle perfusion and metabolism kinetics during and following the stress of physical
      exercise. Thus, this NMR-based approach, combined with direct measures of muscle fatigue,
      offers the potential to further define the individual and collective contribution of these
      variables to the attenuated limb blood flow in the elderly and in patients with COPD and PAH.

      We propose that each of these pathways outlined above represent an avenue by which vascular
      function is compromised in the elderly and in patients with COPD, PAH and cardiovascular
      disease. However, because these pathways are not mutually exclusive, the proposed studies are
      designed to systematically evaluate hemodynamic responses to intra-arterial or intravenous
      administration of pharmacologic agents specific for the AT1 receptor (ANG-II and Diovan, AT1
      agonist and antagonist, respectively), the Endothelin receptor Type-A (ETA receptor) (BQ-123,
      ETA antagonist), and the NO pathway (L-NMMA, Ach, and SNP) both before and after exercise
      training.
    
  