
    
      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the colonic mucosa
      characterized by recurrent attacks of bloody diarrhea, abdominal cramping and mucosal
      ulceration that often requires long-term therapy to maintain remission (Fefferman and Farrell
      2005). In addition, refractory UC is moderate to severe colitis refractory or intolerant to
      conventional therapy (steroid-refractory colitis) or immunomodulators
      (immunomodulator-refractory colitis) that may end at colectomy( Baumgart and Sandborn
      2007)(Garud andPeppercorn 2009).

      The etiology of UC is unknown; however, genetic and environmental factors and microorganisms
      may play an important role. Epidemiological and microbiologic studies suggest that
      enteropathogenic microorganisms play a substantial role in the clinical initiation and
      relapses of IBD(Johnson. 2012) (Goodman et al. 2015). e.g. active UC has been associated with
      increased detection rates of Clostridium difficile, cytomegalovirus (CMV).

      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a double-stranded DNA virus of the Herpesviridae family. After
      primary infection, the virus is known to maintain a persistent, life-long infection often as
      a latent form that can be found in several organs or tissues especially in the colon .

      Cytomegalovirus infection (CMV) has been described in patients with inflammatory bowel
      disease (IBD) as a cause of relapse, mainly in those with steroid refractory disease .This
      infection is also responsible for a more severe clinical course and it may cause death if not
      treated early Moreover, an improvement of clinical status when antiviral therapy was
      initiated, suggesting an active role of CMV (Shukla et al. 2015) .

      The prevalence of CMV infection in IBD patients is unclear depending on the method of
      diagnosis used. It was ranged 16 - 34% in patients with moderate-to-severe UC was using
      serological and histological tests(Kishore et al 2004) (Wada et al. 2003) .

      On the other hand, CMV infection was 20- 40% in those with severely steroid-refractory UC
      using a combination of antigenemia and histological evaluations (H&E staining and
      immunohistochemistry [IHC] ( Domenech et al.. 2008)( Maconi et al. 2005) ( Cottone et
      al.2001)( Kambham et al. 2004 ) In addition, several western studies have tried to explore
      the implication of CMV reactivation in colonic tissue on the clinical evolution of UC .
      However, to our knowledge, studies on the relationship between CMV and UC are lacking in our
      region (Al-Zafiri et al 2012). (Chun et al 2015)(Kim et al 2014) (Wu XW et al.2015).
    
  