
    
      ABSTRACT

      Telepsychology: Service Delivery for Depressed Elderly Veterans

        1. Objective: The immediate objective is to test the hypothesis that a novel mode of
           geriatric mental health service delivery, using in-home videoconferencing technology
           ("Telepsychology"), will be as effective as the traditional mode of service delivery
           ("Same-Room") for treating older adult veterans suffering from major depressive disorder
           (MDD). The ultimate objective is to help the VA develop and evaluate strategies for
           providing mental health care to elderly veterans who live in rural areas, many of whom
           are minorities.

        2. Research Design: This project is a 4-year prospective, randomized between-groups study
           comparing the efficacy of an intervention for geriatric depression delivered via two
           different modes (Telepsychology, Same-Room). Participants in the Telepsychology
           condition will receive care in their own home via videophone contact with a therapist at
           the Charleston VA Medical Center; participants in the Same-room condition will receive
           their care via traditional face-to-face therapy sessions held at the Charleston VA
           Medical Center. Two-hundred twenty-four (224) participants will be recruited from
           primary care and mental health clinics within the Charleston VA Medical Center catchment
           area. Treatment will be administered over an 8-week period (active treatment phase); and
           participants will be followed for an additional 12-months (follow-up phase) to ascertain
           longer-term effects of treatment on three outcome domains: (1) clinical outcomes:
           symptom severity and social functioning; (2) process outcomes: patient satisfaction and
           acceptance, treatment credibility, session attendance, treatment adherence, and
           treatment dropout; and (3) cost-effectiveness.

        3. Methodology: Population and Sample: Participants will be elderly veterans (N = 224), age
           60 and above, with diagnoses of major depressive disorder (MDD). Based on our previous
           research and local demographics, we expect approximately 40% of our sample will be
           African-American. Types of Data: To assess outcome, we will use measures that have been
           widely validated in the clinical evaluation of older adults with MDD. Measures will be
           collected at pre-treatment, post-treatment, 3-, and 12-month follow-up. Data Analyses
           Plan: The primary clinical response variable is proportion (%) of patients who respond
           to treatment, where treatment response is defined as at least a 50% improvement from
           baseline to post-treatment level on the GDS (percent change from
           baseline:[baseline-post]/baseline >= 50%). Two approaches to estimation of the primary
           response variable will be taken. The first approach will estimate proportion of
           responders (% responders) at the end of the 8-week active treatment course based on the
           total number randomized to each treatment. This is equivalent to a "worst case" analysis
           in which all premature exits (for whom response status is missing) will be treated as
           non-responders. We will also estimate proportion of responders for each treatment based
           on only those who complete the 8-week treatment course (completer analysis). The second
           approach will use multivariable logistic regression to estimate adjusted % responders.
           Finally, we will conduct a range of analyses between African-American and Caucasian
           subjects to look at differential efficacy, patient preferences and satisfaction, and
           adherence across racial groups.

        4. Findings: Analysis of data is currently in process.

        5. Clinical Relationship: Findings will allow for improved service delivery and access to
           elderly depressed veterans.

        6. Impact/Significance: The telepsychology literature is undeveloped. The VA has made
           telehealth a priority strategy for bringing quality services to veterans in rural areas.
           Therefore, research that addresses the efficacy of this mode of service delivery is
           acutely needed. If Telepsychology efficacy and cost-effectiveness is demonstrated, then
           future research and program development will bring specialized mental health services to
           the homes of minority veterans or VA community based outpatient clinics. Further, if
           Telepsychology effectiveness can be empirically established, then we can proceed with
           research that examines a range of important system issues. Thus, this project represents
           a step in a major programmatic line of research in mental health service delivery to
           rural and underserved populations.
    
  