
    
      Surgical resection of brain tumours remains a challenge. While the center of a tumour is
      easily resectable, its margins are often fading into normal brain, and therefore quite
      difficult to identify. Moreover, there is now extensive literature proving that tumour cells
      extend way beyond visible margins of a tumour, following white matter tracts in the brain. As
      opposite to different organs (such as liver or kidney), resection of brain tumours beyond the
      visible margins is limited by the presence of eloquent/functional areas. Damages or resection
      of these areas will inevitably cause a permanent disability, which can be incredibly serious
      and impact on further treatment: a paralyzed or unconscious patient is not capable of
      tolerating chemotherapy or radiotherapy after surgery, both crucial complementary forms of
      treatment to contain the disease, in combination with surgery.

      Because of these premises, the concept of "functional margins of resection" is now
      established in the neurosurgical community: a tumour is resected and the resection is pushed
      up to 1-2 cms beyond the margins or only up to the point where a functional/eloquent area is
      found. If the latter is the case, the functional area is obviously preserved and tumour
      resection is stopped. Identifying these areas is the main challenge in brain tumour surgery.

      The aim of this study and its scientific justification is to refine a new, potentially more
      practical and quick technique to identify functional brain areas in real time. This study can
      serve as a benchmark study to both improve surgery of brain tumours and increase our
      knowledge about brain tumours and eloquent brain vascular supply. This technique can also
      potentially be implemented to obtain a novel technology to assess brain perfusion during
      neurosurgical procedures. Maintaining blood supply to healthy brain tissue is a key component
      of successful neuro-oncological surgery. Multispectral/hyperspectral analysis can be
      evaluated as a complementary tool to assess brain perfusion in real-time and prevent
      post-operative devastating neurological complications, such as strokes, or significantly
      reduce the secondary damage would these complications occurr.

      The present project consists of a pilot observational study on patients diagnosed with brain
      tumours candidate for a neurosurgical operation.

      From a practical point of view, participation in the study will only imply that some images
      will be acquired during surgery and processed at a later stage. The study won't impact on
      patients' care at any stage, nor will produce results that will be relevant for future
      medical records of patients enrolled. Patients will be approached about this study at the
      time of their first neuro-oncology clinic consultation. A member of the research team will be
      present at the time of the consultation and will explain in details what are the purposes and
      the methods of the present study.
    
  