
    
      Specific Objectives of the Project

      Specific Objective 1:

      To evaluate the feasibility of inpatient rehabilitation during hospitalization followed by a
      home-based exercise program in older persons who are limited in ambulation when admitted to
      the hospital. Feasibility will be determined by our ability to identify, recruit and enroll
      subjects, by the ability of subjects to complete two sessions of rehabilitation each day
      during the inpatient phase, and by subject adherence to the home-based program. Adherence to
      the home-based program will be assessed through regular visits and review of activity logs.
      Criteria for feasibility will be successful recruitment of fifty study subjects meeting
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, participation in at least 80% of scheduled inpatient
      rehabilitation sessions and in at least 80% of prescribed home exercise sessions.

      Specific Objective 2:

      To study the impact of a standardized twice daily inpatient rehabilitation program on
      ambulation, ability to perform transfers and self-care, and muscle strength at hospital
      discharge in older adults hospitalized for an acute medical condition. We will study
      individuals who have either lost the ability to ambulate independently (within the two weeks
      before hospitalization), or have limited ability to ambulate (less than 150 feet at a
      functional velocity). The primary outcome measure for this objective will be the Timed Up and
      Go (TUG) test (41). Ambulation, transfers, and self-care also will be assessed using the
      locomotion, mobility and self care subscales of the Functional Independence Measure (FIM)
      (15, 22-24). The Microfit 2 hand-held dynamometer (HHD) will be used to test muscle strength
      of six lower extremity muscle groups and three upper extremity muscle groups (44). An
      important outcome assessment will be the proportion of subjects that regain independence in
      ambulation by hospital discharge.

      Specific Objective 3:

      To study the effect of a combined program of inpatient rehabilitation with a progressive
      home-based exercise training program during the six months following discharge on ambulation,
      ability to perform transfers and self care, walking endurance, and mobility within the home
      and community. The Timed Up and Go (TUG) test will be the primary outcome measure.
      Ambulation, ability to perform transfers and self-care, and muscle strength also will be
      assessed using the measures described for the second specific objective. The Six Minute Walk
      Test (6 MWT) will be used to evaluate walking endurance, while a life-space assessment will
      be used to evaluate mobility within the home and the community (42).

      The study will be a randomized, controlled clinical trial, involving a physical
      rehabilitation (PR) group, and a control (CON) group. Fifty subjects who meet the study
      criteria will be randomly assigned to PR or CON. PR will receive an intensive rehabilitation
      program consisting of progressive ambulation, transfer training, and resistance exercise
      during hospitalization. A similar home exercise program will be prescribed during the six
      months post-hospitalization. The CON group will receive routine medical care as it is
      currently provided.
    
  