
    
      Nasal fractures are one of the most incidental of facial traumas. Regression of nasal edema
      is necessary so that surgical reduction of the fracture can be performed. It is known that
      photobiomodulation (PBM) reduces pain, edema and modulates inflammation. Regression of edema
      in a shorter time may decrease hospitalization time, decreasing hospital costs. However,
      there are no well-designed clinical studies on this subject. Therefore, the objective of this
      study will be to evaluate if PBM is able to reduce edema in the region of fractured nasal
      bones prior to nasal reduction and nasal packing, in order to reduce the patient's ability to
      go through surgery. Thirty-six patients diagnosed with a (primary) nasal fracture admitted to
      the Mandaqui Hospital Complex whose trauma occurred in the last 48 hours will be randomly
      divided into: G1- (control) (n = 18). The control group will be submitted to the standard
      hospital treatment: standard drug therapy (50mg diclofenac sodium - 5 days, 8 / 8h orally and
      500mg dipyrone - 5 days, 6 / 6h , orally). Tylex 30mg orally will be given as rescue
      medication. In this group there will be simulation of the use of the mask. G2- LED group (n =
      18) - The standard hospital treatment will be performed + LED nasal mask (3 points on each
      side of the nose), λ = 830nm, radiant exposure of 9.7 Joules J / cm2 for 10 minutes.
      Treatment will be performed at patient admission (up to 24 hours after nasal trauma), and at
      intervals explained below, for approximately 08 days after hospital admission. The main
      variable will be the edema evaluated by the same researcher and with the same technique.
      Secondary variables will be pain (visual analogue scale - VAS), temperature, rescue
      medication count, serum C-reactive protein and systemic inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α,
      interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6, IL-8 and IL- nasal fossa and saliva. All evaluations will be
      performed at baseline (T0) up to 48 hours after trauma, aiming at equivalence in the
      inflammatory process, (T1) 96h after trauma and (T2) 192h after trauma. Afterwards, the LED
      or its placebo will also be applied. The questionnaire to assess the impact of treatment on
      quality of life will be applied at the baseline and after 8 days. Adverse effects will be
      recorded and reported. If the data is normal, they will be submitted to Student's t-test. The
      data will be presented by their means ± SD and the value of p will be set at 0.05.
    
  