
    
      Immunotherapy, or treatments that work by boosting immune function in the body, such as
      monoclonal antibodies have shown some efficacy against different types of leukemia.
      Researchers have learned to manufacture antibodies outside of the human body that can bind to
      specific targets in cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies are designed to recognize different
      proteins on specific cancer cells. The current study combines two monoclonal antibodies,
      rituximab and fludarabine. Rituximab attaches to a protein called the CD20 antigen that is
      found almost exclusively on the surface of B-cells with leukemia. Once rituximab attaches to
      the protein, the immune system activates to kill the malignant B-cells. Alemtuzumab works in
      a similar way by attaching with the CD25 antigen and also has activity in patients with p53
      gene mutations. Previous studies indicate that both rituximab and alemtuzumab separately have
      some efficacy against lymphocytic leukemia. Research has also shown that fludarabine works
      against the disease. Rituximab and fludarabine in combination appear to have a high response
      rate in patients. Researchers are seeking to improve efficacy data by adding alemtuzumab to
      the combination of rituximab and fludarabine in this study.

      This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of fludarabine, rituximab, and alemtuzumab
      in patients with previously treated B-cell lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic
      leukemia. Blood and bone marrow tests will assess genetic features associated with response
      to therapy, immune recovery, mechanisms of alemtuzumab's signaling, routes of drug
      resistance, and traces of residual disease following complete response in patients.

      Patients in this study will receive fludarabine, rituximab, and alemtuzumab. These drugs will
      be administered through intravenous infusions. The treatment period will last 22 weeks.
      Fludarabine will not be given during week one, 5 days during week 2, and 5 days during weeks
      6, 10, 14, 18, and 22. Rituximab will not be given during week one, 3 times the second week,
      and day one of weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, and 22. Alemtuzumab will be given 3 times during week
      one, once during week 2, and day 2 of weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, and 22. The dosage amount of
      rituximab and alemtuzumab will be increased depending upon the degree of side effects.
      Several tests and exams will be given throughout the study to closely monitor patients.
      Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth or unacceptable side effects.
    
  