
    
      This phase II multicenter clinical trial will use a genotype-guided dosing strategy for
      irinotecan to prospectively analyze efficacy in 100 metastatic colorectal cancer patients
      (mCRC) receiving FOLFIRI (5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin, irinotecan) plus bevacizumab.
      Irinotecan is detoxified and excreted primarily by glucuronidation in the liver via the
      isoenzyme uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase (UGT1A1). Common variants in UGT1A1
      alter the rate of glucuronidation and thus alter exposure to irinotecan.

      The UGT1A1 *28 allele results in slower irinotecan glucuronidation, and thus greater exposure
      to its active metabolite SN-38. At the standard irinotecan dose used in FOLFIRI (180 mg/m2;
      established prior to our understanding of the importance of genotype in the rate of this
      drug's metabolism), there is a small increased risk of neutropenia in *28 homozygotes.
      However, the risk of clinically important consequences of neutropenia, such as febrile
      neutropenia and infection, are not significantly increased. Patients with other genotypes
      have a quite low risk of adverse effects suggesting patients with these low risk genotypes
      may tolerate higher doses of irinotecan in FOLFIRI. This finding was demonstrated in a phase
      I study in which *1/*28 and *1/*1 genotypes were able to tolerate escalating doses of
      irinotecan up to 260 mg/m2 and 310 mg/m2, respectively.

      The central hypothesis of this trial is that increasing the irinotecan dose in *1/*28 and
      *1/*1 genotypes will increase the overall benefit of FOLFIRI for patients with mCRC as these
      two groups are likely under-dosed with the current dosing regimen. Eligible patients will be
      genotyped for UGT1A1 and assigned into 1 of 3 different dosing groups, based on their
      relative rate of metabolism. The primary objective of this trial is to estimate
      progression-free survival (PFS), and secondary objectives include characterization of
      toxicity and objective response rate (OR; complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)).
    
  