
    
      The principal goal for the study is to examine whether there is a difference between the
      ingestion of choline through supplements versus choline found within eggs on plasma TMAO
      levels. The investigators have previously shown that dietary intake of trimethylamines,
      including the choline group of phosphatidylcholine (PC), is mechanistically linked to
      cardiovascular disease risk and that the metabolism of these trimethylamine nutrients in
      humans is modulated by the intestinal microbes (gut microbes). Additionally, extensive animal
      studies link an essential role of gut microbiota to the metabolism of choline and the
      production of metabolites that promote / accelerate atherosclerotic processes. The
      investigators have also recently shown a 10-fold increase in plasma TMAO levels following
      supplementation with choline bitartrate supplements. However, another pilot study by a
      collaborator (unpublished) did not show the same increase in plasma TMAO levels following the
      ingestion of whole eggs, a major dietary source of choline. Therefore, with this study the
      investigators wish to examine the differences, if any, between the ingestion of an equivalent
      mass of total choline in the free form (as bitartrate salt) as a supplement vs. within whole
      eggs.

      Eggs, and specifically the egg yolk, contain a large amount of total choline. However, egg
      white contains potential anti-microbial peptides that could influence gut microbial
      composition and function, and therefore impact conversion of choline into TMA and TMAO
      observed in subjects. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that the consumption of whole
      eggs (hardboiled) will not elevate plasma TMAO levels to the same extent as a comparable
      amount of total choline ingested in capsule form as the choline bitartrate salt. The
      investigators further hypothesize that the consumption of egg white with choline bitartrate
      tablets may result in less of a rise in TMAO levels than ingestion of the choline bitartrate
      supplement alone.
    
  