
    
      In 2013, the Food and Drug Agency (FDA) granted accelerated approval to pertuzumab for use in
      the neoadjuvant setting with trastuzumab and chemotherapy for HER2+ locally advanced breast
      cancer (either greater than 2 cm in diameter or node positive), based on improvement in pCR
      in the NeoSphere (Neoadjuvant Study of Pertuzumab and Herceptin in an Early Regimen
      Evaluation) and TRYPHAENA (Trastuzumab plus Pertuzumab in Neoadjuvant HER2- positive Breast
      Cancer) studies. Full approval of pertuzumab in the early stage for patients at high risk of
      recurrence was recently received based on results of the adjuvant APHINITY study. NeoSphere
      study demonstrated a higher breast pCR rate with THP 17 (docetaxel, trastuzumab, pertuzumab)
      as compared to TH (breast pCR 45.8 versus 29%), and TRYPHAENA study also demonstrated high
      total pCR rates with FEC (5- fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide)-THP (pCR 54.7%)
      and TCHP (docetaxel, carboplatin, HP, pCR 63.6%).

      Pertuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody and is the first of a novel class of
      HER2-targeted agents known as HER2 dimerization inhibitors. This agent bind to a distinct
      epitope on the extracellular domain of the HER2 receptor (the domain II dimerization arm),
      blocking the interaction between HER2 and other HER family receptors. Potent inhibition of
      HER-mediated intracellular signaling results in cancer cell growth inhibition and death.

      In Turkey, Pertuzumab has been authorized as neoadjuvant therapy for breast cancer patients
      since March 2019. Before this date pertuzumab was also available after patient- based
      approvals. Due to lack of local data regarding outcomes of pertuzumab in neoadjuvant therapy
      for breast cancer patients, this study will be the first in this area, in terms of national
      real world data.

      This study is a Non-Interventional Study (NIS) with secondary data usage. It is designed as a
      multi-center retrospective cohort study in which the data of adult breast cancer patients,
      who are treated with as neoadjuvant therapy and underwent breast surgery in participating
      centers, were taken from hospital records.

      NIS secondary data use based on electronic health records and paper files. Required key,
      primary and secondary variables will be ready including pCR data at the hospital records. If
      not, at the time of surgery there will be biopsy / imaging and other laboratory results, so
      primary or sub-investigator could also assess response and note as a source document.

      All patients' data planned to be collected in line with this study protocol after the ethics
      approval of the study.

      This retrospective design and secondary data use will help to reach endpoints in a short time
      with a 1500 target patient number.

      This study is planned to be performed on nation-wide across Turkey from 20 oncology clinics.

      The data will be collected into the database via an electronic case report form (e-CRF).
      Principal investigators at each participating site will be in charge of transferring patient
      data into the e-CRF. Data from the initial diagnosis of each patient until the last requested
      and available data in the patient charts at each participating site will be collected.

      The primary variables for this study are as follows:

      Demographics Clinical Information Diagnosis date Clinical Stage Pathological stage(TNM stage)
      Receptor status Histologic subtype Imaging details Neoadjuvant therapy Start date Stop date
      Response at the time of surgery Imaging after neoadjuvant treatment if available Recurrence
      if available Breast surgery Surgery type Operation date Imaging after operation Adjuvant
      therapy Start date Stop date Response Patients status (Ex, alive, last follow-up date,lost to
      follow-up)

      Secondary Variables

      The secondary variables for this study are as follows:

      Adverse Events Incidence Therapy relationship Grade according to CTCAE Start/End date
      Outcomes : Hospitalization, intervention, ex, etc Recurrence date, death date if applicable.
    
  