
    
      Low back pain (LBP) is the main cause of disability in the world, affecting all occupational
      sectors with different incidence rates. It is estimated that 60 percent of all workers suffer
      from LBP during their careers, 10 percent of which become chronic (The Lancet. September
      2017). Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is widely recognized as a major contributor to
      LBP, responsible for at least 40 percent of cases. A key characteristic of IDD is loss of
      matrix integrity and biomechanical functional failure. Today, no therapy can restore
      intervertebral disc (IVD) function or provide long-term relief from symptomatic IDD. Current
      therapies are aimed at pain reduction. When these treatments fail, several types of surgery
      are performed but they are often related to side effects, disturbance of motion and other
      biomechanical consequences. New strategies concentrate on treating IDD at an early stage.
      Encouraging results from phase 1 and 2 clinical trials suggest that cell-based regenerative
      therapies may provide the world first effective therapy for LBP. LBP patients treated with
      bone marrow mesenchymal stromal/stem cells (BM-MSC) showed rapid and progressive improvement
      of functional indexes of 65 percent to 78 percent over 1 year after intradiscal
      administration without side effect. ACTIVE is an ambitious randomized clinical trial aimed at
      developing a treatment for IDD based on intradiscal injection of autologous BM-MSC to improve
      the quality of life of workers and the disability of patients with LBP. ACTIVE main aim is to
      generate efficacy and safety profiles of single injections of 15 million cells/mL of
      autologous BM-MSC for each disc affected by IDD (up to 4 discs) versus sham procedure. The
      regenerative potential of BM-MSC treatment will be assessed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI) technologies on quarterly basis up to 12 months.
    
  