
    
      All patients seen for acute care of painful episodes in our Adult Sickle Cell Day Hospital
      will be screened for eligibility. Currently, there are >450 patients actively followed by
      staff in our adult Comprehensive Sickle Cell Center, with an average of 60-70 patient day
      hospital visits per month.

      Intervention and control group. Patients enrolled will be alternately assigned to each group
      to ensure randomization and equal numbers of patients to each arm. All patients will be given
      a return appointment within 12 days of Day Hospital visit. The control group will get
      standard of care, including a printed plan for medications to be taken, phone number to call
      for questions or issues, and the return date for visit.

      SMART Overview. SMART, a mobile phone-based self-monitoring service to enhance outpatient
      treatment in chronic illness will be tested for its utility to help reduce acute care
      utilization rates for patients given SMART following acute care visits at the Sickle Cell Day
      Hospital. SMART will enable symptom monitoring with a particular emphasis on pain measures,
      co-symptoms, and related interventions aided by provider daily monitoring and support guided
      by patient report via SMART to provide a Sickle Cell Disease Information interchange (SCDi)
      service. Instead of using their current routine of triaging phone messages daily, assessing
      patients' need for intervention, providers will instead monitor patients' entries via SMART
      daily. Our current clinicians, a nurse practitioner or medical doctor, will review data
      generated from patients' reports, as well as patient phone calls. Data entered daily by
      patients will be viewable by our clinicians. Rather than only listening to voice mails, a
      clinician from our provider team will view an electronic record and communicate with patients
      electronically by push notification, text messaging, secure email, or via the app. Our
      clinicians may also call patients by telephone, as they would do as necessary when responding
      to voice mails. .
    
  