
    
      MM is a B cells malignancy, and is one of the most frequent primary neoplasms of the bone
      marrow. The fundamental pathology is an expansion of a single clone of plasma cells that
      produce monoclonal immunoglobulin (M-proteins) and replace normal bone marrow. Although the
      etiology of myeloma is not known, several studies have shown that myeloma cells acquire
      certain genetic changes that allow for uncontrolled growth, migration, and protection from
      apoptosis.

      The incidence of MM in Europe is 6.0 cases per 100,000 per year, with a median age at
      diagnosis between 63 and 70 years; the mortality is 4.1 cases per 100,000 per year.

      Dara is a human IgG1ĸ monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to a unique epitope
      on CD38, a transmembrane glycoprotein. It is a targeted immunotherapy directed towards tumor
      cells that express high levels of CD38, such as plasma cells from patients with MM. This
      target is distinct from those of other approved agents for MM therapy. Darashowed promising
      efficacy alone and with Len and Den in a phase 1-2 study involving patients with relapsed or
      refractory MM. Subsequently, a phase 3 trial randomized 569 MM patients to receive Len and
      Den (Len-Dex; control group) or in combination with Dara (Dara-Len-Dex group) With a median
      follow-up of 25.4 months, progression-free survival was significantly prolonged in the
      Dara-Len-Dex group (median not reached versus 17.5 months in the control group; HR, 0.41; 95%
      CI, 0.31-0.53; P <0.0001). A significantly higher rate of overall response was observed in
      the Dara-Len-Dex group than in the control group (93% vs. 76%, P<0.0001), as was a higher
      rate of complete response or better (51% vs. 21%, P<0.0001). Furthermore, the rates of
      treatment discontinuation owing to adverse events were low and similar in the two groups.

      The investigator propose to conduct a non-inferiority phase III randomized, multicenter, open
      label trial for treatment of MM at first relapse, comparing the Dara-Len-Dex combination
      administered continuously until PD, versus a fixed duration of 24 months. The choice of this
      duration is justified by the currently available evidence with respect to achievement of a
      plateau in terms of deep disease response, patients' compliance, and physicians' preference
      according to different surveys. As a matter of fact, given the extremely high cost of such
      novel agents (>100 KEuros/year/patient), the pharmacoeconomic consequences of a "continuous"
      versus "fixed" duration therapy are also of utmost importance.

      Dosage, route of administration and administration schedule of the medications prescribed are
      in accordance with the FDA and EMEA authorization in MM first relapse. Only the duration of
      combination is compared. One group of patient will receive the Dara-Len-Dex combination until
      PD in accordance with the FDA and EMEA authorization in MM first relapse (standard of care).
      The experimental group will receive the Dara-Len-Dex combination for up to 24 months. This
      shorter duration of treatment (24 months) is justified by the currently available evidence
      with respect to achievement of a plateau in terms of deep disease response, patients'
      compliance, and physicians' preference according to different surveys.

      The aim of the current protocol is to investigate whether a fixed duration of treatment (24
      months) with the Dara-Len-Dex combination is not inferior to the continuous administration of
      the combination until PD. In this study some patients may have a similar OS while receiving a
      shorter duration of treatment. This study may allow to deliver a shorter duration of therapy
      for the treatment of MM at first relapse.

      The foreseeable risks are those of an earlier relapse in patients receiving a fixed duration
      of Dara-Len-Dex combination compare to the situation where they would have received the
      treatment until PD.
    
  