
    
      Primary Hypothesis: Intensive glycemic control reduces major macrovascular morbidity and
      mortality compared to standard glycemic control in type 2 diabetics who have failed simple
      therapy.

      Secondary Hypotheses: Intensive glycemic control, compared to standard glycemic control,
      reduces other macrovascular morbidity and total mortality.

      Intervention: The intervention is tight glycemic control, aiming at normalization of HbA1c.
      This will be achieved through stepped care therapy, using all categories of tools available
      to most diabetologists. These categories include: patient education of diabetes control (e.g.
      diet, exercise, etc.), oral diabetes medications, and insulin. All drugs to be used are
      approved. Specific agents will be used within the different classes to promote consistency
      across sites.

      The comparison is standard control, aiming at HbA1c of 8 - 9%. The same agents will be used,
      but at reduced doses.

      The general approach to the stepped care treatment protocol is to treat both groups with the
      same agents, but at different intensities (doses) (taking into account
      intolerance/contraindications). The sequence of steps is shown below.

      STEP 1: Either Metformin (obese) or Glimepiride (lean)in combination with Rosiglitazone STEP
      2: Insulin STEP 3: Increase doses in STEPS 1,2 in the Standard group. Since the Intensive
      group is already at maximal doses of oral agents, they will intensify insulin and may add
      Acarbose/Miglitol.

      STEP 4: For standard, proceed as in STEP 3 for Intensive; Intensives will use multiple daily
      injection (MDI) of insulin STEP 5: "Tool Box": Miscellaneous agents, tailored to the
      individual patient.

      Primary Outcomes: Time to one of the following major macrovascular events: myocardial
      infarction, stroke, new or worsening congestive heart failure, amputation for ischemic
      gangrene, invasive intervention for coronary artery or peripheral vascular disease,
      inoperable coronary artery disease, or cardiovascular death.

      Secondary Outcomes: Angina, transient ischemic attack, intermittent claudication, critical
      limb ischemia, and total mortality.

      Study Abstract: A quarter of the patients treated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
      Health Administration have type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). The costs of care for the treatment
      of patients with type 2 DM are extremely high, both in treatment expenditures for the
      metabolic disorder and for the care of end-organ complications. Although patients initially
      respond to diet and oral agent treatment, most eventually need insulin to near-normalize
      their glucose level, as the disease is characterized by progressive loss of insulin secretory
      capacity.

      After several clinical trials in both type 1 and type 2 DM, there is a reasonable certainty
      that about half of the incidence and rate of progression of indicators of microvascular
      complications (retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy) can be prevented or delayed by
      achieving and maintaining near-normalization of glycemic levels. Consequently, there has been
      a uniform trend in recent guidelines to advise a near-normalization of glycemic levels in
      both type 1 and type 2 DM. Note, however, that the clinical consequences of microvascular
      deterioration are dependent not only on glycemic levels but also on the duration of the
      disease. With the early onset of diabetes typical in type 1 patients, there is sufficient
      time for development of clinical microvascular complications, and prevention of these
      complications is a goal of treatment in type 1 diabetics. In contrast, the prevalence of hard
      clinical endpoints indicative of microangiopathy, such as renal failure or blindness, is very
      low in patients in whom the disease is diagnosed after the 5th decade, the greatest age of
      prevalence of patients with type 2 DM in this country. Furthermore, microvascular
      complications can be minimized by the well-established benefits of blood pressure and lipid
      control, as well as by therapeutic intervention (photocoagulation, cataract extraction).
      Since the costs and efforts necessary to reach near-normal levels of glycemia are very high,
      there is a need to determine the cost/benefit ratios of such expenditures in the population
      subject to type 2 diabetes, namely patients in their 6th to 8th decades of life.

      In contrast with the late and relatively infrequent appearance of clinical endpoints of
      microangiopathy, macrovascular complications (i.e., coronary heart disease and peripheral
      vascular disease) are responsible for the overwhelming majority of the mortality, morbidity
      and treatment costs in the American population of type 2 diabetics, even more so in the older
      VA diabetic population. In the recently concluded United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study
      (UKPDS) on type 2 DM, macrovascular mortality was 70 times higher than that of microvascular
      mortality. Intervention studies to determine the effect of rigorous glycemic control on these
      macrovascular events are inconclusive and contradictory. Intensive treatment in patients who
      are newly diagnosed has failed to demonstrate a beneficial effect of tight control on
      cardiovascular complications. The few studies conducted in later stages of the disease (i.e.,
      in patients requiring insulin treatment, alone or in combination with oral agents) have been
      conflicting and indeterminate.

      The decision on intensity of treatment is further compromised by current recommendations to
      attenuate glycemic control goals, especially when usage of insulin is required, both in
      patients with the common comorbidities of overweight or preexisting cardiovascular disease,
      and in those in the later decades of life. These concerns are based on fears that intensive
      insulin treatment might be associated with weight gain, increased cardiovascular risk factors
      (hypertriglyceridemia, dyslipidemia, hyperinsulinemia, and insulin resistance), and adverse
      effects of recurrent hypoglycemic events. The prevalent level of glycemic control in
      insulin-treated type 2 diabetics is relatively poor, likely due to a combination of practical
      difficulties and the uncertainties of what are the safe and effective glycemic goals. There
      is no long-term study currently being done in the high-risk population typical of the patient
      population in the VA. Before the Department of Veterans Affairs devotes considerable
      resources to a widespread intervention (a quarter of patients) that may be of little value,
      and might even be counterproductive, a trial to determine the value of the intervention is
      mandated. It is expected that CSP #465 will provide the scientific data on which the VA can
      base clinical treatment of Type II diabetes.

      CSP #465 is a prospective, 2-arm, randomized controlled trial to determine whether glycemic
      control, achieved through intensification of treatment, is effective in preventing clinical
      macrovascular complications in patients with type 2 DM who are no longer responsive to oral
      agents alone. The study consists of a two-year accrual period and five years of follow-up (7
      years total) of 1700 patients across 20 centers. We have powered the study to detect a 25%
      reduction in the primary event rate. Additional study goals are to determine whether the
      expenditures, discomfort, and adverse effects associated with intensive intervention are
      justified in terms of their clinical benefits, considering both macrovascular and
      microvascular complications.

      Main Manuscript:Duckworth W, Abraira C, Moritz T, Reda D, Emanuele N et al., VADT
      investigators: Glucose Control and Complications in the VA Diabetes Trial (VADT). N Eng J of
      Med 360:129-139, 2009.
    
  