
    
      Protocol title:

      A Phase 3, Dose-Escalating Study in Children With Hyperkalaemia Between Birth and <18 Years
      of Age to Evaluate Increasing Doses of Sodium Zirconium Cyclosilicate (SZC) Given Three Times
      Daily for the Correction of Hyperkalaemia and the Effectiveness of the Same Dose of SZC Given
      Once Daily to Maintain Normokalaemia Among Those Requiring Continuous Treatment.

      Rationale:

      Sodium zirconium cyclosilicate has been shown to be effective and safe in adults for the
      treatment of hyperkalaemia, and therefore it is expected to be beneficial in children. This
      study will evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of sodium zirconium cyclosilicate
      for the treatment of hyperkalaemia in children <18 years of age.

      Primary Objective: Endpoint/Variable:28-day maintenance phase (MP) primary objective:

      To compare the effect of SZC vs placebo on maintaining normokalaemia during the MP 28-day MP
      primary endpoint (primary analysis endpoint): The proportion of participants in whom
      normokalaemia can be maintained throughout the MP.

      Correction phase (CP) primary objective: To evaluate SZC efficacy of different dose levels
      (DLs) on achieving normokalaemia during the CP Correction phase primary endpoint: The
      proportion of participants in whom serum K+ (S-K+) decreases by ≥0.5 mmol/L and who achieve
      normokalaemia at (by or before) 24, 48 and 72 hours during CP.

      Secondary Objectives: Endpoint/Variable:

      CP secondary objectives:

      To evaluate SZC DLs on achieving normokalaemia within the first 72 hours

      CP secondary endpoints:

      The proportion of participats in whom S-K+ decreases by ≥0.5 mmol/L and who achieve
      normokalaemia during the first 72 hours.

      To evaluate SZC DLs on time to achieving normokalaemia during the CP Time to first day
      achievement of normokalaemia To evaluate SZC DLs on the reduction of S-K+ levels during the
      CP Absolute and percent change from baseline in S-K+ levels at all intervals of follow-up
      after dosing has been initiated To evaluate SZC DLs on time to reduction of S-K+ levels
      during the CP Time to decrease of ≥0.5 mmol/L in S-K+ level To evaluate the acceptability and
      palatability of SZC Proportion of participats per response category in Study Medication
      Palatability Assessment questionnaires (self reported or observer assessment)

      MP secondary objectives:

      To evaluate the effect of SZC vs placebo on time from randomisation to relapse of
      hyperkalaemia.

      MP secondary endpoints:

      Time from randomisation to relapse of hyperkalaemia in each treatment group To evaluate the
      effect of SZC vs placebo on the proportion of paticipants with normokalaemia per visit over
      the MP Proportion of participants within each treatment group who maintain normokalaemia per
      visit over the MP To evaluate the effect of SZC vs placebo on the change in S-K+ levels over
      the MP Both absolute and percent change from baseline in S-K+ levels post dose during the MP
      and at any time point thereafter in each treatment group To evaluate the effect of SZC vs
      placebo on time to increase in S-K+ during the MP Time to an increase in S-K+ concentration
      of ≥0.5 mmol/L in each treatment group To evaluate the effect of SZC vs placebo on proportion
      of days of normokalaemia during the MP Number and percentage of days of normokalaemia To
      evaluate the effect of SZC vs placebo on mean S-K+ during the MP The difference in mean of
      all S-K+ values obtained during the MP in participants receiving either SZC or placebo To
      evaluate the effect of SZC vs placebo on the proportion of participants experiencing hypo or
      hyperkalaemia during the MP The number and percentage of participants with hypo- or
      hyperkalaemia in participats receiving either SZC or placebo To evaluate the effect of SZC vs
      placebo on S-Aldo at the end of the MP Change from baseline in S-Aldo) to end of the MP To
      evaluate the effect of SZC vs placebo on plasma electrolytes (including bicarbonate) and spot
      urinary pH and electrolytes Change from baseline in plasma electrolytes (including
      bicarbonate) and spot urinary pH and electrolytes to end of the MP To evaluate the
      acceptability and palatability of SZC Proportion of participants per response category in
      Study Medication Palatability Assessment

      LTMP objective:

      To evaluate long-term maintenance of normokalaemia during treatment with SZC

      LTMP secondary endpoints:

      Proportion of paticipants in whom normokalaemia can be maintained over the Long-Term MP
      (LTMP) To evaluate long term maintenance of normokalaemia during treatment with SZC
      Proportion of participants who needed dose escalation/de escalation to higher DLs during the
      LTMP To evaluate long term maintenance of normokalaemia during treatment with SCZ Proportion
      of participants who needed dose de-escalation to lower DLs during the LTMP To evaluate
      long-term maintenance of normokalaemia during treatment with SCZ The number and percentage of
      participants with hypo- or hyperkalaemia during the LTMP To evaluate the acceptability and
      palatability of SZC Proportion of participants per response category in Study Medication
      Palatability Assessment questionnaires (self reported or observer assessment)

      Safety Objective: Endpoint/Variable:

      To evaluate the safety and tolerability of SZC in the 3 phases (CP, MP and the LTMP), and of
      SZC in relation to placebo in the MP.

        -  Adverse events/serious adverse events

        -  Vital signs

        -  Electrocardiogram

        -  Clinical laboratory evaluations (urinalysis, serum clinical chemistry,and haematology
           parameters)

        -  Central laboratory K+

        -  Physical examinations

      Overall design:

      Approximately 140 participants will be enroled at approximately 40 sites in locations
      including but not limited to Europe and North America for this study.

      Treatment will include 3 phases: the CP, MP, and LTMP. Participants from 2 to <18 years are
      eligible to participate in all phases of the study. Participants <2 years of age will be
      included in the first 2 phases, namely the CP and the MP.

      During the study, participants are recommended to be fasting prior to any visit pre-dose
      laboratory testing. All laboratory tests are taken pre-dose except select post dose K+ values
      during the CP. Electrocardiograms are to be taken prior to dosing. On visit days, the study
      treatment is to be taken at the site (during the CP this pertains only to the morning dose).
      For participants with diabetes, K+ measurements should be performed prior to insulin
      administration where possible.

      For inclusion into the study and for determining the ≥0.5 mmol/L decrease in K+, i-STAT is
      used. For subsequent decisions on eligibility and determination of hyper and normokalaemia
      for entry into the MP and LTMP phases, local laboratory K+ is the determinant value.

      Tolerability and safety will be assessed using AE reporting, results from laboratory testing,
      vital signs, physical examinations and ECG findings during the study. Care will be taken not
      to introduce bias when detecting AEs and/or SAEs. Open ended non leading verbal questioning
      of the participant or participant's legal representative, as appropriate, is the preferred
      method to inquire about AE occurrences.

      Participants are allowed to discontinue the study treatment and assessments at any time or at
      the discretion of the Investigator(s). Participants and their legal representatives are also
      free to withdraw from the study at any time, without prejudice to further treatment.
      Participants who discontinue study treatment for any reason during MP or LTMP will be
      followed up and are encouraged to continue to be monitored according to the protocol
      schedule.

      The independent Data Monitoring Committee (iDMC) will monitor data during all phases of the
      study including DL evaluations.

      Study period:

      Estimated date of first participant enrolled Q4 2018 Estimated date of last participant
      completed Q4 2023

      Number of participants:

      The study will enrol approximately 140 participants into the CP in order to achieve
      randomisation of at least 90 participants into the MP. Of the 140 participants enrolled, ≥5
      participants should be in the birth to <2 years cohort. Additionally, the 90 (or greater)
      participants randomised into the MP should include ≥30 participants in the 12 to <18 years
      cohort, ≥30 participants in the 6 to <12 years cohort, and ≥10 participants in the 2 to <6
      years cohort. At least 45 participants randomised in the MP should have a Screening i-STAT-K+
      level (using the mean of the 2 consecutive i-STAT-K+ measurements at Screening) of >5.5
      mmol/L. A minimum number of 75 participants must continue study treatment throughout the MP
      (≥25 participants in the 12 to <18 years cohort, ≥25 participants in the 6 to <12 years
      cohort, and ≥8 participants in the 2 to <6 years cohort). Hence, randomisation in the MP will
      continue until it can be predicted that at least 75 participants fulfilling the specific age
      cohort requirements will complete the MP without premature discontinuation of study
      treatment.

      Based on data from adult study SZC-004, the proportion of responders (participant with
      maintained normokalaemia throughout the MP) can be assumed to be 37% and 12% in the SZC and
      placebo treatment groups, respectively. Forty-five participants per group will then provide
      79% power using a chi-square test at 5% significance level.

      Treatments and treatment duration:

      Treatment will include 3 phases: the CP, MP, and LTMP. Participants from 2 to <18 years
      requiring chronic treatment for hyperkalaemia are eligible to participate in all phases of
      the study if entry criteria are met. Participants <2 years of age requiring acute or chronic
      treatment for hyperkalaemia will be included in the first 2 phases, namely the CP and the MP.
      The 3 treatment phases are specified below:

        -  An open-label CP during which SZC is administered orally 3 times daily (TID) prior to
           breakfast, midday, and evening for 1 to 3 days to achieve normokalaemia in participants
           from birth to <18 years.

        -  A 28-day MP during which SZC or placebo is administered in a randomised, double-blind
           manner orally once daily (QD) to maintain normokalaemia in participants from 2 to <18
           years. Participants aged <2 years will continue treatment in the MP with open-label QD
           oral SZC active treatment if medically indicated by the treating physician. In cohorts 2
           to <18 years, at the end of the MP (Visit 8a), the Investigator will unblind the MP
           treatment to determine eligibility for the LTMP.

        -  An open-label LTMP during which SZC is administered QD for up to 22 weeks for
           participants aged 2 to <18 years who either maintain normokalaemia on active drug during
           the MP or are hyperkalaemic on active drug or placebo during the MP. Continuation into
           this phase is optional and will be determined by the Investigator based on the
           participant's need for long term treatment. Dose titration for individual participants
           will only be an option in this phase after data is evaluated by the iDMC and the next DL
           is opened.

      Dose levels are derived from doses of SZC previously used in the adult population, by
      adjusting for paediatric body weight.

      Data Monitoring Committee:

      An iDMC will be utilised for this study to evaluate emerging safety data during all phases of
      the study in addition to DL evaluations.

      Statistical methods All efficacy analyses will be based on the intent-to-treat (ITT)
      principle using the Full analysis set.

      Safety analyses will similarly be primarily based on the ITT principle of including data
      after premature discontinuation of study treatment using the Safety analysis set.

      In general, CP data will be presented by dose. Maintenance phase data will be presented by
      treatment, denoted by SZC or placebo.

      In the LTMP, the open-label SZC dose can be titrated. Summaries by dose will however be done
      based on the dose the participant was initially on when starting the LTMP.

      No interim analyses are planned for this study.
    
  