
    
      Thinking about this concern, the investigators created a digital game to assess quickly and
      funny the cognitive functions (memory; attention and executive). The investigators know that
      digital games have potential neuromodulator effect and have been used as an alternative to
      the psychotherapeutic treatment and rehabilitation of cognitive skills. However, the
      experience with these games to assess the integrity of perioperative neuropsychological
      functions is still scarce. It is hypothesized that a digital game can replace the commonly
      used neuropsychological tests for detecting postoperative cognitive dysfunction. The aim of
      this study is to validate a specific digital game (MentalPlus®) for cognitive assessment and
      evaluation of its use for detecting of postoperative cognitive dysfunction.

      METHODS: The participants will be studied over 20 years old, literate, of both genders and
      candidates for surgery under general anesthesia in the Clinics Hospital of the Faculty of
      Medicine, University of São Paulo. Will also be applied neuropsychological tests to evaluate
      memory, attention, and executive functions as well as another tests to assess specifics
      contents useful to describe the sample and research' results. The tests applied will be on
      specific data set. In another study the investigators will include volunteers to assess short
      and long term memory Verbal Learnings Test (VLT), visual memory with Recognition Memory Test
      (TEM-R), to executive functions with STROOP Test and the selective and alternating attention
      with Trail Making Test (TMT-A / B). For Quality of Life the investigators will use the
      Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II) and Beck Anxiety
      Inventory (BAI) to assess depressive and anxiety symptoms, beyond of the MentalPlus®. In a
      third project the investigators will use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to
      assess the association between brain response and cognitive training by MentalPlus®.
      Reliability analysis will be performed and the validity of the digital game will be assessed
      in terms of evaluation of cognitive functions in a fun and practical way and this may provide
      health professionals, including anesthesiologists and surgeons with a new method for
      neuropsychological evaluation.

      Detail description about the neuropsychological tests and scales: Sociodemographic data will
      be analyzed including education, marital status, occupation, and current medication. Signs
      and symptoms of depression will be assess preoperatively using the Beck Depression Inventory
      (BDI), for screening on global cognitive will be use Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status
      (TICS), will be use the Verbal Learning Test (VLT) for long-term memory and the Recognition
      Memory Test (TEM-R) for visual memory, the Symbol Digit Modified Test (SDMT) will be use to
      assess short-term memory, visual search skill and attention, STROOP Test will be assess the
      selective attention, inhibitory ability and mental flexibility that are constructs of
      executive function and the Trail Making Test (TMT) for the assessment of selective and
      alternating attention.

      Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), which consists of 21 questions that explore depressive
      symptoms on a scale of 0 to 4, where zero represents no symptoms and four is the maximum
      symptomatology. A total of 14 points will be consider indicative of the presence of moderate
      depressive symptoms22.

      Patient Questionnaire health (PHQ-9), this questionnaire about the health of the patient is
      an instrument with 9 questions. Each question has 4 possible responses: 0 (no day), 1
      (several days), 2 (more than half days), and 3 (nearly every day). The PHQ-9 can be
      interpreted in three ways: 10 in the form of algorithm, identifying individuals with a major
      depressive episode and tracking probable cases of major depressive disorder; 20 as a
      continuous measure, with scores between 0 and 27 points, being able to assess levels of
      depressive symptoms through the cut- points 5, 10, 15 and 20 points = mild depression,
      moderate, severe and serious; 30 as continuous measurements with scores between 0 and 27
      points, classifying the individuals dichotomous through the use of a single cutting point
      (typically ≥10).

      The Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status (TICS) will be use as a standardized test to
      assess neuropsychological functioning when assessing cognitive skills. This test can be used
      when screening personally is impractical or when patients are unable to attend the clinic.
      This test consists of a structured interview with 11 items that assess the skills of spatial
      and temporal orientation, mental control, memory, general information, language and
      calculations.

      Memory will be assessed using the Verbal Learning Test (VLT) this test consists of a list of
      words. A list of 15 words is presented and must to be stored and recalled in three successive
      attempts (VLT / A-B-C), with delayed recall after 25 minutes (VLT-Delay). Rate is the number
      of words recalled and the number of errors for each presentation. The VLT evaluates the
      modalities of memory immediate, consolidated and long-term. This instrument will be held in
      two stages: pre-operative at the time of 1st evaluation before surgery and postoperatively in
      the second and final assessment between day 10 and 15 postoperatively.

      The Recognition Memory Test (TEM-R) consists of storing pictures and words to further
      identify remembered stimuli. For the stimulus responses can be presented to the subject in
      graphic form (figures) or written (words). This instrument will be held in two stages:
      pre-operative at the time of 1st evaluation before surgery and postoperatively in the second
      and final assessment between day 10 and 15 postoperatively.

      The Symbol Digit Modified Test (SDMT) will be applied for the evaluation of short-term
      memory, visual search skill and attention. This is a graphical task where the individual has
      to fill in symbols exemplified in the spaces below the corresponding number within 180
      seconds. The result is measured as the number of symbols drawn and the number of errors.

      Attention will be assessed by STROOP Test, which consists in presenting three paper sheets to
      the subject. The first one, the patient should verbalize the names of colors printed in black
      ink. In the second, verbalization is made of color are filled rectangles, the same provision
      of the words of the previous slide. The third blade consist in verbalize colors printed over
      the written word. Evaluates selective attention, inhibitory ability and mental flexibility
      that are constructs of executive function. Scores obtained include the number of words (Word
      task), number of bar colors (Color), and number of color words (Color-Word) completed within
      a set time, or as noted above, the amount of time required to complete each of the tasks. We
      will consider the number of errors as well.

      Attention will also be evaluated using the Trail Making Test (TMT) for the assessment of
      selective and alternating attention. In part A of the test, the subject must draw lines
      connecting consecutively numbered circles. In part B, the subject must draw lines connecting
      circles alternately with letters and numbers in a sequence. The result is measured as time
      and trail errors. The Attention function will be examined with Trail Making Test (TMT). This
      test consists of two parts. In Part A, the subject must draw lines connecting consecutively
      numbered circles. In Part B, the subject must draw lines alternately connecting circles with
      letters and numbers in a sequence. The test involves addition of alternate and selective
      attention, visual screening and complex manual dexterity (Part A) and executive processes
      (Part B). Among the executive procedures, the inhibitory ability and cognitive alternating
      seem to be those most required in completing the task. They are valued the time spent and the
      number of errors in each of. These instrument will be held in two stages: pre-operative at
      the time of 1st evaluation before surgery and postoperatively in the second and final
      assessment between day 10 and 15 postoperatively.

      About the scale for validation: the study will be guided on the validation of a digital game
      MentalPlus® in the form of scale to assess the neuropsychological functions: attention,
      memory, and executive. This scale will be measured with scores ranging between 0 and 20 to
      corrects and errors. Attention function: 0 (zero) corresponds to much trouble (too many
      errors); twenty (20) corresponds full capacity (correct total).

      For the executive function will be assessed: capacity of resistance for distractor factor
      being measured by how much that person touches the tablet's screen in order to demonstrate
      the failure of inhibitory control of the actions. Scores between 0 and 20 where 0 (zero)
      means great inhibitory control up to twenty (20) total inability to inhibitory control.

      For the memory function will be assessed the long-term memory, working memory and short-term
      visual memory. The scores for this function range from 0 to 20, with 0 (zero) total
      memorizing inability to long-term task and twenty (20) total long-term storage capacity
      evaluated after 25 minutes of exposure of the figures to be memorized. For the working memory
      will be exposed 7 icons to be mentioned over the next five minutes of exposure. Seven (7)=
      good ability to manipulate information in short-term time and 0 (zero) inability to store and
      manipulate information in short time.
    
  