
    
      Background:

        -  Metastatic ocular melanoma (OM) carries a poor prognosis with estimated survival of 4-6
           months. There are no known effective systemic therapies. Metastatic OM is classified as
           an orphan disease and there are currently few clinical trial options for these patients.
           Thus, novel systemic approaches are desperately needed.

        -  Administration of autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) generated from
           resected metastatic cutaneous melanoma can induce objective long-term tumor responses.

        -  Minimally invasive, safe, and effective surgical approaches have been developed in the
           Surgery Branch to procure liver tumor tissue for TIL generation.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine whether autologous Young TIL infused with or without the administration of
           high-dose aldesleukin may result in clinical tumor regression in patients with
           metastatic ocular melanoma receiving a non-myeloablative lymphoid depleting preparative
           regimen.

        -  To study immunologic correlates associated with Young TIL therapy for ocular melanoma.

        -  To determine the toxicity of this treatment regimen.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with metastatic ocular melanoma who are greater than or equal to 16 years of
           age, and are physically able to tolerate non-myeloablative chemotherapy. Patients who
           can tolerate high-dose aldesleukin will receive it following cell infusion; those who
           cannot tolerate high-dose aldesleukin due to medical comorbidities or refuse high dose
           aldesleukin will receive cell infusion without aldesleukin.

        -  There is no requirement for prior systemic therapies, given the lack of known effective
           systemic treatments for metastatic OM.

      Design:

        -  Patients will undergo biopsy or resection to obtain tumor for generation of autologous
           TIL cultures and autologous cancer cell lines.

        -  All patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.

        -  On day 0 patients will receive between 1x10^9 to 2x10^11 young TIL and then begin high
           dose aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg intravenous (IV) every 8 hours for up to 15 doses) or no
           aldesleukin if they are not medically eligible to receive it.

        -  A complete evaluation of evaluable lesions will be conducted 4-6 weeks after the last
           dose of aldesleukin in the aldesleukin arm and 4-6 weeks after the cell administration
           in the no aldesleukin arm.

        -  Patients will be enrolled into two cohorts. The cohort receiving high-dose aldesleukin
           (cohort A) will be conducted using a small optimal two-stage Phase II design, initially
           19 patients will be enrolled, and if 4 or more of the first 19 patients have a clinical
           response (partial response (PR) or complete response (CR), accrual will continue to 33
           patients, targeting a 35% goal for objective response. For the cohort that will not
           receive aldesleukin (cohort B), the study will be conducted as a Minimax two-stage phase
           II trial. Initially 12 evaluable patients will be enrolled to this cohort, and if 1 or
           more the first 12 have a response, then accrual would continue until a total of 21
           patients, targeting a 20% goal for objective response.
    
  