
    
      The Retroview™ (Pentax Medical, HOYA Co.) colonoscope has a short turning radius at the
      colonoscope tip, that allows a retroflexed view of the colon during withdrawal. This might
      allow the detection of polyps hidden behind flexures, folds, and valves, from the cecum to
      the rectum.

      This device offers many advantages, such as the ability to provide a high definition view of
      the proximal aspects of colonic folds, flexures, and valves with no additional equipment or
      device costs. The image quality is high definition and the colonoscope also incorporates the
      I-SCAN technology. The suction/work channel of the colonoscope is available for therapeutic
      procedures. Polypectomy can be performed with the colonoscope during retroflexion, without
      losing view of the polyp. The only disadvantages are the higher consumed withdrawal time
      because the additional retroflexed withdrawal to the standard withdrawal and that a small
      portion of the colon is obscured by the shaft of the colonoscope in retroflexion that may be
      the reason why combined standard withdrawal with retroflexed withdrawal has proved to be
      better than retroflexed withdrawal alone.

      The aim of this study is to determinate the polyp and adenoma detection rate via performing a
      colonoscopy using a conventional scope with standard withdrawal (forward view) and a combined
      forward and retroflexed withdrawal technique using the RetroView™ colonoscope.

      Lesion's dimensions and characteristics will be recorded to determine a difference between
      both techniques.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS Setting: Instituto Ecuatoriano de Enfermedades Digestivas (IECED), Omni
      Hospital Academic Tertiary Center. We will include patients from January 2019 to November
      2019. The study protocol and consent form has been approved by the Institutional Review Board
      of our institution and will be conducted according to the Declaration of Helsinki. Patients
      will provide written informed consent.

      Intervention: endoscopic technique. Participants will be submitted to two colonoscopies on
      the same day. First, a standard colonoscopy will be performed using a conventional HD
      colonoscope with I-Scan (EC 3490LK, PENTAX, Montvale, NJ) that has a 13.2 mm tube diameter
      and a total length of 2023 mm). Then a second procedure, combining the standard forward view
      and retroflexed withdrawal will be performed using the Retroview™ colonoscope (EC34-i10TL,
      Pentax Medical, Montvale, NJ), that has an 11.6 mm tube diameter and 2023 mm length.

      The endoscopy images will be seen on a 27-inch, flat panel, HD LCD monitor (Radiance™
      ultra-SC-WU27-G1520 model). All participants will have the same colonic preparation with 4
      liters of polyethylene glycol (PEG) the day before and bowel preparation will be evaluated
      using the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale.

      Two endoscopists with proficiency in retroflexed withdrawal will perform the colonoscopies.
      Colonoscopies will be performed in a tandem, random manner. First one endoscopist will
      perform the conventional colonoscopy using standard withdrawal technique with standard
      colonoscopes and then the second endoscopist blinded to the first colonoscopy results will
      perform the second colonoscopy with the Retroview scope and combination withdrawal
      (retroflexed with standard withdrawal). The operator assigned to each colonoscopy will be
      chosen randomly. A minimum withdrawal time of 10 minutes will be required for each procedure.
      After the examination, endoscopist will fill a questionnaire describing each polyp and
      adenoma found, including the size and location. The withdrawal time spent in each procedure
      will be measured.

      Statistical analysis: Baseline characteristics will be analyzed using Chi-square o Fisher
      Test for categorical variable and Mann-Whitney Test for continuous variables. If there is
      more than one polyp in one patient it will be considered individually for statistical
      purposes. A P value of less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. All the
      statistical analysis will be performed using R.

      Limitations: The protocol will be performed in a single-center by six endoscopists. A lack of
      a control group because the intention is to compare two endoscopic techniques in the same
      setting.
    
  