
    
      The inclusion criteria is: 1. unilateral side involvement; 2. ≥50% loss of passive ROM
      (external rotation or abduction) in the glenohumeral joint comparing to the unaffected side;
      3. duration of symptoms ≥3 months. 4. age≥ 20year old.

      The exclusion criteria include: 1. ever received manipulation of the affected shoulder
      with/without anesthesia; 2. systemic disease, severe degeneration, or trauma involving the
      shoulder (ie, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, history of injury to the labrum or
      articular cartilage or malignancies in the shoulder region, etc.); 3. neurologic diseases
      such as stroke or peripheral nerve neuropathy that have already affect the activity of
      shoulder; 4.pain or disorders of the cervical spine, elbow, wrist, or hand; 5.a history of
      drug allergy to local or corticosteroids; 6. Pregnancy or lactation; and 7. Received
      corticosteroids, or hyaluronic acid intra-articular injection into the affected shoulder
      during the preceding 4 weeks 70 participants will be randomly divided to SCNB group and IACI
      group. Each subject in either group will receive 2 times of injection in a two-weekly
      interval. After injection, each subject in either group will receive the same protocol of
      physiotherapy program for 2 months. Outcome measures include the SPADI, the SDQ, active and
      passive ROM of the affected shoulder, and SF-36. Evaluation will be performed at baseline and
      at 4 weeks and 12 weeks after the beginning of the treatment. Statistics will be performed
      after completing the patients' treatment and evaluations.

      A Shapiro-Wilk test will be applied to ensure that all the calculated variables followed a
      normal distribution. Subsequently, a 2-by-3, 2-way mixed-model analysis of variance, which
      has 1 between-subject factor (group: SCNB and IACI) and 1 within-subject factor (evaluation
      time: pretreatment, 4 weeks after beginning treatment, and 12 weeks after the beginning of
      the treatment), will be performed. Pair-wise comparisons between groups will be performed
      using an independent t test when a significant interaction is found; otherwise, the main
      effects are reported. When a time effect is found, a post hoc analysis will be performed
      using a polynomial test to determine the trend (linear or quadratic). All significance levels
      are set at alpha=.05, and SPSS version 15.0a will be used for all the statistical analyses.
    
  