
    
      RR training is a part of most multi-component psychosocial therapies for RA. RR training may
      decrease perceived psychosocial stress and autonomic tone, which in turn diminishes pain and
      the anticipatory anxiety associated with pain. RR training involves learning relaxation
      techniques which include diaphragmatic breathing, progressive skeletal muscle relaxation, and
      the induction of a state of focused attention on a chosen word, phrase, or image.

      In clinical practice, RR training is generally administered as one component of RA therapy.
      In this study, the effectiveness of RR training will be evaluated when RR training is
      administered alone and in combination with a cognitive behavioral therapy program. The
      cognitive behavior techniques include problem solving, relabeling, enhanced awareness of pain
      behaviors, and attention refocusing. The effectiveness of RR training will be evaluated in
      comparison to standard RA education that includes topics such as the nature of RA disease,
      medical therapies, physical activities, nutrition, and pain mechanisms.

      After a baseline assessment of health beliefs, RA severity, social support, and psychological
      distress, patients will be randomized to one of three study arms. Patients in Arm A will
      complete six individualized weekly RR training sessions. Patients will receive a 20-minute
      audiotape to guide them through the exercise; they are asked to practice 5 to 7 times per
      week. Patients in Arm B will learn cognitive behavioral and RR techniques during eight weekly
      sessions. Patients in Arm C will receive standard RA education. After the initial training,
      all patients will be followed up with monthly telephone conversations for 4 months. Patients
      will have follow-up study visits at Months 6 and 12. Follow-up study visits include a medical
      interview, physical exam, and blood tests.
    
  