
    
      Siblings' wellbeing is at risk when one's brother or sister has a neurodevelopmental
      disorder. Neurodevelopmental disorders are enduring somatic and/or mental conditions
      affecting the central nervous system, such as autism, intellectual disability, and cerebral
      palsy. The mechanisms behind the wellbeing risk for siblings are linked to siblings' lack of
      disorder knowledge, poor parental mental health due to extra care responsibilities, and
      impaired family communication. No evidence-based interventions to improve sibling wellbeing
      exist. To address this gap, we propose examining a group intervention for siblings and
      parents of children with neurodevelopmental disorders in a randomized controlled trial
      (SIBS-RCT). SIBS-RCT compares a 5-session manual-based sibling-parent group intervention
      delivered over two weeks, to 3-month "treatment as usual" waitlist. The planned sample is 288
      siblings and 288 parents. Recruitment and intervention will take place in specialist and
      municipal health services. Inclusion criteria are being the sibling (aged 8-16 years) of a
      child (aged 0-18 years) who is diagnosed with neurodevelopmental disorder and who receives
      specialist or municipal health services. Participants will be randomized in blocks of 6 to
      intervention or waitlist. The primary outcome is sibling mental health. Secondary outcomes
      include quality of life, disorder knowledge, and family communication. Predictor measures
      include biological stress levels, parent mental health, disorder impairment, and group leader
      adherence to the SIBS-manual. Measures will be electronically rated by siblings, parents, and
      teachers at pre-intervention, post-intervention, and 3, 6, and 12 months follow-up. Main
      effects of the intervention will be measured as the mean mental health change difference
      between intervention and waitlist from pre-intervention to 3-month follow-up. We will also
      apply growth curve models to examine trajectories of outcomes from pre-intervention to
      12-month follow-up. Expected outcomes include improved sibling wellbeing, improved health
      services for siblings and families of children with neurodevelopmental disorders, and better
      integration between municipal and specialist services.
    
  