
    
      Portal hypertension is responsible for the development of portosystemic collaterals. The
      hemodynamic alternations may result in mucosal and vascular changes along gastrointestinal
      (GI) tract as well. According to several epidemiological studies, cirrhotic patients are at a
      higher risk of developing peptic ulcers, delayed healing, and a higher frequency of ulcer
      recurrence. The death rate from peptic ulcer disease in cirrhotic patients has been reported
      to be five times higher than that of the general population. The exact mechanism remains
      incompletely understood, but may be related to impaired mucosal defense mechanisms.
      Aggressive factors such as Helicobacter pylori and gastric acid may not be the predominant
      etiology in such circumstances. Sarfeh et al. found gastric mucosa of portal hypertensive
      rats, compared with that of controls, has distinctive functional and histologic abnormalities
      that can explain its increased susceptibility to erosive injury. Auroux et al. found
      gastroduodenal ulcer was independently associated only with the severity of the hypertensive
      gastropathy in cirrhotics. Chen et al. found portal hypertension with a hepatic venous
      pressure gradient > 12 mmHg may be an important factor contributing to the increased
      prevalence of gastric ulcer observed in patients with liver cirrhosis. Thereby, we presumed
      that clinically significant portal hypertension may play a role in development of peptic
      ulcer in cirrhotic patients. Lebrec et al. elucidated non-selective beta-blocker (NSBB) could
      significantly decrease portal pressure and lower the risk of GI bleeding in patients with
      cirrhosis. Kitano et al. found portal hypotensive treatment with NSBB, reduces
      ethanol-induced gastric mucosal damage in portal hypertensive rats and improves endoscopic
      signs of portal hypertensive gastropathy in cirrhosis patients. We designed a 2-year
      randomized trial to evaluate the effectiveness of proton pump inhibitor with or without
      propranolol on ulcer healing and the incidence of ulcer bleeding in patients with cirrhosis
      and peptic ulcers.
    
  