
    
      Chronic low back pain is a common disease in industrialized countries which affect patients'
      productivity and quality of life. Currently, the estimated yearly prevalence of chronic low
      back pain in United States is 5-20%. Lumbar medial branch blocks (LMBB) are commonly used as
      a diagnostic tool for facet mediated chronic low back pain. This interventional pain
      procedure often occurs in the fluoroscopy suite. During this procedure, a physician inserts
      the needles to deliver local anesthetics such as lidocaine or bupivacaine to the nerves which
      innervate the lumbar facet joint.

      Many patients experience anxiety before the LMBB procedure and require intravenous midazolam
      or fentanyl for sedation. In fact, in a retrospective review of over 8,000 interventional
      fluoroscopically guided pain procedures, the highest incidence of vasovagal episodes occurred
      with LMBB procedures. A nurse is required to administer these medications and monitor
      patient's vital signs. In addition, recovery from these medications can unduly prolong the
      patients visit and, in the case of fentanyl, can confound the diagnostic utility of the LMBB
      procedure by decreasing patient's pain.

      In an effort to minimize the cost of administration, monitoring, time of recovery and
      maximize the diagnostic utility of LMBBs, a suitable alternative is required. Several
      randomized, double-blinded, controlled trials investigate the anxiolytic effect of melatonin
      before a surgery. Several other studies and review articles describe the use of melatonin for
      both sedation and anxiolysis in both adults and children. However, no studies to date
      describe the use of melatonin for anxiolysis or sedation for interventional pain medicine
      procedures.

      Melatonin ((N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) is an over-the-counter product which patients can
      take to reduce anxiety before a procedure; it is a hormone produced in the pineal gland and
      secreted into the blood and cerebrospinal fluid. Melatonin has several functions including
      the regulation of circadian rhythms and regulation of the reproductive axis and antioxidant
      activity. Exogenous melatonin has been used to treat insomnia and jet lag.
    
  