
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Atherosclerosis is the most important complication of diabetes and the reason for its
      accelerated course in patients with this condition is poorly understood. Diabetes is
      increasing in prevalence and will exact a heavy disease burden on the United States
      population over the coming years. Secondary prevention of atherosclerotic complications would
      be of great value. The rationale underlying genetic studies is that new pathways could be
      identified through functional genomics.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The following hypotheses are tested: 1) The risk of developing Type 2 diabetes-associated
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) has a significant heritable component that can be measured, and
      2) The chromosomal locations of genes contributing to CVD in Type 2 diabetes can be
      determined and the genes identified using modern molecular genetic approaches. The
      investigators predict that these genetic factors can be detected in studies of sibling pairs
      with Type 2 diabetes through genetic epidemiology methods and linkage analysis. Type 2
      diabetes-affected sibling pairs, unaffected siblings, and parents, if available, will be
      recruited and multiple clinical and subclinical measures of subclinical CVD risk will be
      assessed, including coronary artery calcification (CAC), carotid arterial wall thickness
      (IMT), ECG variables, and prevalent CVD. Data on the patients are collected in one visit to
      the General Clinical Research Center (GCRC) which includes an interview and physical
      examination, a resting 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), B-mode ultrasound of the carotid
      arteries, retrospectively gated helical CT (RGHCT), and a spectrum of clinical laboratory
      measures. Genetic and epidemiological methods will be used to evaluate the familial
      aggregation of subclinical CVD taking into consideration the effects of shared environmental
      exposures (e.g. smoking, diet, alcohol intake and physical activity) and clinical measures
      (e.g., body mass index, blood pressure, lipids, age, sex, etc.). Initial estimates of
      heritability suggest a significant heritable component to subclinical CVD. Clinical
      evaluation will be followed by a comprehensive molecular genetic analysis of the sib
      pairs/families including a genome wide screen, which will be followed by a focused effort to
      create a high quality dataset by regenotyping or replacing problem markers. Evidence for
      linkage to quantitative trait loci (QTLs) influencing CAC and IMT will be pursued in those
      chromosomal regions showing suggestive evidence for linkage and then performing further
      analyses to detect associations with these "saturation" markers.
    
  