
    
      Reduced knee function is a significant cause of physical limitations and disability. As
      cartilage deteriorates due to aging, wear-and-tear, injury, or disease, joint space narrowing
      and pain can develop. The lost of articular cartilage arises from an imbalance between
      cartilage synthesis and cartilage degradation. When cartilage needs to be remodeled, enzymes
      such as matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) degrade type II collagen. It now may be possible to
      use new molecular markers of cartilage degradation to assess the progression of joint loss in
      comparison with radiographic changes of the knee joint. Urinary excretion of C-terminal cross
      linking telopeptide of type II collagen (CTX-II) is a new molecular marker of cartilage
      tissue degradation metabolism.

      Recent evidence suggests that glucosamine, a dietary supplement, may provide some relief from
      joint pain and may increase the functional ability to participate in activities of daily
      living. This may be a result of these dietary supplements stimulating tissue repair such as
      cartilage in the affected joints, or by inhibiting the degradation of cartilage through an
      inhibition of enzymes. Moreover, Braham, Dawson, & Goodman (2003) reported increases in
      function in adults with knee pain following 12 -weeks of glucosamine supplementation. It is
      unclear, however, if glucosamine delivered via a liquid carrier would improve physical
      function and impact quality of life measures in people who have experienced loss of knee
      cartilage.

      Glucosamine is a precursor for glycosaminoglycans, which are a major component of both joint
      cartilage and skin. Potential benefits of glucosamine on skin have been reported previously.
      It is possible that glucosamine in a beverage might also improve skin parameters over time.

      Comparisons: 100 men and women with mild to moderate joint pain taking a liquid with
      glucosamine, compared to 100 men and women with mild to moderate joint pain taking a liquid
      with placebo.
    
  