
    
      patients will be randomly allocated to two groups of 50 patients each Group (A): will receive
      intra-operative diclofenac sodium at dose of 0.3 mg/kg intravenously.

      Group (B): will receive intra-operative ketorolac tromethamine at dose of 0.5 mg/kg
      intravenously.

      Then the two groups will continue postoperatively on the same drug received intra-operative

      I. Intra-operative data:

      Bleeding score will be assessed by the surgeon at the end of the operation using the
      following Scale for bleeding assessment (0 = no bleeding, 1 = bleeding as usual, 2 = bleeding
      more than usual, 3 = profuse, 4 = excessive, and lastly 5 = excessive and continuous).

      II. Early Post-operative data:

        1. Post- tonsillectomy bleeding assessments;

             -  Bleeding score will be recorded immediately postoperative and 3, 6, 12 and 24h
                postoperatively.

             -  Hospital re-admission because of bleeding.

             -  Re-operation because of bleeding.

        2. Post- tonsillectomy pain assessments; Pain intensity will be assessed postoperatively by
           the verbal rating scale (VRS; 0 = no pain, 1 = mild pain, 2 = moderate pain, 3= severe
           pain, and lastly 4= excruciating pain). VRS assessment will be performed immediately
           postoperative and 3, 6, 12 and 24h postoperatively. Analgesia will be given if requested
           or if the VRS≥3. Patients in Group A will receive diclofenac sodium 0.3 mg/kg iv, while
           patients in Group B will receive ketorolac tromethamine 0.5 mg/kg.

      The total consumption of analgesics used in each group in the first 24 h postoperative will
      be calculated and the time of the first request for analgesia will be recorded.

      - Time needed to restore normal dietary habits.

      IV. Late Post-operative data:

      As aweekly follow up for 2 weeks :

        1. bleeding tendency

        2. Dysphagia.

             -  Time needed to restore normal dietary habits
    
  