
    
      In cranial neurosurgery, surgical site infections (SSIs) occur in 0.5%-7.2% of patients,
      frequently require reoperations and long-lasting antibiotic treatment, and are often life
      threatening.

      Patients with malignant brain tumors often harbor several potential risk factors for SSI such
      as advanced age, poor nutritional state owing to appetite loss, poor sanitary condition of
      the head skin due to low performance status, immunosuppression caused by steroid or
      chemotherapeutic agents, and surgical site skin problems caused by post-operative
      irradiation. Therefore, patients with malignant brain tumors theoretically are a high-risk
      group for SSI.

      A care bundle technique, which is an aggregate of evidence-based practices expected to
      improve patient outcomes, has been introduced to reduce the incidence of SSI.

      The infection prevention bundle (IPB) implemented items:

        1. Preoperative counseling and questionnaire: patient counseling and preparation
           instructions, screening questions for signs of infection, and presence of open or
           nonhealing wounds.

        2. Nasal methicillin-resistant and methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus
           decolonization: preoperative 24 hours ago twice-daily application of 2% mupirocin
           ointment to bilateral nares with final application on the morning of surgery.

        3. Body decolonization: Cleansing with 4% chlorhexidine gluconate shower the evening before
           surgery and the morning of surgery.

        4. Preoperative weight-based antibiotics within 60 minutes of incision

        5. Strict draping and surgical techniques the standardization

        6. Irrigation of the surgical site with warm Isotonic NaCl solution before skin closure

        7. Postoperative wound care education to patient and family

      Care bundle in preventing surgical site infections is an approach that requires team-based
      service delivery and physician-nurse cooperation. Although it is known abroad and use of
      existing care bundle is not a new concept in Turkey, much is unknown, it is determined that
      widespread and effective use. Experimental studies on the care bundles are needed especially
      in our country to prevent surgical site infections.
    
  