
    
      CML is a disease which progresses to blast crisis within five years of onset despite medical
      intervention. Allogeneic transplantation has provided a definitive cure for a large number of
      patients. The International Bone Marrow transplant registry reports a 67% three-year disease
      free survival for CML patients receiving a matched sibling transplant. However there remains
      a 17-20% treatment-related mortality and significant long-term complications. Myeloablative
      regimens with total body irradiation (TBI) are associated with certain sterility, along with
      a significant incidence of cataracts and second malignancies. Efforts to ameliorate this
      toxicity have led to the development of regimens lacking total body irradiation. Although the
      follow-up period for patients receiving these regimens has not been long enough to answer the
      question of long-term toxicity, it appears that the response rate and the disease free
      survival are comparable to regimens containing TBI. In addition, transplantation experience
      with aplastic anemia where TBI is not part of the regimen indicates that treatment related
      mortality along with the risk of long-term sequela are significantly decreased.

      Non-myeloablative allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplants are currently being
      investigated in phase I/II trials assessing engraftment efficacy and toxicity at a number of
      transplant centers. Preliminary data, including our own experience with 30 patients
      undergoing this type of procedure, has shown a high rate of complete donor engraftment with a
      low toxicity profile. Two recent studies investigating non-myeloablative allo-transplantation
      in standard risk patients revealed an extremely low rate of transplant-related complications
      and mortality.

      In this protocol we investigate non-myeloablative allogeneic PBSC transplantation in patients
      with CML. The patient group under study would include all patients with chronic phase CML
      having an HLA-identical sibling. In this protocol, eligible patients would be treated with an
      allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant from an HLA identical or single HLA
      antigen-mismatched family donor, using an intensive immunosuppressive regimen without
      myeloablation ("mini-transplant") in an attempt to decrease the transplant related toxicities
      while preserving the anti-malignancy and/or anti-host marrow effect of the graft. The low
      intensity non-myeloablative conditioning regimen should provide adequate immunosuppression to
      allow stem cell and lymphocyte engraftment. T-cell replete, donor-derived, granulocyte colony
      stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) will be used to
      establish hematopoietic and lymphoid reconstitution. We will add back lymphocytes in patients
      with less than 100% donor T-cell chimerism in an attempt to prevent graft rejection and
      enhance a graft-versus-malignancy effect.

      The primary endpoint of this study is transplant related mortality (1 year survival). Other
      end points include engraftment, degree of donor-host chimerism, incidence of acute and
      chronic graft versus host disease (GVHD), transplant related morbidity, as well as
      disease-free and overall survival.
    
  