
    
      Patients are stratified into 4 early risk groups for therapy during the consolidation phase
      (T/early SR, T/early non-SR, pB/early non-HR, pB/early HR) and 5 risk groups for
      post-consolidation therapy (T/non-HR, T/HR, pB/SR, pB/MR, pB/HR). Risk stratification is
      based on immunophenotypic lineage, genetics of leukemic cells and treatment response on the
      basis of cytomorphology and methods for detection minimal residual disease.

      The trial includes four randomized study questions testing experimental treatments on top of
      the risk-stratified standard chemotherapy backbone:

      Primary study questions:

      Randomization R-eHR: Early High-risk (early HR) pB-ALL defined by genetics and/or inadequate
      treatment response over the course of induction: Can the probability of event-free survival
      (pEFS) from time of randomization be improved by additional therapy with the proteasome
      inhibitor bortezomib during an extended consolidation treatment phase compared with standard
      extended consolidation?

      Randomization R-HR: High-risk (HR) pB-ALL defined by genetics and/or inadequate treatment
      response by the end of consolidation: Can the pEFS from time of randomization be improved by
      a treatment concept including two cycles of post-consolidation immunotherapy with
      blinatumomab (15 µg/m²/d for 28 days per cycle) plus 4 doses intrathecal Methotrexate
      replacing two conventional highly intensive chemotherapy courses?

      Randomization R-MR: Intermediate risk (MR) pB-ALL defined by genetics and intermediate MRD
      response: Can the probability of disease-free survival (pDFS) from time of randomization be
      improved by additional therapy with one cycle of post-reintensification immunotherapy with
      blinatumomab (15 µg/m²/d for 28 days)?

      Randomization R-T: Early non-standard risk (early non-SR) T-ALL patients defined by treatment
      response over the course of induction: Can the pEFS from time of randomization be improved by
      the extension of the standard of care consolidation phase by 14 days with an increase of the
      consolidation cumulative doses of Cyclophosphamide, Cytarabine and 6-Mercaptopurine by 50%?

      Secondary study questions:

      All randomizations: Can the overall survival be improved by the treatment in the experimental
      arm?

      All randomizations: What is the incidence of treatment-related toxicities and mortality in
      the experimental arm compared to the standard arm?

      Randomization R-eHR: Can the MRD load after consolidation treatment be reduced by the
      additional treatment with bortezomib?

      Randomization R-HR: Can treatment-related life-threatening complications and mortality during
      the intensified consolidation phase of high-risk treatment be reduced when replacing two
      intensive chemotherapy courses by two cycles of immunotherapy with blinatumomab?

      Randomization R-HR: What is the proportion of patients with insufficient MRD response to
      blinatumomab as defined in the protocol as compared to the MRD response after the HR-2' block
      in the control arm?

      Randomization R-HR: Can the MRD load after the first treatment cycle (HR 2'/blinatumomab) and
      the second cycle (HR-3'/blinatumomab) be reduced in the experimental arm when compared with
      conventional intensive chemotherapy? Randomization R-MR: What is the proportion of patients
      with positive MRD after reintensification Protocol II who become MRD-negative over the
      blinatumomab cycle compared to 4 weeks of standard maintenance therapy?

      Randomization R-T: Can the MRD load after consolidation treatment be reduced by extension of
      the consolidation phase?

      Standard-risk patients: Is the clinical outcome comparable to that obtained for standard-risk
      patients in study AIEOP-BFM ALL 2009?

      A small subgroup of patients at very high relapse risk is eligible for allogeneic
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation after the intensified consolidation therapy phase.

      Patients with T-ALL and hyperleukocytosis (>=100,000/µL) and patients with CNS involvement at
      diagnosis (CNS3 status) are eligible for cranial irradiation with 12 Gy if age at time of
      irradiation is at least 4 years.
    
  