
    
      Cognitive impairments are important determinants of functional outcome in schizophrenia,
      which are inadequately treated by antipsychotic medication. Neuroplasticity based
      computerized cognitive trainings have been emerging for the last two decades and are an
      attempt to help patients with their cognitive impairments and global functioning.

      The aim of this study is to perform a computerized cognitive training to improve attention,
      concentration, learning, clinical symptoms and quality of life in patients. The investigators
      are interested in testing the differential efficacy between a specific visual versus auditory
      computerized cognitive training and explore the biological markers that may be involved in
      these neuroplasticity based training processes.

      The investigators will conduct a 40 hours computerized, adaptable, perception specific,
      cognitive training program in patients with schizophrenia. Patients will come for 1 hour,
      daily, and perform a visual or auditory training, or control games for about 2 months. Visual
      and auditory exercises are chosen to be the equivalent of one another and target cognitive
      domains such as divided attention, working memory and social cognition. Clinical, cognitive,
      emotional and biomarker data will be collected before the training, half way through, and
      after the training, to assess progress in several aspects of their functioning and biology.

      The investigators hypothesize visual and auditory trainings will be effective as compared to
      the control games. They also expect that auditory training to be more efficient compared to
      the visual training because it targets sensory functions that are mostly impaired in
      schizophrenia, due to auditory hallucinations patients experience. The investigators also
      hypothesize that both trainings will improve clinical symptoms and quality of life. On a more
      exploratory analysis, the investigators expect to identify new biological markers of
      cognitive neuroplasticity, which they expect will differentiate visual and auditory paths.
    
  