
    
      DRC has one of the world's highest prevalences (frequencies) of Soil Transmitted Helminths
      (STH), a group of intestinal parasites that include Ascaris, Trichuris and hookworm, each of
      which can have significant impacts on the health and nutritional status of children.(1)(2)(3)
      In addition, hookworm, because of prevalence increases noted during adulthood in many
      countries and because of its relationship to significant intestinal blood loss, can also have
      a significant impact on the health and nutritional status of adults.

      Hookworm spreads easily in places without adequate control of feces; hookworm eggs are
      excreted in feces of infected people, transition to larvae, and usually enter the body
      through the skin on the bottom of the feet of other people who are not wearing footwear.

      Much of hookworm's health impact is mediated through intestinal blood loss as hookworms
      attach to the human intestinal wall and digest the hemoglobin in human red blood cells. That
      blood loss leads to - or exacerbates - iron deficiency and eventually to iron deficiency
      anemia (IDA). Because of menstrual blood losses, the large iron demands of pregnancy, and the
      often low iron content of their diets, many women of childbearing age are at risk of iron
      deficiency even without hookworm exposure. Any blood loss associated with hookworm infection
      would exacerbate a pre-existing iron deficiency.

      Iron deficiency with or without anemia has also been associated in several studies with lower
      aerobic work capacity. IDA can effect an individual's ability to perform economic generating
      tasks (work output) threaten one's livelihood and possibly food security. The World Health
      Organization (WHO) estimates an annual loss of 19.7 million disability-adjusted life years
      (1.3% of the global total) is due to IDA with high burden in Africa (25%), an area which can
      least afford it. The median annual economic loss due to IDA has been estimated at 4% of gross
      domestic product in 10 different developing countries.

      Albendazole and Mebendazole are anti-helminthic drugs that that can cure or reduce the
      severity (as measured by stool egg counts) of many hookworm infections. The major
      programmatic use of these drugs is in programs of school-based mass drug administration (MDA)
      as recommended treatment strategies have traditionally prioritized school-aged children.
      Large amounts of these drugs are now being provided without charge by their manufacturers,
      Merck and Johnson & Johnson respectively, and distributed through W.H.O. and ministries of
      health to support current goals of control of pediatric hookworm and other STH infections.

      Treatment of hookworm infected groups with Albendazole has been shown to result in an
      increase in hemoglobin levels and a related decrease in the prevalence of anemia. Increases
      in hemoglobin levels due to treatment have also been associated with significant gains in
      adult labor productivity as measured in Kenyan road construction workers (16) and in
      Bangladeshi women plantation tea pickers. However, the cure or amelioration of hookworm
      infection caused by these drugs is not permanent; re-infection can occur within weeks or
      months in heavily exposed people. Few studies have measured work productivity beyond 2-3
      months and minimal information is available for longer term treatment.

      This study is in response to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Grand Challenges
      Explorations RFP targeted specifically at "Labor Saving Strategies and Innovations for Women
      Smallholder Farmers." As hookworm in endemic areas is thought to be one of the primary causes
      of IDA and IDA is known to decrease work productivity, then subsistence farmers will ideally
      report improved productivity if hookworm is treated. Although the benefits of this proposed
      intervention are not directly targeted at that specific goal, i.e., are not intended to
      reduce the amount of necessary labor, the benefits of this intervention could lead indirectly
      to the same result(s) through an increase of women's ability to accomplish a fixed amount of
      work.

      The Democratic Republic of Congo is thought to be an appropriate location as it has one of
      the world's highest burdens of NTD disease with an estimated 31 million hookworm cases,
      second only to Nigeria for disease prevalence in Africa. The population is also particularly
      vulnerable as moderate to heavy hookworm infections has been associated with lower hemoglobin
      levels (in both children and adults) and thus with a greater risk of iron deficiency and
      anemia. DRC has also been identified by USAID as a country in need of urgent NTD disease
      surveillance and control activities. Information from this study will ideally extend
      understanding of this disease process and provide information regarding inclusion of
      anthelmintic treatment in maternal and other public health packages.

      Study Purpose The purpose of this study is to determine whether regular treatment of women
      smallholder farmers with the anti-hookworm drug Albendazole over a one-year period would have
      an impact on their work capacity and possible productivity as small farmers. The intention is
      to identify and enroll in an intervention study a group of women smallholder farmers who are
      not pregnant in their first trimester of pregnancy, are not acutely ill with malaria, and
      living in areas with poor sanitation and with endemic hookworm. Many of these women would
      presumably be iron deficient, at least in part due to the blood loss associated with hookworm
      infection.

      Study Aims

        1. To determine prevalence of hookworm infection in the Safe Motherhood cohort

        2. To determine the prevalence of anemia in the Safe Motherhood cohort

        3. To determine the change in Hemoglobin of female subsistence small farmers who have been
           treated with Albendazole and daily iron supplementation at 6 and 12 months.

        4. To determine the change in work tolerance as measured by the STEP test when female
           subsistence small farmers have been given Albenzazole and iron supplementation at 6 and
           12 months
    
  