
    
      Material and Methods Hypothesis The uncemented Echo® Bi-Metric® Full proximal Profile THA
      stem shows less migration and less bone loss of the periprosthetic bone compared to the
      uncemented Bi-Metric® Porous Primary THA stem.

      Operation All operations will be performed by 4 experienced hip surgeons from the Hip unit at
      the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Gentofte Hospital, Gentofte, Denmark. Each of the
      surgeons performs approximately 120 THA-operations a year.

      Surgery is performed according to a standard procedure with a postero-lateral approach and
      following the manufacturers' recommendations. During surgery a minimum of 4 Tantalum markers
      (0.8mm) are inserted in the bone of the proximal femur for defining the bone segment in the
      RSA analysis. All patients receive the same uncemented hemispheric acetabular cup (Exceed)
      with a highly cross-linked polyethylene liner. No local analgesic is injected. Physiotherapy
      begins on the day of surgery and the patients will be mobilized with full weight-bearing
      using crutches. All patients will get oral anticoagulants according to praxis of the
      department (Xarelto until discharge), and prophylactic antibiotics (Dicloxacillin, 2 g
      preoperatively and 1g x 2 postoperatively) during the first 24 hours.

      Research plan

        1. Clinical examination performed preoperatively and with follow-up after 1 and 2 years
           with evaluation of the hip function using the Harris Hip Score (HHS); HHS is a
           questionnaire in which the patients reveal their level of pain, function, mobility and
           range of motion.

        2. Conventional X-rays: To evaluate possible aseptic loosening, all patients will have a
           standardized full pelvic antero-posterior X-ray and a lateral X-ray with fixed
           magnification both preoperatively, postoperatively, at the 2 years follow-up visit and
           at the 5 years follow-up visit. Radiolucent lines at the bone-implant interface and
           evidence of osteolysis will be measured on both recordings. The standard Gruen zones
           will be used to record radiolucency surrounding the femoral component and the acetabular
           zones described by DeLee and Charnley will be used to record radiolucency surrounding
           the acetabular component. The apparent thickness of the radiolucency within these zones
           will be recorded. Evidence of osteolysis (radiolucency >2mm thickness) in the
           periprosthetic tissue of the acetabular or femoral component will be considered a
           failure.

        3. DXA analysis of the changes in BMD of the periprosthetic Gruen zones will be used to
           evaluate the adaptive bone remodeling after the implantation of the two different stems.
           DXA analysis will be performed preoperatively of the hip and proximal tibia as baseline,
           then again within the first postoperative week and subsequently at 3 months, 6 months, 1
           year, 2 years and 5 years. The precision of the BMD measurements of the proximal femur
           will be estimated from double measurements of patients (n=12) included in the study.

        4. MB-RSA measurements of migration of the femoral component. A MB-RSA system will be used;
           a technique in which the position of the prosthesis is assessed by matching a virtual
           projection of a 3D-model of the prosthesis to the actual radiographic projection. It
           does not require former times' special implants with attached markers. The patients will
           be x-rayed within the first postoperative week and subsequently at 3 months, 6 months, 1
           year, 2 years and 5 years using 2 fixed X-ray tubes with the patient in supine position
           and a uniplanar calibration cage will be used. The precision of the measurements of
           migration will be estimated from sets of double X-rays of patients (n=12) included in
           the study.

        5. Patient reported outcome measurements. It is planned also to ask the patients
           preoperatively and after 6, 12 and 24 months to do a patient-reported outcome
           measurement using the Oxford Hip Score (OHS).

        6. Long term follow-up. 5-year follow-up including all above mentioned parameters will be
           performed.

      Calculations of sample size Migration (RSA). Several published RSA studies are available but
      none evaluating an uncemented Bi-Metric stem including data for the most clinically relevant
      migration between 1 and 2 years. Quite a lot of RSA studies evaluating migration of both
      cemented and uncemented femoral stems have been published, but most investigators give the
      variability of their RSA results as total range or standard error of mean. We have decided
      for our sample size calculation to use the average standard deviation (SD) -for the migration
      after 2 years of follow-up from two previously published studies (including data from one
      uncemented (n=22) and two cemented stems (n=82), where clear information regarding SD was
      available in the publication.

      Investigators performed the calculation using the parameter MTPM two years postoperatively
      using:

      Type I error = 5% Type II error = 15 % MIREDIF = 0.6 mm SD = 0.69 mm Calculation resulted in
      a sample size of n = 23 in each group.

      Bone remodeling (DXA). The expected prospective decrease in BMD of the proximal femur after
      insertion of an uncemented THA is most pronounced in Gruen zones 1 and 7 with decreases of
      respectively 13-21% and 10-31%. In this study investigator intend to measure a significant
      difference (MIREDIF) in percentage changes in BMD between the two groups of 7.5%. Even though
      several studies evaluating prospective changes in BMD around a femoral stem have been
      published, investigator did not find a study with precise information of the SD of the
      percentages in BMD. Thus, investigator estimated a SD of the changes in BMD of 8% that could
      be used for calculating sample size in our study.

      Using:

      Type I error = 5% Type II error = 15% and MIREDIF = 7.5% SD = 8% Calculation resulted in a
      sample size of n = 20 in each group. Based upon the above sample size calculations for both
      RSA and DXA investigator have planned to include and randomize a total of: 60 patients.

      This will secure a high statistical power of the study (even if some of the participants
      should drop out during the study) that can be kept even if the study is continued beyond 2
      years of follow-up.

      Randomization Allocation to the Echo® Bi-Metric® group or control group (Bi-Metric® group) is
      performed on a random basis (block randomization with 10 in each block). Randomization is
      done on the day of surgery with a closed non-transparent envelope opened in the operation
      theatre when the patient is ready for surgery.

      Due to visual difference of the two prostheses, the surgeon and personnel present will know
      which of the prostheses the patient shall receive.

      Ethical considerations This investigation will be performed in accordance with the principles
      of the Helsinki Declaration, and all patients will receive both oral and written information
      before informed consent to participate is obtained. It will be the investigators job to
      inform all patients until they completely understand all aspects of participation. At any
      time being the patient will be able to cancel participation (also without any explanation) in
      this investigation. The patient will receive the best possible treatment in any circumstance.

      The study will not be started until approval from the Scientific Ethical Committee of the
      Capital Region of Denmark and the Danish Data Protection Agency has been obtained, and it
      will be registered at clinicaltrials.gov.

      We do not expect the patients participating in the study to experience any specific side
      effects or complications related directly to the use of the two orthopedic implants. A
      potential difference between the two prostheses is expected only to be measurable using very
      precise techniques such as DXA and RSA.

      Radiation dose to the patients from both RSA and DXA is low compared with conventional x-ray
      examinations. The total accumulated radiation dose to a patient participating in all
      examinations during the study is estimated to be approximately 0.1 mSv.

      Tantalum has been used for more than 50 years and is a very biocompatible material. Tantalum
      beads for RSA have been used especially in Sweden in several clinical studies for more than
      20 years. More than 20.000 beads have been implanted in more than 2.000 patients and no side
      effects from Tantalum beads have been observed.

      Risks and inconveniences There will always be risks associated with operation. This
      investigation will not add to the general risks of getting THA. Patients participating must
      accept some inconvenience in terms of additional examinations and hence transportation to and
      from the hospitals.

      Adverse events Adverse events are defined as any harmful and unwanted event, sign or symptom
      to occur in relation to this trial. All adverse events will be recorded in the CRF and will
      include details concerning the nature, onset, duration, severity, relationship to the device
      and relationship to the operative procedure and outcome. The affected patient(s) will be
      questioned about any adverse event(s) at each subsequent follow-up visit.

      Patients experiencing adverse events will be relevantly monitored by clinical assessment and
      lab examinations decided by the treating physician. All adverse events will be monitored
      until recovery or stabilization.

      Information and consent Patients who are planned to receive a THA (and fits within the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria of the study) at Gentofte Hospital will be informed about
      the trial in the preoperative interview. In addition to the oral information provided, the
      patients will be given written information. This conversation will take place in an enclosed
      space without distractions or interruptions. The patient will receive adequate verbal and
      written information about the purposes, processes, potential benefits and risks including
      possible side effects. Investigator will ensure all patients have read and understood the
      information and consent form. Patients will be informed that they are entitled to
      consideration before consent is given. The subjects will also be informed that it is
      voluntary and that they at any time may withdraw from the trial. It is the investigator's
      responsibility to ensure the above.

      There will be obtained written informed consent from all subjects before enrollment, and a
      copy of the information and consent form will be given to the subjects.

      Existing legislations made by the Scientific Ethical Committee regarding informed consent
      will be followed.

      Data protection All information will be kept confidential, and all data handled according the
      guidelines of the Danish Data Protection agency. The persons involved in this trial are
      obliged to professional secrecy. The investigator will maintain a list of identification of
      all enrolled patients. This list will contain the patients' full names and dates of birth
      (including social security numbers (CPR-numbers)).

      Collected data will be recorded in a case report form (CRF). CRFs and the medical records
      will be made available to third parties according to Danish law. Patients will be informed in
      writing that the results will be stored and analyzed in a computer which preserve patients'
      anonymity and that the local laws regarding personal data will be complied.

      Patients will also receive written information concerning the possibility of audit from the
      public authorities, and patients will be informed that the GCP unit of Copenhagen University
      Hospital likewise is granted access.

      Investigator ensures that the project will follow the rules of Good Clinical Practice.
    
  