
    
      Each participant will be required to attend the laboratory on three occasions. The first of
      these will be an initial screening/training visit, this will take place in the afternoon and
      last 2 1/2 hours in total. During the initial visit participants will be asked to provide
      written informed consent. They will provide lifestyle and demographic data and screened
      regards to physical health (height, weight, blood pressure, waist to hip ratio). They will
      then complete a food frequency questionnaire and be trained on the computerised cognitive and
      mood tasks. Participants will also be trained on completing the cognitive assessment battery
      on their mobile phone, they will complete a further 5 assessments on their phone, once the
      day before their first visit and every 7 days during the supplementation period.

      Study days 1 and 2 (4 weeks apart) :

      Participants will arrive at the laboratory at an agreed time in the morning (7am, 8.30am or
      10am) having fasted for 12 hours, avoided caffeinated products for 18 hours, alcohol and over
      the counter medication for 24 hours and oral antihistamines for 48 hours prior to the session
      commencing.

      Participants will provide a blood sample, they will then complete a short computerised
      cognitive assessment (~20 minutes in length), followed by measurements of blood pressure and
      heart rate. Following this the participants will consume their treatment for the day,
      followed by a 40 minute absorption period and then will complete the second cognitive
      assessment. Participants will then provide a second blood sample. At the end of the first
      study session participants will be provided with their treatment and treatment diary, they
      will be instructed to take one tablet twice a day (30 minutes after breakfast and dinner).
      Both study visits will be identical and will take place 29 days (+/- 2 days) apart.
    
  