
    
      Benefits of dopaminergic therapy and deep brain stimulation are limited for freezing of gait
      in Parkinson's syndrome. Spinal cord stimulation is a well-established therapy for the
      treatment of chronic neuropathic pain. Recently, some pilot studies demonstrated the safety
      and significant therapeutic effect of Spinal cord stimulation in freezing of gait patients
      suffering from various movement disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, primary progressive
      freezing of gait, and multiple system atrophy with predominant Parkinsonism. Spinal cord
      stimulation may be a new therapeutic approach for freezing of gait. However, evidence from
      larger numbers of subjects is still lacking, especially little is known about its efficacy
      for gait and posture dysfunction in Parkinsonism-Plus syndrome patients. The objective of
      this study is to investigate the therapeutic effect and safety of spinal cord stimulation for
      freezing of gait in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease and Parkinsonism-Plus
      syndrome.

      It's a multi-center, prospective, open label clinical study with a 12 months follow-up
      period. The intended study population is individuals suffering from advanced Parkinson's
      disease, multiple system atrophy with predominant parkinsonism or progressive supranuclear
      palsy. Each participant will complete an enrollment/screening/baseline visit, a spinal cord
      stimulation implant and activation visit, and a minimum of two follow-up visits, including
      visit at 3 months and the final study visit at 12months. The participants will proceed to
      implantation after satisfying implant inclusion and exclusion criteria. Paddle-shaped Spinal
      cord stimulation electrode with 16 contacts (AdaptiveStim® 39, 565; Medtronic, Minneapolis,
      USA) will be implanted into the epidural space at the thoracic levels ranging from T10 to
      T12. Electrode position will be verified by X-ray. The stimulators will be turned on within 1
      month after electrode implantation surgery. The stimulation parameters could vary freely, but
      medications will be kept constant during the study period. At the end of month 12,
      participants will enter the long-term follow-up in which medications and stimulation
      parameters could vary freely.
    
  