
    
      Nearly 50% of ovarian cancer survivors experience poor quality of life, fatigue, and anxiety
      after completing surgery and chemotherapy to treat their disease. Moreover, many ovarian
      cancer survivors become deconditioned during treatment; 40% report significant drops in
      activity during the year after diagnosis, and only 20% meet the recommended guidelines for
      physical activity.

      Interventional exercise studies are urgently needed to determine whether increasing physical
      activity improves outcomes in ovarian cancer survivors. In other cancers, physical activity
      improves quality of life and mental health, while reducing the risk of cancer recurrence and
      death. To date, however, most studies have focused on patients with curable breast and
      prostate cancers. The effects of physical activity on understudied populations, including
      ovarian cancer survivors, are unknown. Furthermore, although ovarian cancer survivors report
      an interest in participating in home-based walking programs, few formal programs exist.

      Stepping into Survivorship is a single-arm study designed to test the effectiveness of a
      wearable fitness tracker with a game-based mobile health intervention that leverages social
      support to increase physical activity in ovarian cancer survivors. At the start of the study
      all participants will track their daily step counts using a wearable fitness tracker (e.g.
      Fitbit) to determine how many steps they walk in an average day. Next, they will set an
      increased step-goal and receive daily, individualized feedback based upon their performance.

      Participants will also choose a team partner (i.e. family or friend) to receive a wearable
      fitness tracker and together they will track their steps, earning non-financial
      micro-incentives (e.g. points, levels, badges) when they achieve their collaborative goals.
      This game-based mobile health intervention is designed to enhance collaboration,
      accountability, peer support, and ultimately physical activity among ovarian cancer survivors
      and their friends/family members.

      This research is being done to improve participants' quality of life. The investigators hope
      that the use of wearable fitness trackers with a game-based mobile health intervention will
      help participants increase their physical activity and improve quality of life.
    
  