
    
      Children with cerebral palsy commonly receive ongoing physical and occupational therapy to
      facilitate development and to enhance functional independence in movement, self-care, play,
      school activities and leisure. The primary objective of this project is to conduct a
      multi-site clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of a context-focused approach in improving
      performance of functional tasks, mobility, participation in everyday activities and quality
      of life in 220 children 12 months to 5 years of age who have cerebral palsy. A randomized
      clinical trial research design will be used to examine the efficacy of the context-focused
      approach compared to a child-focused approach. 72 therapists in Ontario and Alberta will be
      randomly assigned to provide either context-focused or child-focused therapy. Therapists in
      both groups will participate in a training workshop and expert consultants will be available
      to support the therapists throughout the study. Children will receive either the
      context-focused or child-focused therapy intervention for a period of 6 months. Outcomes will
      be evaluated at baseline, after 6 months of treatment and at a 3-month follow-up period.
      Outcomes will be measured across the domains of the International Classification of
      Functioning, Disability and Health, including body function and structure (range of motion,
      spinal alignment), activities (performance of functional tasks, motor function),
      participation (involvement in formal and informal activities), and environment (parent
      perceptions of care, parental empowerment). The children's range of motion will also be
      evaluated by an independent, trained evaluator at baseline, 3, 6, and 9 months. We
      hypothesize that the context-focused approach will significantly improve activity and
      participation outcomes while leading to no significant decreases in body function and
      structure outcomes.
    
  