
    
      Patients with heart, lung, and blood disorders severe enough to require an intensive care
      unit (ICU) stay frequently experience profound physical, mental, and cognitive health
      impairments that may persist for months to years after hospital discharge. These long-term
      impairments are commonly acquired in the ICU and are often initiated or exacerbated by
      sedation, mechanical ventilation, and symptom management decisions. Indeed, ICU-acquired
      pain, anxiety, delirium, and weakness are associated with numerous adverse health outcomes
      including prolonged mechanical ventilation, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression,
      functional decline, new institutionalization, and severe neurocognitive impairment.
      Considering millions of adults face the challenges of ICU survivorship annually, it is
      essential findings from high-quality research are reliably adopted and sustained in everyday
      clinical practice.

      As outlined in "Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Pain, Agitation, and
      Delirium (PAD) in Adult Patients in the ICU," a robust and growing body of evidence
      demonstrates clinical outcomes are improved when integrated, interprofessional approaches to
      mechanical ventilation and symptom management are applied during the course of critical
      illness. One such approach is the ABCDEF bundle, an evidence-based, multicomponent strategy
      that incorporates many PAD guideline recommendations. While previously shown safe and
      effective when applied in routine ICU practice, the investigators preliminary data
      demonstrate that this bundle has yet to be widely adopted. Pain and delirium remain
      underdiagnosed, and ICU clinicians often fail to maintain patients at a light level of
      sedation, use a protocolized mechanical ventilation discontinuation approach, get patients
      out of bed, or accept flexible bedside family presence. There is, therefore, a clear need for
      studies that use validated implementation frameworks and outcomes to assess strategies for
      improving ABCDEF bundle adoption and the removal of long-held and potentially harmful ICU
      practices.

      In the proposed study, the investigators will continue their three-year partnership with the
      Society of Critical Care Medicine's ICU Liberation Collaborative, a national quality
      improvement (QI) network comprised of 68 ICUs. Guided by the Consolidated Framework for
      Implementation Research, the overall objective of this T4 research is to develop multilevel
      implementation strategies to enhance sustainable adoption of the ABCDEF bundle in routine ICU
      practice. The investigators are particularly interested in discovering how various patient-,
      provider-, and organization-level characteristics and implementation strategies effect ABCDEF
      bundle adoption. Using a multiphase, sequential, mixed-methods design the "Determinants of
      Implementation Success Coordinating Ventilator, Early Ambulation and Rehabilitation Efforts
      in the ICU (DISCOVER-ICU)" study has three specific aims:

      Aim 1: Estimate the effects of patient-level characteristics on ABCDEF bundle adoption.
      Patient-level characteristics are defined as non-modifiable factors exhibited by critically
      ill adults at ICU admission that may influence ABCDEF bundle adoption. Existing data on ≥
      15,000 critically ill adults who spent at least one full day in a participating ICU
      Liberation Collaborative unit will be used to estimate the effects of: (1) demographics, (2)
      body mass index, (3) admitting diagnosis, (4) severity of illness, and (5) preadmission
      residence/mobility status on ABCDEF bundle adoption. The hypothesis is that the ABCDEF bundle
      will less likely be adopted into the care of particularly vulnerable populations (e.g., older
      adults, obese, non-English speaking).

      Aim 2: Examine unit-level variation in ABCDEF bundle adoption and associated provider- and
      organization-level characteristics. Existing data will be obtained from surveys of over 5,000
      interprofessional ICU team members and 68 hospitals participating in the ICU Liberation
      Collaborative. Provider-level characteristics are defined as ICU clinicians': (1) ABCDEF
      bundle-related knowledge and attitudes, (2) self-efficacy, and (3) perceptions of work
      environment (both overall health and degree of teamwork/collaboration). Organization-level
      characteristics are defined as those related to: (1) administrative structure, (2) staffing
      patterns, (3) ICU team composition, and (4) prior QI experience. The hypothesis is that
      ABCDEF bundle adoption will be greater in ICUs where providers value and are more familiar
      with the principles of the bundle, display higher levels of self-efficacy, and report more
      positive teamwork. Secondly, there will be better bundle adoption in organizations with
      greater absorptive capacity for change, more resources, and who use interprofessional ICU
      team models.

      Aim 3: Determine which implementation strategies result in the greatest adoption of the
      ABCDEF bundle. Data collection will be extended by using interprofessional ICU team surveys,
      a modified Delphi process, and concept mapping to achieve greater understanding of
      implementation strategies that prove most effective for ABCDEF bundle adoption. The focus on
      high- and low-ABCDEF bundle-performing units will allow the investigative team to select and
      tailor potential ABCDEF bundle implementation strategies to meet specific local contextual
      needs.

      With expertise in dissemination and implementation science, biostatistics, critical care, and
      QI, the interdisciplinary team investigative is ideally prepared to lead this three-year
      study. The results will directly lead to the development of implementation strategies that
      are adaptable, responsive to community needs, and account for the cultural and organizational
      factors necessary to increase ABCDEF bundle adoption. These implementation strategies will
      then be tested in a future cluster randomized hybrid II implementation-effectiveness trial.
    
  