
    
      Purpose/Objectives The EMPA-REG OUTCOME (NCT01131676) trial demonstrated that SGLT2
      (sodium-glucose co-transporter) inhibition with empagliflozin markedly reduced cardiovascular
      (CV) mortality and hospitalization for heart failure. In diabetic patients treated with SGLT2
      inhibitors, a rise in plasma ketone concentration consistently has been observed. This has
      led to the "ketone hypothesis" in which a shift from glucose/FFA (Free Fatty Acids) to ketone
      utilization by the heart results in enhanced left ventricular systolic/diastolic function and
      could, at least in part, explain the reduction in CV mortality and hospitalization for heart
      failure observed in the EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial.

      Methods 36 type 2 diabetic subjects with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class II-III heart
      failure and ejection fraction less than 50% will be studied. Eligible subjects will undergo a
      baseline cardiac MRI to obtain quantitative measures of baseline cardiac functional
      parameters: chamber volumes and pressures, wall thickness, LV diastolic function (E/A ratio,
      peak LV filling rate, diastolic volume), LV systolic function (cardiac output, stroke volume,
      systolic volume, peak LV ejection rate). Baseline samples will be drawn for measurement of
      N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) , B-OH-butyrate, acetoacetate, glucose,
      FFA, lactate, pyruvate, glycerol, HCO3 (bicarbonate), insulin, glucagon, renin and
      aldosterone. Following completion of the baseline MRI and blood samples, subjects will be
      divided into three groups (12 subjects per group). Each group will receive a 6-hour (3-hour
      in group III) prime-continuous infusion of racemic B-OH-B (100 mg/mL solution; pH adjusted to
      7.4) to increase the plasma B-OH-B concentration by ~0.5, ~2.0, and ~5.0 mmol/L. At the end
      of the infusion the MRI will be repeated. As a time control GROUP II subjects will receive a
      continuous infusion of sodium bicarbonate (0.12 M) for 6 hours (0.08 mg/kg/min) to mimic the
      rise in plasma bicarbonate concentration observed with B-OH-B infusion. Group II will return
      again to the RII (UT Health Research Imaging Institute) on a separate day for a cardiac
      positron emission tomography (PET) study to examine the effect of hyperketonemia on
      myocardial glucose uptake and blood flow. In ~14 days subjects will return for a repeat
      PET/18F-2-DOG (deoxyglucose) study with one exception: NaHCO3 (Sodium bicarbonate) will be
      infused instead of B-OH-B. The two studies will be performed in random order.
    
  