
    
      Chronic central serous chorioretinopathy (cCSC) is a relatively frequently occurring eye
      disease that is often diagnosed in patients in the professionally active age range. In this
      disease, a subretinal fluid accumulation occurs, due to abnormalities in both the choroid and
      the retinal pigment epithelium. This specific form of macular degeneration can cause
      permanent vision loss, image distortion, and loss of color and contrast vision. An early
      diagnosis and treatment may improve the visual outcome and quality of life.

      To date there is no international consensus on the optimal treatment of cCSC. Many
      retrospective studies suggest that treatment with photodynamic therapy (PDT) is effective in
      chronic CSC. Treatment with oral eplerenone may also be effective in this disease.

      In this proposed prospective randomized controlled trial, cCSC patients will be randomized
      into one of both treatment groups: either half-dose PDT or oral eplerenone treatment. The
      trial is a superiority study, because retrospective studies suggest that PDT treatment may be
      more effective than eplerenone treatment.

      The null hypothesis of the study is that PDT treatment is more effective than eplerenone
      treatment in patients with active cCSC. The alternative hypothesis is that PDT treatment is
      not superior to eplerenone treatment.

      Treatment success will not only be based on characteristics on ophthalmological imaging, but
      also on functional endpoints (both on the outcome of questionnaires, best-corrected visual
      acuity, and microperimetry), which are most important from a patient's perspective.

      The study will take place in 3 large tertiary referral university hospitals in The
      Netherlands that have extensive experience with conducting clinical trials (Academic Medical
      Center (Amsterdam, the Netherlands), Radboud University Medical Center (Nijmegen, the
      Netherlands), and Leiden University Medical Center (Leiden, the Netherlands). Both the
      Radboud University Medical Center and the Leiden University Medical Center have been involved
      in the first prospective randomized controlled trial that is currently conducted in cCSC.

      This study will last 2 years per participant. Each participant will visit the outpatient
      clinic for a maximum number of 6 visits, depending on the outcome of treatment. Study
      evaluations will be mostly part of regular clinical care.

      A total number of 107 patients will be included in the trial. Depending on the speed of
      inclusion of patients in this trial, the total duration of this study can be determined.
    
  