
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of pyrazoloacridine plus carboplatin in patients with
      recurrent glioma.

      II. Determine the toxic effects of this treatment regimen in these patients. III. Determine
      the safety of this treatment regimen at the recommended phase II dose in patients not
      receiving anticonvulsants.

      IV. Determine the efficacy of this treatment regimen in these patients. V. Assess the
      pharmacokinetics and metabolism of pyrazoloacridine in these patients.

      VI. Assess the response rate, time to progression, and time to death in patients treated with
      this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a three-part, dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients in study 3 are
      stratified according to concurrent anticonvulsants (yes vs no).

      STUDY 1: (Study 1 closed as of 03/29/02) Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes and
      pyrazoloacridine IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment continues every 28 days in the absence
      of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of carboplatin and pyrazoloacridine until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      STUDY 2: (Study 2 closed as of 03/29/02) Patients receive the same treatment as given in
      study 1. Dose escalation is performed as in study 1 to determine the MTD in patients not
      receiving concurrent anticonvulsants.

      STUDY 3: Patients receive the same treatment as given in studies 1 and 2 without dose
      escalation.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL:

      Study 1: A total of 3-21 patients will be accrued for this study within 6-20 months.

      Study 2: A total of 3-12 patients will be accrued for this study within 3-18 months.

      Study 3: A total of 12-37 patients will be accrued for this study within 15 months.
    
  