
    
      Diabetes is one of the leading causes of blindness in North America. Diabetic retinopathy
      (PDR) is characterized by disruption of the normal microvascular circulation in the retina
      and results in the production of neovascularization and increased microvascular permeability.
      Similarly, clinically significant diabetic macular edema CSDME) results in loss of central
      visual acuity.

      Many patients with these conditions, despite treatment, will go on to develop vitreous
      hemorrhage or tractional changes that require surgical intervention (such)as vitrectomy
      and/or vitrectomy with membrane peeling in the attempt to both restore vision and prevent
      further visual loss or re-establish the normal macular anatomy and improve patient visual
      acuity.

      Although multiple etiologic factors are involved in the early changes seen in diabetic
      retinopathy and maculopathy, it has been shown that VEGF is the primary angiogenic growth
      factor implicated in the development of neovascularization in PRD and in increased vascular
      permeability, resulting in CSDME. VEGF levels have been found to correlate tightly with the
      extent of diabetic retinopathy and introduction of VEGF into normal primate eyes can induce
      diabetic retinopathy. Although several isoforms of VEGF exist, isoform 165 (VEGF 165) is the
      most pathogenic form of VEGF and therefore inhibition of VEGF 165 may play a significant role
      in modulating diabetic retinopathy and maculopathy.

      Macugen is a VEGF antagonist (anti-VEGF pegylated aptamer) which binds to VEGF 165 with high
      specificity and affinity. In vitro pharmacology studies have shown that Macugen binds to the
      amino acid isoform VEGF 165 and inhibits it from binding to its cellular receptors. As a
      consequence, Macugen blocks signalling events and disrupts the cascade of proliferative and
      vascular permeability responses associated with the binding of VEGF 165 to endothelial cells.
      This effect has been clearly proven in Phase 3 trials for patients with age-related macular
      degeneration (AMD), resulting in inhibition of vascular development and decrease in vascular
      leakage.

      Although diabetic retinopathy represents a different challenge than AMD, the underlying
      pathogenic factors are similar in the role and effects of VEGF. Regression of retinal
      neovascularization after Macugen therapy in diabetic individuals has been shown. Phase 2
      studies have been completed and Phase 3 studies are currently underway in patients with
      diabetic macular edema to evaluate the efficacy of Macugen to restore vision in patients with
      CSDME. These studies are ongoing but exclude patients in whom vitrectomy has been performed
      or is planned in the near future due to tractional effects on the macula from epiretinal
      membranes or vitreomacular traction syndrome. No studies have been done to date in patients
      with PDR or CSDME to quantify the reduction of intravitreal VEGF 165 levels in these patients
      following intravitreal Macugen injection or to evaluate the effects of VEGF 165 blockade on
      the neovascular regression and surgical outcome in patients with extensive diabetic
      proliferative neovascularization.

      The goal of this study is to quantify the reduction of intravitreal VEGF 165 levels in
      patients following intravitreal Macugen injection pre-operatively and determine the level of
      Macugen in the vitreous cavity after variable time intervals (2,4, 6 or 8 weeks).
    
  