
    
      The study population will be identified through patients attending one of 100 family
      physicians under seven different family health teams (FHTs) in the Southwestern Ontario.

      Study Design: A parallel cluster randomized trial design has been chosen comparing the
      intervention arm (patients entered on the IDM) to the control arm (patients receiving usual
      care). A multi-level study design is proposed, level 3 the FHT, level 2 the physician and
      level 1 the HF patient. We have chosen to randomize at level 2, the physician and implement
      the intervention at both level 2 and 1, the physician and the individual. Outcomes will be
      measured at individual level. Stratified randomization of physicians will be performed by
      FHT, giving greater balance between arms and increased power and precision by reduction of
      between cluster variability.

      Recruitment: Physicians from the FHTs will be invited to participate and informed consent
      will be obtained. The physician will be randomized to either the control or intervention
      group and randomization will be computer generated by FHT strata. Allocation for overall
      study will be 1:1 as will allocation by FHT with an even number of physicians. If FHT's have
      an uneven number of physician's random allocation of the 'extras' will be 1:1. Each
      participating physician will identify all individuals with a HF diagnosis in their care
      suitable for the trial and a simple random sample will be taken from this group to obtain the
      desired cluster size. The physician will not be informed of group allocation until after the
      participants have been identified. An initial visit will be arranged with the patient to
      discuss study details, obtain informed consent, further determine eligibility, collect
      baseline data and heart failure history and complete questionnaires.

      Data management: As a part of the objectives of this study a POSS electronic tool has been
      developed, all data collected about the participants will be entered by heart failure
      educators and stored in a central server. Access is restricted to authorized personnel only.
      The POSS has been designed not only as a secure storage depot but also as a tool to
      standardize the data collected minimizing information bias. There is extensive data checking
      at the time of data entry. Data definitions are incorporated to support quality data inputs.

      Sample Size: With a minimum recruitment of 50 physicians recruited and 4 participants per
      physician, this study would be powered to detect a minimum 36% reduction in the rate of
      number of hospitalizations or ED visits per person year with an attrition rate of 20%. This
      calculation is based on 80% power to 5% significance with an ICC of 0.05.

      Statistical Analysis: Analysis will be on an intention to treat basis. Baseline data will be
      used to characterize the study population, to identify any imbalances between arms.
      Continuous data will be displayed as mean ±standard deviation and count (percent) for
      categorical variables (variables to be presented will be predetermined in an analysis plan).
      Due to over dispersion that occurs in this type of count data the primary outcome will be
      analyzed using a negative binomial distribution with random effects to account for clustering
      and for individuals experiencing multiple events. The results will be presented as rate
      ratios. The secondary outcome (change in KCCQ at 6 months) will be analyzed at individual
      level using logistic regression, results will be presented as odds ratios. Reliability will
      be assessed by using a quadrature check and in the event of failure a generalizing estimating
      equation (GEE) model will be fitted. Quantitative outcomes will be analyzed using a mixed
      effects linear regression model, including both fixed and random effects. Mortality rates
      (all-cause and cardiovascular) and health-service utilization rates will be modelled using
      Cox regression with random effects.
    
  