
    
      To date, there is no data on the impact of topical treatments in skin microbiome and in
      innate cells in psoriasis lesions. However, topical treatments remain in most cases the first
      and the more widely used option for mild psoriasis which represent the more prevalent form of
      psoriasis. Thus, it appears of great interest to assess the effect of topical psoriasis
      treatments on skin microbiome. To this respect, topical steroids by their action both on the
      inflammation but also potentially on bacteria are suspected to induce potent changes in the
      microbiome in treated psoriasis lesions. calcipotriol has been demonstrated to have a
      beneficial effect on psoriasis thanks to its action on keratinocyte differentiation and its
      combination with topical steroids has been shown to be superior in treating psoriasis as
      compared to topical steroids alone. It could be hypothesized that calcipotriol could also
      modify the skin microbiome.

      The main objective of this study intra individual prospective study is to compare the
      respective effect of betamethasone associated with calcipotriol foam and placebo foam in one
      hand and betamethasone with calcipotriol foam to betamethasone ointment on the other hand, on
      skin microbiome after 4 weeks of treatments on knee or elbow lesions.

      Secondary objectives are to study the impact of the treatments on ILCs (numbers and relative
      proportion in the 3 types) and NK in the lesions and their potential correlation with the
      modification of the microbiome (of note ILC can be detected and characterized in situ in
      skin.) To compare the relative effectiveness of the two products on targets psoriasis
      lesions. Tolerance and potential side effects will be also studied.

      Main endpoint: quantitative and qualitative assessment of microbes on psoriasis lesions
      before and after the treatments compared to surrounding healthy skin control.

      Secondary endpoints: Presence and types of ILCs and NK in the lesional psoriatic skin before
      and after treatment compared with control healthy skin assessed using
      immunohistofluorescence. Targeted PASI or PGA (physician Global Assessment) for the efficacy.
      Potential side effects.

      Patients: 30 with mild psoriasis (PASI <10) affecting elbows and knees in a symmetrical
      manner aged of at least 18.
    
  