
    
      The scientific literature is replete with evidence that the demands and pace of providing
      healthcare is associated with high levels of stress, anxiety, burnout, diminished work
      engagement, and frequent absence. For example, Actionmarguerite is one of the largest
      personal care facilities in Western Canada. They have over 500 employees who routinely deal
      with the task of providing care to a large population of individuals requiring high levels of
      support. A great many of the residents are suffering progressive dementia and some have very
      difficult behavioural issues. Caretaker stress is exacerbated by the fact that even the
      highest, most compassionate levels of care are not likely to result in improvement. The
      employee population is, therefore, taxed such that one might expect to observe a high level
      of stress-related illness and accidents. An internal examination of the employee database has
      identified an interesting circumstance. Approximately fifty of the employees have patterns of
      persistent, recurring injury, show signs of stress/caretaker stress, depletion, and
      preoccupation. This group has also largely exhausted their sick leave benefits. Clearly, the
      medical treatments and the time away from work have not cured the underlying predisposition
      for accidental injury and illness for these individuals. Such may be the case for employees
      of other healthcare facilities in Canada and elsewhere.

      The question has arisen whether Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) as an option
      available for frequently absent employees would alter the pattern of recurrence and reduce
      stress. MBSR is a program initially developed at the University of Massachusetts Medical
      Centre as a means of reducing the chronic stress of patients experiencing high levels of
      disabling, chronic physical pain. Scientific evaluation of the program demonstrated
      significant success. Importantly, MBSR training has been shown to reduce stress and anxiety
      and promote psychological well-being, both for individuals in the general population and for
      healthcare workers in particular. Indeed, our own work has demonstrated that MBSR resulted in
      a very substantial and statistically significant reduction of stress in a diverse group of
      individuals employed in healthcare.

      The purpose of the present research is to examine the efficacy of a program of MBSR to
      interrupt the existing pattern of recurrent work-related accidents, injuries, and illness;
      and also, to promote both psychological and physical well-being and to allow a more
      meaningful and successful return to work. We intend to recruit four groups of thirty
      participants from two local healthcare institutions (Actionmarguerite and St. Amant). Each
      group will consist of (a) fifteen individuals identified by the respective institutions as
      frequently-absent employees, and (b) fifteen individuals who express interest in
      participation and are randomly selected from the general population of healthcare employees
      at the two institutions to serve as statistical controls. All participants will receive an
      intervention of MBSR training. They will complete a survey battery both pre- and post-
      intervention and provide access to their work histories. We hope to establish that MBSR can
      be an extremely useful component of a program intended to reverse patterns of frequent
      absence.
    
  