
    
      Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group clinical study with 3 active
      dose arms (Rivelin®-CLO patches) and one placebo arm (Rivelin® plain patch). Up to 6 Rivelin®
      patches will be applied to symptomatic ulcerative and symptomatic erythematous OLP lesions.

      After screening (visit 1, day -14 to day -7), patients who have signed the informed consent
      form and who are fulfilling the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be
      randomized at baseline (visit 2, day 1) to one of the four treatment arms in a double-blinded
      fashion.

        -  Arm A: Rivelin® plain patch (Placebo)

        -  Arm B: Rivelin®-CLO 1 μg/patch

        -  Arm C: Rivelin®-CLO 5 μg/patch

        -  Arm D: Rivelin®-CLO 20 μg/patch Randomization will be 1:1:1:1 and patients will be
           stratified according to number of patches needed (1-3 and 4-6).

      The screening phase ranges between 7 and 14 days, i.e. that the screening visit (visit 1)
      needs to be performed 7 days prior to baseline at latest. For visits 3 (day 8), 4 (day 15), 5
      (day 22), and 6 (day 29) a visit window of +/- 2 days will be allowed. Visit 7 will be
      defined as visit 6 + 14 days, with a visit window of +/- 3 days.

      Randomized patients will enter a 28-days (4-weeks) treatment period. Dosing is two times per
      day (morning and evening) with patches applied directly on OLP lesions as instructed by a
      clinician or delegated site staff. Patients will record symptoms and adhesion time in daily
      diaries by using an electronic diary (eDiary).

      During the treatment period, the treating physician or dentist will perform an assessment of
      the disease status on a weekly basis. A final examination of disease status will be performed
      at the follow-up visit (visit 7), 14 days after the end of treatment.

      Other treatments of symptomatic OLP lesions during the study are prohibited. Only rescue
      analgesics determined by the investigator at study entry on a patient specific basis are
      allowed to be taken, in case that OLP associated symptoms like pain cannot be managed by the
      sole use of the patches. All doses of rescue analgesics will be recorded by the patient in
      the eDiary.

      If the patients' condition is worsening (at the discretion of the investigator) and if
      associated symptoms cannot longer be managed acceptably by the additional use of rescue
      analgesics, i.e. if there is the need to start any other OLP treatment, IMP treatment for
      that patient should be discontinued prematurely and patient should be withdrawn from the
      study.

      At visit 3 (day 8), a blood sample will be drawn to measure the blood plasma concentration of
      clobetasol and to determine the morning serum cortisol level (between 7 and 9 AM).

      All patients will have a follow-up visit that will be performed 2 weeks after the EoT/ET
      visit (visit 6).

      Safety data (by means of AE documentation including fungal infections and SAE reporting) will
      be closely monitored by an independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). DSMB will
      advise the Sponsor of any potential risk for the safeguard of patients.
    
  