
    
      1. We will recruit the patients who meet the criteria for ADHD outlined in the DSM-IV. The
           diagnosis will be made by a child psychiatrist in a structured interview using the
           Kiddie Epidemiologic Version of the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia
           (K-SADS-E ).

        2. The variables of questionnaire from interview include the personal data as below: Age,
           gender, family background, the significant pressure on growth, positions and incomes of
           parents, and the process of mother's pregnant.

        3. For genotyping analysis, DNA of patients and their biological parents will be collected
           using cheek swab to collect oral mucosal cells, then put it in the refrigerator at-80°C.
           The genotyping of STS gene, SULT2A1 gene, TH gene and NR3C1 gene will be identified.

        4. The saliva of patients with ADHD will be collected by passive drool method at 7:00-8:00
           in the morning. The saliva specimen which use to analysis endocrine substance
           concentration should be placed at - 80 ° C freezer as soon as possible.

        5. The psychiatrist or psychologist will rate patients' symptom severity of the case. The
           parents of the patients have to fill in the ASRS, SNAP-IV(parent form) and CBCL. The
           teacher of the case has to fill in the SNAP-IV(teacher form) and TRF. The patients were
           administered the computerized CPT in a room dedicated to the testing to minimize the
           variability of the test conditions.

        6. After the initial assessment, patients with ADHD will begin to receive methylphenidate
           (MPH) treatment. Patient care was left to the discretion of the psychiatrists, who were
           given no treatment instructions and simply encouraged to manage their patients according
           to usual practice. Dosage and drug form can be adjust through the height and weight of
           the case and his/her clinical needs. The times and frequency of track back should be
           reference the clinical needs, patients and their parents' willingness. During the
           follow-up, non-drug therapy. (e.g. Behavioral therapy, Sensory integration therapy) will
           not be restricted. If the patients whose condition needs to be treated with drugs other
           than MPH, the tests must be discontinued.

        7. After four weeks, we will assess the short-term efficacy symptoms and cognitive function
           of the patients. Patients will be saked to collect saliva at 7:00-8:00 in the morning¸
           after that, to analysis endocrine substance concentration. The behavioral and
           neurocognitive assessment will be performed using CGI-S、SNAP-IV(parent form),
           SNAP-IV(teacher form), CBCL, TRF and CPT.

        8. At week 52, we will assess the long-term efficacy of the cases the symptoms and
           cognitive function in the first 52 weeks. We will collect the saliva sampe of ADHD
           patients at 7:00-8:00 in the morning. The behavioral and neurocognitive assessment will
           be performed using CGI-S、SNAP-IV(parent form), SNAP-IV(teacher form), CBCL, TRF, CPT and
           WISC-IV.

           Finally, in K-SADS-E interviews to assess whether the patient is still meet the ADHD
           diagnostic criteria of DSM-IV-TR.

        9. Saliva sample will be collected into collecting tubes and stored in the refrigerator
           at-80°C. The salivary levels of DHEA, DHREA-S, cortisol and testosterone will be
           determined using ELISA kits.
    
  