
    
      When cure is not longer possible, cancer patients enter the palliative phase. For many types
      of cancer several treatment options are available. The goal of this treatment is to prolong
      survival, but maintenance or even improvement of quality of life is of equal importance. The
      currently available systemic treatment options consist of conventional cytotoxic therapy,
      hormonal therapy, immunotherapy and the so-called targeted therapies. Combinations of these
      therapies are also being used. Targeted therapy concerns the application of a new class of
      drugs that are specifically directed against one or more well-defined molecular targets that
      are relevant for carcinogenesis, cell cycle regulation, tumour progression, metastasis,
      tumour angiogenesis and/or apoptosis. Today, the most successful drugs in this class are
      directed against the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and the epidermal growth
      factor receptor (EGFR). There is an explosive development ongoing in this field and many new
      drugs become available that have new targets or inhibit a combinations of targets. Meanwhile,
      targeted therapy has shown efficacy in many types of cancer and is registered for several
      indications. The toxicity profile of targeted therapies is still largely unknown, and the
      aetiology of many known side effects has not been clarified. At the moment, three targeted
      therapies that are directed against VEGF are registered and used in the Netherlands:
      Sunitinib (Sutent®) and Sorafenib (Nexavar ®) both oral drugs and Bevacizumab (Avastin®), an
      intravenously drug. Clinical experience and some mouse studies show that targeted therapies
      could have a negative effect on the immune response. This can be of great influence on
      patients who are treated with this type of drug.

      Especially because these drug will be used chronically and sometimes for years and infections
      can have a large influence on the health and quality of life of these patients.
    
  