
    
      The proposed study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and innate immune mechanisms
      activation following administration of the combination of Pegylated Interferon alpha 2b
      (peg-IFN-α2b) with two broadly neutralizing antibodies (3BNC117 and 10-1074) in the setting
      of well controlled HIV infection with antiretroviral treatment and a monitored analytical
      treatment interruption. This proposal builds on previous experience using interferon alpha,
      3BNC117 and 10-1074 alone in separate clinical trials that included a closely monitored
      analytical treatment interruption. The hypothesis is that the joint administration of
      peg-IFN-α2b with 3BNC117 and 10-1074 will be more effective than either intervention
      separately in suppressing HIV viremia during 8 weeks of analytical treatment interruption
      (Step 4) and reducing integrated HIV DNA in blood and tissue when measured during an
      analytical treatment interruption in participants with well-controlled HIV infection. A
      review of the conceptual framework for the strategy to be tested includes:

        -  Why peg-IFN-α2? The therapeutic effects of peg-IFN-α2 yield two essential outcomes that
           are the fundamental objectives of HIV curative strategies: control viral replication in
           the absence of ART and reduce the levels of integrated HIV DNA in CD4+ T-cells. To date,
           peg-IFN-α is the only intervention that has been shown to maintain viral suppression to
           levels <50 copies/mL in the absence of ART in chronic infection. Preliminary data
           supports that correlates of anti-HIV reductions are centered on activation of NK
           responses.

        -  Why bNAbs + peg-IFN-α2b? The addition of bNAbs may act independently to control virus
           replication or decrease fitness thereby increasing the potential for a larger antiviral
           effect after IFN by enhance NK-mediated clearance via a reduced viral levels and the
           complementarity of bNAbs in enhancing mechanisms of antibody-mediated cytotoxicity
           against infected cells by binding to virus emerging from or viral proteins expressed on
           activated latent cells.

        -  Why combined bNAbs? In vivo, multiple bNAbs targeting different epitopes provide better
           neutralization and antigen recognition than single bNAbs, which suggests that adoptive
           transfer of multiple bNAbs may lead to superior viral control. Although bNAbs may have
           neutralization effects that are of greater clinical impact than ADCC, it is possible
           that antigen targeting through multiple bNAbs may also enhance NK-mediated cytotoxicity
           more than a single bNAb. The administration of broadly neutralizing antibodies alone in
           the setting of an analytical treatment interruption delays the return of viremia in a
           fraction of the participants.

        -  Why test an ATI of immunotherapy? To date, peg-IFN-α2 administered prior to an ATI or
           ART and subsequently maintained throughout the ATI period has maintained viral
           suppression. An effective curative strategy requires that all interventions be
           discontinued.
    
  