
    
      Double-blind randomized controlled trial

      Patient recruitment

      Patients registered in the Electronic Medical Record (EMR) system of the Family Medicine
      Centre of Queen's University with a confirmed diagnosis of tennis elbow (lateral
      epicondylitis) in the 12-month period from 1st March 2008 to 31st March 2009, are recruited
      and studied. An internal email plus paper memo will be circulated to all other Family
      Physicians in the Centre, requesting their participation in the study. Patients are then
      selected randomly from the pool.

      Entry/Randomization Procedure

      All eligible patients enrolled in the study centre will be entered into a patient
      registration log. This will automatically provide a serial number for that patient that
      should be used for all documentation and correspondence about this patient. All
      randomizations will be done centrally by the administrator at the CSPC.

      Randomization

      A total of 116 patients will be randomized into two equal arms of 58 patients in each. Arm 1
      is the trial arm and Arm 2 is the control arm.

      Treatment

      Arm 1: Patients will be given a four-week course of TDP© Heat-lamp. The heat-lamp will be
      targeted to the pain site on the elbow. Each treatment will take about 30 minutes.

      Arm 2: Patients will be given a four-week course of TDP© Heat-lamp using a dummy TDP©
      Heat-lamp. A dummy heat-lamp is a modified version of the TDP© Heat-lamp without the intended
      therapeutic effects. The dummy heat-lamp will be targeted to the pain site on the elbow. Each
      treatment will take about 30 minutes.

      Allocation of Treatment

      Treatment is executed by staff nurses at the Centre. The staff nurse will be blinded to the
      coding of the TDP© Heat-lamps, and will operate the lamp for 30 minutes at a specified
      distance of 20cm from the surface of the affected limb of each patient.

      During the course of treatment, patients will be advised not to use any other means of
      analgesia. If they do, it must be recorded in a patient diary provided to them for use during
      the study. Patients that have taken oral medication may be considered to be inadmissible
      subjects during the final analysis.

      Dose Adjustment

      There is no dose adjustment permitted. During the treatment, patients will be regularly
      monitored for the development of any undue discomfort. If discomfort is experienced by a
      patient, treatment will be terminated immediately.
    
  