
    
      BACKGROUND

      Metabolic Disease and Obesity

      Obesity is one of the most common chronic diseases in America and is strongly associated with
      additional metabolic disorders, in particular hypertension, dyslipidemia and insulin
      resistance. The combination of obesity with this cluster of metabolic disorders increases
      risk for cardiovascular disease and is widely recognized by the term Metabolic Syndrome.

      According to the Centers for Disease Control, in 2017-2018 the "prevalence of severe obesity
      among U.S. adults was 9.2%", the "age-adjusted prevalence of obesity in adults was 42.4%",
      and the prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MS) in the obese population is higher than 60%. The
      economic impact of metabolic syndrome is significant, with risk factors for MS shown to
      increase a person's annual healthcare costs by more than $2000.

      Efforts to treat obesity and obesity-associated metabolic disease currently include medical
      management and surgical intervention. Success rates with surgical interventions exceed those
      of medical management but are dependent on patients making permanent changes in eating
      behaviors.

      Commonly accepted surgical procedures have several mechanisms of action. These include
      decreased stomach volume restricting a patient's ability to eat, intestinal bypass resulting
      in significant malabsorption, and alterations in hormonal control of appetite and satiety.
      Standardized surgical procedures include Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy (VSG), Roux-en-Y Gastric
      Bypass (GBP), Laparoscopic Gastric Banding (LB) and Biliopancreatic Diversion with Duodenal
      Switch (DS). Of these, VSG and GBP are the most commonly performed.

      VSG and GBP have been shown to result in similar weight loss, however, both procedures have a
      significant long-term failure rate.

      Key symptomatic differences between VSG and GBP

      During the initial 6-12 months after surgery, both VSG and GBP patients typically report a
      marked decrease in appetite as well as a significant restriction in volume of food that can
      be eaten before "feeling full." This period of decreased appetite and early satiety is
      commonly referred to as the "honeymoon period." After this honeymoon period, every patient's
      weight loss success becomes progressively more dependent on changes made in their eating
      habits.

      As would be expected with anatomically distinct procedures, patient symptoms begin to
      significantly differ over time. Patients that have undergone GBP, resulting in a gastric
      pouch that is less than 30cc report a more sustained feeling of restriction in the volume of
      food that can be eaten at a single meal compared to patients that have undergone VSG with a
      100-150cc residual stomach. GBP patients also report a more persistent feeling of early
      satiety than do patients after VSG. In contrast, patients that have undergone VSG, with most
      of the Ghrelin-producing region of their stomach removed, report a more persistent decrease
      in appetite compared to patients after GBP, where the production of Ghrelin appears to
      rebound.

      Key hormonal differences between VSG and GBP

      VSG results in substantial and permanent decrease in the orexigenic hormone Ghrelin. After
      GBP, rebound of Ghrelin is shown to occur within 6 to 12 months after surgery.

      GBP causes a significantly greater increase in postprandial GLP-1 and Peptide YY, possibly
      contributing to earlier satiety and improved glycemic control.

      Key differences in side effects between VSG and GBP

      A common side effect of VSG is GERD. When symptoms are severe, conversion to GBP provides
      relief.

      Dumping syndrome, a side effect of GBP, is often described as an effective negative feedback
      mechanism, helping to minimize ingestion of high glycemic index foods. Dumping is not
      typically associated with VSG.

      Considering these differences, it is reasonable to question whether a single-stage procedure
      that combines the anatomic changes of both the GBP and VSG would result in;

        1. Improved weight loss

        2. An improved quality of life

        3. Better glycemic control

      PROPOSED STUDY

      Surgical Intervention

      The S.L.I.M.M.S. Procedure, for Surgically Limit Intake and Manage Metabolic Syndrome, is a
      single-stage operation combining Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass with Partial Gastrectomy. The
      procedure specifications are listed below,

        1. A 20 cc gastric pouch

        2. A 10 mm diameter gastro-jejunal stoma

        3. A 40 cm biliopancreatic limb (measured from the Ligament of Treitz)

        4. A 150 cm roux limb

        5. Resection of the remaining fundus and body of the stomach, maintaining the majority of
           the gastric antrum

        6. Oversewing the gastric staple lines and buttressing with omentum

      Most new procedures focus on variations of intestinal reconstruction, or involve implantation
      of artificial devices. The proposed procedure does not require implantation of an artificial
      device, nor a new method of intestinal reconstruction. It simply combines the two most common
      bariatric procedures in the world with the hope of providing cumulative benefits without
      increased risk.

      Key Technical and Anatomic Precedents

        1. When VSG results in severe and recalcitrant GERD the standard treatment is conversion to
           GBP. The final anatomic result is a patient with a gastric bypass and the majority of
           the gastric fundus and body removed. This is similar to the final anatomy of the
           procedure proposed in this study, however, the S.L.I.M.M.S. procedure will be done as a
           single operation.

        2. In several centers, resectional gastric bypass, involving a standard gastric bypass
           combined with a subtotal or total gastrectomy, is performed routinely [24-28]. Published
           reports from these centers do not demonstrate increased complications.

      Significance of this Study

      Currently accepted surgical procedures all have significant long-term failure rates or
      frequently result in substantial malnutrition. Multiple new and novel surgical procedures are
      currently being tried that focus either on simple restriction or on increasing malabsorption.
      These new procedures are not designed with the intention of providing increased, permanent
      support for the patient's behavioral changes which are so critical in the long-term success
      of all bariatric surgery. The S.L.I.M.M.S. procedure is designed with the primary goal of a
      more sustained appetite suppression and increased early satiety.

      Aims of This Study

      The specific aim of the study is to assess the safety and efficacy of the S.L.I.M.M.S.
      Procedure as a stand-alone, single-stage bariatric operation.

      METHODS

      Trial Protocol

        1. Patient Recruitment

           a. Recruitment into the study will be achieved by a physician awareness campaign using
           direct mail. An Internet awareness campaign will target potential patients.
           Announcements will include description of planned procedure, aim of study and
           experimental nature of the S.L.I.M.M.S. Procedure.

        2. Patient Education

           a. Patient Education consisting of i. Detailed Consultation ii. Patient Education Packet
           iii. Written Examination iv. Education on pre- and post-operative dietary protocols v.
           Mandatory Dietary Rebuild counselling program vi. Permanent Surgical Weight Loss book
           provided vii. DietaryRebuild™ book provided viii. Exercise Instructions ix. Nutrition
           Supplementation Instructions

        3. Patient Enrolment

           a. Enrolment into the study will be proceeded by patient education including a detailed
           discussion of the nature of this clinical trial. A detailed consent will also be
           provided.

        4. Pre-trial Assessment

             1. Initial clinical assessment will include a detailed dietary history and a review
                for co-morbidities of obesity.

             2. Assessment of nutrition knowledge and quality of life will be obtained using the
                General Nutrition Knowledge Questionnaire, the Bariatric Quality of Life Index and
                the SF-36/Rand.

             3. Clinical assessment will include various weight parameters and measurement of serum
                glucose, hemoglobin A1c, lipids, vitamin levels, iron, ferritin, RBC folate,
                complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic profile, and abdominal ultrasound.

        5. Surgery: S.L.I.M.M.S. Procedure

        6. Patient Support

             1. In-clinic follow up

             2. Support groups offered

             3. Telephone-based group counselling sessions

        7. Post-operative Assessment

             1. Weight Parameters measured at 6 months, 12 months and annually

             2. Laboratory assessment will include serum glucose, hemoglobin A1c, lipids, vitamin
                levels, iron, ferritin, RBC folate, complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic
                profile and lipid profile at 6 months, 12 months and annually thereafter

             3. Quality of life measure at 1, 12 and 24 months; Bariatric Quality of Life Index and
                SF-36/Rand
    
  