
    
      The effectiveness of beverage composition will be evaluated by modifying the sodium content
      and carbohydrate content of the beverage. Hypothesis: Completeness of rehydration will be
      greater in the beverage with higher sodium concentration. It is also hypothesized that
      electrolyte-carbohydrate beverages will promote rehydration that exceeds that of consuming
      placebo (water). Using a randomized balanced-treatment crossover design, physically trained
      males (18-35 yrs) will participate in intermittent exercise for 85 to 100 minutes in three
      experimental trials of variable intensity training in the heat (30 +/-3 C) followed by a
      rehydration-recovery period. Exercise will be done at varying intensities (intermittent
      intervals) ranging from 50% to nearly 100% of maximum oxygen uptake (max VO2) determined
      prior to the experimental trials. During the 85 to 100 min of exercise, no fluids will be
      given during the trial to elicit an acute reduction in body mass of approximately 2.5 to 3%
      (standardized for each subject). Following exercise, 100% of the volume of fluid lost will be
      replaced with one of the beverages. Beverages will be ingested in six aliquots over a 1-hr
      period given at the end of the trial. Retention of fluid will be calculated by measuring
      volume of urine lost at 30, 60, 135, and 210 min following ingestion of the rehydration
      beverage. The primary outcome variable is the percentage of fluid retained, i.e., the
      difference between volume ingested and cumulative urine produced in 3.5 h as a percentage of
      volume ingested. Body mass, urine specific gravity, total body water, and ratings of vigor
      and affect will be assessed prior to exercise, after exercise in a state of dehydration, and
      at 210 min post-exercise following rehydration. A one-way ANOVA will be used to test the
      hypothesis for rehydration, the primary outcome variable.
    
  