
    
      Endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) is less invasive than open surgery, yet the procedure
      causes sustained radiation exposure to the operator and has a potential risk of
      radiation-induced skin damage and later malignancy. The deterministic (threshold limited)
      adverse effects of radiation have been known since the invention of the X-ray in 1895, but
      the stochastic (non-threshold limited) adverse effects are not so apparent and thus need
      constant refinement. Diligent usage of radiation protection and abidance to ALARA (As Low As
      Reasonably Achievable) principles minimizes cumulative radiation exposure.

      The lens of the human eye is very sensitive to radiation and cataract formation has been
      reported among medical interventional practitioners. Previous research into differences
      between conventional protection (apron and shields) and suspended personal protection (Zero
      Gravity, ZG) claims superior protection, especially to the lens, while using a suspended
      personal protection system. Ancillary lead glasses may be needed to fully protect the eyes.
      In other studies randomization of methods was deemed irrelevant due to expected dramatic
      differences between conventional and suspended protection systems. In addition
      standardization of procedures was lacking, because of cohort matching difficulties. The
      methods of measuring scattered radiation varies among previous studies and we have found the
      evaluation methods flawed.

      The aim of this research is to evaluate the total radiation exposure to the interventionalist
      and assistant during infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm stent-grafting, while using either
      conventional protection (lead apron and shield) or a suspended personal protection system
      (Zero-Gravity, ZG). The ZG system consists of a lead shield that is suspended from the
      ceiling or a separate hanger that permits freedom of motion of the operator, and with no
      weight supported by the operator.

      The total radiation doses have seen considerate reduction already in Helsinki, Finland and
      lower doses may influence the efficacy of the ZG system. Improper usage of the ZG protection
      gear as a whole can lead to inefficient protection.

      The operator's subjective ergonomic feel and experience will be evaluated with a
      postoperative questionnaire.

      The patients will be randomized into two groups: one where the operator will be using
      conventional protection (shield and apron) and one where the operator will be using the ZG
      system. The data will be collected during a four month period, which includes approximately
      50 standardized EVAR operations.

      Dosimeters will be used to collect the data during the procedures and are placed in various
      anatomical regions (eye, chest, leg, stomach, control outside protection). The exposure
      dosage to the eye is measured with EYE-D (Eye lens TLD dosimeter) and other measurements are
      done using DIS-1 dosimeters. Other data collected includes total fluoroscopy duration, total
      dose area product (DAP), entrance skin air KERMA (ESAK), and body mass index.

      The anonymity and rights of participants will be protected. The health of patients is of
      uttermost importance and there is no difference in care received.

      The planning and design has started since May 2019. Data collection will commence after
      dosimeter testing in September 2019 and last until December 2019. After data analysis the
      results will be disseminated in Spring 2020. Literature review will take place parallel to
      the research.
    
  