
    
      Based on published literature and personal experience, most hip surgeons have an assumption
      of the degree of hip dislocation. This will be the first study to reveal the actual extent of
      this specific complication in a large population. It will give surgeons knowledge of the
      current standards -both on a national and hospital level. Depending on the results and
      comparisons to relevant countries, the investigators will be able to either substantiate or
      forced to rethink current procedures. This applies to both surgical access and use of
      specific components.

      Since the vast majority of dislocations appear within 1-2 years after primary surgery (29),
      the follow-up period will be 2 years. By applying the National Patient Registry the
      investigators are able to identify any type of patient contact with the hospital system
      throughout Denmark in these 2 years. Patients assigned with correct diagnostic and procedural
      codes for dislocation and reduction are identified. However, the investigators will also find
      the cases of dislocation that are incorrectly coded in the registry. Therefore, the
      investigators will manually look in all the patient files from orthopedic contacts regardless
      of assigned diagnostic and procedural codes. Additionally, emergency room and internal
      medicine contacts are scanned with a broad and comprehensive range of relevant hip- and
      dislocation-related codes to identify episodes of hip dislocation, which are incorrectly
      coded. These patient files will also be manually reviewed.

      If a patient is revised within the first 2 years, the follow-up period ends on the revision
      date. Revisions are also registered in the Danish Hip Arthroplasty Registry. However, the
      completeness is 93-95% and therefore lower than for primary operations. In order to have the
      complete set of revisions, the investigators will enrich our data with an extraction from the
      National Patient Registry by applying all approved hip revision codes
    
  