
    
      This research study is for patients who have been newly diagnosed with diffuse large B-cell
      lymphoma DLBCL and are receiving treatment for the first time.

      This study will be conducted in two phases. Phase 1 will test the safety of increasing dose
      levels of avadomide (CC-122) when given in combination with R-CHOP-21 therapy to identify an
      appropriate dose and schedule for further evaluation in Phase 2. Phase 2 will evaluate the
      rate of complete response when adding avadomide (CC-122) to the R-CHOP-21 regimen in
      first-line treatment of patients with poor risk DLBCL.

      This study is separated into three periods: the Screening period, the Treatment period and
      the Follow-up period. Before the patient can receive the drug the doctor will perform test to
      find out whether he/she can participate in the study. This is done during the Screening
      period. If the patient and the treating physician determine that the patient is eligible to
      participate in the study, the patient will be registered in the study and receive avadomide
      (CC-122) combined with R-CHOP.

      In the Treatment period the patient will receive treatment for up to 6 treatment cycles. Each
      treatment cycle is 21 days long. The full length of the treatment period will be
      approximately 4 months.

      The follow-up period begins when the patient has completed treatment or is discontinued for
      any reason. During the follow-up period the patient will have fewer exams, test and visits.
      The first follow-up visit will be 28 days after treatment is completed or discontinued. After
      that, the follow-up visits will be every 3 months during the first year, then every 6 months
      until the study is closed.

      Upon completion of the Phase 1 portion of the study, a decision not to proceed with the Phase
      2 portion was taken by the Sponsor. The decision to terminate the study after Phase 1 was not
      based on any safety concerns that posed an unacceptable risk for this patient population and
      no safety issues have been identified
    
  