
    
      There is good evidence that the prognosis for patients with ischemic stroke is improved by
      thrombolysis in the acute phase. The challenge is the narrow time window: Thrombolysis should
      be given as soon as possible and not later than 4.5 hours after the first symptoms. In
      Norway, only approximately 2% of all stroke patients receive thrombolysis whereas 20 % are
      expected to benefit from such treatment (The Norwegian Directorate of Health, 2010). The low
      rate could be due to geographical conditions with long travel distances, lack of awareness in
      the population, but also little experience with the treatment in local hospitals may play a
      role.

      The overall aim of this project is to improve health outcome for stroke patients by
      telemedicine. This study will investigate the potential outcome for stroke patients in small
      rural hospitals using a telestroke service.

      The project will study the "patient flow" by analysing hospital information system (HIS) data
      as well as monitoring the teleconsultations and logging the main purpose for and results of
      the consultation. This will be conducted throughout the project, and analysed for a period of
      18 months. Hospital data on diagnosis, thrombolysis frequencies, stroke complications like
      haemorrhage or stroke recidive, will be used in the analysis process.

      Around 60 cases may potentially be included in the study during the 18 month observation
      period, which can be compared with register data from patients before the study.
      Control-groups have been considered, but found not ethical since the telestroke equipment is
      already installed in the two hospitals.

      Log information from the Norwegian Health Net on the use of videoconferencing will be used as
      a basis for field observations and interviews and to verify the actual use of the system.

      Corresponding with the logged data, semi-structured interviews will be conducted by making
      follow-up phone calls to hospital staff after the telestroke incidents. Using a qualitative
      approach, the number of follow-up calls will be decided in the process, adding up to app 20
      cases. This method will be used to capture what happened in the concrete telestroke incident
      from the first call to the hospital and throughout the process, while the details of the
      session are still fresh. There will also be periods of fieldwork at all three hospitals. This
      will include observations at the hospital wards and during concrete telestroke consultations.
      Semi-structured focus groups interviews will be conducted with health personnel involved with
      stroke-patients, including ambulance personnel, doctors and nurses, as well as technical
      support. Fieldwork will take place early in the project phase, and then at intervals during
      the project period. Fieldwork and follow-up phone interviews at different times in the
      research period will capture potential changes in the stroke treatment over time.
    
  