
    
      Porphyromonas gingivalis is one of the most prevalent periodontopathogens present in red
      complex that is considered to be infectious agent causing several types of periodontal
      diseases. P. gingivalis has ability to invade gingival epithelial cells and can survive for
      extended periods of time. Fimbriae have been characterized to be key factors in adhesion,
      invasion, and colonization. Fimbriae are also responsible for invasion of membrane vesicles
      into host cells. Long fimbriae (FimA), also known as major fimbriae, are long, peritrichous,
      filamentous components. They have a role in initial attachment and organization of biofilms,
      as they act as adhesins that mediate invasion and colonization of host cells contributing to
      P. gingivalis virulence.

      Fimbrillin (FimA; structural subunit protein of fimbriae) is classified into 5 variants
      (types I to V) based on their nucleotide sequences. P. gingivalis strains possessing type II
      fimA are correlated with P. gingivalis-positive patients, and its occurrence was
      significantly increased with the more severe forms of periodontitis. Previous studies
      evaluated the differences among the prevalence of fimA genotypes and periodontal health
      status in adults. P. gingivalis was detected in 36.8% of the healthy subjects and in 87.1%
      periodontitis patients. Among the P. gingivalis-positive healthy adults, the most prevalent
      fimA type was type I (76.1%), followed by type V (29.7%). In contrast, a majority of the
      periodontitis patients carried type II fimA organisms (66.1%), followed by type IV (28.9%).
      These findings indicate that there are both disease-associated and non-disease-associated
      strains of P. gingivalis, and that their infectious traits influencing periodontal health
      status could be differentiated based on the clonal variation of fimA genes.

      Tobacco consumption is a risk factor for periodontal disease. Several studies have been
      reported that smoker habit is associated with greater clinical attachment loss, recession and
      tooth loss and reduced bone height and density. However, controversial report has been
      discussed about the differences between smokers and non-smokers periodontopathogens. P.
      gingivalis have been report 52.2% prevalence in non-smokers and 66.7% in smokers (pocket
      depth 3-5 mm) , and are associated with high levels in sites with periodontitis.

      The mechanism that tobacco affects the periodontal tissue is related with nicotine that has
      been associated with various cellular changes that may contribute to the initiation and
      subsequent progression of periodontal disease. It is promote local effect like the reduction
      of the gingival blood flow, what can be due to long-term effects on the inflammatory lesions,
      higher incidence of gingival recession and others clinical parameters in smokers is
      correlated with cytotoxic and vasoactive substances present in tobacco, including nicotine,
      carbon monoxide and reactive oxidant substances and systemic effect is that smoking is
      responsible for 90% of cases of lung cancer, type deadliest cancer for men and women smokers,
      as well as being associated with various lung diseases. Furthermore, they promote oxidative
      stress and alterations in the immunoinflammatory responses, reducing functional activity of
      leucocytes, macrophages, lymphocytes and other immune cells, impaired wound healing and
      microbial recognition.

      Nonsurgical therapy using scaling and root planning is the most usual periodontal therapy,
      well-recognized by the improvement in clinical and microbiological parameters. Fewer studies
      evaluated longitudinal clinical and microbiological status of smokers undergoing periodontal
      maintenance therapy and controversial results were found with absence of difference in
      disease progression in comparison with nonsmokers. P. gingivalis has been reduced after
      periodontal treatment. Previous report related reduction of 93 % to P.gingivalis for
      non-smokers and 88 % for smokers after periodontal treatment.
    
  