
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) results in tiredness, depression and fatigue, and has several
      associated common comorbidities. It is believed that over 80% of OSA remains undiagnosed.
      Poorer and disadvantaged communities are at higher risk for sleep disorders, including OSA,
      even after accounting for other risk factors. The gold-standard method for diagnosing OSA is
      in-laboratory polysomnography; however, this procedure is generally available only to
      patients with health insurance due to its high cost. As a result, communities at particularly
      high risk for OSA are less likely to have this serious sleep disorder appropriately diagnosed
      and treated.

      An affordable, available, FDA-approved and easy-to-use over-the-counter OSA screening tool
      would allow greater screening of at-risk individuals, especially in underserved communities
      with low socioeconomic status, hopefully encouraging a greater proportion of such individuals
      to seek treatment for their condition. Zansors® has developed a bioengineered, semiconductor
      prototype that measures breathing and movement during sleep. It is a 1.5 x 2.5 x 0.2 inch
      wireless package using four key technologies:

        1. an adjustable microphone;

        2. a 3-axis accelerometer;

        3. embedded algorithms to measure sleep events; and

        4. acrylic adhesive.

      The product will be designed as an FDA-approved over-the-counter device that the patient can
      wear during sleep and wake up with a color score of red, yellow, or green depending on their
      sleep apnea status. The features of this product include that it is home-based; easy to use;
      non-invasive; wireless; disposable; low cost ($20-50); and presents easily understandable
      test results. However, such a device must first be validated against gold-standard
      polysomnography.

      The specific goal of this project is to compare the Zansors® micro sleep sensor screening
      device against gold-standard polysomnography to establish the device's preliminary validity
      to screen for OSA accurately.
    
  