
    
      This is a phase 2, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, four-period,
      incomplete block design cross-over study using EP-101(SUN101) and open-label active controls
      (tiotropium bromide and ipratropium bromide). The study population will consist of subjects
      of 40-75 years of age with moderate to severe COPD. Approximately 133 subjects diagnosed with
      moderate to severe COPD will be enrolled in order to achieve minimum 105 subjects completing
      the study.

      Following a run-in phase, each subject will be randomly assigned to one of 7 treatment
      sequences,(96 sequences when order of administration is considered), with each sequence
      comprised of four 7-day Treatment Periods. There will be a washout period of 7 days between
      each Treatment Period. Study visits will be conducted on Days 1 and 7 of each Treatment
      Period, with an overnight stay required in the clinic during these visits. A Final Study
      Visit will be conducted 7 days following the last study treatment.

      During each Treatment Period, study treatments will be administered once daily (QD), except
      for ipratropium inhalation solution, which will be administered three times daily (TID).
      EP-101 (SUN101)active and placebo treatments will be administered using an investigational
      high-efficiency eFlow® nebulizer. Tiotropium bromide (Spiriva®) will be administered in an
      open-label manner via Handihaler® dry-powder inhaler (DPI). Ipratropium bromide inhalation
      solution will be administered in an open-label manner via general purpose nebulizer.

      This study was previously posted by Elevation Pharmaceuticals, Inc. On September 5, 2012,
      Elevation was acquired by merger with Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc. ("Sunovion"), which
      resulted in Elevation becoming a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Sunovion. In conjunction
      with this acquisition, the name of Elevation has been changed to Sunovion Respiratory
      Development Inc.
    
  