
    
      Aphasia is a language impairment experienced by about one third of stroke patients. This
      often devastating condition is treated by speech and language therapists (SLTs). There is
      evidence that language games delivered at the right intensity are an efficacious means of
      improving communication for people with post stroke aphasia. However, it is unclear which
      mechanism of language facilitation used in a game works best. This study will provide
      evidence for the "active ingredient" of a game, together with measures of efficacy,
      feasibility and enjoyment compared to standard aphasia therapy.

      Participants with moderate-severe difficulties will play picture naming games, involving
      self-cuing using gesture and circumlocution. Those with mild difficulties will play
      story-telling games, using similar self-cuing techniques. Change in language performance will
      be measured and compared to that achieved by the same participants following an episode of
      standard aphasia therapy from their local SLT (i.e. normal care).

      This study will build on a growing evidence base for the efficacy of therapeutic language
      games in post stroke aphasia. In today's resource-constrained National Health Service, SLTs
      are continually searching for cost-effective, innovative ways of delivering therapy. Language
      games based on sound neuro-scientific principles have the potential to deliver improvements
      in functional communication by means of an enjoyable and motivating activity, and moreover
      can be done cost effectively. Improvements have been demonstrated from the acute through to
      the chronic stage of stroke. A number of factors are said to contribute to the outcomes
      achieved: intensity of training, behavioural relevance and focussed use of capacities. This
      study intends to explore in more depth some of the specific behaviours that can occur
      spontaneously or than can be prompted to facilitate language. The aim is to uncover the
      "active ingredient", and thereby ensure that participants can benefit maximally from
      therapeutic language games.

      This study will contribute to the search for cost effective treatment for post-stroke
      aphasia, which offers ease and flexibility of delivery, is enjoyable and motivating for
      patients, and works.
    
  