
    
      This study examines the extent to which working memory training may give rise to cognitive
      benefits and the extent to which these effects can be explained by, or augmented by,
      placebos.

      It is predicted that:

        1. Significant placebo effects will be found in cognitive training, both at the immediate
           post-test and the second post-test after participants were debriefed about the placebo
           effects.

        2. Adaptive N-back training will produce larger gains than adaptive Knowledge training.

      Participants will be assigned to either an online or in-person version of the study depending
      upon the guidelines for participant interactions that are in force at the time (if only one
      version is allowable under current guidelines participants will be assigned to the allowable
      version).

      Pre-Test Cognitive Assessments: For each domain, two separate measures will be utilized to
      ensure that any observed results are not specific to a given tasks, but are more generally
      representative for the six cognitive domains below.

        1. Working Memory: The two measures will be a non-trained version of the N-back task and
           the O-Span task. In the N-back task, participants view a series of letters and are asked
           to indicate whether the current letter is the same as the letter "N" items back. The
           N-back levels will vary between 1- and 4-back. In the O-Span task, participants
           alternate between completing simple math problems (e.g., 3+(2x2)) and viewing single
           letters. At the end of a given sequence, the participants are asked to recall all of the
           letters that they had seen in the correct order. The number of letters to be recalled
           will range between 3 and 7.

        2. Cognitive Flexibility: The two measures will be a standard task-switching paradigm and
           countermanding task. In the task switching task, on each trial, participants view a
           letter and a digit. The location of the pair instructs the participants to either
           categorize the letter as a consonant or vowel or else categorize the digit as even or
           odd. Trials can be either "non-switch trials" - in which the participant is asked to
           perform the same task as on the previous trial - or "switch trials" - in which the
           participant is asked to perform the opposite task as on the previous trial. In the
           countermanding task, participants are presented with two types of stimuli (e.g., dogs or
           monkeys) on either the right or the left side of the screen and are required to tap on
           one of two buttons on either the same side as the stimulus (e.g., dog; congruent trials)
           or on the opposite side of the stimulus (e.g., monkey; incongruent trials).

        3. Visual Selective Attention: The two measures will be the Useful Field of View (UFOV)
           task and the Attentional Network Test (ANT; executive control trials only). In the UFOV,
           participants are briefly presented with a display consisting of 24 items (3 on each of
           the four radial spokes and the four obliques; evenly spaced). One of the items is a
           target (a sheriff's badge), while the remaining items are distractors (open boxes). The
           participants' task is to indicate upon which of the 8 spokes the target appeared. In the
           ANT, on each trial participants view a center arrow that faces either left or right. The
           arrow can be flanked on either side by either response compatible arrows (i.e., arrows
           facing in the same direction as the center arrow) or response incompatible arrows (i.e.,
           facing the other direction). The participants' task is to indicate the direction that
           the center arrow is pointing.

        4. Spatial Cognition: The two measures will be a standard mental rotation test and paper
           folding test. In the mental rotation task, participants are shown two images side by
           side. The images are either identical, but with one rotated relative to the other, or
           else are mirror-reversed and rotated copies of one another. The participants' task is to
           indicate whether the two items are identical or are mirror-reversed copies. In the
           paper-folding task, the participant is shown a depiction of a piece of paper being
           folded various ways before a hole is punched in the paper. The participants' task is to
           indicate what the paper will look like when it is unfolded.

        5. Fluid Intelligence: The two measures of fluid intelligence will be the Raven's Advanced
           Progressive Matrices and a new matrix task (UCMRT) developed and implemented by PIs
           Jaeggi and Seitz. In each test item, the participant is presented with a grid of
           elements with one of the elements missing and is asked to identify the missing element
           that completes the grid pattern.

        6. Vocabulary (control): Vocabulary will be assessed using the Mill-Hill vocabulary and the
           Shipley Institute of Living scales. These require participants to select the appropriate
           synonym for a target word among several alternatives.

      Pre-Test Individual Differences Surveys: At Pre-test, participants will complete a series of
      surveys to assess demographic variables (e.g., age, gender, race/ethnicity, SES) as well as
      other individual difference factors that may be predictive of placebo-responsiveness. These
      include: Big 5 Personality Traits, Work and Family Orientation Scale (WOFO), Grit, Behavioral
      Avoidance/Inhibition scales (BIS/BAS), theories of intelligence, Schutte Self-Report
      Emotional Intelligence Test, and Meta-Cognitive Skills Scale.

      Training Conditions: Participants will be assigned to either an experimental training
      condition (N-back training, which previous research has shown is associated with enhancements
      in general cognitive function) or a control training condition (explicit knowledge training,
      which previous research has shown is not associated with enhancements in general cognitive
      function). The cognitive training task will be an adaptive version of a visual N-back task
      used previously. Participants will be presented with a series of objects and will be asked to
      indicate whether the current stimulus matches the one presented n positions back in the
      sequence. An active knowledge training task (control) will be used in which participants will
      be asked to answer Graduate Record Examination-type (GRE) general knowledge, vocabulary, and
      trivia questions selected from a pool of approximately 5,000 questions. For every question,
      participants are required to pick one of four answer alternatives presented below the
      question and after their response are given the correct answer.

      Explicit Expectation Induction: Participants will be assigned to either positive or negative
      expectations induction, which will be delivered via a slideshow. All instructions and
      descriptions of the to-be-trained task in the Positive Expectations groups will be designed
      to maximize participant belief in the effectiveness of the given training in inducing
      positive change in cognitive abilities or minimize participant belief in the Negative
      Expectations groups.

      Associative Learning Mid-Tests: For the associative learning mid-tests, the same basic
      cognitive tasks employed at Pre-test will be altered to either provide evidence to the
      participant of "improved cognitive performance" (positive associative learning) or
      "diminished cognitive performance" (negative associative learning).

        1. Working Memory Mid-Test Associative Learning Manipulations:

           O-Span: In the O-Span Associative Learning Mid-Test, task difficulty will be manipulated
           by either lessening the difficulty of the interleaved math problems (e.g., by using
           problems that only contain small numbers) or increasing the difficulty of the
           interleaved math problems.

        2. Cognitive Flexibility Mid-Test Associative Learning Manipulation:

           Task-switching: In the task-switching test, several factors make the test more
           difficult. First is the number of task switches - fewer switch trials results in overall
           better performance. Second are the digits themselves. For instance, in the high/low
           task, digits closer to 5 are responded to more slowly than digits further from 5. Thus,
           in the Task-Switching Associative Learning Mid-Tests, the switch rate will be reduced
           (easier) or increased (harder) relative to the true assessments, and the distribution of
           digits that are displayed will include a greater or lesser percentage of easier items.

           Countermanding: In the Countermanding test, difficulty is most strongly associated with
           the presence of incongruent trials as well as switch trials. Thus, the Countermanding
           Mid-Test will have decreased or increased proportions of incongruent and switch trials
           from 50% to 30%/70%, respectively.

        3. Visual Selective Attention Mid-Test Associative Learning Manipulation:

           UFOV: In the case of the UFOV, the simplest method to decrease difficulty is to increase
           presentation duration. Thus, in the UFOV Associative Learning Mid-tests, the proportion
           of long presentation duration trials will be increased (easier) or decreased (more
           difficult).

           ANT: In the case of the ANT, the Associative Learning Mid-tests will be made easier by
           increasing the proportion of neutral trials or made more difficult by decreasing the
           proportion of neutral trials and increasing the proportion of incompatible (most
           difficult) trials.

        4. Spatial Cognition Mid-Test Associative Learning Manipulation:

           Mental Rotation: Difficulty in mental rotation is monotonically related to the degree of
           rotation between the two items (larger rotations = more difficult). The Mental Rotation
           Associative Learning Mid-tests will thus be constructed to contain a disproportionate
           number of items with either small (easier) or large (more difficult) orientation
           differences.

           Paper Folding: In the paper folding task, more difficult trials involve not only more
           total folds, but more partial folds and more angled partial folds. The Paper Folding
           Associative Learning Mid-tests will thus contain a disproportionate number of low total
           folds/low partial folds trials (easier) or high total folds/high partial folds trials
           (more difficult).

        5. Fluid Intelligence Mid-Test Associative Learning Manipulation: All matrix items that
           will be utilized have a known level of difficulty. Thus, the Fluid Intelligence
           Associative Learning Mid-test sets will be created by mixing in a disproportionate
           number of easier/more difficult items for both Raven's and new matrix task created by
           PIs Seitz and Jaeggi.

        6. Vocabulary Mid-Test Associative Learning Manipulation: As with the fluid intelligence
           test, the items have known levels of difficulty, and thus, the Associative Learning
           Mid-test will have a disproportionate number of easier/more difficult items for both the
           Mill-Hill vocabulary and the Shipley Institute of Living scales.

      Knowledge of the Hypothesis Scales: Prior to Post-Test1, participants will be given two
      measures - the Perceived Awareness of the Research Hypothesis scale and the Expectation
      Assessment scale. Both measures are designed to assess the extent to which participants have
      internalized/believed the expectations that were meant to be induced.

      Unblinding: Participants in all groups will be given a thorough debriefing after Post-Test1
      and before Post-Test2 as to the goals of the study, the conditions, and any deception that
      they may have been subject to.

      Post-Test1 and 2 will be identical to the Pre-test cognitive tests (new trials/items will be
      used in all cases).
    
  