
    
      This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blinded study in which approximately 90 RIS
      (radiologically isolated syndrome) subjects will be treated with either Tecfidera or placebo
      for 2 years (1:1 randomization). Study participants, along with the treating and examining
      physicians, will be blinded to treatment assignment. Central Clinical and Imaging Units will
      screen all potential study subjects for inclusion/exclusion criteria. We expect to enroll all
      RIS subjects within the U.S.

      Following informed consent and verification of entry criteria by the core units, study
      participants will be randomized 1:1 to either Tecfidera (120mg by mouth twice daily for 7
      days with dose escalation to 240mg by mouth twice daily) or placebo. Clinical follow-up by
      the treating physician will occur at weeks 0, 48, 96, 144 and/or End of Study and during or
      immediately following clinical exacerbations. During clinical visits, comprehensive medical
      history data will be obtained by the treating physician. All reported acute or progressive
      clinical events will be adjudicated by the Central Clinical Unit. Clinical visits due to
      suspected exacerbations associated with CNS (central nervous system) demyelination, and
      associated diagnostic studies and treatments, will be covered under the medical standard of
      care by third party payers. A recommendation to re-evaluate the patient within 3 months
      following the clinical event to assess for extent of recovery will be made. In addition to
      the face-to-face visits described above, study participants will be contacted over the
      telephone at weeks 4, 8, 36, 60, 84, 108, and 132 to assess for medical or treatment
      difficulties and for study medication compliance. Standardized MRI studies of the brain will
      be performed at weeks 0, 96, 144 or End of Study. Clinical imaging studies of the brain
      and/or spinal cord performed during or immediately following the onset of a clinical
      exacerbation will be performed at the discretion of the site PI with scan costs covered under
      the medical standard of care. An end of study clinical MRI of the cervical spinal cord with
      and without contrast will be recommended to study participants at week 96 as medical standard
      of care.
    
  