
    
      Protocols:

      Hypothesis 1:

      Cortical excitability (in both dominant and non-dominant swallowing cortex) to TMS and
      swallowing behaviour assessed with a swallowing reaction time task will be measured at
      baseline. Thereafter, the virtual lesion paradigm will be applied to the dominant swallowing
      projection followed by the cerebellar intervention (10Hz, 250 pulses). Cerebellar stimulation
      will be applied (in a randomised fashion) on separate occasions to both the contralateral and
      ipsilateral cerebellar hemispheres, immediately after the virtual lesion. The investigators
      have found that placement using known reference landmarks are equivalent to using
      neuronavigation, so the latter will not be employed. Repeat measurements of cortical
      excitability and swallowing behaviour will then be performed and analysed against baseline
      data and a sham cerebellar paradigm. Differences in cortical excitability and swallowing
      responses will thus be an indication of which cerebellar region (contralesional/ipsilesional)
      can influence excitability and reverse any behavioural changes most effectively.

      Hypothesis 2:

      I. Dysphagic stroke patients (n=24) recruited over a 9 month period within 14 days of stroke
      ictus will have their swallowing assessed by videofluoroscopy before and after receiving
      either the real or sham cerebellar stimulation (10Hz, 250 pulses) as determined from phase 1.
      As before, placement of the coil for cerebellar stimulation will be performed using landmarks
      already established and validated in the work from question 1. Patients will be intubated
      with the pharyngeal EMG catheter for pre and post recordings of pharyngeal motor evoked
      potentials (MEPs) to cortical TMS. Power calculations, based on a similar study of pharyngeal
      stimulation indicated that the investigators would need 12 patients per group to achieve a
      statistical power of 80% at a 5% significance level to detect changes in the primary outcome
      measure of aspiration. In this study, the investigators will examine if the chosen site of
      cerebellar stimulation from phase 1 can induce short-term changes in brain function
      (pharyngeal MEPs) and swallowing function (videofluoroscopy) compared to sham interventions
      and baseline measurement, up to 1 hour after the intervention.

      II. Following stage I, once it is established that cerebellar stimulation can alter brain and
      swallowing functions in stroke in the short-term, it will need to be appraised for clinical
      feasibility, dose response, and longer term efficacy. Dysphagic stroke patients (n=48, 16
      patients per group) admitted to the stroke unit and identified by videofluoroscopy will be
      recruited over the next 21 months. Since it is not known how the cerebellar stimulation
      method should be delivered to patients, a dose ranging treatment trial will be utilised,
      randomising patients to one of three groups (A-C), low level stimulation, high level
      stimulation and sham stimulation. From our previous work with pharyngeal stimulation, the
      investigators propose that group A will receive stimulation once per day for 3 days. Group B
      will receive stimulation twice per day for 5 days. Group C will receive sham stimulation
      (delivered as in protocol I) twice a day for 5 days. Groups A and B will receive stimulation
      at the optimal site (10Hz, 250 pulses) found in question 1, but all groups will also receive
      standard speech and language therapy.

      Assessments:

      Swallowing before and after stimulation will be evaluated using videofluoroscopy, at 1 hour
      for protocol I. For protocol II the investigators propose both videofluoroscopy and
      functional scores (Functional oral ingestion scale (FOIS), the dysphagia severity rating
      scale (DSRS) including feeding status and modified rankin scale (mRS)) at baseline and at 2
      weeks.
    
  