
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is an AIDS-defining diagnosis for patients infected with the Human
      Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). While the incidence of NHL has decreased amongst HIV-infected
      patients since the advent of highly-active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART), lymphoma remains
      a significant cause of death for this patient population. The prognosis for patients with
      AIDS-related lymphoma is dramatically different in the era of HAART therapy. In a comparison
      of treatment outcomes for patients treated before and after the advent of HAART, there is a
      statistically significant improvement in the overall survival of patients treated with HAART.
      Unfortunately, despite considerable advances in the treatment of AIDS-related NHL,
      induction-failure and disease relapse remain key challenges. The prognosis for patients with
      refractory and relapsed NHL is poor with overall survival rates of less than 20 percent for
      patients treated with non-transplant salvage therapies. Based upon a randomized trial and
      numerous phase II trials, high-dose therapy with autologous hematopoietic cell
      transplantation (HCT) has been established as the standard of care for patients with
      chemotherapy-sensitive relapsed non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      All patients must have chemosensitive disease as demonstrated by response to induction or
      salvage chemotherapy. Patients must also have less than or equal to 10percent bone marrow
      involvement after their most recent salvage therapy. Patients cannot have had prior
      autologous or allogeneic HCT. Patients must initiate conditioning therapy within 3 months of
      mobilization or bone marrow harvest.

      Mobilization therapy may be employed per institutional guidelines. Patients must have an
      adequate autograft to be eligible for the protocol. Patients may not have HIV refractory to
      pharmacologic therapy. Patients must not have opportunistic infection that is not responding
      to therapy. Patients will receive Carmustine (BCNU) 300 mg/m^2 Day -6, Etoposide 100 mg/m^2
      twice a day (BID) on Days -5 to -2, Cytarabine 100 mg/m2 BID on Days -5 to -2, and Melphalan
      140 mg/m2 Day -1 followed by autologous HCT.

      Patients will be followed for 2 years post-transplant. Survival data, time to progression
      data, progression-free survival data, time to progression after Complete Remission (CR) data,
      lymphoma disease-free survival data, time to hematopoietic recovery data, hematologic
      function data, toxicity data, incidence of infections, treatment-related mortality data,
      immunologic reconstitution data, data assessing the impact of therapy on the HIV reservoir
      and microbial gut translocation will be recorded and reported periodically to the BMT CTN
      Data and Coordinating Center (DCC).
    
  