
    
      Mechanical neck pain (MNP) is generalized neck or shoulder pain with mechanical
      characteristics (including symptoms provoked by neck postures, neck movement, or palpation of
      the cervical musculature). It has become an increasing problem causing functional disability
      in large populations. It is one of the most common musculoskeletal disorders in the neck
      region. Neck pain of mechanical origin constitutes approximately 45% - 50% of all neck pain.
      The variation in the prevalence ranges from 43.0% of the Swedish population, 34.4% of
      Norwegian adult population and In North America (Saskatchewan, Canada) lifetime prevalence of
      neck pain is 66.7%. The reason for this may lie in the increasing time spent on office and
      computer work. Also, a significant proportion of mechanical neck disorders consist of
      whiplash associated disorders (WAD), with a higher prevalence in women (22%) than in men
      (16%). Strong evidence suggests biomechanical factors, including prolonged computer use, and
      posture and repetitive movements are associated with the development of neck pain. Cervical
      joint dysfunction is the main cause of mechanical neck pain. One of the predominant
      mechanical events causing neck pain, is impaired stability of the cervical spine, which is
      often attributed to disturbances in motor control over the cervical spine. The stability of
      the cervical spine is dependent on the deep neck flexor and neck extensor muscles. The
      longuscolli and capitis are principal deep neck flexor muscles. In contrast, the suboccipital
      muscles are principal neck extensors of the upper cervical spine and are composed of the
      rectus capitis posterior major (RCPM), rectus capitis posterior minor (RCPm), obliquuscapitis
      superior (OCS), and obliquuscapitis inferior (OCI). There are varieties of physiotherapy
      interventions for the management of Mechanical neck pain such as spinal joint manipulation,
      mobilization techniques, massage techniques, suboccipital muscle inhibition technique,
      craniocervical flexion exercise, soft tissue techniques and trigger point [TrP] treatment ,
      needling, active release techniques, stretches (static and isometric ), traction and various
      electro modalities.A very limited evidence found on comparison on effectiveness of sub
      occipital muscle release and Cranio-cervical flexion exercise. Previous studies only find out
      immediate effect (one session) on Cervical ROM and CVA. To fill the gap, this study is
      formulated to determine the effects of sub occipital muscle release and Cranio-cervical
      flexion exercise on ROM in the cervical spine and Cranio-vertebral angle (CVA) in mechanical
      neck pain. Study will find out most effective treatment for management of mechanical neck
      pain and would contribute to educate and treat the patient with most simple and effective
      treatment approach.
    
  