
    
      Obesity is an epidemic with increasing prevalence in most countries in the Asia Pacific
      region. It is characterized by abnormal or excessive lipid deposition as a result of chronic
      disproportion between energy intake and energy outflow. The first Malaysian national estimate
      in 1996 of obesity was 5.8%. A systematic review reported a marked increase in obesity in
      1996, 2003, 2004 and 2006 with 5.5%, 12.2%, 12.3% and 14.0%. Obesity is highest among adults
      of 40-59 years old, is greater risk in women compared to men and is highest among Indians
      followed by Malays, Chinese and Aboriginals.

      Periodontitis and obesity are both chronic health problems, and an association between the
      two conditions exists. A positive association was repeatedly demonstrated between obesity and
      periodontal disease in multiple studies around the world.

      Periodontal disease is a chronic oral infection, in which destruction of tooth supporting
      structures, periodontal ligament and alveolar bone occurs, leading ultimately to tooth loss.
      Worldwide, the prevalence of periodontitis in the adult population is about 10-15%. In
      Malaysia, the National Oral Health study reported 90.2% of the adults presented with some
      forms of periodontal conditions. About 5.5% of these subjects had deep pockets of 6 mm or
      more.

      Periodontal disease, through inflammation and destruction of the periodontium produces a wide
      range of clinical signs and symptoms, some of which may have a considerable impact on quality
      of life (QoL). A study conducted using a community sample found a significant association
      between periodontal disease and quality of life (QoL). They also found that self-reported
      symptoms of periodontal diseases such as swollen gums, sore gums and receding gums has an
      apparent impact on the quality of life of the person. With the mechanism of obesity, it is
      expected that the obese patients may have experienced more severe periodontal diseases and
      hence they may experience more impact on the quality of life. However, the evidence is still
      lacking.

      Cytokines play a role in the pathogenesis of periodontitis. They play an active role in wound
      repair and in transient inflammation. They also activate defence mechanisms in which they may
      give rise to considerable tissue damage in severe inflammation.

      Adipose tissue cells namely adipocytes, preadipocytes and macrophages secrete protein signals
      collectively known as adipokines or adipocytokines. Adipokines are involved in inflammation
      and the acute-phase response. Production of adipokines increased in obesity, and raised
      circulating levels of several acute-phase proteins and inflammatory cytokines. This has led
      to the concept that obese is a state of chronic low-grade systemic inflammation causally link
      to insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome.

      Salivary components comprising of several inflammatory and immune mediators have been
      identified which are involved in periodontal destruction. Among all the adipokines, resistin
      which is an adipocyte-derived cytokine is raised in obese mice. In humans, it is suggested
      that resistin is largely expressed from neutrophils, macrophages, and monocytes other than
      adipocytes. Resistin is identified as a proinflammatory adipokine that potentially links
      obesity to diabetes. It is also believed that human resistin stimulates the production and
      secretion of other proinflammatory molecules like tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and
      interleukin (IL)-12. Studies have shown high levels of resistin in subjects having chronic
      periodontitis and this may affect systemic health. In a study by Devanoorkar et al., stated
      that the decrease in the resistin levels was not statistically significant following
      non-surgical periodontal therapy.

      The reason for the interest in GCF/serum levels of resistin in periodontitis lies in the fact
      that epidemiological research indicates that periodontitis interplays between obesity and
      diabetes mellitus. It is possible that raised levels of resistin in periodontitis can explain
      at least in part the link between periodontitis and other chronic inflammatory diseases.
      Therefore, the overall aim of this systematic review was to provide evidence of resistin
      biomarker in chronic periodontal disease which might underpin the relationship between
      periodontal disease, diabetes and obesity. Evidence from case-control studies are all
      summarized and evaluated.
    
  