
    
      This is a single site Phase I dose escalation trial of the epidermal growth factor receptor
      inhibitor Erlotinib with the SRC tyrosine kinase inhibitor Dasatinib in patients with
      previously treated advanced stage (Stage IIIB/IV disease) Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC).
      The screening evaluation will consist of a medical history including dates/description of
      your initial NSCLC diagnosis and documentation of any previous treatment. There will also be
      a physical examination including vital signs, height, weight, Eastern Cooperative Oncology
      Group (ECOG)performance status, blood draws for Complete Blood Count (CBC) and Complete
      Metabolic Panel (CMP) tests, neurological examination, a pregnancy test for female patients
      of childbearing potential, and (if applicable) any observable tumor measurements all within
      14 days before study enrollment. A screening Electrocardiogram (EKG) as well as clinical
      testing to evaluate all known sites of malignant lesions, including Computed Tomography (CTs)
      of the chest and upper abdomen, the adrenal glands; ultrasound; or radionuclide scans of the
      bones; and/or other radiographic studies should be performed within 30 days prior to
      enrollment.

      The treatment regimen consists of Erlotinib tablets starting Day 1 and Dasatinib tablets
      starting Day 9 for a 28-day cycle. If there are no DLTs, dose escalation continues. Patients
      continuing on therapy past two cycles will be seen by the treating physician every 4 weeks
      and will have complete History and Physical (H&P), CBC, and CMP. Tumor measurement and
      response assessment will occur every 6-8 weeks. Dasatinib and Erlotinib will be continued
      until progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity, or patient request.

      The recommended phase II dose for this combined treatment will be defined and patients will
      be treated at the recommended phase II dose to confirm tolerability.
    
  