
    
      Background

      Evidence suggests that sepsis and septic shock severely impair mitochondria and that the
      resulting mitochondrial dysfunction is related to the severity and outcome of the resulting
      organ dysfunction. In sepsis mitochondrial abnormalities - biochemical and ultrastructural -
      have been recognized in multiple organs, including liver, kidney, skeletal and heart muscle
      tissue and blood cells. A systematic review on mitochondrial function assessed as oxygen
      consumption, state 3 and state 4 respiration, respiratory enzyme activity, or tissue ATP
      levels and turnover rates showed decreased function especially in sepsis models lasting more
      than 16h . Depleted levels of reduced glutathione, an important intra-mitochondrial
      antioxidant, in combination with increased generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and
      reactive nitrogen species (RNS) inhibit oxidative phosphorylation and ATP generation. This
      acquired intrinsic derangement in cellular energy metabolism contributes to reduced
      activities of mitochondrial electron transport chain enzyme complexes and impaired ATP
      biosynthesis and contributes to the organ dysfunction in sepsis.

      Circulating immune cells play an important role in the pathophysiology of sepsis. Stimulation
      of the immune system alters the energy requirements of immune cells; down-regulation of
      immune-cell activity has been associated with prolonged sepsis. Immune cell activation
      mandates an increase in energy requirements, thus a reduced production of ATP due to impaired
      mitochondrial function may be a factor in modulating the immune response in sepsis.
      Alterations in mitochondrial function and energetic failure have been reported in peripheral
      blood mononuclear cells and seem to be associated with the modulation of the immune response
      to sepsis. Macrophages incubated with endotoxin/interferon-γ show a decrease in oxygen
      consumption and inhibition of mitochondrial I complex. Different mechanisms for alteration of
      mitochondrial function in these cells have been proposed, including increases in NO
      production and nitration of mitochondrial proteins [14], elevation of IL-10 [15] or
      prostaglandin levels. In human neutrophils intact mitochondrial function plays an important
      role in chemotaxis and phagocytosis, impairment of these mechanisms leads to a decreased
      defence ability to microbial challenges.

      HIF-1α is a transcription factor that acts as a key regulatory factor in the evolution of
      oxygen homeostasis. Under normoxic conditions HIF-1α is continuously synthesized and degraded
      after hydroxylation by dioxygenases that utilize oxygen, Fe and α-ketoglutarate as
      substrates. During hypoxia, the low availability of oxygen limits the reaction; HIF-1α is no
      longer degraded and rapidly accumulates and triggers the transcription of genes involved in
      oxygen homeostasis such as glycolytic enzymes, glucose transporters, vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF) and erythropoietin. Under hypoxic conditions, HIF mediates also a
      decrease in mRNA levels of the respiratory chain proteins, preparing the cell to produce ATP
      mainly from glycolysis and not from oxidative phosphorylation, thereby optimizing cell
      energetics and homeostasis for survival and function during hypoxia.

      Recent published reports have linked inflammation and endotoxin stimulation to HIF-1α
      activation. HIF-1α has been shown to be up-regulated and stabilized in LPS-treated
      macrophages and monocytes under normoxic conditions. HIF-1α levels were shown to be decreased
      in macrophages deficient in TLR4 after LPS stimulation, suggesting that LPS stimulation of
      HIF-1α is mediated by TLR4.

      Data on mitochondrial function of human immune cells in severe sepsis is limited and the
      potential correlation of mitochondrial energy requirements and production and the severity of
      the patient's condition and outcome are not well established. The immunologic reaction in the
      context of severe sepsis and septic shock consists of an interdependent, highly complex
      system that involves different types of immune cells and pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines
      involved in a time-dependent process. Simple in-vitro studies assessing mitochondrial
      function of a single type of immune cells and single cytokines just a one point in time
      during the course of the septic process might not be an appropriate model to mirror the
      complex interactions of the immune system. Serial measurements of mitochondrial function of
      different key-player cells and specific pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines and apoptosis
      markers parallel with other clinical and laboratory markers of sepsis may offer a more
      in-depth evaluation and understanding of this deleterious disease pattern.

      Objective

      The aim of the project is to comprehensively investigate changes in mitochondrial function
      and morphology of immune cells in patients with severe sepsis and septic shock. We plan to
      assess changes in mitochondrial function of monocytes, B cells and CD4+ T cells in
      correlation to levels of various cytokines and to classic clinical and laboratory parameters
      of severity of sepsis and outcome.

      Methods

      A total of 30 patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of a tertiary care hospital
      due to severe sepsis or septic shock will be included in the study after obtaining written
      informed consent of the patient or the patient's next of kin. Patients with any type of
      chronic infectious, inflammatory or autoimmune diseases, after transplantations or receiving
      immunosuppressive agents are excluded.

      Controls: 30 healthy volunteers Assessment of mitochondrial function of
      monocytes/granulocytes will be performed by measurement of mitochondrial complex activity
      using a standard titration protocol to measure activation of complex I to IV. To measure
      serum levels of IL-1, IL-6, IL-10 and TNF standard commercial kits will be used.
    
  