
    
      Permanent pacemaker implantation is a widely recognized clinical event associated with TAVI
      becoming evident within a few days after the procedure.

      While a number of registries have documented the rates of PPI with different valves, much
      less evidence has been provided for 1) patient based characteristics (e.g. RBBB etc.)
      affecting the likelihood of PPI and for 2) procedural variables (e.g. implantation depth,
      valve size etc.) that should be considered to perform an as safe and minimal invasive
      procedure as possible.

      Prior research To date there are 7 published reports on pacemaker rates and predictors
      associated with the use of the Edwards SAPIEN 3 THV (see Table). These studies suggest that
      the need for pacemaker implantation in single centers ranges between 14.4 and 20.4% derived
      from patient numbers between 131 and 335. These analyses resulted in the identification of
      pre-existing conduction disturbance / aortic valve calcification as patient related and
      implantation depth /oversizing as procedure related variables associated with Edwards SAPIEN
      3 THV TAVI. Furthermore a scoring algorithm for patient related factors has been proposed
      from a dataset of 240 patients to predict the likelihood of PPI after THV .

      Limitations of prior research Current evidence though is limited by patient numbers versus
      event rates (with a max. of 62 PPI considered in any of the available datasets) resulting in
      a limited power in multivariable analyses, the single center design of these ventures, the
      lack of a consistent definition of variables potentially associated and the unexplained
      differences in the number and type of variables identified.

      Aims For this reason the investigators consider it necessary to 1) to retrospectively pool
      data from all of these 7 datasets to arrive at a more comprehensive picture of patient
      related variables (retrospective part I), to 2) assess procedural variables in a prospective
      multicenter registry (prospective part II) and 3) to potentially validate the identified
      variables in a future prospective cohort.
    
  