
    
      Osteoporosis predisposes patients to increased risk of fragility fractures, which affects
      clinical outcomes and functional recovery. In fact, the lifetime fracture risk of
      osteoporotic patients reaches as high as 40%. There are approximately 2.5 million
      osteoporotic fractures each year in the United States (US), with costs estimated at $15
      billion USD in 2010. Currently, there are approximately 300,000 hip fractures per year in the
      US with a mortality rate of 20% within 1 year.

      Low-magnitude high-frequency vibration (LMHFV) is a promising biophysical intervention that
      provides non-invasive, systemic mechanical stimulation. We previously conducted a randomized
      controlled trial with 710 healthy, active and independent postmenopausal women over 60 years
      old. The LMHFV group had significant improvements in reaction time, movement velocity,
      maximum excursion of balancing ability assessment and also quadriceps muscle strength
      (p<0.001). There were significantly lower fall incidences with 18.6% of 334 vibration group
      subjects compared with 28.7% of 327 control group subjects (adjusted HR=0.56, p=0.001).
      Benefits of LMHFV for balancing ability, muscle strength and risk of falling were retained 1
      year after cessation of the treatment.

      This is a randomized double-blinded placebo-controlled clinical trial to investigate the use
      of LMHFV to enhance trochanteric hip fracture healing and will provide impactful findings for
      the future management of osteoporotic fractures.

      Objectives

        1. To investigate the efficacy of LMHFV in trochanteric hip fractures on the time to
           radiological healing by conducting a randomized double-blinded placebo-controlled
           controlled clinical trial

        2. To assess the effects of LMHFV in trochanteric hip fractures compared with control on
           clinical outcomes, densitometry, blood circulation, and mortality

      Research Plan and Methodology A total of 120 unilateral trochanteric hip fracture (AO
      classification A1-A3) patients due to unintentional fall, aged 65 years or older, will be
      recruited. Patients will be randomized into either vibration or placebo group after surgical
      fixation with a cephalomedullary nail. Radiology will be taken after fixation and regular
      follow-up X-rays will be taken. CTs will also be taken to assess fracture healing. Blood
      circulation will be assessed by dynamic perfusion MR. BMD and Bone mineral content (BMC) at
      fracture site will be measured by Dual X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) scan. Clinically, vital
      signs, wound condition and pain intensity will be monitored. Functional outcomes including
      Short Form-36 (SF-36), muscle strength, Timed up and go (TUG) test and balancing ability are
      evaluated. Mortality will be documented. Throughout the study, complications and safety
      issues will be documented and in case adverse events occur, treatment will be terminated
      immediately. The above parameters will be compared between pre- and post-treatment and
      between the 2 groups.
    
  