
    
      The study will be conducted in a prospective randomized design using the patient population
      admitted to any of the general surgery services at Yale New Haven Hospital and presenting
      with the presumed diagnosis of adhesive small bowel obstruction (SBO) to Yale New Haven
      Hospital. All patients will be at least 30 days from any prior abdominal operative procedure.
      Diagnosis of SBO will be by CT scan of the abdomen thereby excluding patients with
      obstruction due to incarcerated hernias and minimizing the possibility the obstruction is due
      to malignancy, volvulus or other cause. All patients selected for non-operative management by
      the attending physician will be eligible for randomization to either the "Nasogastric Tube
      Decompression" or "No Decompression" groups. Eligible patients will be within 6 hours of
      hospital admission and not have had a naso-gastric tube (NGT) placed. Patients who have a NGT
      placed by emergency physicians prior to consultation to the emergency general surgery will be
      excluded. Patients who require NGT placement prior to being approached for enrollment or
      prior to randomization will, if agreeable, be enrolled in a prospective observational group
      of patients that will have the same data elements collected.

      Study Procedures:

      Randomization:

      Once consent from the patient or his/her surrogate has been obtained, eligible patients will
      be randomized to either the "Nasogastric Tube Decompression" or the "No Decompression" group.
      Sequentially numbered opaque sealed envelopes will be maintained in the locked office of the
      surgical critical care fellow in the surgical intensive care unit. The grouping assignment
      within these envelopes will be generated from computerized random number tables. Patients
      randomized to nasogastric decompression will have a NGT placed within one hour of
      randomization.

      Patient Management:

      If patients in the "No Decompression" group develop recurrent or intractable emesis
      unresponsive to anti-emetic medication or are deemed unsafe to be trialed with anti-emetic
      medication due to a change in mental status by the attending physician they will have an NGT
      placed and they will be followed as a third group of patients that failed management without
      NGT decompression. Recurrent and/or intractable emesis will be defined as two or more
      episodes of emesis of at least 50cc within a twelve hour period or a single large volume
      emesis of 300cc or more.

      For these patients NGT placement will not be mandatory however if patients do develop this
      volume of emesis NGT placement will be considered consistent with the protocol. Change in
      mental status will be loosely defined as the deterioration of the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) to
      less than 14, however this will remain at the discretion of the attending physician. For
      patients that have failure of NGT placement they will be managed at the discretion of the
      attending surgeon but analyzed using an intention to treat methodology.

      All other standard care for patients with SBO including intravenous fluids, correction of
      electrolytes and management of chronic medical problems will be at the discretion of the
      attending surgeon. All patients will be monitored daily with clinical examination for the
      development of complications (vomiting, worsening abdominal pain, abnormal vital signs,
      leukocytosis, fevers). Patients' subjective comfort levels will also be assessed daily in
      each group using a visual analog scale. Pain will be managed will be with IV morphine unless
      an allergy is present or develops in which case an alternative narcotic will be used based on
      the decision of the treating physician. Improvement will be followed by return of bowel
      function, improving abdominal pain and resolution of symptoms. The time taken to resolution
      of symptoms in each group will be followed, as well as the relative number of patients
      improving and deteriorating. All care decisions beyond the initial NGT placement, choice of
      anti-emetic and choice of analgesic will be at the discretion of the attending surgeon. These
      decisions may include but are not limited to NGT placement and removal, laboratory testing,
      imaging (Abdominal X-rays and/or CT scan), diet advancement, and need for operative
      intervention.

      Should a patient chose to withdraw from the study at any point after randomization management
      of the NGT will then also come within the purview of the attending physician. This may
      include placement of a NGT if the patient had been randomized to the no NGT arm or removal
      even if in the NGT was placed as part of the protocol.

      Primary Outcomes:

      1. Hospital length of stay

      Secondary Outcomes

        1. Pain level, as measured by the visual analog scale and documented by the treating nurse.
           The maximum and mean score for each day will be recorded. Pain will also be assessed by
           the amount of used.

        2. Duration of NGT use in hours.

        3. The number of abdominal and chest imaging tests prior to discharge or operation
           whichever comes first.
    
  