
    
      The popularity of arthroscopic hip surgery has increased greatly over the last 10 years,
      particularly for correcting Femoroacetabular Impingement (FAI). FAI is a structural
      abnormality of the proximal femur, the acetabulum, or both. It is a leading cause of labral
      tears in the hip joint and can cause cartilage damage, which may increase subsequent risk of
      developing osteoarthritis. Though far less invasive than open hip surgery such as for a total
      hip replacement, hip arthroscopy can cause significant postoperative pain for the patient.
      Given how relatively new the procedure still is, methods of pain control are highly variable.
      Peripheral nerve blocks, mainly femoral nerve and lumbar plexus blocks, have been used by
      some surgeons to control postoperative pain. However, in addition to their sensory effects,
      these blocks cause motor impairment that has been associated with a significantly higher risk
      of falling.

      In managing pain after any operation, opioid consumption is, of course, a significant
      concern. Ideally, hip arthroscopy patients could receive a peripheral nerve block that
      decreases pain and the need for opioids, but without the muscular weakness and increased fall
      risk observed with femoral nerve and lumbar plexus blocks. This may be achievable with the
      newer Quadratus Lumborum (QL) block.

      The ultrasound-guided QL block is currently most commonly used for abdominal surgery.

      However, several case studies of a single-injection QL block in hip replacement surgeries
      have been successful in minimizing pain and opioid use while sparing motor function and
      avoiding the muscle weakness that can lead to falls. In the approach utilized in these cases,
      local anesthetic was injected at the anterolateral border of the QL muscle to achieve
      analgesia ranging from the T6-T10 through L3 dermatomes. One group has anecdotally reported
      great success in using these QL blocks for alleviating postoperative pain with hip
      arthroscopy, but no studies to date have evaluated the effectiveness of QL blocks for
      arthroscopic hip surgery.

      This study is a randomized, controlled, double-blind trial. Patients undergoing hip
      arthroscopy who agree to participate will be randomly selected to receive an
      ultrasound-guided QL block with either local anesthetic (QL block group) or normal saline
      (control group) preoperatively.

      After surgery and during the first postoperative week, patients will record their numerical
      pain score, the location of their pain, and their opioid consumption using our attached study
      instrument. On this form, they will record their pain score at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 6, 12, 24,
      and 48 hours and 7 days after surgery. The form specifies that if patients are unable to
      record their pain score at any of these time points, particularly because they are
      sleeping/recovering, they can simply skip that time point. For pain location, patients are
      instructed to draw X's on a standard cartoon at the site of their pain. For opioid
      consumption, patients simply record when and how many pills they take. This form will be
      collected from patients at their 10-14 day postoperative visit. Data will also be collected
      from the medical chart on time to discharge and any complications in the perioperative
      period. Questionnaires will be used to assess pain, physical and social health, such as
      Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS).
    
  