
    
      The study will evaluate whether an experimental medical device that emits a series of brief,
      intense magnetic pulse will relieve foot pain from Diabetic Neuropathy (DN) if used weekly
      for a month The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved a similar
      device for treatment of migraine headaches, but this type of device has not been studied for
      the treatment of DN. No significant adverse reactions or side effects have been reported from
      the use of magnetic stimulation for the headache treatment or for the treatment of foot pain
      for about 20 patients. Some patients who have migraine headaches or foot pain have excellent
      pain relief with the magnetic treatment even if they did not get pain relief using
      medications.

      The initial safety and feasibility study did show it was both safe and effective but short
      term with most benefits wearing off after 1 week. Additionally in the initial study no
      placebo comparisons were made, therefore this study will consist of 20-blinded randomized
      patients. 10 will receive the TCMS treatment weekly and 10 will receive a sham treatment
      weekly both for 1 month.

      Investigators believe that using the device weekly will relieve the foot pain caused by
      diabetic neuropathy over the course on 1 month compared with those receiving the sham
      treatment.

      And to prove this hypothesis investigators will treat 10-blinded patients in the TCMS
      treatment group, they will be receiving active treatment as follows:

      50 pulses to the sole of the patient's left (L) foot by placing the foot on top of the device
      with the heel touching the heel stop (the rear position)

      Then followed by another 50 pulses to sole of the patient's L foot by either:

      Moving the foot forward so the toes touch the toe stop (the forward position) or By placing
      the patients' foot under the pulsing deck (the under-deck position)

      This procedure will then be repeated for the right (R) foot

      10-blinded patients in the sham treatment group will use the same device. However, device
      will be switched into sham mode by the only un-blinded clinician in the study by pressing a
      small, non-descript button on the backside of the pulse generator. The treatment device in
      sham mode will produce a clicking sound once every 6 seconds like the TCMS treatment mode,
      but no magnetic pulses will be output.

      Patients will receive the sham treatment the same as the TCMS treatment group, as described
      above and both groups will be completing a daily diary to rate and evaluate their pain and
      their quality of life for the month they participate in the study.

      One side effect of this treatment may be some muscular jerking of the foot or the toes during
      the application of the magnetic pulses. This jerking will last only during the treatment and
      will not be painful or harmful.
    
  