
    
      Severe Traumatic Brain Injury (STBI) constitutes the foremost cause of death and severe
      disability in the pediatric population. The severity of cranial trauma is evaluated by the
      Glasgow score. STBI corresponds with an initial Glasgow score of ≤ 8. The prognosis for
      patients with cranial trauma depends on the severity of the initial lesions, as well as the
      efficacy of the therapies applied to prevent, or at least limit, secondary lesions that are
      linked primarily to intracranial hypertension (ICH). Therapeutic treatments are based on the
      guidelines set by the Brain Trauma Foundation. These treatments mainly comprise heavy
      sedation known as "neurosedation" (maintaining hemodynamics, normothermia, hyperventilation,
      hyperosmolar therapy, and the administration of barbiturates).

      When these therapies are not sufficiently effective, refractory ICH occurs, which is defined
      by a maximal value of intracranial pressure (ICP) as well as a minimal value for the Cerebral
      Perfusion Pressure (CPP), which corresponds to the Arterial Pressure (AP) minus the ICP
      (CPP=AP-ICP). Decompressive craniectomy (DC) may be used to treat refractory ICH. DC consists
      of removing part of the skull, which increase the "intracranial volume", thereby resulting in
      a decrease the ICP.

      This surgical technique has been used systematically for several years to treat malignant
      ischemic stroke in adults. There have been three randomized studies to date of its use with
      STBI , of which only one was in regard to children. While decompressive craniectomy appears
      to decrease the ICP, no significant difference has been seen in adults in terms of the
      neurological outcomes when comparing patients who had an optimal medical management versus
      those who had this same treatment in conjunction with a decompressive craniectomy. Outcomes
      in children appear to be different, however, although the only randomized pediatric study had
      just 27 patients and the surgical technique that was used did not meet current standards. The
      other pediatric publications to date mostly involved series with limited numbers of cases and
      that hence do not allow conclusions to be drawn regarding the efficacy of craniectomy.

      The latest guidelines underscore the need for controlled and randomized studies to establish
      the merits of decompressive craniectomy in children. This is why the investigators are
      proposing to undertake this study.

      The main objective of this study is to compare decompressive craniectomy in association with
      an optimal medical management in children with Severe traumatic brain injury involving
      refractory intracranial hypertension, versus an optimal medical management only, in terms of
      the long-term (i.e. two year) functional neurological prognosis.

      One of the secondary objectives is to compare the efficacy of decompressive craniectomy
      associated with an optimal medical management, versus an optimal medical management only, on
      the progression of the ICP in the 24 hours following randomization. The other secondary
      objectives will be to identify possible predictive factors of success two years after the
      decompressive craniectomy that are linked with characteristics of the patient, the type of
      trauma, the initial clinical condition, brain monitoring, radiological lesions, or surgical
      procedures.

      For the main evaluation criterion, the investigators will use the functional neurological
      status of the patients at two years, which will be evaluated by the Glasgow Outcomes
      Scale-Extended Pediatric version (GOS E Peds). A satisfactory functional neurological status
      (i.e. success of the treatment) will be defined as a GOS E Peds ≥ 3.

      The duration of the expected inclusions is two years, with a total duration for the study of
      four years and six months. In a prior retrospective study with 150 patients, the
      investigators found that the rate of favorable neurological progression at two years was
      approximately 60% of the patients after a decompressive craniectomy (publication in
      progress). Extrapolation of the main series in the literature allowed us to hypothesize that
      the favorable neurological progression rate at two years for patients in the control group
      was approximately 20%.

      Thus, with a difference of 40% between the groups, a power of 80%, and an α risk=0.05; the
      number of patients required is 27 in each group. Based on our experience, in light of the
      very serious context of the pathology exhibited by these children and the risk of major
      sequelae, the investigators anticipate that few will be lost to follow-up.

      The investigators estimate that approximately 90 children corresponding with the selection
      criteria are treated annually in the centers participating in the study. Based on our
      experience from prior studies in pediatric neurosurgery, the investigators assume the
      participation rate will be about 40%. It is hence reasonable to predict that inclusion over
      two years will yield 30 patients in each group.

      Following admission to the resuscitation unit after a severe CT, all of the patients will
      undergo monitoring of their ICP and the patients will receive an initial treatment according
      to the relevant guidelines. If a patient lapses into a state of refractory ICH, compliance
      with the selection criteria will be checked, after which the study is explained to the
      parents by the anesthetist and the surgeon. If the patients agree to participate in the
      study, the patient is included in the study upon receipt of the signed informed consent, and
      the patients are randomized (by a centralized electronic randomization) into either the
      surgical group or the conservative group. The surgery will need to be performed in the 4 to 6
      hours following the randomization. In both cases, the optimal medical management is also
      pursued.

      Follow-up will initially be in the resuscitation unit and then in a hospital ward for the two
      groups. Visits at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months will be scheduled along with recordings of the
      various clinical and radiological parameters, particularly with GOS E Peds scores at 12 and
      24 months (the main criterion).
    
  