
    
      The study design was a cluster randomized trial, with randomization occurring at the team
      level within each study site. We randomized providers within each site to be trained in
      SafeCare (n = 96) or to continue to deliver SCM (n = 96) which allowed us to control for site
      differences. From a statistical power perspective, it would have been preferable to randomize
      clients to interventions, but the fact that teams at community-based organizations typically
      served a defined geographic area would have meant that home visitors within each team would
      have had to deliver two distinct interventions raising the likelihood of cross-contamination
      which, in our experience, would have not been well managed by the study. Providers that were
      randomized were invited to participate in the study by completing a survey at baseline and
      1-year follow-up which included measures of demographics, work experience, organizational
      factors (culture, climate, leadership) and individual attitudes and beliefs that may affect
      implementation and service quality. We recruited caregivers into the research study that were
      receiving services from randomized providers. Measurement of client-level outcomes were
      collected at baseline and 6-month follow up, as well as during service provision. Both
      quantitative and qualitative data were collected to capture both breadth and depth of family
      outcomes and experiences of the interventions.74 By focusing on measures of well-being, this
      study holds potential to expand the way in which the program effectiveness is conceptualized.
      This could be particularly important for dissemination of parenting programs to at-risk
      parents, who may be interested in different outcomes (e.g., improving their child's behavior)
      than child welfare systems, and findings may be useful for making interventions more
      appealing to consumers. To measure barriers and facilitators to implementing an
      evidence-based practice (EBP), we used a qualitative research strategy that included
      semi-structured interviews and focus groups with several levels of staff, responsible for
      implementing the model: program administrators, supervisors, and frontline staff (providers).
      This strategy would yield insight into an array of stakeholder perspectives concerning
      implementation. In contrast to most implementation studies, ours is the first to conduct a
      complementary set of interviews and focus groups with staff who have not been trained in SC,
      the SCM providers.
    
  