
    
      The overall objective of this study is to evaluate implementation strategies that can reduce
      the science-to-practice gap of evidence-based treatments (EBT) for mental health. Although
      evidence suggests that mental health treatments are acceptable and efficacious in
      low-and-middle income countries (LMIC) for the treatment of common mental disorders, there
      remains a gap in our understanding of how to bring these interventions to scale. A
      significant challenge is training and sustaining counselors in EBT.

      Implementation research will be performed to evaluate the effectiveness of two
      Train-the-Trainer (TTT) implementation strategies to increase and sustain the number of
      counselors in a non-inferiority design. One TTT strategy is the gold-standard of utilizing
      expert trainers to conduct in-person training and coaching to produce local trainers. The
      second strategy is technology based with much more limited involvement of expert trainers,
      utilizing tablets that function both on and offline and allow for pre-recorded teachings.
      Eight trainers, stratified by experience level, will be randomized to one of the TTT
      strategies, and subsequently complete two Common Elements Treatment Approach (CETA) trainings
      with local lay counselors. Up to 160 lay counselors trained in CETA by one of the two
      approaches will then serve between 3-5 adolescents or young adults under supervision of the
      local trainers (Up to 602 adolescents/young adults will be included in the study).

      The transdiagnostic treatment being scaled up, CETA, was effective in three randomized
      clinical trials in LMIC settings with lay providers, including in Zambia. CETA provides the
      basis for feasible scale-up through the use a single therapy to treat multiple common mental
      disorders with varying severities, an approach that is more cost-effective than implementing
      multiple single-disorder focused psychotherapy treatments in LMIC.

      The primary outcome will be counselor competency and knowledge. Secondary outcomes include
      client mental and behavioral health symptoms, trainer competency and knowledge,and
      implementation constructs of reach, acceptability, appropriateness, feasibility, and scale-up
      potential. The cost-effectiveness of the two TTT strategies will also be evaluated.

      The project will specifically strengthen the capacity of: 1) study staff to conduct mental
      health implementation science research, 2) counselor and trainers in CETA training,
      supervision and delivery, and 3) policy and decision makers to interpret and appropriately
      utilize the scientific evidence to improve mental health policies and programs. This proposal
      leverages previous studies and strong collaborations in Zambia with the Ministry of Health
      and numerous local organizations. Results from this trial will produce effectiveness and
      costing data on 2 TTT strategies that could inform the scale-up potential of diverse EBT in
      LMIC across and beyond mental health. This research study ultimately addresses both the
      treatment and implementation gaps in lower-resource settings globally.
    
  