
    
      Multiple lines of evidence support the pathogenic role of neuro-inflammation in mood
      disorders. Our team has published a series of papers showing the inflammatory cytokines are
      related to severity of depressive symptoms, could be biomarkers of clinical outcomes, subtype
      and mood phase of bipolar disorder. Compared with depressive disorder, bipolar disorder is
      with more severe inflammatory dysregulation, which correlated to brain structure and
      functional connectivity abnormality. Treatment non-responders tended to have higher baseline
      inflammatory markers, suggesting that increased levels of inflammation are contributory to
      treatment resistance. The clinical studies showed that anti-inflammatory drugs combined with
      traditional treatments, can improve clinical outcomes, including N-Acetylcysteine,
      infliximab, pioglitazone, celecoxib, aspirin, omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids,
      minocyclin, statin, aspirin. Among them, aspirin and statin have been used for treatment and
      prevention of cardiovascular metabolic disorders, which are associated with inflammation
      dysregulation. The clinical and meta-analysis studies of aspirin and statin have shown
      significant efficacy and good safety. Therefore, aspirin and statin have better clinical
      feasibility and rationality for augmentation treatment in mood disorders. However, previous
      anti-inflammatory research is mostly for individual drug studies, comparative research is
      still quite lacking. In addition, many studies have suggested anti-inflammatory agents will
      likely be most useful for the subpopulation of patients whose immune dysfunction is a driving
      pathogenic factor.

      In this study, we will establish a prediction model of anti-inflammatory drugs for mood
      disorder. Recent advances in deep learning have demonstrated its power to learn and recognize
      complex nonlinear hierarchical patterns based on largescale empirical data. A deep learning
      algorithm for classification applications such as medical treatment in personalized medicine
      is a procedure for choosing the best hypothesis from a set of alternatives that fit a set of
      observations. Our series of studies have shown that the severity of inflammation related with
      brain structure and functional connectivity abnormalities; which may be the outcome
      predictors. Another possible predictor may be the chromosome telomere length. Telomeres are
      located at the end of chromosomes and maintain normal function of chromosomes. Previous
      studies have found that short telomere length is associated with mood disorder, as well as
      the inflammatory dysregulation. Therefore, telomere length may be a predictor of
      anti-inflammatory treatment. The study will be the first comparative study of
      anti-inflammatory treatment, and establish gene-immuno-brain imaging individualized treatment
      prediction model. The results will provide important scientific and clinical empirical data
      for the inflammatory pathophysiology and treatment of mood disorders.
    
  