
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of total marrow irradiation (TMI) delivered by
           image-guided tomographic intensity-modulated radiotherapy when administered in
           combination with myeloablative chemotherapy in patients undergoing double umbilical cord
           blood (UCB) transplantation or hematopoietic stem cell for refractory acute leukemia.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the incidence of engraftment (defined as achievement of neutrophil count >
           500/uL at 42 days after transplantation).

        -  Determine the incidence of platelet engraftment at 6 months and at 1 year after
           transplantation.

        -  Evaluate the incidence of complete donor chimerism and the relative contribution of each
           UCB unit to donor engraftment within the first 100 days after transplantation.

        -  Determine the incidence of transplantation-related mortality (TRM) at 6 months after
           treatment with a TMI-containing myeloablative conditioning regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of grade II-IV and grade III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease
           (GVHD) at 100 days after transplantation.

        -  Determine the incidence of chronic GVHD at 1 year after transplantation.

        -  Determine the incidence of relapse at 1 year after transplantation.

        -  Determine the survival and disease-free survival at 1 and 2 years after transplantation.

        -  Assess the durability of remission based on presence of rapid early response (defined by
           clearance of leukemic blasts from the bone marrow at 21 days after transplantation).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of total marrow irradiation (TMI).

        -  Myeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 1
           hour once daily for 3 days between days -12 and -6 and cyclophosphamide IV once daily
           for 2 days between days -11 and -6. Patients undergo TMI once daily for 4-8 days between
           days -8 and -1.

        -  Donor umbilical cord blood (UCB) transplantation: Patients undergo single-unit or
           double-unit donor UCB transplantation on day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV
           or subcutaneously once daily beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts
           recover.

        -  Related Donor: Related donor bone marrow will be collected (target cell dose 5x10^8
           nucleated cells/kg recipient weight, minimum 3x10^8 nucleated cells/kg recipient weight)
           and infused without processing on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2
           hours or orally 2-3 times daily beginning on day -3 and continuing until day 100,
           followed by a taper until day 180, in the absence of GVHD. Patients also receive
           mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally 2-3 times daily beginning on day -3 and continuing
           until day 30 (or 7 days after engraftment), in the absence of acute GVHD.

      Patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years after transplantation.
    
  