
    
      Objective

      In childhood-onset hemidystonia, motor and sensory abnormalities pose a great challenge to
      voluntary movement. In an effort to inform future methods of treatment of this disorder, this
      study seeks to (1) characterize involuntary muscle activity, (2) explore neurophysiologic
      mechanisms of involuntary muscle activity, (3) characterize abnormalities of sensation, (4)
      assess performance on two sensorimotor tasks (voluntary postural control, and a
      reach-to-grasp arm movement), and (5) explore brain abnormalities using imaging in
      childhood-onset hemidystonia.

      Study Population

      The dystonia group will consist of 40 individuals (age 7-40 years) with childhood-onset
      hemidystonia. The control group will consist of 40 individuals within the same age range with
      no neurological disorders.

      Design

      This is a cross-sectional study, in which multiple assessments will be performed over a short
      period. Results in the dystonia group will be compared to results in the control group. Due
      to the laterality of brain injury in hemidystonia, outcomes from both arms and cortical
      hemispheres will be compared to each other. Outcomes within the dystonia group will be
      correlated with validated dystonia rating scales as well as with the age at the time of
      injury.

      Outcome Measures

      In Objective 1, we will analyze the timing of involuntary electromyographic (EMG) activity
      and kinematics triggered in the dystonic arm during various tasks. In Objective 2, we will
      investigate various types of intracortical inhibition (short intracortical inhibition, long
      intracortical inhibition, contralateral silent period, and ipsilateral silent period) and
      intracortical facilitation in motor cortical regions controlling the dystonic wrist flexor
      during voluntary contraction of the wrist extensor using transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS). In addition, we will perform a coherence analysis between EMG activity in the wrist
      flexor and extensor muscles and between electroencephalographic (EEG) activity in the primary
      motor cortex and the contralateral wrist muscles. In Objective 3, we will test tactile sense
      (spatial and temporal), vibration sense, and stereognosis of the hand. In Objective 4, we
      will analyze seated limits of stability (voluntary postural control), and the timing and
      amplitude of EMG activity and kinematics in the arm during a reaching and grasping arm
      movement. In Objective 5, we will obtain brain scans with structural magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), resting state functional connectivity MRI, and
      functional MRI during a simple task.
    
  