
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the efficacy of trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride
      (trifluridine/tipiracil) in combination with irinotecan hydrochloride (irinotecan) in
      patients with refractory biliary tract cancers using progression-free survival (PFS) at 16
      weeks.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of trifluridine/tipiracil in combination with
      irinotecan in patients with refractory biliary tract cancers through adverse event
      monitoring.

      II. Further explore the efficacy of trifluridine/tipiracil in combination with irinotecan in
      patients with refractory biliary tract cancers by overall response rates (ORR), disease
      control rates (DCR), and overall survival (OS).

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH:

      I. To determine if the number of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) or the level of cell-free
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) at baseline is prognostic or predictive to the response
      to therapy.

      II. To determine if changes in CTCs or cfDNA correlate with efficacy endpoints. III. To
      determine if drug response from a parallel ex vivo trial using patient-derived tumor organoid
      correlates with clinical response to trifluridine/tipiracil plus irinotecan.

      IV. To evaluate the role of thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) in predicting the clinical benefit of
      trifluridine/tipiracil plus irinotecan and discover potential mechanisms of resistance using
      patient-derived tumor organoid and pre-treatment biopsy specimen.

      EXPLORATORY RESEARCH:

      I. To evaluate patients who received prior treatment with fluorouracil (5-FU) independently
      from the entire population in the following areas: PFS, safety and tolerability, ORR, DCR,
      and OS.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on
      days 1-5 and irinotecan hydrochloride (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months
      for up to 2 years after study registration.
    
  