
    
      Leukemia is the most common form of cancer (29%) in children, adolescents, and young adults
      (AYA) (CNIB Report, 2017). Current treatments for leukemia (conventional chemotherapy or
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation) can lead to significant side effects, acute or
      chronic, which can lead to impaired physical abilities and reduced quality of life for
      patients in short, medium or long term. For children and AYA with cancer, adapted physical
      activity (APA) is now recommended even if the scientific evidence of its benefit is still
      insufficient. However, some publications show clearly the benefits of an APA program for this
      population. It is important to note that these studies (and therefore the evaluated APA
      programs) were carried out during hospitalization, where a significant sedentary situation
      was reported in children/AYA with cancer, especially on their return home. The main barriers
      to the practice of APA, recently described in the literature, are: 1 / Patient's distance
      from the health center (geographical and social inequality); 2 / Insufficient involvement of
      the family environment (social inequality); 3 / Social rupture of the child / AYA. To
      neutralize these particularly marked inequalities in post-cancer period, the introduction of
      a home-based APA program represents an innovative and relevant solution. Thus, Ross et al.
      (2018) reported that 91% (out of 1500 participants) of children / AYAs with cancer wish to
      engage in physical activity at home regardless the time of the care course. In addition, the
      use of new information and communication technologies (ICT) such as videoconferencing does
      not constitute a barrier to the practice of APA for this young population familiar with
      connected tools. The practice of APA could even be an important lever in the fight against
      sedentary lifestyle by inducing a long-term change in behavior. In order to achieve these
      objectives, the APA programs in children/AYA with cancer should meet 3 major criteria: 1 /
      Professionally supervised sessions; 2 / Progressive increase in number and intensity of
      sessions; 3 / Accompanying the patient to an independent practice of regular physical
      activity. To date, the studies reported in literature have proposed "APA follow-ups" at home
      only by mail, telephone or via internet applications. Their effects appear limited on
      physical capacities for children/AYAs with cancer. However, according to these authors,
      setting up a home-based APA program through the use of ICTs would maximize the benefits on
      the physical capabilities and quality of life of all these patients. To the investigator's
      knowledge, no study has yet been conducted to evaluate the feasibility of such a program, and
      its consequences on patients.
    
  