
    
      Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) is becoming increasingly prevalent,
      yet diagnostics, characterization and prognosis of the disease is still uncertain. Multiple
      contributing factors have been implicated in the development of HFpEF such as but not limited
      to myocardial fibrosis, myocardial edema, ventricular remodeling, metabolic dysfunction,
      coronary microvascular dysfunction, ischemia, systemic effects and associated
      ventricular-arterial coupling. However, how the longitudinal progression of these factors is
      associated with HFpEF and whether a causal effect between the pathologic features in HFpEF
      exist, is not fully understood.

      Using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR), multiple cardiac and extracardiac parameters
      can be investigated in a single non-invasive imaging exam. This will be a single-centre
      prospective observational longitudinal study with the formation of a database. Patients will
      undergo a comprehensive CMR exam upon recruitment, 1- and 5-years after enrolment, and also
      if re-hospitalisation for heart failure occurs. This exam will investigate multiple measures
      of cardiovascular function, myocardial deformation, edema, fibrosis and oxygenation, 4D
      haemodynamical assessments, along with measurements of the aorta, liver and spleen.
      Furthermore, clinical data will be collected for the patients for the creation of a HFpEF
      database (ie. patient characteristics, Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ), HF
      and risk scores, laboratory biomarkers, diagnostic results). With this study, the
      investigator will be able to quantify longitudinal changes in CMR features within the HFpEF
      population, and investigate what features are associated with poor prognosis. The data
      collected will lead to a greater understanding of HFpEF, and hopefully show which clinical or
      imaging features can be used to identify, and better risk stratify this heterogenous
      population.
    
  