
    
      Our approach specifically targets the evaluation of the proteins and cytokines present and
      the bacteriological analysis of the microflora in the vaginal milieu.

      Conjectures:

        -  An initial insult in the vagina (possibly involving a bacterial, viral or fungal
           organism or their products) causes modifications in the vaginal milieu

        -  The vaginal milieu responds to the insult by developing an inflammatory reaction
           characterized by cytokine and protein production

        -  Long lasting or repetitive insults maintain biochemical changes in the vaginal milieu
           producing a reaction, chemical irritation or micro flora alteration by changes in
           proteins and/or abnormal protein production

        -  Those changes eventually result in hypersensitivity, irritation, burning, and pain
           manifested in patients with vulvodynia. And those changes may also result in the
           recurrence of fungal or bacterial infections

        -  Those changes may also contribute to initiate the cascade of premature events conducting
           to cervical effacement and dilation observed in preterm labor

      The conjectures will be investigated by using a multidisciplinary approach including:
      microbiology, proteomics and cytokines evaluation of the vaginal milieu. Specifically we will
      be comparing an asymptomatic female population to serve as a baseline to patients affected by
      vulvodynia, recurrent fungal or bacterial vaginosis and/or pregnancy.

      This is a prospective, descriptive study of about 550 women age 12 to 75 years. There will be
      four groups: 1) Asymptomatic healthy women, 2) Women being seen for any gynecological
      vulvovaginal condition, and 3) Pregnant women who are asymptomatic and healthy, and 4)
      Pregnant women have any gynecological vulvovaginal condition.

      We will evaluate the following:

        -  Types of cytokines normally present in women and in patients with vulvodynia, recurrent
           fungal and bacterial vaginosis and preterm labor

        -  Normal microbiology flora in women and variations present in the vaginal milieu in these
           patients

        -  The presence of normal and atypical proteins in the vaginal milieu of healthy women and
           patients with vulvodynia, recurrent fungal and bacterial vaginosis and preterm labor

        -  Informed consent will be obtained and documented for participation in the study

        -  Comprehensive history assessment of environmental factors, topical vulvovaginal issues
           and co morbid conditions as defined in the exclusion criteria.

        -  Pelvic examination to obtain two samples via cotton swabs for proteomics, cytokines,
           vaginal lactobacillus from vaginal secretions.

      A. Swab procedure:

      The cotton swabs (2) will be introduced only in the middle vagina, one at the time, no other
      areas will be sampled.

      B. Swab processing One swab will be placed in a special room temperature solution. This
      de-identified swab will be mailed for Lactobacillus.

      The second de-identified swab is to be place in 2 separated micro-containers in Liquid
      Nitrogen Containers (one for cytokines and one for Proteomics). When 50 samples are completed
      they will be processed at TTUHSC Permian Basin campus, with the Proteomics testing being done
      in Lubbock.

      Therefore, there are 3 samples, each processed differently. Data will be recorded in a
      confidential manner with no personal identifiers, only an assigned study subject number. As
      such, the de-identified data may serve as a database for additional studies. The computer
      used will belong to TTUHSC and be password protected, access limited to only authorized
      personnel. Consent forms will be stored separately from the study data in the research
      office.
    
  