
    
      We will be developing a genomic based signature of "BRCAness" based on literature of genomic
      signatures from women with breast cancer and germline BRCA mutations.The "BRCAness" breast
      cancer signature will differentiate germline BRCA 1/2 breast cancers from standard
      estrogen-receptor (+) breast cancers. We will obtain a library of genomic signatures Recently
      these techniques have been used to develop a transcriptional "signature" for androgen
      receptor (AR) activity in men with CRPC(Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer). The
      investigator will apply the "BRCAness" breast cancer signature to pathological prostate
      cancer specimens to determine the percentage of patients in the overall prostate cancer
      population that express this signature, as well as the clinical and histological phenotype of
      this population.

      This novel prostate cancer "BRCAness" signature will be developed over a period of 4-6
      months. This "BRCAness" signature has not previously been evaluated in prostate cancer
      patients and would be expected, based on known characteristics of BRCA mutant breast and
      ovarian cancers, to be more platinum-responsive. Relevant clinical data, including histology,
      grade, stage, size of residual tumor, recurrence, and survival, will be obtained from
      outpatient and inpatient charts to perform subsequent correlative studies.

      All patients enrolled in the phase II clinical trial with satraplatin will have pre-treatment
      biopsies of metastatic sites. All of the specimens will be frozen, batched and stored as
      previously described. We anticipate that all patients will be enrolled 16 months from when
      the trial opens. When the last patient is enrolled in the trial and all of the metastatic
      biopsies have been collected, they will be shipped in bulk on dry ice to laboratory for
      RNA(ribonucleic acid) isolation, RNA quality assessment and processing, microarray
      hybridization, microarray data quality assessment, and "BRCAness" prostate cancer signature
      application. Frozen biopsies will be processed for microarray analysis using laser capture
      microdissection and RNA amplification using adaptations of previously published methods. The
      application of the prostate cancer BRCAness signature will take place over two months.
    
  