
    
      For this project, we will continue to gain mechanistic insight into age-related muscle loss
      and to maximize the utility of the tissue we previously collected (Claude D. Pepper Older
      Americans Independence Center (OAIC); Skeletal muscle apoptosis and physical performance;
      Oxidative RNA/DNA damage and repair in aged human muscle (Developmental Study), IRB #
      429-2005) and we will collect muscle tissue from additional young subjects. This project will
      specifically test whether inflammatory pathways and DNA repair mechanisms are altered and/or
      involved in the development of sarcopenia and the related decline in physical function
      observed in the elderly.

      Aim 1. We will further determine the association of skeletal muscle mass and function with
      intramuscular mediators of inflammation. Focus will be on inflammatory proteins (e.g.,TNF,
      TNFR1, pIkBα, pIKKb, CCL2, ZIP14, ZnT2) and genes (e.g., IL-6, TNFa, IL11β, IL-8, CCL2, CCR2,
      NFkB p50, NFkB p65, ZIP14) and metals (e.g., copper, zinc, and iron). We hypothesize that the
      majority of these markers will be upregulated in muscle from older individuals when compared
      to young.

      Aim 2. For the first time, we will determine the age related effect of DNA damage on pattern
      and dynamics of mRNA translation in human muscle tissue by genome wide analysis using
      "ribosome profiling." The recently developed deep-sequencing techniques of RNA-seq and
      "ribosome profiling" will be implemented on human muscle. This will allow us to explore on a
      genomic scale and at single-nucleotide resolution, the effect of age-related DNA damage on
      transcriptional fidelity and translational kinetics. Importantly, for the first time, these
      phenotype changes will be compared with genome mapping of DNA damage, a major factor driving
      mammalian aging. We hypothesize that older muscle has greater modification of translational
      patterns compared to young muscle.

      Muscle tissue samples remaining following the completion of this research will be stored and
      used in the future to explore new avenues of research related to aging.
    
  