
    
      Acute bronchiolitis is a viral infection that occurs in children most commonly in the first 2
      years of life and is characterized by respiratory symptoms, resulting in wheezing and/or
      crackles upon auscultation. It is usually a self limiting illness. However, this condition
      may be associated with several severe complications, such as apnea,respiratory failure, or
      secondary bacterial infection. Bronchiolitis is a significant cause of respiratory disease
      worldwide. according to the World Health Organization bullet in, an estimated 150 million new
      cases occur annually; 11-20 million (7-13%) of these cases are severe enough to require
      hospital admission. Worldwide, 95% of all cases occur in developing countries. Typically,
      initial clinical manifestations include upper respiratory tract symptoms such as cough, nasal
      congestion, and low-grade fever lasting 1 to 3 days, followed by expiratory wheezing, nasal
      flaring, fine crackles, oxygen saturation on presentation<94%, tachypnea, increased work of
      breathing, use of accessory muscles, and retractions in some patients. The need for
      hospitalization depends on the presence of respiratory symptoms (degree of retractions,
      increased respiratory effort, decreased oxygen saturation), cyanosis, restlessness or
      lethargy, and underlying disease states, including apnea. Since no definitive antiviral
      therapy exists for most causes of bronchiolitis, management of these infants should be
      directed toward symptomatic relief and maintenance of hydration and oxygenation. One
      medication that has demonstrated promising results in the management of acute bronchiolitis
      is nebulized hypertonic saline , Its hyperosmolarity helps to absorb water from the mucosal
      and submucosal space, thereby increasing mucociliary function by clearing fluids accumulated
      in the airway and mucus plugs in the lungs. Hypertonic saline can also induce cough to help
      enhance mucus clearance. The American Academy Of Pediatrics guidelines recommend
      administration of hypertonic saline in hospitalized bronchiolitis patients. The most common
      dosage studied is hypertonic saline 3% 4 mL per dose inhaled by nebulizer every 4 to 6 hours,
      which may take ≥24 hours to work and is typically continued while the child is hospitalized.
    
  