
    
      This proposed project is designed to evaluate and provide direct evidence for the clinical
      effectiveness of the Bounce Back: Reclaim your Health (BB) project currently implemented in
      17 communities in British Columbia (BC). BB is an innovative mental health service in the
      health care system designed to help patients participate in their own care by teaching them
      the sufficient and necessary skills to manage their moods. This BB program, led by the
      Canadian Mental Health Association's BC Division, offers mental health support to primary
      care patients suffering from mild to moderate depression. BB is a low intensity, high
      capacity program, based on cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) self-help materials Overcoming
      Depression, Low Mood and Anxiety: A five areas approach (OD - comprising psycho-educational
      DVD and self-help mood improvement workbook). The content of these self-help materials was
      adapted to a BC context for the BB program. In addition, in order to best meet the needs of
      BC primary care patients, this new mental health service is delivered to patients in their
      own homes and patients' use of the OD self-help materials is supported via trained telephone
      coaches. Telephone coaches are non-specialists trained and monitored by a registered
      psychologist. Coaching enables patients to engage with and get the most out of the materials.
      The advantages of telephone coaching include privacy, accessibility, and convenience,
      especially for those patients living in rural areas and can not access treatment due to
      geographic barriers; those who do not seek treatment due to stigma; or those who are coping
      with chronic physical illness and multiple medical appointments. There is only indirect
      support for the effectiveness of the BB program. Thus, this proposed project is designed to
      evaluate and provide direct evidence of the effectiveness of the BB program.
    
  