
    
      Heart failure is a growing epidemic in the United States. Heart failure is associated with
      shortness of breath, reduced exercise tolerance, and manifestations of peripheral fluid
      retention. As the disease progresses, there is development of cardiac dyssynchrony (failure
      of the heart to act as one unit) in the electrical and mechanical functions of the
      myocardium.

      During implantation of a cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) device,
      three electrical wires are placed in the right atrium (RA), right ventricle (RV) and coronary
      venous system that drains blood from the left ventricle (LV). The LV lead is placed in the
      posterolateral tributaries of the coronary venous system using special delivery tools. Pacing
      therapies to resynchronize the heart have been shown to improve functional class and
      mortality in patients with severe heart failure i.e. New York Heart Association (NYHA) class
      III and IV functional status. Current indications for cardiac resynchronization therapy
      (CRT-D) include severe cardiomyopathy (Ejection Fraction < 35%), with shortness of breath at
      rest or minimal exertion (NYHA class II, IV), prolonged QRS > 130ms on surface echocardiogram
      (ECG) and life expectancy more than one year. CRT-D therapy results in decrease of heart
      failure admissions and improvements in quality of life.

      Response to CRT is associated with improvement in functional status by one NYHA functional
      class schema or by evidence of reverse remodeling (decrease in end systolic LV dimension by
      15%). However across clinical trials, a third of the patients are non-responders to CRT
      therapy. Non-ischemic etiology of heart failure and presence of electrical dyssynchrony on
      surface ECG suggested by QRS >150ms are associated with better response with CRT. Non
      response to CRT can be due to inappropriate patient selection, inappropriate device
      programming, and inappropriate lead placement. However, inappropriate lead placement is the
      factor that can be changed during device implantation. Adverse changes in morality and heart
      failure can occur with sub-optimal position of the LV lead. Most echocardiographic parameters
      to predict responders were not clinically useful. Appropriate positioning near the area of
      the heart with latest activation (usually posterolateral segment of the left ventricle) is
      associated with better response. Inter-ventricular delay as measured by the time delay
      between the two leads in the left and right ventricles (RV-LV delay) was shown to be a better
      predictor of response. Interval from the first deflection of the surface ECG to the bipolar
      electrogram (QLV interval) can be used as a surrogate to identify the delayed segments of the
      left ventricle. Preliminary studies have shown better response using this approach of lead
      placement in the regions of latest activation. SMART AV study which used a similar algorithm
      in assessing delay also showed a trend for better response using QLV interval. However, the
      fluoroscopic lead position was not correlated with QLV interval for that study. We plan to
      measure this area of delayed activation to target effective lead placement and map the
      coronary veins to target the longest QLV interval in each patient.

      For this study, medical history and demographic information will be collected from patients
      as well as clinical information from the procedure. The QLV measurements will be collected
      prior to implant of LV lead. The QLV interval is defined as the measurement from the onset of
      the QRS width of the surface ECG to the first large positive or negative peak of the LV
      electrogram (EGM) during a cardiac cycle. QLV EGM will be taken from either the LV pacing
      lead and/or .014 wire. QLV EGM's will be measured at three distinct points (basal, mid, and
      distal) within each target vessel. Each data point will be the average of four to six beats
      to allow for respiratory variance, and recorded using the Bard mapping system. The final lead
      position will be the area of vein that has the longest QLV interval with appropriate sensing
      and pacing thresholds. The QLV measurements will be conducted, in addition to all standard of
      care procedures for CRT-D implantation for patients enrolled in the clinical trial.
    
  