
    
      Study Population During the study period helical thin-section thoracic CT scans will obtained
      in patients in whom a diagnosis of bronchiectasis was known or who were suspected of having
      bronchiectasis on the basis of clinical symptoms and signs of a chronic cough and sputum
      production.

      One chest radiologist will review consecutive patients with bilateral multifocal
      bronchiectasis and bronchiolitis (well-defined small nodules and branching centrilobular
      nodules), regardless of the presence of cavitary lesions, who were suspected of having NTM
      pulmonary infection on the basis of these chest CT findings. Those patients with unilateral
      bronchiectasis, although the bronchiectasis was combined with bronchiolitis, will be excluded
      from the study. Those with isolated findings of bilateral bronchiectasis or bilateral
      bronchiolitis will also also be excluded.

      The patients will undergo a diagnostic work-up for NTM pulmonary infection. For a diagnosis
      of NTM infection, sputum AFB (Ziehl-Neelsen method) staining and culture examinations for
      mycobacteria will be performed at least three times. Bronchoscopy also will be performed for
      bronchial washing or transbronchial lung biopsy in patients with no sputum.

      Isolation and Identification of Mycobacteria Expectorated sputum and samples that will be
      obtained with bronchoscopy will be examined after AFB staining and will be cultured for
      mycobacteria. Colony numbers will be counted after incubation for as long as 8 weeks.
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates will be identified (Gen-Probe Amplified Mycobacterium
      Tuberculosis Direct Test; Gen-Probe, San Diego, Calif), and NTM species identification will
      be confirmed by using a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism
      method based on the rpoB gene (16). In all cases, sputum examinations and bronchoscopic
      samples will be obtained within 6 months after CT.

      Diagnostic Criteria The diagnosis of definite NTM pulmonary infection will be determined when
      patients fulfilled the 1997 American Thoracic Society diagnostic criteria, which include
      clinical, radiologic, and microbiologic criteria (1). Probable NTM pulmonary infection will
      be diagnosed if the patients will be satisfied the clinical and radiologic criteria of the
      1997 American Thoracic Society diagnostic criteria but will not fully satisfy the
      microbiologic criteria. Namely, the patients either will have only one or two cultures
      positive for organisms specifically identified as NTM with smear results negative for AFB or
      had more than three cultures positive for NTM without precise species identification; in
      addition, the patients will have symptoms and radiologic evidence of disease, which consisted
      of bilateral bronchiectasis and bronchiolitis. A diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis will be
      made when patients will have a culture positive for M tuberculosis.

      The clinical diagnostic criteria for diffuse panbronchiolitis will be as follows (17): (a)
      symptoms-chronic cough, sputum, and dyspnea on exertion; (b) physical signs-crackles and
      rhonchi; (c) chest radiographs-diffusely disseminated fine nodular opacities, mainly in the
      lower zones of the lung, with hyperinflation of the lungs; (d) lung function studies, with at
      least three of the following four abnormalities-forced expiratory volume in 1 second of less
      than 70%, vital capacity of less than 80% of the predicted value, residual volume of more
      than 150% of the predicted value, and partial pressure of oxygen (arterial) of less than 80
      mm Hg. When no definite cause will be identified after evaluation of the causative factors,
      patients will received a diagnosis of bronchiectasis or nonspecific bronchiolitis.

      Chart Review The medical records of all patients will be reviewed by one of the authors for
      the following information, if available: height, body weight, history of tobacco use, history
      of previous antituberculous treatment, results of AFB staining, isolation and identification
      of mycobacteria, and the number of NTM-positive isolates.

      Imaging Evaluation Chest radiologists will retrospectively evaluate the chest CT scans. The
      observer will be unaware of the microbiologic test results and final diagnoses;

      A total of six lung lobes in each patient (the lingular segment will be considered a separate
      lobe) will be assessed for the presence of lung lesions and other abnormal findings. Each
      lobe in the lungs will be evaluated with regard to the presence or absence of bronchiectasis,
      well-defined small nodules (<10 mm in diameter), and branching centrilobular nodules (ie,
      tree-in-bud pattern). Bronchiolitis will be defined as the presence of well-defined small
      nodules and branching centrilobular nodules on chest CT scans. The extents of involvement of
      bronchiectasis and bronchiolitis will be estimated by counting the number of involved lobes.
      The presence of other abnormalities, including nodules (10-30 mm in diameter), lobular
      consolidation (consolidation of 10-20 mm in diameter with a polygonal shape), segmental
      consolidation, cavities, and volume reduction, will be also recorded.

      Comparison between Patients with NTM Disease and Patients with Non-NTM Disease After
      classification of patients according to the previously mentioned diagnostic criteria, the
      patients will be categorized into two groups: the NTM pulmonary infection group, including
      the patients with definite or probable NTM pulmonary infection, and the non-NTM pulmonary
      infection group. Comparisons of the clinical and chest CT findings in patients with NTM
      diseases with those in patients with other airway diseases will be determined.

      Statistical Analysis Values are expressed as the mean ± standard deviation. By stratifying
      the age distribution of included patients according to birth sex and decades of patients'
      ages, the investigators will be tested whether there will be statistically significant
      differences between the distributions by using the χ2 test. All continuous variables will be
      tested for normality with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, and all had a Gaussian distribution.
      To statistically evaluate differences in continuous variables between the two groups, the
      investigators will use the unpaired t test. Frequencies will be analyzed by using the χ2 test
      or the Fisher exact test, as appropriate. A difference with a P value of less than .05 will
      be considered statistically significant. Statistical software (SPSS 11.0; SPSS, Chicago, Ill)
      will be used throughout.
    
  