
    
      Alcohol use disorder is a persistent public health concern. Approximately 16 million
      Americans met criteria for alcohol use disorder in 2015, with the annual economic impact of
      excessive drinking estimated at $250 billion. Alcohol use can also interact with other licit
      (e.g., cigarettes) and illicit (e.g., cocaine) substances to increase health risks . At least
      half of all violent crimes involve alcohol consumption and problem drinking plays an
      important role in domestic abuse and intimate partner violence . These evident economic,
      health, and social implications of alcohol misuse highlight the importance of understanding
      determinants of alcohol use behaviors and developing interventions designed to address
      maladaptive patterns of use.

      Cognitive training to address alcohol and other substance use disorders has received a great
      deal of attention in the interventions development literature. Training may be broadly
      divided into two classes: 1) cognitive bias modification and response inhibition (i.e.,
      inhibitory control) and 2) working memory interventions. Inhibitory control training attempts
      to retrain prepotent responses away from drug-related cues by specifically pairing those cues
      with no-go signals in training tasks. Working memory training uses cognitive-behavioral tasks
      (e.g., letter/digit strings, visual search, n-back) to improve information maintenance and
      manipulation. These brief interventions hold particular appeal because they may be easily
      incorporated into comprehensive approaches to substance use treatment. For example, cognitive
      improvements due to brief training may improve engagement with and attention to
      cognitive-behavioral therapy and compliance with homework and other program-related
      activities. Generally speaking, training has consistently demonstrated improvements on the
      trained or similar tasks as well as related concepts (e.g., delay discounting is improved
      after working memory training). Improvements in dissimilar tasks or different domains are not
      consistently observed, however, and clinical measures, such as drug use, have seen mixed
      outcomes.

      A significant limitation of the extant literature is the relatively small samples typically
      evaluated (i.e., 20-40 subjects per condition). It is likely that the effects of cognitive
      training are of a small-to-medium effect size, however, the relatively low costs of training
      procedures mean that small effect sizes may not preclude clinical utility. It is also likely
      that individual characteristics will moderate the utility of these interventions for
      impacting substance use or related negative health behaviors. The use of small samples
      precludes testing these types of moderators with adequate statistical power as does the
      recruitment of comparably homogeneous samples (e.g., student samples, individuals from a
      single addiction clinic).

      An emerging method addressing these concerns is crowdsourcing. Crowdsourcing, such as on
      Amazon.com's Mechanical Turk (mTurk), allows for the effective and efficient sampling of
      diverse subjects. We have previously demonstrated a close correspondence between in-person
      and online findings using mTurk in substance use research providing support for the validity
      of the resource. We have also recently demonstrated feasibility, acceptability, and validity
      of conducting intensive longitudinal research related to substance use on this platform.
      Demonstrating the feasibility and acceptability of applying cognitive training methods
      through mTurk would help establish this setting for future large sample studies testing novel
      interventions and/or individual characteristic moderating intervention efficacy.

      The purpose of this study is to test the feasibility and acceptability of delivering
      cognitive training over mTurk. Subjects will be randomized to a 1) inhibitory control
      training condition, 2) working memory training condition, or 3) control training condition.
      Recent studies have also demonstrated the feasibility and potential efficacy of delivering
      brief normative feedback to reduce alcohol consumption through mTurk. In these brief
      interventions, subjects are provided information about their drinking compared to their same
      age and gendered peers. Approximately half of the subjects in each cognitive training group
      will receive normative feedback to evaluate effects on alcohol consumption and possible
      interactions with cognitive training. This study will focus on alcohol use given the ease and
      clinical acceptance of alcohol use self-report as a primary outcome.
    
  