
    
      Background: Care for pregnant and delivering women is a field where unexpected emergencies,
      as for example emergency caesarean sectio, postpartum bleeding or severe preeclampsia, that
      may potentially harm both mother and baby, occur. Obstetric emergencies are rare and hence by
      nature difficult to learn in real life. Therefore, it can be relevant with simulation-based
      medical education, i.e., training with mannequins and scenarios. In non-systematic reviews it
      is concluded that repetitive medical simulations are associated with improved learner
      outcomes. However, many questions on how simulation can optimise learning in emergencies
      remain unanswered; e.g., how different kinds of simulation settings as 'in situ simulation'
      versus 'off site simulation' impact learning at the individual and the team level.

      Objectives: In a randomised trial on authentic obstetric-anaesthesia teams to study the
      effect of 'in situ simulation' versus 'off site simulation' on participants learning outcome,
      safety-attitudes, team performance plus motivational and stress inducing effect of different
      simulation settings and the potential association with learning and performance.

      Interventions: The experimental intervention is training in 'in situ simulation' which means
      training in the actual patient care unit, in this situation the labour suite and operation
      theatre. The control group will receive the same training 'off site simulation', i.e., in
      training rooms away from the actual patient care unit. In the two different simulation
      settings, the same scenarios will be conducted and the participants will comprise of
      authentic teams of specialised obstetricians or obstetric trainees in their final training
      year, trainee obstetricians, midwifes, auxiliary nurses, specialised anaesthetists or
      anaesthesia trainees in their final training year, trainee anaesthetists, anaesthesia nurses,
      and surgical nurses.

      Design and trial size: Single-centre investigator-initiated randomised superiority trial. We
      have chosen to calculate the required sample size based on experiences about knowledge tests.
      We assume a standard deviation at 24%, and a difference in the experimental and control means
      at 17%. With alpha set at 0.05, beta set at 0.80 and intraclass correlation at 0,05 the
      sample size added up to 93 participants. It is planned to include 100 participants.

      Outcomes: Primary outcome: 1) Knowledge by written test as multiple choice questions.

      Exploratory outcomes: 1) Safety Attitudes Questionnaire SAQ). 2) Team performance score
      measured by Team Emergency Assessment Measure (TEAM). 3) Clinical performance in the
      simulated setting. 4) Salivary cortisol. 5) Validated stress inventory (Stress-Trait Anxiety
      Inventory (STAI-1) and cognitive appraisal). 6) Intrinsic Motivation Inventory (IMI). 7)
      Questionnaire to evaluate participants' perceptions of the simulation, the debriefing, and
      changes needed at the organisational level.

      Time schedule: 2 years with start planning 1st of April 2012. Randomisation will start after
      approval from the Regional Ethics Committee and the Danish Data Protection Agency. The
      intervention with 'in situ simulation' versus 'on site simulation' described in this protocol
      will be scheduled spring 2013.
    
  