
    
      Methods: This study is comprised of a pre/ post-test quasi-experimental design evaluation of
      the ATTACH™ program as well as an examination of implementation feasibility via Normalization
      Process Theory (NPT). While Objective 1 will be addressed first, Objective 2 will begin soon
      after so that information gathered in Objective 2 may be used to tailor the implementation in
      Objective 1 as appropriate.

      Research Question & Objectives: The proposed research has the following two (quantitative and
      qualitative) arms: Objective 1 (Quantitative component): To evaluate community agencies
      delivered ATTACH™ impacts on: (1a) parent-child relationship quality, parental RF and child
      development, (1b) different patient populations (for whom program works best/worst), (1c)
      immune biomarkers indicative of inflammatory disease risk, i.e. gene expression and DNA
      methylation, (1d) health professionals' adherence to ATTACH™ program, via fidelity
      assessment, and (1e) outcomes 3 months post-intervention. Objective 2 (Qualitative
      component): To evaluate health care professionals' and administrators' perceptions and
      experiences of: (2a) intervention uptake and fidelity, (2b) implementation benefits,
      facilitators, barriers and challenges, and (2c) utility of ATTACH™ e-learning platform. The
      study participants can not be enrolled in the program without being in the research.

      Objective 1: A quasi-experimental design was selected to more closely approximate service
      delivery models in agencies that do not typically employ control groups. We will intervene
      with 100 new patients and their birth to 36 month-old children, a sufficient sample size to
      detect minimum effect size (d=.34) for pre-intervention/post-intervention differences from
      the primary outcome of parent-child relationship quality, from the five community agencies.
      We plan to recruit 20 families (including parents, co-parents and children) from each agency.

      Objective 2: NPT is used to uncover factors that interfere with the routine incorporation of
      interventions into health care. Thus, NPT is the ideal theory to guide our approaches
      including qualitative semi-structured interviews and analyses. NPT will enable the
      exploration of patients', health care professionals' and health system administrators'
      perceptions and experiences of intervention uptake and fidelity as well as the benefits,
      facilitators, barriers and challenges to ATTACH™ implementation by community agencies,
      including perceptions of the fidelity assessment tool and e-learning training.

      Setting: Settings include Alcove Addiction Recovery, CUPS Calgary, Discovery House Women's
      Shelter, Sonshine Community Centre, and Steinbach Family Resource Centre, MB. Other
      interested agencies will also be involved. Patients, health care professionals and
      administrators from each agency will be recruited via convenience sampling methods to take
      part in one-on-one interviews. We plan to recruit 20 patients, 20 health care professionals
      and 20 administrators (total n= 60) at the participating agencies. However recruitment and
      data collection will continue until theoretical data saturation, i.e. the degree to which new
      data repeats or is redundant with what was expressed in previous data. We will employ a
      stopping rule: Data collection in a category (patient, health care professional, and health
      care administrator) will cease when three interviews in a row offer less than 5% new
      information. Only deidentified data will be sent by the participating agencies. Basic
      demographic data will be collected from stakeholders (patients, health care professionals,
      and administrators), including age, sex, employment and education. Using NPT in implementing
      complex interventions like ATTACH™, requires development of an interview guide addressing the
      four NPT concepts: coherence (meaning and sense making of ATTACH™ by participants), cognitive
      participation (commitment and engagement by participants), collective action (work the
      participants do to make ATTACH™ function), and reflexive monitoring (reflection of ATTACH™).

      In finalizing the interview guide and developing the interview processes (e.g. home or clinic
      setting, telephone/web-conference, Zoom or in-person), the Patient Engagement Committee (PEC)
      and Community Engagement Committee (CEC) members will be engaged in review, feedback and
      decision making. The interview guide will be used for staff and patients and will be pilot
      tested before use. Interviews will be audio-recorded and transcribed verbatim with
      appropriate privacy protections in place to guard participant identity and personal
      information. Data analysis will occur in two parts. First, interviews will be transcribed and
      coded as soon as interviews are completed and examined for "nuggets" or key learnings that
      offer guidance to implementation in agencies. These nuggets will be shared with the Executive
      Team, PEC and CEC (especially relevant agency health care professionals and administrators)
      and discussed so that appropriate adjustments may be made to facilitate ATTACH™ normalization
      in agencies. Second, all transcripts will be coded using the stages of thematic analysis
      including familiarization, coding, theme development and data reporting. Theme and sub-theme
      development will be deductive, using a priori codes dictated by interview questions in order
      to explain factors that promote or inhibit interventions from being embedded in agency
      practice. As new interviews are undertaken, data will be examined to determine degree of data
      saturation. Two trainees will code the data, supervised by Letourneau, who is experienced in
      qualitative data analysis. Inter-rater reliability will be assessed and reported with Cohen's
      kappa coefficients; disagreements will be resolved by consensus. Data will be managed with
      QSR International NVivo12. Once themes and sub-themes are finalized, findings will be
      summarized in a draft report and shared with key informants as a validation check.
    
  