
    
      In the UK alone, approximate 100,000 people suffer a stroke each year. Improved management of
      stroke patients not only reduces morbidity and mortality, but also reduces the cost of long
      term social care. The brain has control systems (i.e. cerebral autoregulation) to maintain
      blood flow to the brain, over a relatively wide blood pressure range. Cerebral Autoregulation
      can be described as static, reflecting the integrity of such mechanisms over time, or
      dynamic, occurring in response to sudden fluctuations in perfusion pressure. When blood
      pressure drops, small arteries increase in size to restore flow levels, and when blood
      pressure rises, they narrow to protect the most delicate blood vessels. it is known that
      sudden decompensated blood pressure changes can occur after stroke, this could result in
      brain bleeding and swelling where there is a reduced blood flow to the brain.

      It is known that the clotbusting agent (Alteplase), the main effective treatment used in the
      acute stroke can improve blood flow in already blocked arteries in 50% of patients. However,
      as it is a powerful drug that dissolves clots, there is a risk that it may cause bleeding
      (haemorrhage) in the body. This is most serious when it occurs in the brain, either in the
      region of the stroke or another part of the brain, which if serious, could lead to greater
      disability or even death. To date, there has been little information regarding the natural
      history and prognostic significance of impaired cerebral autoregulation during and following
      restoration of brain blood flow (reperfusion), especially those who received clotbusting
      agent (Alteplase). There are also conflicting findings between animal and human models. There
      is evidence from an animal study that restoration of blood flow in postischaemic brain
      arteries may result in generation of free oxygen radicals, leading to further cerebral
      autoregulation impairment. Furthermore, there is evidence from animal models that clotbusting
      agent (Alteplase) may exhibit additional blood vessel toxic effect and therefore, further
      impair cerebral autoregulation. However, such findings could not be reproduced in the human
      settings. To date, there is only one small study looking at cerebral autoregulation in 14
      acute ischaemic stroke patients 8 days after clotbusting treatment, there have not been
      studies to assess blood flow regulation at the initiation and completion of the clotbusting
      treatment.

      Cerebral autoregulation can be assessed noninvasively by the use of Trans Cranial Doppler
      (TCD). This means using ultrasound probes over both sides of the head to measure changes in
      blood flow in one of the main brain arteries (the middle cerebral artery) in response to beat
      to beat changes dynamic cerebral autoregulation. However, the use of TCD may be limited by
      the absence of brain window and/or occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in the acute
      ischaemic stroke patients. Therefore, it is important to consider alternative sites to the
      middle cerebral artery to assess brain blood flow regulation, and our group has previously
      researched the use of the main neck artery (the internal carotid artery) site. In a healthy
      control population, brain blood flow regulation index (autoregulation index) estimated from
      the internal carotid artery is not statistically different from the middle cerebral artery.
      However, such comparisons have not been made in the acute ischaemic stroke population. This
      research will use noninvasive technique of Trans Cranial Doppler to look at blood flow
      regulation in the brain (cerebral autoregulation) in clotbusting therapy (thrombolysis)
      treated acute ischaemic stroke (AIS) patients at the initiation and completion of
      thrombolysis, and during acute, subacute and chronic phase post stroke onset, compared to
      those AIS patients who have similar age, sex and blood pressure but not treated with
      thrombolysis. This study will provide important data regarding peri-thrombolysis blood
      pressure management, an important and common clinical dilemma.
    
  