
    
      Title: A multicenter observational study to describe the prevalence of scrub typhus defined
      as s positive rapid diagnostic test among selected patients presenting with fever to clinics
      in Myanmar.

      Rational and objectives of the study Fever is one of most common presenting complaints in
      clinics in tropical countries. Rickettsial infections, enteric fever and leptospirosis are
      common and important causes of undifferentiated fever in Southeast Asia. The largest and
      earliest reports of scrub typhus in Myanmar were made during World War II when this disease
      afflicted numerous troops, particularly those serving close to the border with India. Scrub
      typhus is caused by Orientia tsutsugamushi and humans are typically infected by a bite of an
      infected chigger (trombiculid mite larva). Clinical diagnosis is unreliable for identifying
      scrub typhus, unless a tick eschar is present which is almost pathognomonic for the disease
      in Southeast Asia. A combination of culture, paired serology and PCR has been proposed as the
      gold-standard method for detection. As a result laboratory confirmation is not widely
      available and the diagnosis is missed frequently in clinical practice. Some progress has been
      made in developing such a test and one promising candidate is the Scrub Typhus Detect IgM
      Rapid Test (InBios International Inc). In laboratory-based evaluations using stored sera
      collected from patients recruited in a study in Thailand with confirmed scrub typhus this
      test had a sensitivity of ~80% for the detection of the disease compared to serological
      methods. We plan to use to this test in this study to estimate the prevalence of scrub typhus
      in selected febrile patients presenting to clinics in Myanmar.

      Primary objective: To describe the prevalence of scrub typhus defined as a positive rapid
      diagnostic test among selected patients presenting with fever to clinics in Myanmar

      Secondary objective:

        -  To assess inter-observer agreement when interpreting the tests

        -  To assess the ease-of-use of the tests

        -  To direct future research efforts into rickettsial disease in Myanmar

        -  To raise awareness of the presence of scrub typhus in Myanmar Inclusion criteria

             1. Male or female >1 year of age

             2. Fever defined as > 38 °C tympanic temperature

             3. Duration of fever >48h

             4. Written informed consent (by legally acceptable representative in case of
                children), and assent for children age 10-17 year

             5. Eschar (60 patients only) Exclusion criteria

        -  Malaria confirmed by RTD or microscopy

        -  Skin/soft tissue infection, dysentery or urinary tract infection probable cause of fever

      Procedures and Methodology The study will be carried out to describe the prevalence of scrub
      typhus defined as a positive rapid diagnostic test among patients presenting with fever to
      six participating clinics in Myanmar.

      Patients coming with fever to participating clinics will be routinely assessment by attending
      physician. Patients meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study will be
      invited and enrolled to the study after getting informed consent.

      Rapid diagnostic test and laboratory procedure A scrub typhus rapid test will be performed on
      site by using the InBios Scrub Typhus Detect IgM Rapid Test. Tests will be read by two
      independent readers and results recorded as positive, negative or invalid. In case of invalid
      test result, another test will be performed using a new test strip. If there is any
      disagreement between two readers, the lead investigator at the site will decide the test
      result and the test will be photographed.

      In patients with a skin eschar a sterile surgical blade will be used to gently scrape the
      surface of the eschar. Scrapings will be stored in a cryotube containing 95% ethanol and
      stored at -80°C for future analysis (PCR genotyping ± whole genome sequencing) to confirm the
      presence of Orientia tsutsugamushi.

      Treatment Physicians will be advised to formulate a treatment plan according to their usual
      practice but it will be recommended that treatment for scrub typhus be added to the regimen
      if the test is positive i.e. doxycycline 100mg bd for seven days in adults or 4mg/kg day in
      two divided doses in children older than eight years. Doxycycline is contraindicated in
      pregnant women and children eight years old or below and these groups should be prescribed
      azithromycin (500mg single dose).

      Follow up Patients will be reassessed at one week to check for resolution of fever and
      symptoms . Any patient with ongoing symptoms will be re-assessed by a physician.

      Duration and Study Sites Patients will be recruited 1 year starting from December 2017 to
      November 2018 in six sites: Yae township hospital, No.2, 1000 Bedded Military Hospital (Nay
      Pyi Taw), No.20, 100 Bedded Military Hospital (Tha Beik Kyin), NAP-MAM clinics (Kawkareik and
      Putao township), No.2, 300 Bedded Military Hospital (Ann, Rakhine State).

      Risk and benefits This is a low risk study. Finger prick for RDT and scrapping from eschar
      (for patients who have eschar) may cause slight discomfort. Some patients may receive
      antibiotics they would not have otherwise been prescribed as a result of having the test.
      However this is most likely to benefit them as these tests have been shown to be sensitive
      and specific for the diagnosis of scrub typhus in similar settings.

      Incentives and Compensation There will be no incentives or compensation for study
      participation. Confidentiality The study will ensure that the participants' anonymity is
      maintained. The participants will be identified only by initials and a study number on the
      CRF and the study database.

      Publication The research findings will be disseminated to policy-makers and other interested
      parties inside Myanmar. If there are any publications resulting from the results all those
      who have made a substantial contribution will be co-authors.
    
  