
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of
      nivolumab and ipilimumab alone and in combination in patients with high risk or
      refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) following
      allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT).

      II. To evaluate the toxicity of nivolumab and ipilimumab alone and in combination with regard
      to the rate and severity of acute graft versus host disease (aGVHD).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of nivolumab, ipilimumab and the combination
      in patients with high risk or refractory/ relapsed AML and MDS following allo-SCT.

      II. To determine the duration of response, disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival
      (OS) of patients with high risk or refractory/ relapsed AML and MDS treated with this
      combination following allo-SCT.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify neo-antigens, the immune cell phenotype, expression of immune checkpoint
      molecules and the T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire following treatment with nivolumab,
      ipilimumab and the combination.

      II. To study immunological and molecular changes in the peripheral blood and bone marrow in
      response to nivolumab and ipilimumab.

      III. To investigate the TCR repertoire and immune phenotype in patients who experience aGVHD.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Beginning at least 6 weeks post-stem cell transplant, patients receive nivolumab
      intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up
      to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Beginning at least 6 weeks post-stem cell transplant, patients receive ipilimumab IV
      over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Beginning at least 6 weeks post-stem cell transplant, patients receive nivolumab IV
      over 60 minutes on days 1, 14, and 28, and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 6 weeks for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days and periodically
      thereafter.
    
  