
    
      If participant agrees to take part in this study, they will complete 3 questionnaires about
      sun protection, tanning behaviors, sunburns, and attitudes and opinions about sun exposure,
      sun protection, tanning behaviors and skin cancer.

      Participant's school will be assigned to 1 of 2 possible groups:

        -  If participant's school is assigned to Group 1, they will have 2 photos taken of their
           face. One (1) photo is a standard photo (like the kind one may take with a regular
           camera). The other photo is taken with an ultraviolet (UV) filter and shows skin damage
           that cannot be seen in a standard photo.

        -  If participant's school is assigned to Group 2, they will not have any photos taken.

      If participant is in Group 1, they and a member of the study staff will compare the standard
      and UV photographs together. The study staff will discuss any skin damage seen with
      participant. A member of the study staff will record on a paper form any visible reactions
      participant may have to viewing their UV photograph. Participant will also be given a handout
      that discusses skin cancer prevention, sun protection, and how to avoid tanning beds.
      Participant will see their photos on a computer screen. Participant will not be given their
      photos. At the end of this study, the photos will be deleted.

      If participant is in Group 2, they will only receive a handout that discusses skin cancer
      prevention, sun protection, and how to avoid tanning beds.

      All participants will complete 1 questionnaire at the beginning of the study (before
      receiving any kind of education about skin cancer prevention), 1 questionnaire after
      receiving education about how to protect participant's skin from the sun and how to avoid
      tanning beds, and 1 questionnaire at about 3 months after receiving the education about how
      to protect skin from the sun and how to avoid tanning beds.

      Participant will complete these study procedures at school and they may answer some of the
      questionnaires outside of school. Participant will complete the first questionnaire on paper
      at their school. Participant will have an option to complete this questionnaire online if
      they are not able to complete it on paper the day the study team visits their school.
      Participant will complete the second questionnaire on paper at their school. Participant will
      complete the third questionnaire online. Links to the online questionnaires will be sent to
      the email address that participant will provide on the Participant Contact Information Form.
      Participant will also have an option to receive a link to the questionnaire via text message
      if they provide us with a cell phone number that can receive text messages on the Participant
      Contact Information Form. Participant may incur charges for receiving text messages.

      Length of Study:

      Student's participation in this study will be over after they have completed the last
      questionnaire. It will take about 1 hour to complete all study questionnaires and procedures.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 420 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part through MD Anderson
      at different schools in the greater Houston area.

      Only about 35 participants will be able to take part at each school. This means that even if
      participant agrees, they may not be selected to take part in this study. The student
      participants will be randomly selected from the pool of students who agree to participate.
    
  