
    
      The researchers will record muscle activity in healthy participants and participants
      post-stroke from up to eight lower limb muscles (soleus, gastrocnemius, tibialis anterior,
      rectus femoris, vastus lateralis, and hamstring) during functional tasks (e.g., single-joint
      movement, gait, squatting, cycling). These measurements will provide the physiological
      dataset of lower limb movement and locomotion for the neural decoder. Then, the researchers
      will apply online deep learning methods for MU spiking activity decomposition from over eight
      muscles, and develop a real-time neural decoder. This will provide real-time decomposition of
      hundreds of MUs concurrently active during natural lower limb human behavior. The researchers
      will validate this approach by comparing our results with a gold standard, the blind source
      separation method. Blind source separation algorithms can separate or decompose the HD-EMG
      signals, a convolutive mix of MU action potentials, into the times at which individual MUs
      discharge their action potentials. With the decomposed MU spiking data, the researchers will
      develop methods to translate MU spiking activity in position, force, and hybrid commands for
      exoskeletons that will become a command encoder implemented into currently existing research
      exoskeletons that can anticipate human intent (multi-joint position and force commands) to
      estimate the level of assistance required by the task, (e.g., add knee torque during the
      stance phase).

      The researchers will combine the MU spiking activity decoder with the subspace projection
      methods into a neural real-time interface between individuals and a currently existing
      research lower extremity exoskeleton for locomotion augmentation. This will become an
      integrated high-resolution human-machine interface that can be used for real-time control of
      exoskeletons so that commands will be delivered at a rate higher than the muscles'
      electromechanical delay, i.e., the elapsed time between neural command and muscle force
      generation of movement.

      For Experiment A, the investigators will recruit healthy volunteers (n = 10) and participants
      post-stroke (n = 10) and complete single-joint movement and locomotor tasks to collect muscle
      activity data via HD-EMG.

      For Experiment B, the investigators will showcase the generalization of our approach
      recruiting and interfacing healthy volunteers (n = 10) and participants post-stroke (n = 10)
      with the assistive exoskeleton. Subjects will perform single-joint and locomotor tasks to
      calibrate the decoder, and then repeat single-joint and locomotor tasks with the decoder
      providing real-time assistance. Participants post-stroke will repeat up to 10 sessions to
      evaluate the stability of the ability of the decoder to extract motor units.
    
  