
    
      Approximately 2 million people in North America take the anticoagulant warfarin to prevent
      stroke, heart attack, and other events related to blood clots. Warfarin needs to be stopped
      before a person undergoes surgery or certain procedures because it can cause dangerous
      amounts of bleeding during and after surgery. Some doctors give a low molecular weight
      heparin (LMWH) to patients during the 2-week period when participants are without the effects
      of warfarin. The LMWH has the same effect as warfarin, but it acts and then leaves the system
      more quickly than warfarin. However, the LMWH is expensive, may increase the risk of
      bleeding, and has not been proven effective. This study will determine the safety and
      efficacy of an LMWH in adults with atrial fibrillation who stop warfarin in preparation for
      surgery.

      Participation in this study will last between 36 and 67 days. Participation will involve nine
      points of contact with researchers, at least two of which will be in-person visits at the
      research clinic. The others will be conducted by phone. All points of contact will include
      assessments on possible bleeding and any new symptoms. The first two of these points of
      contact, will take place at the signing of the informed consent, which will involve a
      screening of medical records and random assignment of participants to receive either the LMWH
      dalteparin or placebo. Participants will self-administer a subcutaneous injection of their
      assigned treatment twice a day for 3 days before the surgery or procedure and for 6 days
      after. During the course of the study, when participants visit their primary physicians for
      regularly scheduled appointments, it will be recommended that they undergo two international
      normalized ratio (INR) tests of blood clotting ability between day 2 and 10 after the surgery
      or procedure. The remaining seven points of contact will occur sometime between the day
      before surgery and 37 days after surgery. One of the in-person visits will occur within the
      first week after surgery and will include assessments on possible bleeding, any new symptoms,
      and INR results.
    
  