
    
      In addition to other Screening assessments, patients will undergo an assessment of urothelial
      carcinoma of the bladder via cystoscopy for clinically apparent tumor of Ta histology,
      including PUNLMP, although patients with strongly suspected PUNLMP at Screening or TURBT
      should not be enrolled in the study. The qualifying cystoscopy may be performed up to 45 days
      prior to signing the informed consent.

      Eligible patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to either:

        -  Arm 1: One dose of 8 mg Qapzola

        -  Arm 2: One dose of placebo

      Once approved for randomization, patients will undergo TURBT on Day 1 and the study drug
      instillation will occur at 60 ± 30 minutes post-TURBT and will be retained for 60 minutes (±5
      minutes) in the bladder. All histology specimens will be reviewed by a local pathology
      laboratory and all clinical treatment decisions will be based on the local pathology review.
      Patient target disease will be confirmed and efficacy analyses will be performed based on the
      pathology results. The target study population is low- to intermediate-risk patients who have
      Ta histology, including PUNLMP, as confirmed by a pathology laboratory. Patients with
      strongly suspected PUNLMP at Screening or TURBT should not be enrolled in the study. Patients
      whose tumor histology does not meet the criteria for eligibility, as confirmed by pathology
      (Non-Target Population), will be followed up for safety on Day 35 (±5 days) (Safety Follow-up
      Visit) and will be discontinued from the study. If the pathology results are delayed beyond
      35 days, the Safety Follow-up Visit will be conducted when the results are available for
      these patients.

      Patients who have pathology confirmed target histology will not receive additional
      medications to treat NMIBC during the follow-up while on study. All target disease patients
      will be followed until either a confirmed tumor recurrence, additional bladder cancer
      treatments, or until the End-of-Study, whichever occurs first.

      The primary analysis will be conducted once the required number of recurrence events are
      observed. A recurrence is defined as any pathologically confirmed disease of ≥Ta histology or
      CIS post-treatment. The number of events needed to perform the final primary endpoint
      analysis was estimated based on the recurrence rate at 24 months from previous studies. The
      follow-up schedule is below:

        -  Cystoscopic examination (all patients) and urine cytology (only patients with a Baseline
           diagnosis of intermediate-risk NMIBC) every 3 months (±30 days) (calculated from date of
           TURBT) for 2 years for tumor recurrence and progression and then every 6 months (±60
           days) until either a confirmed tumor recurrence or the End-of-Study, whichever occurs
           first.

        -  If at any time during the study there is a histologically confirmed tumor recurrence,
           the patient will be discontinued from the study at that time and may then be treated per
           the Investigator's standard of care.

      The study will end (End-of-Study) when the required number of events for the primary endpoint
      analysis are accrued.

      Duration of Study: The duration of the study for each patient will be as follows:

        -  Screening Period: up to 30-days

        -  Treatment: Day 1

        -  Safety Follow-up: Day 35 (±5 days) (non-Target Population) or Month 3 Follow-up Visit
           (Target Population)

        -  Follow-up Period: No follow-up in non-Target Population. Until either a confirmed tumor
           recurrence or the End-of-Study, whichever occurs first in the Target Population.
    
  