
    
      Despite (1) improved outcomes and lower rates of right ventricular failure (RVF) with the
      newer, continuous-flow left ventricular assist devices (LVAD) over pulsatile-flow devices and
      (2) development of clinical prediction scores to identify patients at risk for RVF post LVAD,
      RVF still occurs in 20% to 40% of recipients, even with the newer devices.

      In 2012, 2000 LVADs were implanted in U.S. and the number is rapidly increasing. Post-LVAD
      outcomes depend critically on right ventricular (RV) function. RVF can lead to:

        -  Reduced survival and progression to transplant (Tx) and worse post-Tx outcomes

        -  Significantly higher rates of resources utilization

        -  Long-term poor exercise capacity and quality of life (QoL)

      True echocardiographic quantification of RV function has only recently been considered in RVF
      prediction post LVAD; however these studies were retrospective and had inconsistent
      population and outcome definitions. Also, despite promising results in a retrospective study,
      preoperative RV mechanics have not been prospectively evaluated as RVF predictors to date.

      In this study, we plan to enroll a total of 120 LVAD candidates to evaluate standard and
      mechanics-based echocardiographic measures of RV function for prediction of (1) RVF within 90
      days; (2) QoL at 90 days; and (3) RV recovery at 90 days post LVAD implantation.

      Aim 1: We will perform echocardiography within 7 days of planned LVAD surgery to evaluate the
      association of prespecified RV parameters with (1) RVF within 90 days and (2) QoL at 90 days.
      Our main hypotheses is an RV echo score will predict RVF within 90 days post LVAD with
      clinically relevant discrimination (C>0.85) and positive and negative predictive values
      (>80%). Our secondary hypothesis is that the RV score will predict poor QoL at 90 days with
      clinically relevant discrimination and predictive values.

      Aim 2: We will repeat echocardiograms at 30 and 90 days post LVAD surgery to examine the
      association of baseline RV function with RV recovery. Our hypothesis is that the RV score
      will predict RV function recovery post LVAD and that RV mechanics will have incremental value
      for prediction of these outcomes.

      These results may help improve LVAD outcomes and reduce resource utilization by facilitating
      shared decision-making and selection for LVAD vs. alternatives; provide insights into RV
      function recovery; and inform reassessment of LVAD timing.
    
  