
    
      Objectives:

        -  Primary: Determine whether head and neck cancer patients taking statin drugs for
           hyperlipidemia are at decreased risk of cisplatin-induced hearing loss.

        -  Secondary: Determine the incidence and severity of hearing loss in head and neck cancer
           patients undergoing low-dose, weekly cisplatin chemotherapy with concurrent radiation.
           Hearing loss with this more recent cisplatin regimen has not been thoroughly evaluated
           in the literature. Examine whether age, gender, pre-existing hearing loss, other
           medications, or comorbid medical conditions may be risk factors for cisplatin-induced
           hearing loss and/or the acquisition or progression of tinnitus in this patient
           population.

      Study Population:

      -Subjects will be adult patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma of the upper
      aerodigestive tract who will undergo cisplatin chemotherapy with concurrent radiation.

      Design:

        -  Observational study

        -  334 subjects will be enrolled.

        -  Subjects will complete a questionnaire to estimate the degree of prior noise exposure
           and impact on baseline hearing. Information on medical comorbidities, names and doses of
           current medications will be obtained from the medical record and verified at each
           subject visit.

        -  Subjects will complete self-administered audiograms using FDA-approved software from
           SHOEBOXTM Audiometry on a portable tablet (iPad) computer.

        -  Audiograms will be completed prior to commencing chemoradiation, within 4 weeks of
           completing treatment, and 6 months after completing treatment.

        -  Subjects will also complete a validated tinnitus questionnaire with each audiogram. A
           noise exposure history will be collected during the initial study visit and verified
           during subsequent visits. Any indicated changes to the subject s noise exposure history
           will be added to record.

        -  No investigational or experimental therapy will be given as part of this protocol.

        -  Audiograms will be performed at the Johns Hopkins Suburban Outpatient Center or the NIH
           Clinical Center.

        -  Two interim analyses will be conducted prior to study completion (after N=88 and N=176
           subjects completing the protocol) to determine whether there are statistically
           significant differences in severity or incidence of hearing loss in subjects taking
           concurrent statin drugs vs. subjects who are not taking statin drugs.

      Outcome Measures:

        -  Primary outcome measure: The primary outcome measure is the change in hearing
           sensitivity (as measured by the self-administered audiogram) between the pre-treatment
           (before cisplatin therapy) hearing test and the post-treatment (after completion of
           cisplatin therapy) audiogram. Hearing loss will be defined according to TUNE and ASHA
           criteria and will be compared in subjects taking statin drugs vs. subjects not taking
           statin drugs. Hearing status will be compared between audiograms collected at baseline
           (prior to treatment) to a repeated audiogram at the end of treatment (within 4 weeks of
           cisplatin protocol cessation).

        -  Secondary outcome measure: Secondary outcome measures include 1) changes in hearing
           sensitivity between the first post-cisplatin audiogram and the second post-cisplatin
           audiogram, and 2) changes in scores on the tinnitus questionnaire between the
           pre-treatment audiogram and the two post-treatment audiograms.
    
  