
    
      The investigators will study subjects (aged 18-70 years) with a history of mild TBI (n=25)
      and their household controls (aged 18-70 years) (n=25). mTBI subjects will undergo a 6-month
      intervention of rhGH therapy. Household controls will be asked to participate in
      questionnaires, blood draws (amino acid analysis), and fecal sampling (GI microbiome
      analysis). Household controls will not receive any growth hormone treatment.

      mTBI group

      All patients presenting with a prior mTBI will undergo a phone pre-screen including the Brief
      Fatigue Inventory (BFI) questions 1-3. If they score ≥ 3 on any BFI questions 1-3, and are
      interested in participating in the study, they will be scheduled for a formal consenting and
      medical screening at the UTMB Clinical Research Center (CRC). During the medical screening,
      eligibility will be confirmed and a glucagon stimulation test (GST) will be performed. A
      glucagon stimulation with a growth hormone peak of <10 ng/mL is required to qualify for
      enrollment.

      Household control group

      All household controls will undergo a phone pre-screen and if interested in participating in
      the study, will be scheduled for a formal consenting and medical screening at the UTMB
      Clinical Research Center (CRC).

      Experimental Protocol.

      mTBI Group

      Before and at completion (month 6) of the rhGH intervention, mTBI subjects will report to the
      UTMB Institute for Translational Sciences (ITS) Clinical Research Center (CRC) for testing,
      which will consist of cognitive function assessment (MoCA), determination of brain morphology
      and connectivity using fMRI, determination of lean mass and fat mass using DEXA, resting
      energy expenditure, functional testing including leg strength and 6 minute walk test, fatigue
      measurements, and questionnaires of mood and quality of life, gastrointestinal health, sleep,
      and food preferences. Blood sampling for measurement of amino acid levels, hormones, and
      metabolites will be drawn before and 90 minutes (+/- 10 minutes) after a standardized meal.
      In addition, fecal samples for analysis of the GI microbiome will be collected monthly for
      the duration of the study. Insulin Growth Factor 1 (IGF-1) levels will monitored at a month 1
      safety visit for all mTBI subjects. The month 1 safety visit will occur +/- 5 days from the
      expected date based on the baseline study visit. The monthly fecal sampling will occur +/- 7
      days from the expected date based on the baseline study visit. The month 6 post study will
      occur +/- 7 days from the expected date based on the baseline study visit. A member of the
      study team will contact the subject each month to coordinate fecal sample transport to UTMB,
      check for adverse events and overall well-being, and ensure compliance and ongoing consent.

      Household control group

      Before and at completion (month 6) of the rhGH intervention of their mTBI subject partners,
      household controls will report to the UTMB Institute for Translational Sciences (ITS)
      Clinical Research Center (CRC) for testing, which will consist of questionnaires of food
      preferences and gastrointestinal health and blood sampling for measurement of amino acid
      levels, hormones, and metabolites which will be drawn before and 90 minutes (+/ 10 minutes)
      after a standardized meal. In addition, fecal samples for the analysis of the GI microbiome
      will be collected monthly for the duration of the study, as well as questionnaire assessing
      gastrointestinal health. The monthly fecal sampling will occur +/- 7 days from the expected
      date based on the baseline study visit. The post study (month 6) will occur +/- 7 days from
      the expected date based on the baseline study visit. A member of the study team will contact
      the subject each month to coordinate fecal sample transport to UTMB, check for adverse events
      and overall well-being, and ensure compliance and ongoing consent.
    
  