
    
      This is randomized clinical trial studying two luteal support protocols of In vitro
      fertilization patients (IVF) treated by a GnRH antagonist (GnRH ant) protocol and are at risk
      of developing ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). The randomization procedure will be
      performed by a third party in the hospital by using a randomization table: patients
      fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria and giving their informed consent will be
      randomized into one of two arms. This study does not include any intervention affecting the
      ovarian stimulation and is solely intended to test the post ova pickup period.

      One arm will be treated by luteal Decapeptyl on days 3, 6,9 post ovulation triggering. Second
      arm will be treated by low dose hCG on day 3 post triggering. All patients to be recruited
      are treated for acceptable IVF indications in Meir medical center (MMC) and their registry is
      computerized in the general system of MMC. For the purpose of the study we will use the only
      the data of patients recruited to the study and were giving their informed consent. Each
      patient recruited will have a unique study identity (ID) . The patients' information will be
      pooled from the computerized file into an Excel spread sheet: in this Excel file the names
      will be erased and only the unique study ID will appear. The information regarding the coding
      key will be kept as a hard copy in a locked room inside the IVF unit in a special study
      folder. The study was approved by MMC institutional Helsinki board.

      The data retrieved for each patients is not unique for the study but includes the basic
      variables monitored in every IVF cycle : Estradiol serum levels (E2), Progesterone serum
      levels (P), number of follicles as counted by trans-vaginal ultrasound, endometrial thickness
      as measured by trans-vaginal ultrasound, Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) dosing, number of
      stimulation days, number of eggs retrieved, fertilization rate, blastulation rate, number of
      embryos transferred, embryo quality, positive pregnancy test, implantation rate, presence of
      a clinical pregnancy, presence of OHSS. Since these are mandatory variables in the treatment
      we do not expect any missing data. In addition to these mandatory data the study patients
      will be performing two additional blood tests on day 3 post ovum pickup and on the transfer
      day itself (day 5 post ovum pickup) including Estradiol serum levels (E2) and Progesterone
      serum levels (P).

      Outcome measures: Day of transfer Progesterone serum levels, OHSS rate, implantation rate,
      clinical pregnancy rate.

      Sample size calculation based on Kol S et al 2015, regarding the day of transfer Progesterone
      level (pooled standard deviation: 40nmol/L), alpha of 5%, 80% power, then a non-inferiority
      study will require 22 patients in each group and a total of 44 patients. Once including an
      expected 10% chance of freeze all in this population we will include 50 patients.

      Statistical analysis: Analysis of data was performed using the SPSS 23.0 computer package
      (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Normally distributed data were analyzed by student t test . χ2 or
      Fisher's exact test will be used for comparisons of rates and proportions. All P values were
      tested as two-sided and considered significant at less than 0.05.
    
  