
    
      This is a multicenter, prospective clinical trial studying the utility and accuracy of
      magnetocardiography (MCG) in identifying critical coronary artery obstruction responsible for
      myocardial ischemia. The study will enroll up to 1500 patients at high risk for coronary
      artery disease (CAD) who have been referred for cardiac catheterization. These patients will
      be recruited from an inpatient service post admission for chest pain or anginal equivalent or
      from a cohort of symptomatic patients who have failed outpatient stress testing. If they meet
      other stated inclusion criteria, they will have a 2 minute MCG scan prior to their cardiac
      catheterization. For comparative purposes, the first 300 patients will have an
      electrocardiogram (ECG) performed within 60 minutes of this initial scan.

      After an enrolled study subject has had their catheterization procedure, the results of the
      catheterization will be reviewed by one of the study's primary investigators. If the subject
      has had a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), a second MCG scan will be performed prior
      to their discharge. The MCG scans will be interpreted by 3 physicians trained to read these
      images and blinded to all clinical information regarding study subjects.

      The initial MCG scan will be evaluated for its sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive
      value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV) and overall accuracy in detecting myocardial
      ischemia and critical coronary stenosis based on angiographic imaging, fractional flow
      reserve (FFR), or instant wave-free ratio (iFR) measurements, as applicable. The same
      statistical analysis will be performed for the ECGs performed on each of the applicable study
      subjects. When performed, the second MCG will be evaluated for any abnormalities after
      revascularization. These results will be used to determine the value of post-PCI MCG to
      predict 30 day and 180 day major adverse cardiac events (MACE)-specifically myocardial
      infarction or stroke, need for revascularization, or cardiac related death.
    
  