
    
      1. Study hypothesis There is an urgent need for reconsidering risk stratification
           approaches to DCMP patients, in addition to LVEF in order to identify subgroups at high
           arrhythmic risk that could benefit from ICD. This task could be achieved either by
           imaging and/or noninvasive, ECG-related, risk stratification techniques. In this
           direction, the investigators recently introduced a two-step multifactorial, noninvasive
           ECG findings leading to programmed ventricular stimulation (PVS), electrophysiology
           study (EP)-inclusive approach, to modify and protect the truly high risk post-myocardial
           infarction (MI) CAD patients with a LVEF≥40%. Based on the fact that those DCMP patients
           inducible on PVS into sustained ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation (VT/Vf) are the
           ones most likely to receive appropriate ICD therapy regardless of the degree of left
           ventricular contractile dysfunction or/and the presence of complex ventricular ectopy,
           the investigators now propose a similar two-step, multifactorial, noninvasive,
           EP-inclusive approach among the DCMP population with either relatively preserved
           (35%<LVEF≤50% - Group A) or reduced (LVEF≤35% - Group B) ventricular systolic function.
           The kernel of this approach lies in the premise that NIRFs detect arrhythmogenic
           potential and invasive PVS ascertains whether it translates to clinical
           arrhythmogenesis, combining the formers' sensitivity with the latter's specificity.

           It is hypothesized that this approach will lead to i. Detection of a high risk subgroup
           among DCMP patients with 35%<LVEF≤50% that would benefit from an ICD in terms of total
           mortality (given that their non-SCD mortality component is low as they are at early
           heart failure stages with relatively preserved systolic function) ii. Stratification of
           the cohort with LVEF≤35% into clearly discernible arrhythmic risk level groups, with
           patients in the lowest one having a total mortality mostly due to heart-failure related
           death and potential ICD advantages negated by potential complications.

        2. Population and methods ReCONSIDER is a multicenter, prospective observational trial,
           aiming to enroll DCMP patients in 17 major electrophysiology centers in Greece.
           Reimbursement for all devices will be provided by the Hellenic State. The study is under
           the auspices of the Hellenic Cardiology Society, in whose secure servers the online
           patient database will be maintained. Inclusion and exclusion criteria are described in
           the relevant sections.

      A. Endpoints i. Primary endpoint: Major arrhythmic event (MAE) occurrence (ICD activation ±
      sudden cardiac death ± sustained ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation) ii.
      Secondary endpoints: Mortality (all-cause and heart failure-related) - Heart failure-related
      hospitalization - Device related complications (including pocket and lead-related infections,
      as well as inappropriate therapies) B. Stratification and treatment i. NIRFs

      Presence of the following NIRFs will be evaluated:

        1. History of syncope and/or presyncope in the absence of prodromal symptoms typical of
           vagally-mediated events

        2. LV end diastolic diameter >60mm on echocardiography

        3. LGE presence (qualitative approach - dichotomous value)

        4. >30 premature ventricular complexes/hour on 24-hour electrocardiography

        5. Presence of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia on 24-hour electrocardiography

        6. 2/3 positive criteria for late potentials, either conventional or modified43

        7. QTc derived from 24-hour electrocardiography >440ms (men) or >450ms (women)44 according
           to the Fridericia formula from a signal recorded in 3 pseudo-orthogonal leads

        8. Ambulatory T-wave alternans ≥65μV in 2 Holter channels20, 45

        9. Standard deviation of normal RR intervals ≤75ms on ambulatory electrocardiography

       10. Deceleration capacity ≤4.5ms and heart rate turbulence onset ≥0% and heart rate
           turbulence slope ≤2.5ms46 ii. Cardiac MRI protocol Cardiac MRI protocol will entail the
           following: All patients recruited will undergo cMRI in a 1.5 Tesla system. All sites of
           cMRI fulfil the requirements of expertise and equipment to be involved in the trial.
           Each participating centre has approval by their respective Ethics Committee. Analysis
           will be performed with dedicated computer software.

      Measurements will consist of the end-diastolic and end-systolic right and left ventricular
      volumes, the ejection fraction of both ventricles, and will be provided by analysing
      cine-sequences performed on both ventricles. Endocardium and epicardium will be contoured
      both in end-diastole and end-systole to define end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes and
      subsequently LV stroke volume, ejection fraction, and myocardial mass. All parameters will be
      indexed to body surface area.

      Additionally, cardiac MRI studies will include late images after gadolinium infusion, using
      inversion recovery sequence, with late gadolinium-enhanced area expressed as percentage of
      the left ventricular mass. Presence of LGE in any extent will constitute a positive study in
      terms of NIRF presence. LGE localization and pattern will also be recorded for further
      analysis.

      iii. Programmed ventricular stimulation protocol PVS protocol will consist of up to 3
      extrastimuli being introduced from 2 different right ventricular sites, preferably the apex
      and outflow tract. These extrastimuli will follow a drive train consisting of 6 stimuli at 2
      cycle lengths (550msec and 400msec) at the first site and at a single cycle length (400msec)
      at the second site. Coupling intervals between extrastimuli will be shortened by 10msec
      intervals until refractoriness or an interval of 200msec is reached - whichever occurs first.
      Additionally, once the procedure is completed,β-agonist infusion (isoproterenol) will
      commence at rates 1-4μg/min. Once baseline heart rate increases to >120bpm the protocol will
      be repeated, using 3 extrastimuli from a single site and with a driving train cycle length of
      400msec. Patients will be considered inducible and the protocol terminated prematurely if
      monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT - either sustained - >30sec in duration - or
      requiring termination due to hemodynamic instability) or ventricular fibrillation (Vf) is
      induced at any stage.

      iv. Patient Groups

      Based on the above, 6 patient subgroups will be available for comparison:

        1. Group A patients - 35%<LVEF≤50% Group 1-A: no NIRFs present - no PVS performed Group
           2-A: at least one NIRF present - not inducible (VT/Vf) upon PVS. Group 3-A: at least one
           NIRF present - inducible upon PVS

        2. Group B patients - LVEF≤35% Group 1-B: no NIRFs present - not inducible upon PVS Group
           2-B: at least one NIRF present - not inducible upon PVS Group 3-B: inducible upon PVS v.
           Device allocation and programming All Group B patients will receive an ICD/CRT-D device
           in accordance with current international guidelines4, All Group 3-A patients (inducible
           VT/Vf upon PVS) will receive an ICD. Groups 1-A and 2-A (low and intermediate risk,
           respectively) patients will be observed without an ICD device. Device programming will
           be uniform and will comprise of 2 detection zones with long detection intervals to both
           reduce inappropriate shocks and increase likelihood that the events correspond to
           aborted SCD, 49. More specifically, the same approach as in the PRESERVE EF trial will
           be implemented, with ventricular tachycardia therapy cycle length to be set to
           270-330msec and number of intervals to detect to 32. Ventricular fibrillation therapy
           cycle length will be set to <270msec and number of intervals to detect to 18 out of 24.
           In devices with time programming, the same cycle lengths will be used but intervals will
           be set to 7sec for CLs in the ventricular tachycardia range and to 2.5sec for those in
           the ventricular fibrillation range. Ventricular tachycardia therapy will consist of
           several attempts of antitachycardia pacing, followed by cardioversion attempts at
           progressively increasing energy. High-energy shocks will be administered to terminate
           ventricular fibrillation.

      vi. Follow up and statistics Based on previous studies (follow up of 46.9 months in the study
      by Gatzoulis et al and 55.2 months in the one by Halliday et al), a 4-year or 48-month follow
      up appears a reasonable choice. Patients will be assessed at enrolment, at 30 days and then
      at every 180 days, until censoring or follow up completion. Biventricular pacing percentage
      will be assessed in all CRT-device bearers (target >95%). Extra visits will be scheduled in
      cases of device activation and clinical events.

      E. Power analysis i. Assumptions Thus, 60% of Group A patients are expected to have no NIRFs
      detected (Group 1-A), 30% to have at least one NIRF present yet be noninducible upon PVS
      (Group 2-A) and 10% to both have NIRF(s) present and be inducible. On the other hand, 10% of
      Group B patients are expected to both have no NIRFs and be noninducible (Group 1-B), 60% to
      have at least 1 NIRF while being noninducible (Group 2-B) and 30% to have both NIRF(s)
      present and be inducible (Group 3-B).

      The investigators hypothesize a corresponding incidence of MAEs ranging from as high as 50%
      (Group 3-B, annual incidence 12.5%), down to 25% (Group 3-A, annual incidence 8.3% - similar
      to the 8.2% annual rate observed in the high risk cohort of the PRESERVE EF study), 10%
      (Group 2-B - annual incidence 2.5%) and even 0% (Groups 1-A, and 1-B), in the high,
      intermediate, and low risk groups, respectively.

      ii. Sample size calculation Based on the above assumptions, power analysis suggests that, in
      order to achieve 80% power (β=0.2) at a significance level (α) of 0.05, with an allocation
      ratio [high risk subgroup to all group patients, i.e. subgroup 3:(1+2+3) of 0.1 for Group A
      patients (35%<LVEF≤50%)], would require, after adjusting for projected 10% losses to follow
      up and for an interim analysis upon occurrence of half of the anticipated major arrhythmic
      events (MAEs), enrolment of 450 Group A patients in order to demonstrate the correctness of
      the study hypothesis for the usefulness of the two-step multifactorial noninvasive
      EP-inclusive risk stratification approach among the DCMP population with relatively preserved
      LVEF in identifying those at high risk for MAEs, after a follow up of 4 years.

      Regarding Group B, based on encouraging findings from previous similar studies, a superiority
      approach will be pursued, with high statistical significance and statistical power levels
      (0.001 and 0.05, respectively), to ensure that there is a significant advantage regarding
      MAE-free survival for the low and intermediate risk 1-B and 2-B versus the high risk 3-B
      subgroup. Thus, given competing mortality and device implantation risks, withholding ICD
      therapy based on the two-step risk stratification approach should not affect total survival.
      This leads [allocation ratio of 0.3 - 3-B/(1-B+2-B)] to a required sample size of 225
      patients, followed up over a 48-month period, again after adjusting for projected losses and
      an interim analysis.

      4. Discussion The proposed tiered, multifactorial, PVS-inclusive two-step approach aspires to
      combine the advantages of both NIRF detection and PVS inducibility with study design allowing
      for crucial comparison of prognostic accuracy of various NIRFs and between NIRFs and the
      combinational algorithm. Furthermore, the ReCONSIDER approach is potentially superior to the
      cMRI alternative currently under intense focus given that the potential electrical
      instability related to the abnormal substrate will also be taken into account (assessment for
      late potential, ventricular extrasystoles, ventricular nonsustained tachycardia presence)
      with more facets of arrhythmogenesis also considered (repolarization abnormalities,
      sympathetic overdrive), not detectable by LGE.
    
  