
    
      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is caused by a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply
      blood and oxygen to the heart. It is the leading cause of death in the United States. Recent
      evidence has suggested that depression is a significant risk factor for individuals with CHD
      and may place additional strain on the heart. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
      (SSRIs), a type of antidepressant medication, have been shown to be especially effective at
      reducing depression symptoms, particularly for individuals with CHD. However, many people
      fail to benefit from medication alone or they experience negative side effects. Therefore, a
      need exists to identify alternative approaches for treating depression in individuals with
      CHD. Preliminary research has shown that exercise may be an effective way to improve mood and
      treat depression. More research, however, is needed to confirm the benefits of exercise in
      individuals with CHD. The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of a
      supervised exercise program, antidepressant treatment, and placebo in reducing depression and
      improving heart function in individuals with CHD.

      This 16-week study will enroll adults with a history of CHD and depression. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to an aerobic exercise program, antidepressant medication, or placebo.
      At study entry, standardized psychological questionnaires will be completed and depression
      levels and exercise tolerance will be assessed. Participants' heart function will be
      evaluated through measures of flow-mediated vasodilatation, inflammation, platelet function,
      baroreflex, and heart rate variability. Participants assigned to the exercise program will be
      required to engage in structured aerobic exercise. Participants assigned to antidepressant
      medication will receive sertraline, an SSRI or placebo. The treating psychiatrist will be
      blinded to pill condition and will use supportive measures to help manage medication side
      effects. Outcome assessors will be unaware of patients' treatment assignments, and only the
      research pharmacist will be aware of which patients are assigned to sertraline or to placebo.

      At Week 16, participants will return to the clinic for repeat assessments of baseline
      measures. A follow-up evaluation will occur six months following the end of treatment, and
      participants' depression levels and clinical status will be assessed.
    
  