
    
      Influenza virus infections are common among children, particularly during the winter season.
      The infections are often mild, but more serious cases can cause a number of complications,
      including respiratory illnesses and bacterial infections. HIV infected children may have an
      increased risk for developing influenza-related bacterial complications, and influenza
      infections among this population may lead to more rapid disease progression. The current
      standard of care for HIV infected children is vaccination with an inactivated influenza
      vaccine (IAIV). However, IAIV is limited in its ability to stimulate the immune systems of
      HIV infected children with advanced disease. FluMist, a cold-adapted live attenuated
      influenza vaccine, is both immunogenic and effective in HIV infected children; unfortunately,
      FluMist is associated with viral shedding, a period of time when the influenza virus used to
      produce the vaccine may be transmitted to other people. This study will compare the safety
      and immunogenicity of IAIV and FluMist in HIV infected children and adolescents. This study
      will also determine the prevalence and duration of FluMist viral shedding in HIV infected
      children and adolescents who have received the vaccination.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to one of two arms. Arm A participants
      will receive FluMist; Arm B participants will receive IAIV. A single immunization will occur
      on Day 0 of the study. Arm A participants will have study visits on Days 3, 14, and 28 or
      home visits on Days 3 and 14. Participants in Arm B will have a study visit on Day 28. A
      physical exam will be performed at the initial study visit; blood will be collected at study
      start and at each visit thereafter. Phone calls will be made to participants throughout the
      study. All participants will have a final study visit after 6 months.
    
  