
    
      Reducing the pain from surgical procedures performed early in life psychologically reduces
      the pain experienced by children in subsequent procedures. Pediatric cardiac surgery is
      associated with moderate to severe postoperative pain that is related to median sternotomy.
      Pediatric cardiac surgical patients usually undergo multiple surgical interventions and
      hospital admissions and will benefit from effective pain relief during their initial surgery.
      In a fast-track protocol, used in modern-day cardiac surgical care, early extubation may be
      facilitated by executive postoperative pain control, which also helps in maintaining
      hemodynamic stability.

      While neuraxial anesthesia techniques are eﬀective for sternotomy pain, many cardiac
      surgeries potential require cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and systemic anticoagulation, thus
      increasing the neuraxial bleeding risk. Erector spinae plane (ESP) block appears to provide
      adequate regional analgesia for multiple dermatomal levels covering the sternum without
      incurring the risks associated with neuraxial blocks.

      This prospective, randomized, and double-blind study is designed to examine the efficacy and
      safety of the ESP block on the postoperative analgesia in pediatric patients after cardiac
      surgery. We hypothesized that the ESP block significantly improves pain control, as evidenced
      by the reduced need for systemic postoperative analgesics.

      METHOD After obtaining approval from the Institutional Review Boards at Çukurova University
      Medical Faculty, 40 pediatric patients aged 2-10 years, undergoing cardiac surgery with
      median sternotomy will be enrolled. Parental consent and patient assent from patients of an
      appropriate age will be obtained. The children will all candidates for fast tracking and
      extubation within 6 hours postoperatively. Exclusion criteria included a history of develop
      mental delay or mental retardation, any other heart defect, known allergy to any local
      anesthetic, and clinically significant liver or renal disease.

      Anesthesia Children received oral premedication of midazolam 0.5 mg/kg. After i.v. access
      will be obtained, fentanyl 5 µg/kg will be given. Anesthesia will be induced with 2-3 mg/kg
      propofol and all children will receive rocuronium 0,6 mg/kg for tracheal intubation. After
      tracheal intubation, an arterial line, central venous catheter, and urinary catheter will be
      inserted. Subsequently, fentanyl 5 µg/kg will be administered prior to incision. Anesthesia
      will be maintained with propofol 10 mg/kg/h and sevoflurane. Fentanyl 1 µg/kg will be given
      before skin closure at the end of surgery.

      Intervention Enrolled children were randomly assigned to a treatment by the sealed-envelope
      method. The study design was a series of blocks of fours, whereby a patient randomly will
      receive either bupivacine (Group B) or of saline (Group S) with ESP block. The bupivacaine
      and saline preparations will be prepared in the operating room by a cardiac anesthesiology
      trainee who is not part of the study; the saline and bupivacaine solutions looked identical.
      Medication administration and data collection will be performed in a doubleblind manner such
      that the patient, the surgeon administering the block, the anesthesiologist providing
      anesthesia, and the intensive care unit staff giving postoperative care, including the
      intensivist will not aware of medication assignment.

      Following anesthesia induction and endotracheal tube placement, the patient will be turned
      into a left lateral decubitus position and bilateral ESP block will be performed under
      aseptic conditions.

      ESP block at bilateral side will be performed in the lateral decubitis position and at T5
      transverse process level by using 10-MHz liner ultrasound probe. The probe will be located 1
      cm lateral to T5 spinous process in longitudinal parasagittal orientation. Simplex A 50mm
      (B.Braun, Germany) will be inserted by using out of plane technique. The ESP blocks proceed
      with 0,5 ml/kg of 0,25% bupivacaine (Group B) and 0,5 mlt/kg salin (Group S). The injections
      will be applied after the confirmation of location by hydrodissection developed anterior to
      erector spinae muscle with 1-2 ml of local anesthetic solution.

      Postoperative care All the patients then will be shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU)
      after the surgery and managed with the institution's ICU protocol for postoperative pain
      management and ventilation. Prescribed rescue analgesia (pain score> 4) will be initially
      with i.v. morphine 0,05 mg/kg every 4 h as needed. If during the first 24 h analgesia will be
      deemed inadequate by the bedside physician (pain scores of 4 or greater), additional i.v.
      morphine doses 0.05 mg/kg every 15 min will be given as needed until analgesia will be
      obtained.

      Postoperative sternal wound pain will be judged by the Modified Objectice Pain Scale.
    
  