
    
      Advanced NSCLC remains largely fatal, with the positive impact of chemotherapy limited by
      intrinsic and acquired resistance, manifested clinically by early progression and transient
      responses. Current chemotherapy regimens have limited efficacy with a magnitude of survival
      benefit that is still modest, and lead to significant toxicity, with many patients unable to
      receive this kind of treatment, even in first line setting. There is, therefore, a great need
      to provide patients with less toxic agents such as the novel targeted therapies, with the
      potential to improve the efficacy and maintain a good quality of life with little associated
      toxicity. TarcevaTM has shown benefit as single agent in pretreated patients who have
      progressed despite platinum-based chemotherapy as summarized in section 1.2 with minimal
      toxicity compared to chemotherapy, and also is currently assessed as first line treatment in
      advanced NSCLC with promising preliminary efficacy results.

      As previously described, TarcevaTM has recently been shown to prolong survival in a large,
      randomized, placebo-controlled Phase III trial including 731 NSCLC patients no longer
      candidates for further chemotherapy. This is the first and so far the only evidence of
      definitive clinical benefit provided by an EGFR inhibitor in cancer patients. TarcevaTM is
      the standard of care for second and third line treatment for lung cancer in USA and Europe.
      However, the experience with this agent in the Middle Eastern population is very limited. The
      rationale for this program is to evaluate the pattern of TarcevaTM use in patients with
      advanced (inoperable stage III or IV) NSCLC who have failed standard treatment, or patients
      who can not receive other systemic anticancer therapy, or patients who are not medically
      suitable for chemotherapy (e.g., poor performance status). This will also enable us to study
      the efficacy and safety of TarcevaTM in this population, as there may be differences in the
      pharmacogenomic of this population and the previously studied population.
    
  