
    
      FIGARO is a prospective multicentre phase-2 study that aims to evaluate technical feasibility
      and validity of performing second sentinel lymph node dissection (SLND) in patients with IBTR
      .

      The primary objective is to evaluate the feasibility and the accuracy of a second SLNB in
      IBTR.

      The secondary objective are :

        1. The frequency of lymph node involvement

        2. The impact of axillary involvement on the therapeutic strategy, in particular
           radiotherapy

        3. Evaluation of extra-axillary lymphatic drainage

        4. The correlation between the detection rate of sentinel lymph node and the delay, in
           months, between the end of primary cancer radiotherapy and recurrence

        5. The occurrence of 5-year-old locoregional lymph node recurrence

      To be included, patients must have a biopsy assessing an ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence,
      and a diagnosis of invasive carcinoma after a previous diagnosis of breast cancer that has
      been treated by breast conservative surgery at least one year before (time between the end of
      the previous radiotherapy and the diagnosis of recurrence).

      At time of recurrence, the patients must be evaluated by X-ray mammography and
      ultrasonography examination of breast and axilla, and a full general assessment to eliminate
      distant metastasis.

      Local recurrences will be operated by breast conservative surgery (BCS) or mastectomy. The
      decision between BCS and mastectomy will be carefully considered, in accordance with patient
      preference and other clinical features such as tumor location, tumor size, and breast size
      taken into account.

      Each patient will have a second SLNB followed by a systematic complete ALND. Before the SLNB
      procedure, each patient will have a lymphoscintigraphy to evaluate axillary and extra
      axillary lymphatic mapping. Lymphoscintigraphy will be performed according to previously
      reported standard techniques. At 2-20 h after lymphoscintigraphy, SLNB will be performed with
      or without a blue dye associated injection. An intraoperative gamma ray detection probe will
      be used during surgery to conﬁrm locations of the sentinel nodes and to facilitate their
      removal. All sentinel nodes will be removed and sent for histopathologic examination
      according to previously described standard techniques. A complete ALND (Berg's stage I and
      II) will be realized and the nodes will be sent for standard histopathologic examination.

      Further systemic adjuvant therapies will be chosen in a multidisciplinary approach
      considering prognostic and predictive indicators.

      All the patients will be followed up for 5 years at 12-month intervals after the second
      surgery and undergo annual mammography with or without ultrasonography.
    
  