
    
      Peritoneal Dialysis (PD) has been the main method of treatment for Thai End-Stage Renal
      Disease (ESRD) patients under the "PD First" policy of the Universal Coverage (UC) scheme.
      The increased demand has resulted in not only supply chain logistical problems, but also
      product quality concerns. Peritonitis, the main complication and main cause of failure in
      CAPD patients, could be caused by a product defect.

      PD Product Check List was developed based on the 28 routine steps of standard orientation
      manual for new Thai PD patients. Of these, step 2 (weighting the PD solution bag), step 3
      (checking expiration date, volume, glucose concentration, clarity, and color, step 27
      (weighting the PD solution bag), and step 28 (recording time, volume, and any abnormality
      encountered) are relevant to product defect report.

      This cluster randomized trial will be conducted in 22 PD centers (anticipated 20-25 prevalent
      and 10-15 incidence PD cases per center) to answer the primary research question: is the
      checklist intervention effective in reducing peritonitis rate? The secondary research
      questions will also be considered: does the checklist help increase the number of product
      defect report?

      Peritonitis incidence rate is the primary outcome, defined based on the International Society
      for Peritoneal Dialysis (ISPD) 2010 recommendation. Product defect incidence is the secondary
      outcome, measured by a number of incidence of product defect reported by the patients. Given
      no standard definition, a PD solution product will be considered defective if it is expired
      on the day of use, incorrect glucose concentration, abnormal clarity or color, physical
      abnormality of the box and/or the bag, or loose connector.

      Because of the nature of the intervention, blinding is not possible. Cluster randomization
      will be performed to allocate 11 PD centers to the study group and the other 11 PD centers to
      control group. While all subjects will receive standard PD care, subjects in the study group
      will also receive the checklist plus a 30-minute orientation of how to use the checklist.
    
  