
    
      Insomnia is a sleep disorder characterized by a chronic difficulty in initiating and
      maintaining sleep which has a relatively high prevalence and a significant socioeconomic
      cost. There is good evidence that cognitive and/or physiological arousal, associated with
      sustained sympathetic activation, is one of the underlying causes of insomnia. Relaxation
      treatments such as progressive relaxation and meditation which address the cognitive and
      somatic arousal associated with insomnia have been found to be effective. Yoga is a
      comprehensive discipline which includes physical exercises, postures, breathing techniques,
      and meditation, for the purpose of improving health and well being. Research studies have
      documented the effectiveness of yoga in reducing sympathetic activation and cognitive and
      somatic arousal and in the treatment of specific medical disorders. Although it has been used
      and recommended for the treatment of insomnia, its effectiveness has not been evaluated in a
      randomized, controlled study. The aim of this proposal is to evaluate the effectiveness of
      yoga, relaxation exercises or sleep hygiene in the treatment of chronic psychophysiological
      insomnia. A subjective measure of sleep onset latency will be derived from daily sleep
      diaries, and an objective measure will be drawn from polysomnographic recordings. Sleep onset
      latency will be evaluated before and after a two month treatment period in a total of 48
      young men and women who have been carefully screened for psychiatric and medical disorders.
      Subjects will be assigned to a yoga, relaxation exercise, or sleep hygiene treatment group.
      We anticipate that yoga practice will prove to be an effective treatment for insomnia which
      will yield significant improvements in sleep onset latency. We also anticipate that these
      improvements will be maintained at long-term follow up evaluation.
    
  