
    
      Stroke often leads to significant impairment of upper limb function and is associated with
      decreased quality of life. Patients have difficulty moving out of the upper extremity flexion
      synergies that often dominate attempts to function after stroke. Change in muscle activation
      is the key underlying factor. Despite study results from several interventions for muscle
      activation and motor coordination, wide-scale adoption remains largely elusive due to the
      lack of sustainability of those interventions. The main reasons for the unsustainability are
      under-doses of the interventions and low patient compliance and participation. Recent studies
      among individuals without disabilities as well as those with strokes have shown that with
      focal vibration, there is greater potential to increase and coordinate muscle recruitment and
      build muscle strength and endurance. This form of treatment could widely benefit stroke
      patients and therapists who are in need of sustainable intervention that is effective and
      efficient to building muscle work capacity for function. Thus, the aims of this study are to
      evaluate the usability and feasibility of a novel vibration-based wearable device for upper
      limb rehabilitation in stroke patients. Forty-eight stroke patients and 10 therapists working
      with those stroke patients will be recruited to evaluate the usability of the device. All
      stroke patients will participate in a 4-week in-home vibration treatment to evaluate the
      feasibility of the device. Patients will be randomized into four groups receiving vibrations
      with different frequency (60 Hz or 120 Hz) and amplitude (0.2mm or 2mm). All groups will
      follow a prescribed dose of vibration based on the therapists' recommendations. Strength and
      functional outcomes will be measured before and after the 4-week in-home intervention. The
      investigators hypothesize that all groups will show an increase in grip strength and upper
      limb function at the end of study compared to baseline and that the increases in outcomes
      will be different in different groups. The investigators also expect all participants will
      tolerate the wearable device without adverse side effects and report high levels of
      satisfaction with the device. This pilot study may help to develop a novel sustainable
      wearable system providing vibration-based muscle activation for upper limb function
      rehabilitation. It may provide patients opportunity to apply the prescribed vibratory stimuli
      in-home and/or at community settings. It may also allow therapists to monitor treatment usage
      and patient performance and to adjust the treatment doses based on progression.
    
  