
    
      In the US, 92-96% and 43-63% of men and women do not meet recommended intakes for αT and PQ,
      respectively. Dietary recommendations strongly encourage a diet rich in fruits and vegetables
      to meet dietary αT and PQ requirements. However, αT and PQ bioavailability from most plant
      foods is quite poor, thereby emphasizing a need for effective food pairings that can enhance
      the absorption and promote adequate status of these health-promoting nutrients. The objective
      of this study is to demonstrate that an effective food pairing of spinach with phospholipid
      lipid-rich eggs promotes intestinal absorption of spinach-derived αT and PQ, and hence
      achieve nutrient adequacy. Our hypothesis is that phospholipid-rich whole eggs will enhance
      spinach-derived αT and PQ bioavailability compared with vegetable oil, and will be most
      functionally responsible for the benefits of eggs to enhance nutrient absorption. Further,
      egg whites will more greatly promote nutrient bioaccessibility compared with spinach alone.

      To test this, our specific aim is to assess egg-mediated improvements in αT and PQ
      bioavailability by conducting a pharmacokinetic study in healthy men and women. Participants
      will ingest deuterium-labeled spinach (containing 2 mg αT and 500 μg PQ) alone (0 g fat),
      with two egg whites (0 g fat), 2 whole eggs (9.6 g fat), or vegetable oil (9.6 g fat) in a
      randomized cross-over design. Eucaloric diets will be controlled for αT and PQ intakes for 3
      d prior to and during the initial 24 h of each trial to minimize heterogeneity of
      pharmacokinetic responses. Spinach-derived deuterium-labeled αT and PQ will be measured in
      plasma and isolated chylomicrons collected at timed intervals from 0-72 h post-meal
      ingestion, and biomarkers of antioxidant status and oxidative distress will be assessed at
      baseline (0 h) of each trial. Outcomes from this study are expected to establish that egg
      lipids substantially enhance plant-derived α-T and PQ bioavailability (based on AUC0-72 h,
      Cmax, and % estimated absorption) independent of any changes in oxidative distress.

      The rationale for this study is that, by establishing the efficacy of eggs and egg yolk
      lipids to potentiate plant-derived fat-soluble nutrient bioavailability, a strong framework
      will exist for an easily implementable health-promoting food pairing strategy to overcome
      malnutrition of αT and PQ.
    
  