
    
      Behçet' s disease (BD) is a complex, inflammatory multisystem disorder characterized by
      recurrent attacks of oral ulcers, genital ulcers, cutaneous lesions, and inflammatory ocular
      finding. The vascular inflammatory change is known to be the main histopathology. There is no
      sensitive or specific laboratory test or pathologic findings , the diagnosis relies heavily
      on mucocutaneous manifestations and other clinical findings.

      In the previous studies,In order to diagnose and monitor disease activity in BD, many
      cytokines and biomarkers have been identified such as increased blood levels of neopterin,
      a1-antitrypsin, a2- macroglobulin were correlated with disease activity. Some markers
      including interleukin-6, -interleukin1b, tumor necrosis factor a (TNF-a), thrombomodulin,
      E-selectin, vascular endothelial growth factor, antilysozyme(5), serum endocan, serum growth
      differentiation factor (GDF-15), serum alpha 1-acid glycoprotein, and homocysteine had been
      considered as inflammatory indicators in BD, However, they are not routinely used in clinical
      practice as they are not simple or easily derived. Limitations of these markers also include
      the reflection of short-term inflammatory activity and low discrimination ability with other
      superimposed inflammatory conditions.

      Currently, the platelet to lymphocyte ratio (PLR), lymphocyte to monocyte ratio (LMR), and
      similar parameters (red blood cell distribution width (RDW), mean platelet volume (MPV) and
      neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR), which can be calculated from the peripheral blood
      easily, have been demonstrated as a new expression of the systemic inflammatory indicators
      that can aid in the diagnosis and assessment of disease severity in many diseases, such as
      ankylosing spondylitis,rheumatoid arthritis,systemic lupus erythematosus,and psoriatic
      Arthritis.nevertheless, only a few studies have investigated RDW, NLR, PLR, or MPV values in
      patients with BD, none of which have evaluated the role of LMR in BD, not even the
      relationships between LMR, PLR levels, and disease activity in patients with BD. The mean
      size of the thrombocytes have been reported on the blood count as mean platelet volume (MPV).
      MPV is indirectly associated with the activity of platelets. Large platelets are more active
      than small ones by means of metabolic and enzymatic function. In addition, they also have a
      higher potential of thrombogenicity. LMR is an easy-to-calculate indicator that can be
      calculated by leukocyte subgroup of complete blood count. Also, it has been reported that LMR
      ratio might have prognostic importance for some diseases. Therefore, to better understand
      these serum inflammatory parameters in BD and to gain deeper insight into the roles of LMR,
      MPV, NLR and PLR in BD, a prospective study to assess them all together in BD Will conducted
    
  