
    
      Currently, the gold standard in measurement of portal hypertension is via measurement hepatic
      venous pressure gradient (HVPG). The HVPG has been shown to correlate with risk of clinical
      decompensation, development of varices, hepatocellular carcinoma, variceal bleeding,
      spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and mortality. The technique involves ultrasound guided
      puncture of the internal jugular vein, followed by passage of a balloon catheter from through
      the right atrium, IVC and right hepatic vein. The free hepatic vein venous pressure is then
      measured followed by the wedge balloon venous pressure. The HVPG is then calculated by
      subtracting the free hepatic venous pressure from the wedge balloon venous pressure. When
      HVPG is >10mmHg, the risk of developing varices is increased. If >12mmHg, then risk of
      variceal bleeding is increased. Mortality risk is increased when HVPG is >16-20mmHg.
      Nevertheless, the technique is technically difficult and it may not be available even in
      tertiary medical centres [8]. Furthermore, it requires the use of ionic contrast and also has
      a low acceptance rate amongst patients.

      The aim of the current study is to investigate the feasibility of EUS-PPGM using the novel
      device and correlate the risk of developing complications with the PPGM in patients that are
      suffering from chronic hepatitis.

      Recently, the use of EUS-guided approach for measurement of portal pressure gradient (PPGM)
      has been shown to be feasible. PPGM by the EUS approach was found to have excellent accuracy
      and strong correlation with pressure values obtained by the criterion standard transjugular
      wedged and free hepatic venous pressure measurements by interventional radiology in an animal
      model. Furthermore, in a pilot study involving 29 patients. The technical success rate was
      100% and no adverse events were reported. Measurements obtained with the EUS approach was
      shown to correlate excellently with clinical parameters of portal hypertension including
      presence of varices, portal hypertensive gastropathy and thrombocytopenia. Furthermore, the
      procedure could be performed at the same time of screening oesophagogastroduodenoscopy (OGD),
      that is frequently required for variceal screening in this group of patients. However,
      whether the technique could reproduce results similar to HVPG in humans is uncertain.
    
  