
    
      High adiposity is a major risk factor for a number of chronic diseases, including type 2
      diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and certain types of cancer, including postmenopausal
      breast cancer. The increased postmenopausal breast cancer risk in women with high adiposity
      is likely to be attributed to multiple metabolic disturbances including altered circulating
      sex steroid hormones, hyperinsulinemic insulin resistance, altered expression and secretion
      of adipokines from adipose tissue, increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and
      increased oxidative stress.

      Metformin, a widely used antidiabetic drug, exerts favorable effects on multiple metabolic
      disturbances which may lead to reduction of breast cancer risk in women with high adiposity.
      In addition, metformin may exert a direct effect in mammary tissue through the activation of
      the AMP-activated protein kinase signaling pathway, leading to an antiproliferative effect
      and induction of apoptosis. Recent case control and cohort studies found that treatment with
      metformin appears to substantially reduce the risk for development of cancer in diabetics,
      including breast cancer. There are a number of ongoing clinical trials of metformin in breast
      cancer patients. However, applicability of these trials to at risk healthy women requires
      further research and the concurrent or prior cancer treatments in these trials hinder the
      evaluation of metformin as a single agent for breast cancer risk reduction. In addition,
      recent clinical and animal studies suggest that metformin may only exert tumor suppressive
      effects in metabolic phenotypes of high adiposity and metabolic disturbances.

      A Phase II randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of metformin in
      overweight/obese premenopausal women who have metabolic syndrome will be conducted. This
      study population is at increased risk for postmenopausal breast cancer and has a high
      prevalence of metabolic disturbances. The overall objective of this study is to determine its
      potential effects on reduction of obesity-associated breast cancer risk.
    
  