
    
      This study is evaluating the WIC Fresh Start program, a theory-driven, web-based nutrition
      education lesson to promote fruit and vegetable (FV) consumption among women enrolled in the
      Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC). Designed to
      leverage vouchers provided to WIC participants for FV purchases through the Farmers' Market
      Nutrition Program (FMNP) and monthly cash value vouchers (CVVs) redeemable at farmers'
      markets, the lesson is conceptually grounded in formative research on knowledge, attitudes
      and skills influencing farmers' market FV purchases and consumption and theoretical
      understanding of approaches for modifying them. Lesson content delivery is primarily through
      short video segments and audio output to increase accessibility for low-literate learners.
      Informed by a community-based participatory research approach, WIC participants are engaged
      as full partners in the development of the lesson and the delivery of content (videos feature
      WIC participants). The setting is a large WIC agency serving three New Jersey counties.
      Separate samples of women were recruited to participate in 1) focus groups for guiding lesson
      content development (N = 56 participants) and pretesting the resulting content (N = 52
      participants), 2) cognitive testing to assess the clarity and interpretability of items and
      response formats in measures of knowledge, attitudes and skills developed for the study (N =
      15), 3) one-on-one sessions to assess reactions to initial versions of video segments
      developed for the lesson (N = 20), and 4) the outcome evaluation (N = 744). Stratified based
      on FMNP voucher receipt, participants are randomized to receive the lesson or existing online
      health education. Outcome measures (administered orally to reduce literacy demands of the
      response task) are completed at pretest (immediately before the lesson), posttest (two weeks
      after the lesson), and 3 and 6 months after posttesting. Short- and long-term lesson effects
      on FV intake, FMNP voucher redemption and the redemption of CVVs at farmers' markets will be
      evaluated. Evidence for mediation by knowledge, attitudes, and skills of lesson effects on FV
      intake and voucher redemption, dose-response relationships, and user satisfaction with the
      lesson also will be examined.
    
  