
    
      Initially pupils will be invited with their parents to school where they will be asked to
      give consent/assent in to the study and they will be instructed on how to follow up the taste
      study procedures. Enrollments will occur in the health facilities in Ikwiriri/Kibiti at the
      end of successive training. Informed consent from parents and guardians and assent from the
      child will be obtained before participation in the study. The study will be conducted in
      school children 6 years and older as recommended by the Committee for medical product for
      human use (CHMP) reflection paper: formulations of choice for the pediatric population.

      -This is a randomized, five-period cross over, single center swill and spit taste study where
      the drug will not be swallowed but will be spit out after tasting.

      On Day 1, the subjects will assess the palatability of the following arms in a randomized
      sequence:

        -  L-PZQ ODT (150 mg) put and disintegrated in the mouth

        -  Rac- PZQ ODT (150 mg) put and disintegrated in the mouth

      On Day 2, the subjects will assess the palatability of the following arms in a randomized
      sequence:

        -  L-PZQ ODT (150 mg) dispersed in water administered in the mouth cavity

        -  Rac- ODT (150 mg) dispersed in water administered in the mouth cavity

        -  150 mg current PZQ tablet (1/4 of a 600 mg tablet) crushed, dispersed in water and
           administered in the mouth cavity

      Gustatory sensation studies will be performed on the different formulations immediately after
      tasting and 2-5 min after the study drug has been spat out.

      All volunteers will be asked to place a mark along the line with the use of a 100 mm visual
      analogue scale (VAS) that incorporates a 5 points hedonic scale for "overall palatability".

      In addition, any discomfort or other observation in relation to acceptance of the study
      medication (Example: spitting out of the medicine) will be reported by the parents or
      investigator.

      An open ended questionnaire (description of mouth feeling and taste description) will be
      conducted for each child during the washout period. After the trial a therapeutic dose of
      Praziquantel will be made available to the local health council and management team to
      provide to the participating school.
    
  