
    
      OBJECTIVES: The primary purpose of this study is to test the efficacy of an innovative
      method, interactive voice response (IVR), for delivering an empirically validated
      psychological (cognitive behavior therapy [CBT]) treatment for chronic pain in order to
      improve access and sustainability of this intervention. The primary clinical equivalence
      hypothesis states that Veterans with chronic low back pain (CLBP) receiving IVR-based CBT
      (ICBT) will demonstrate, relative to standard face-to-face CBT (CBT), equivalent declines in
      reports of pain intensity as measured by the numeric rating scale at post-treatment and
      follow-up. The secondary hypothesis states that Veterans with CLBP receiving ICBT, relative
      to CBT, will demonstrate equivalent declines in reports of pain-related interference and
      emotional distress at post-treatment and follow-up.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: A randomized design will be employed in which standard CBT (CBT) is compared
      to an Interactive CBT (ICBT) treatment condition. Participants will be randomized in equal
      numbers to both conditions. Repeated assessments of key outcome domains will occur at
      pretreatment/baseline and at 3 and 6 months following baseline.

      METHODOLOGY: Subjects will be 230 patients receiving care at the VA Connecticut Healthcare
      System who report chronic low back pain. The primary criteria for inclusion are constant pain
      of at least three months duration with at least a moderate level of average pain (i.e.,
      scores of 4 or greater on a 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain imaginable) on a numerical rating
      scale of average pain. All patients must have access to a touch-tone telephone. Excluded will
      be patients with life threatening or acute physical illness, current alcohol or substance
      abuse or dependence, current psychosis, suicidal ideation, dementia, and individuals seeking
      surgical pain treatment. Comprehensive evaluations will be conducted at each assessment
      interval. Following completion of written consent and an initial baseline evaluation,
      participants will be randomized to one of the two treatments. Sessions will be audiotaped to
      ensure the fidelity of the face-to-face CBT sessions and the personalized therapist feedback
      in the IVR-based CBT condition. Both conditions will involve 10 outpatient therapy sessions
      with a psychologist trained experienced in the delivery of these treatments. Adherence to
      coping skill practice will be assessed using IVR for both treatment groups. Analysis of
      primary and secondary outcome measures will employ mixed-effects models, which will account
      for the clustering induced by repeated measures on individual patients.
    
  