
    
      Specific Aims:

      Torsades de pointes (TdP) is a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia associated with
      prolongation of the heart rate-corrected QT (QTc) interval on the electrocardiogram (ECG).
      TdP can result in catastrophic outcomes, including sudden cardiac death. QTc interval
      prolongation is a well-known adverse event associated with methadone use. While some risk
      factors for methadone-associated QTc interval prolongation and TdP have been identified, the
      contribution of interacting drugs and concomitant administration of other QTc
      interval-prolonging agents to overall risk has not been determined. The effect of ECG
      screening and monitoring on clinical outcomes in patients taking methadone has not been
      evaluated, and clinical opinion regarding routine ECG and risk factor monitoring varies. The
      Methadone Safety Guidelines, detailed in the Research Strategy, do not provide clear
      recommendations for baseline and follow-up ECGs. Twelve lead ECGs are costly and
      time-intensive for clinic staff. ECG screening in selected patients based on presence of QTc
      interval risk factors, rather than broadly in all patients taking methadone, would facilitate
      more targeted, strategic QTc interval monitoring. The FDA-approved AliveCor® handheld
      smartphone/tablet device records a single lead ECG (iECG) within 30 seconds. Use of this
      device may facilitate simpler, more rapid and less costly ECG monitoring in patients
      receiving care in narcotic treatment centers. Identification of QTc interval prolongation
      risk factors in patients receiving methadone in a narcotic treatment center will enable early
      identification of patients at risk for QTc interval prolongation, so that modifiable risk
      factors may be addressed and ECG monitoring intensified to reduce the odds of patients
      progressing to develop methadone-associated QTc interval prolongation with the attendant risk
      of TdP.

      Our long-term goals are to determine mechanisms by which drugs cause arrhythmias, to identify
      patients at greatest risk of drug-induced arrhythmias, and to determine safe and effective
      methods for prevention and management of drug-induced arrhythmias. The short-term goal in
      this application is to identify independent risk factors for methadone-induced QTc interval
      prolongation in patients undergoing care in a narcotic treatment center and to validate the
      use of the handheld AliveCor® iECG as a method for screening and monitoring for
      methadone-induced QTc interval prolongation in this patient population. Our central
      hypothesis is that identification and management of risk factors and use of the AliveCor®
      iECG to screen and monitor patients initiated and maintained on methadone in a narcotic
      treatment center will reduce the risk of QTc interval prolongation. In this pilot study, the
      investigators propose the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Identify independent risk factors for methadone-induced QTc interval
      prolongation in patients undergoing care in a narcotic treatment center.

      Hypothesis: Risk factors for methadone-associated QTc interval prolongation include female
      sex, older age, methadone dose, receiving at least one additional QTc interval prolonging
      medication, concomitant therapy with diuretics, and concomitant therapy with drugs that are
      cytochrome P-450 2B6 inhibitors, including clopidogrel, ticlopidine and voriconazole. To test
      this hypothesis, independent risk factors for methadone-associated QTc interval prolongation
      will be determined through retrospective analysis of electronic medical records of
      methadone-treated patients in a narcotic treatment center.

      Specific Aim 2: Validate the handheld AliveCor® smartphone/tablet iECG device as a simple,
      rapid method of monitoring QTc intervals in methadone-treated patients in a narcotic
      treatment center.

      Hypothesis: The AliveCor® handheld smartphone/tablet iECG device is a valid method of
      measuring QTc intervals in methadone-treated patients. To test this hypothesis, QTc intervals
      from ECGs generated by the AliveCor® heart monitor will be compared prospectively to
      simultaneous twelve lead ECGs for validation purposes in the methadone-treated patients in a
      narcotic treatment center.

      The proposed work will be a pilot study to justify a larger extramural study to develop and
      validate a risk score for methadone-induced QTc interval prolongation and to use the handheld
      ECG device for QTc interval monitoring in patients identified as high-risk using this risk
      score. Our rationale is that identification of risk factors for methadone-induced QTc
      interval prolongation and quantification of degree of risk conferred by each risk factor will
      ultimately reduce the incidence and risk of QTc interval prolongation through targeted ECG
      monitoring of patients at highest risk and modulation of modifiable risk factors. Our
      expected outcome is that independent risk factors for methadone-induced QTc interval
      prolongation will be identified, and that the AliveCor® handheld iECG device will perform as
      well as 12-lead ECGs for assessing QTc intervals in methadone-treated patients.

      Research Plan:

      Specific Aim 1: Identify independent risk factors for methadone-induced QTc interval
      prolongation in patients undergoing care in a narcotic treatment center.

      This will be a retrospective/prospective analysis of ECGs and health information from
      patients receiving methadone therapy in the Eskenazi Health Midtown Narcotic Treatment Center
      in Indianapolis, IN. This center is one of Eskenazi Health Midtown's outpatient specialty
      substance abuse centers which employs a treatment team consisting of an addiction
      psychiatrist, nurses, licensed addiction counselors, and case managers. The center serves
      over 1,000 patients each year, and there are between 250 and 300 patients receiving methadone
      treatment in the center at any given time. Currently, at the Midtown Narcotic Treatment
      Center, baseline 12-lead ECGs are recorded for all patients prior to initiation of methadone
      therapy; follow-up ECGs are obtained approximately 2 weeks after methadone initiation only in
      patients with a baseline prolonged QTc interval. Patients with prolonged QTc interval at
      baseline will be excluded from the study.

      At the start of the study, methadone-treated patients who have not had follow-up ECGs on
      methadone therapy will be identified and contacted prospectively. Those consenting to
      participation will undergo a follow-up 12-lead ECG to determine QTc interval during methadone
      maintenance therapy.

      For all patients, retrospective analysis of electronic medical record will be performed to
      document sex, pregnancy status, age, family history, current and past medical history, and
      concomitant use of prescribed, over the counter, and illicit drug use with the aim to
      identify all potential risks. The Credible Meds database will be referenced to identify all
      QTc interval-prolonging medications with a known or possible risk of TdP.60 There are
      currently 165 medications identified by Credible Meds to have a known or possible risk, and
      this list will be accessed again at the start of study in the case any new medications have
      been added.

      QT intervals will be measured from leads II, V1, and V5 by one investigator (ET-L) who will
      be blinded to baseline vs on-treatment status. QT intervals will be measured using the MUSE
      automated system (GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences, Pittsburgh, PA) using electronic calipers. QT
      and RR intervals will be averaged over ≥ 5 consecutive beats and the average of three QT
      intervals at each time point for each lead will be determined. Only clearly discernible QT
      intervals will be measured. QT intervals will be corrected for heart rate using Bazett's
      formula:61

      While Bazett's formula has some limitations, the investigators will use this correction in
      this study because it is standard of practice for QTc interval monitoring for patient care
      purposes, and there are no accepted definitions of QTc interval prolongation using other
      heart rate correction factors. QTc interval prolongation will be defined as QTc interval ≥
      500 ms or an increase in QTc interval of ≥ 60 ms compared with the admitting value at any
      time during hospitalization.62,63

      Electronic health information variables will be compared in patients who develop
      methadone-associated QTc interval prolongation versus those who do not using univariate
      analysis. Unpaired Student's t-test will be used to compare continuous variables, assuming
      equal or unequal variances between the groups, and Chi-Square or Fisher's Exact test, as
      appropriate, will be used for categorical variables. Comparisons for non-normally distributed
      continuous parameters will be performed using the non-parametric Wilcoxon Rank Sum test. In
      order to determine independent predictors of QTc interval prolongation, univariate variables
      with a p value ≤ 0.10 will be incorporated into a bivariate logistic regression model in a
      forward stepwise fashion in descending order of those most strongly associated with QTc
      interval prolongation based on univariate p value. Significant continuous variables will be
      dichotomized based on the results of the univariate analysis. Dichotomized variables will be
      compared using the Chi square or Fisher's Exact test as appropriate. Odds ratios (OR) with
      95% confidence intervals (CI) will be determined for each variable. Statistical analyses will
      be performed using SPSS 24.0 (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).

      Specific Aim 2: Validate the handheld AliveCor® smartphone/tablet iECG device as a simple
      rapid method of monitoring QTc intervals in methadone-treated patients in a narcotic
      treatment center.

      The second specific aim will utilize a separate cohort of patients to validate the AliveCor®
      device for use in measuring QTc intervals in patients initiated and maintained on methadone
      in a narcotic treatment center. Approximately 20 to 30 new patients are enrolled each month
      in the Eskenazi Health Midtown Narcotics Treatment Center. Data collection will be completed
      over the course of two months with the aim to enroll 40 to 60 patients for this aim. Twelve
      lead ECGs (Marquette Mac 5500, GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences, Pittsburgh, PA) and simultaneous
      single lead ECGs using the AliveCor® device will be recorded for all newly enrolled patients
      at baseline and again after six weeks of methadone therapy. The QTc identified by the twelve
      lead ECG will be compared to the single lead ECG for all baseline and follow-up recordings to
      validate the use of the AliveCor® device for potential use in narcotic treatment centers to
      reduce cost and save time. The single lead ECG will be uploaded to a computer and measured
      manually by study researchers using ECG calipers. QT intervals will be measured and corrected
      as described previously.

      A total of 80 to 120 QTc intervals, depending on the number of patients enrolled, will be
      compared. Comparison of QT intervals between the twelve lead and single lead measurements
      will be performed using the Bland-Altman method for analysis of measurement agreement. The
      mean and 95% confidence interval of the difference in QT interval between the two methods
      will be calculated. Logistic regression analysis will be utilized to identify independent
      predictors of perfect agreement between both measurements, where perfect agreement is defined
      as agreement within 20 ms between the two measurements. Odds ratios and 95% confidence
      intervals of each independent predictor will be calculated. Using the twelve lead ECG as the
      gold standard, the sensitivity and specificity of the single lead ECG will be determined.
    
  