
    
      We are examining changes in brain structure and function as predictors of cognitive decline
      and impairment through longitudinal neuroimaging assessments of selected Baltimore
      Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA) participants. The hypothesis driving this study is that
      accelerated preclinical changes in brain structure and function in specific regions,
      including mesial temporal cortex, cingulate cortex, and inferior parietal cortex, will
      predict which individuals subsequently develop cognitive impairment and Alzheimer s disease.
      Since 1994, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), and
      neuropsychological testing have been performed for the neuroimaging participants, aged 55 and
      older. In the next phase of this study, we will continue longitudinal testing of older
      participants and will continue enrolling additional participants. We will continue MRI
      studies of brain structure, with enhanced measures of vascular changes, and will perform PET
      studies of cerebral blood flow, amyloid distribution in brain, and, in a subset of
      participants, cerebral glucose metabolism. We will also extend the MRI and neuropsychological
      evaluations to an additional 60 BLSA participants aged 20 to 54. Our initial data indicate
      substantial changes in brain volumes and tissue composition through the 5th evaluation,
      despite only minimal cognitive change in this generally healthy sample. We will continue to
      follow these individuals and will examine modifiers of both structural and functional brain
      changes and their associations with cognitive decline. Potential modulators include genetic
      factors, hormonal status and therapies, medications, dietary supplements, and other
      health-related factors. We have already observed acceleration of hippocampal volume loss in
      individuals at increased genetic risk for Alzheimer s disease, carriers of the apolipoprotein
      E epsilon 4 allele, and modulation of memory and regional cerebral blood flow activation
      patterns as a function of postmenopausal hormone therapy in women and endogenous testosterone
      concentrations in men. We will continue to examine these and other modifiers of
      brain-behavior associations. Early prediction of cognitive impairment and factors that alter
      the incidence or progression of disease will be essential as new therapies are on the
      horizon.
    
  