
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess and compare the safety and potential toxicities associated with treating patients
      with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) with either major histocompatibility complex
      (MHC) up regulation and programmed cell death 1 (PD1)-axis blockade (Group 1), or MHC
      up-regulation, PD1-axis blockade and adoptive transfer of Merkel cell polyoma virus (MCPyV) T
      antigen (TAg)-specific polyclonal autologous cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T cells (Group
      2).

      II. Assess and compare the antitumor efficacy associated with treating patients with
      metastatic MCC with either MHC up-regulation and PD1-axis blockade (Group 1), or MHC
      up-regulation, PD1-axis blockade and adoptive transfer of MCPyV TAg-specific polyclonal
      autologous CD8+ T cells (Group 2).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Examine the in vivo persistence and, where evaluable, migration to tumor sites of
      adoptively transferred polyclonal CD8+ T cells targeting the MCPyV TAg (Group 2).

      II. Examine the in vivo functional capacity of adoptively transferred polyclonal CD8+ T cells
      targeting the MCPyV Tag (Group 2).

      III. Examine and compare evidence of epitope spreading with either MHC up-regulation and
      adoptive transfer of MHC up-regulation and PD1-axis blockade (Group 1), or MHC up regulation,
      PD1-axis blockade and adoptive transfer of MCPyV TAg-specific polyclonal autologous CD8+ T
      cells (Group 2).

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP 1: Patients who do not have a human leukocyte antigen (HLA) type for which T cells can
      be generated or for whom T cells cannot be generated for technical issues receive avelumab
      intravenously (IV) over 1 hour every 2 weeks for 12 months. Within 7-10 days after completion
      of 1-3 doses of avelumab, patients receive MHC class I up-regulation intervention comprising
      either localized radiation therapy or recombinant interferon beta via intra-tumor injection.

      GROUP 2: Patients who have an HLA type for which T cells can be generated receive avelumab IV
      over 1 hour every 2 weeks for 12 months. Patients also receive MHC class I up-regulation
      intervention as in Group 1 between 7-10 days after the first infusion of avelumab and 2-5
      days before the first infusion of MCPyV TAg-specific polyclonal autologous CD8+ T cells.
      Patients receive two infusions of MCPyV TAg-specific polyclonal autologous CD8+ T cells IV
      over 60-120 minutes.

      In both groups, MHC class I up-regulation treatment with or without T cell infusions may
      repeat if indicated.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12 months and then
      periodically thereafter.
    
  