
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third most deadly cancer in the world. It is primarily
      seen in areas where hepatitis is endemic, such as Asia, but other risk factors include
      alcoholic cirrhosis.

      Outcome of this disease is poor, mostly due to the fact that >80% of patients present with
      unresectable disease. Surgery or transplantation remain the only curative options. For the
      vast majority of patients who are unresectable, a variety of treatment options are available,
      including transarterial chemo-embolization (TACE), radiofrequency ablation, radioactive
      microspheres, microwave coagulation, laser-induced thermotherapy, and percutaneous alcohol
      injection, all of which have similar survival rates. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)
      for unresectable HCC is a relatively new treatment option made available because of great
      improvements in diagnostic imaging and radiation delivery techniques. Although follow-up is
      limited, results show encouraging local control rates. Some investigators have combined TACE
      with fractionated radiotherapy as a means of intensifying local therapy, with some evidence
      of benefit.

      TACE remains the dominant mode of local therapy for unresectable HCC. However, recurrence
      rates are high. The recent randomized trial suggests that a combination of local therapy
      (TACE and radiofrequency ablation [RFA]) is superior to either therapy alone, providing proof
      of principle that combined local treatment is most likely more effective for HCC. Because
      SBRT is rapidly becoming an accepted local therapy for hepatic lesions, its role in treating
      HCC needs to be further defined. Studies combining TACE and external beam radiotherapy have
      shown encouraging results, so the logical next step is to combine TACE with SBRT, which
      delivers a radiobiologically more intensive dose of radiation. However, toxicity data are
      lacking, since this combination has not been previously reported.

      We propose to conduct a trial of trans-arterial chemo-embolization (TACE) and SBRT for
      unresectable HCC.
    
  