
    
      Hypertension affects about 22% of Canadian adults and is a modifiable risk factor for
      cardiovascular disease. Most countries have increasing older adult populations and
      hypertension prevalence increases with age. However, the "rule of halves" still applies in
      many primary health care settings: half of the hypertensive patients are undiagnosed, half of
      the diagnosed patients are untreated, and half of the treated patients are uncontrolled.

      Family physicians were randomly selected and approached to participate in CHAT. Paired
      cluster randomization was used, with practices as the unit of randomization. Data on blood
      pressure (BP) readings in the last year, diagnosis of hypertension, diagnosis of diabetes
      and/or target organ damage, and a current antihypertensive profile was extracted from the
      health records of 55 patients randomly selected in each practice. In practices allocated to
      the Intervention group, physicians sent a letter, with assistance from research staff, to
      invite all of their eligible patients 65 years and older to attend one or two BP sessions in
      nearby pharmacies. Inclusion criteria required that patients be regular patients in the
      practice, community-dwelling, and mobile/well enough to attend community sessions.

      Public health authorities trained older adult volunteer peer health educators to assist
      patients at the sessions to accurately measure their BP using a validated automated device,
      and record BP readings and cardiovascular risk factors. The volunteers provided education
      about hypertension but did not perform a clinical function. A recommendation protocol ensured
      that the pharmacist and, if necessary, the physician was notified if patients had a very high
      BP or a very low BP accompanied by symptoms. A public health nurse was 'on-call' during the
      sessions in case clinical advice was needed. A volunteer coordinator facilitated the transfer
      of readings and patient-reported cardiovascular risk factors to physicians.

      Accurate BP readings were obtained from the BPM-100 automated BP measuring device.
      Questionnaires were used to obtain self-report data on cardiovascular disease risk factors
      from patients, knowledge and attitudes about BP control from physicians, and attitudes and
      satisfaction with the program from peer health educators, pharmacists, and public health
      nurses.

      The primary outcome measure followed an 'intention to treat' approach. The primary endpoint
      was the difference in the change from 12 months pre- to 12 months post-intervention in the
      proportion of eligible patients with a BP reading recorded in their health record with mean
      systolic <=140 mm Hg or mean diastolic <=90 mmHg; <=130 or <=80 if target organ damage or
      diabetes is present.

      This trial is a collaboration by the Department of Family Medicine, McMaster University and
      the Elisabeth Bruyère Research Institute, a University of Ottawa and SCO Service Partnership.
    
  