
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Assessment of frailty is today the best way to evaluate the biological age of the elderly
      person. Fragility can be defined as a syndrome selected by the reduction of organized
      reserves and by the decreased resistance to "stressors", resulting from the cumulative
      decline of multiple physiological systems that cause vulnerabilities and adverse
      consequences.

      The impact of fragility on clinical outcomes has been investigated in numerous studies
      conducted on elderly patients in various care setting, proving in all of them a significant
      and more reliable predictor of variables such as age, comorbidity and individual pathologies,
      short and long-term mortality, length of stay and the onset of complications.

      Previous studies have already shown that frail older adults have a greater susceptibility to
      viral infections (including non-COVID-19 coronavirus) due to a malfunction of their immune
      system.

      The identification of fragility could therefore be particularly useful for identifying
      subjects at risk of negative outcomes (worsening of respiratory parameters, need for
      intubation, mortality) even in a ward with COVID + patients. In other words, the
      imperceptible clinical heterogeneity behind the age parameter could be better represented by
      a multidimensional parameter capable of measuring the accumulation of age-related deficits.

      SAMPLE SIZE (n. patients):

      The study plans to recruit 30 subjects per week on average; for an expected total of about
      300 subjects.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      The patient will be enrolled in the study when obtaining consent. In this phase the following
      data will be collected:

        -  date of birth

        -  gender

        -  demographic data

        -  comorbidity

        -  Brescia_COVID respiratory scale

        -  modified Early Warning Score

        -  delirium

        -  data relating to functional autonomy

        -  blood chemistry data at the entrance.

      Using the variables that are part of the Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment, it will be
      possible to calculate the Frailty Index (FI), according to the Rockwood deficit accumulation
      model. A series of variables will then be collected relating to treatment procedures,
      therapies, the team's choice to maximize the care ceiling for the individual patient and the
      patient's clinical outcome.

      Patients will be treated as per Normal Clinical Practice; no blood chemistry tests will be
      required in addition to the panel of tests provided by the hospital's health management for
      all patients with COVID-19.

      Given the difficulty in systematically obtaining written informed consent and given the great
      public interest of the project, the research will be conducted in the context of the
      authorizations guaranteed by Article 89 of the GDPR EU Regulation 2016/679, which guarantees
      the treatment for purposes of public interest, scientific or historical research or
      statistical purposes of health data.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      The FI will be built according to the Rockwood deficit accumulation model, taking into
      account a minimum number of variables that are part of the Comprehensive Geriatric
      Assessment. The FI will be obtained from the ratio between the number of pathological
      conditions present and the total number of indicators evaluated. Data from patients older
      than 60 years of age will be compared.
    
  