
    
      The sequence is as follows:

        1. Patients will provide consent for collection of blood and tumor, performance of
           leukapheresis, and intended plan to treat with a standard anti-PD-1 regimen, and to
           treat with their patient-specific AV-MEL-1 once it has been manufactured.

        2. Prior to starting anti-PD-1 therapy, surgically resected tumor tissue will be sent to
           AIVITA Biomedical where it will be processed to establish a short-term cell line of
           autologous tumor cells. Approximately 1 cm3 of surgically excised tumor is preferred.
           Whenever possible the tissue should be obtained from a lesion no greater than 2 cm in
           longest diameter. Part of the sample should be assessed by pathologists to confirm
           melanoma and to test for PDL-1 expression.

        3. Prior to starting anti-PD-1 therapy, patients will undergo leukapheresis to obtain
           peripheral blood mononuclear cells that will be converted into dendritic cells (DC).

        4. Patients will initiate anti-PD-1 therapy monotherapy (e.g. pembrolizumab or nivolumab)
           using standard doses and schedules of administration.

        5. When the vaccine is ready, which will take approximately 8 weeks from the date of tumor
           resection, and the patient has had the opportunity to have received about two months of
           anti-PD-1 monotherapy, it is expected per standard of care that the patient will undergo
           radiographic assessment to classify disease status and response (if there was measurable
           disease at baseline) to the anti-PD-1 therapy.

        6. Starting week 10, AV-MEL-1 will be given concurrently with continuation of the anti-PD-1
           therapy. AV-MEL-1 injections will be given weekly for 3 weeks, (weeks 10-12, then
           monthly at weeks 16, 20, 24, 28, and 32). Blood will be collected from patients prior to
           each injection for immune monitoring tests.

        7. If anti-PD-1 therapy is discontinued during vaccine treatment, the remaining vaccine
           doses may still be administered at the discretion of the patient's managing physician.
    
  