
    
      OA is endemic around the world. About 30.8 million adults in the United States and 300
      million people worldwide live with OA. OA is a disease of the entire joint involving
      structural changes in articular cartilage, subchondral bone, ligaments, capsule, synovial
      membrane, and periarticular muscles. Clinically, OA is characterized by joint pain,
      tenderness, limitation of movement, crepitus, effusion and varying degrees of non-systemic
      inflammation. Pain, stiffness and difficulty in daily life activities due to the negative
      impact of functional status are among the main symptoms. The knee is the most affected joint.

      The aim of this study is to compare effect to three groups (flywheel exercise, electrotherapy
      modality and home exercise) Flywheel training is a strength training modality that offers the
      possibility of performing exercises with eccentric overload and variable resistance as
      compared to conventional gravity-based resistance training.

      Electrophysical agents are used by physiotherapists to treat a wide variety of conditions.
      Electrotherapy modalities especially transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) and
      ultrasound is used to treat OA

      Hypothesis:

        -  Ho: Three different protocols applied in individuals with knee osteoarthritis have no
           effect.

        -  H1-0: It is effective in three different protocols applied in individuals with knee
           osteoarthritis, but three don't have statistically effect on each other.

        -  H1-1: Exercise with isoinertial system in individuals with knee osteoarthritis to be
           more effective than other treatment protocols

        -  H1-2: Electrotherapy (TENS, ultrasound and hot pack or cold pack) and squat-based home
           exercise program is more effective than other treatment protocols in individuals with
           knee osteoarthritis.

        -  H1-3: Electrotherapy (TENS, ultrasound and hot pack or cold pack) and squat-based home
           exercise program in individuals with knee osteoarthritis to be more effective than other
           treatment protocols

      Randomization and blinding

      After the baseline assessment, the participants were randomized to one of three intervention
      groups (ratio 1:1:1) using "Research Randomizer," an online randomization web service
      (https://www.randomizer.org/).

      It was planned as a double-blind study without knowing the necessary treatment or
      experimental condition for both the subject and the researchers.

      Sample size

      Sample size was determined using an Instat sample size calculator. In the WOMAC sections, the
      smallest detectable difference and minimal clinically important difference ranged from 0.51
      to 1.33 points. This value was used to calculate the sample size (Angst, Aeschlimann, and
      Stucki, 2001). Investigators included a two sided alpha value of 0.05, a power of 0.9, and a
      sample size of 21 per group. To allow for dropouts, the sample size was set at 25 per group.

      Risk management:

      Failure to reach the number of patients, receiving support from other hospitals of the
      Medipol Hospital Group Unusual increase in the rate of increase of Covid 19 outbreak, (second
      wave, permanent curfew): Online controlled (tele-rehabilitation) exercises

      Research center

      Sefaköy Medipol University Hospital Health Practice and Research Center Statistical method
      (s) to be used

      Statistical analysis will be calculated using SPSS for Windows 22 program.
    
  