
    
      Cholangiocarcinoma is a tumor associated with a grave prognosis. The only curative treatment
      is surgery or liver transplantation. Only about 10-20% of patients with the tumor are
      operated upon. In the majority of patients, the tumor is often diagnosed at a late stage.
      Many patients are not operated upon owing to their advanced age or comorbid illnesses. These
      patients suffer from intense pruritus a result of obstructive jaundice, recurrent biliary
      sepsis and progressive hepatic failure leading to death. Quality in life in these patients is
      poor. The median survival in these patients is around 6 months. The palliative treatment is
      stents inserted either at ERCP or through a percutaneous transhepatic route. Many return with
      recurrent cholangitis necessitating frequent stent changes. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) in
      combination with stenting is the only proven treatment that confers a survival benefit when
      compared to stenting alone. Two randomized controlled trials have shown significant survival
      advantage in patients treated by PDT in addition to stenting compared to stenting alone.
      Ortner et al. 1 randomized 39 patients with inoperable cholangiocarinoma to endoscopic stents
      with or without PDT. Median survival in those given PDT was 493 days compared to that of 98
      days in those with stents alone. Survival difference was again wide in favor of PDT use in
      another randomized controlled study by Zoepf et al 2 (median survival 630 vs. 210 days). In
      addition, PDT improves quality of life and cholestasis in patients with cholangiocarcinoma.
      In a series from Germany, survival after PDT and stenting compared favorably to R1 and R2
      resections. 3 Despite of the evidence, PDT for inoperable cholangiocarcinoma is not available
      in Hong Kong.

      Meso-tetrahydroxyphenylchlorin (mTHPC, Foscan®) is a photosensitizer for PDT in
      cholangiocarcinoma. In compared with other agents such as Photofin and Photosan, PDT
      treatment using temoporfin at a low dose (3 mg per treatment) is associated with a deeper
      tissue penetration (4-6mm) and a reduced period of photosensitivity.

      In this study, we hope to evaluate the safety of PDT using temoporfin plus endoscopic stents
      in patients with inoperable bile duct cancers. In addition as a preliminary study we sought
      to determine if the treatment can reduce tumor volume in the short term.
    
  