
    
      The investigators are introducing The Jordan Atrial Fibrillation Study: Baseline Risk Scores
      and One Year Outcome" which is an investigator initiated, prospective, non interventional,
      observational study.

      Medical research and clinical studies in Jordan are two basic responsibilities of all medical
      sectors in the country. Despite the drastic growth and advances of the medical services, the
      volume of the local medical research is, at best estimate, scarce. The emerging role of
      private medical groups, in cooperation with other medical sectors and medical schools, in
      conducting, presenting, and publishing such studies should be encouraged and welcomed by the
      other medical sectors in the country. A major indicator of judging the credibility and
      quality of any medical research project is to look at the conferences the research was
      presented at and the journals it was published in.

      This is the 9th major project of the Jordan Collaborating Cardiology Group (JCC) in
      collaboration with the Jordan AF Study Group. (see Appendix 2. Timeline of our studies) The
      first project was JoHARTS (1-5) that evaluated coronary risk factors and dyslipidemia in 5000
      individuals with ACS, stable CAD, and non CAD patients. The 2nd project was CAPRIS (6,7)
      evaluated the prognostic implications of hs-CRP in ACS from admission to 1 year. The 3rd
      project was MINTOR that evaluated onset, triggers, reperfusion strategies and hospital
      mortality in more than 950 Jordanians with acute ST elevation MI (8-10). The 4th project was
      GLORY study that evaluated the prevalence of glucometabolic states among ACS patients,
      prognosis up to 1 year, and TIMI risk score (11-15). The 5th was JoPCR1 that evaluated
      outcome post PCI in 2426 ACS and non ACS patients in 12 tertiary care centers for the
      incidence of death, stent thrombosis, revascularization, bleeding, impact of gender, DM,
      renal dysfunction and age on outcome, GRACE and CRUSADE risk scores (16-18). The 6th is the
      colchicine study of AF prevention in open heart surgery, one is completed with 1 mg dose and
      one is ongoing with reduced dose (19). The 7th and 8th projects are ongoing and study statin
      eligibility in patients admitted with MI (Statin EPIC) and decade or more survivors after
      coronary revascularization.

      The Jordanian AF study, the first of its kind in Jordan, will evaluate patients with AF in an
      in-patient and out-patient settings.

      Study Objectives

        1. To study the demographic baseline features of AF patients, risk factors, and comorbid
           diseases, and types of AF.

        2. To study CHADS2 VA2Sc score and HAS BLED scores in these patients.

        3. To study patterns of treatment of AF, especially the use of oral anticoagulation and
           concomitant antiplatelet therapy.

        4. To study 1 year incidence of stroke and systemic embolization and other cardiovascular
           events up to one year of follow up.

        5. To present these findings in regional and international conferences and publish them.

      The study PI is Dr Nazih Kadri. The assistant to the PI is Dr Eisa Ghanma. The director of
      the proceedings is Dr A Hammoudeh, and the assistant to the study director, Dr Ahmad Tamari
      will aid in study clinical initiation, clinical form development, analysis of data and
      manuscript writing along with the whole team of PI, Co PI, study director and other
      investigators.
    
  