
    
      The most devastating complication of ischemic CRVO is the development of anterior segment
      neovascularization and the resulting morbidity from neovascular glaucoma. This complication
      appears to be directly correlated with intraocular VEGF levels. Currently there is no proven
      treatment to decrease the formation of rubeosis. Current management of the disease consists
      of pan-retinal photocoagulation once significant anterior segment neovascularization becomes
      manifest. This treatment destroys peripheral retina (with peripheral retinal field) and
      presumably works by eventually lowering ocular VEGF levels which causes secondary regression
      of rubeosis.

      As ranibizumab blocks VEGF, this treatment when delivered intraocularly may prevent
      neo-vascular glaucoma while preserving peripheral visual fields in this patient population.

      Risks of intravitreal injections are well known and include endophthalmitis and retinal
      detachment. This risk should be less than 1% with proper injection technique and experienced
      retinal surgeons. As the incidence of neovascular glaucoma (with resultant loss of central
      and peripheral visual fields) is approximately 50% in ischemic CRVO, the small risk of
      intravitreal injection is warranted if the drug shows efficacy. In a small number of subjects
      in previous animal and human trials, intraocular pressure was acutely elevated when the drug
      volume was placed intravitreally. An eye with a compromised circulation (such as ischemic
      CRVO) may experience less perfusion if this occurred. Previous intravitreal studies of
      ranibizumab have not utilized anterior chamber paracentesis to compensate for the volume of
      intravitreal drug to be placed. This was reasonable because an eye with a normal retinal
      circulation can tolerate relatively high intraocular pressure for a limited time. This
      protocol for this study will include anterior chamber paracentesis prior to intravitreal
      injection to minimize this potential risk.
    
  