
    
      This study is designed to gain a better understanding of meal viscosity and the utility of
      dietary sources of viscous polysaccharide fibers to modulate postprandial metabolic and
      satiety mechanisms in pre- and post- menopausal overweight women in order to optimize acute
      metabolic responses to meals as well as most favorably affect appetite, food intake and
      overall body weight control.

      Objectives of this study include:

        1. To investigate the effects of viscous polysaccharide type fibers in a meal on
           postprandial intestinal-phase mechanisms of satiety [eg., cholecystokinin (CCK)] and
           meal-associated metabolic (eg., glucose, insulin, triglyceride) response patterns to low
           glycemic index (GI), fiber-controlled preload meals compared to a low fiber, high GI
           meal in overweight pre- and post- menopausal women.

        2. To characterize the subjective and behavioral satiety responses to study-specific
           preload meals varying in viscous fiber content as well as determine the relationship of
           these satiety responses to the preload-associated physiological responses in overweight
           pre- and post- menopausal women.

        3. To examine the influence of menopausal status of overweight women on the physiological,
           subjective and behavioral responses to study preloads.

      The study is a randomized, 3-arm, 6-sequence, within-subjects, crossover,
      treatment-controlled study utilizing a repeated measures, multiple sampling paradigm to
      evaluate the metabolic and satiety response pattern to low glycemic index (GI)
      fiber-controlled preload treatments differing in viscous fiber content compared to a high GI
      preload meal.

      The study will test 3 isocaloric treatment preloads in relatively healthy overweight, mildly
      obese, pre- and post- menopausal women. Preload meals will be prepared as breakfast meals
      using muffins and yogurt beverage / shake as the base for which glycemic index (GI) of the
      meal, including fiber / viscous fiber content, will be manipulated. All preloads have been
      matched as close as possible on sensory qualities as well as macronutrient composition, fiber
      and energy content and volume.

      The 3 treatments will include as fiber source either viscous polysaccharide fiber source,
      eg., psyllium husk, and insoluble non-viscous producing fiber source, eg., cellulose,
      respectively. These fibers are commercially available.

      Preload meals will be prepared to contain about 1 kcal/g offered as a 600 kcal meal portion.
      The macronutrient distribution for fat, carbohydrate and protein will be 30%, 55% and 15% of
      energy, respectively. Fiber will be included at 2 levels: 2 g/100 kcal for the 2 fiber
      containing preload meals and no fiber for the high GI low fiber control. These levels of
      fiber are consistent with our previously studied breakfast meals and for the higher fiber
      meals, just above the recommended intake for adult Americans. Preload meals will be matched
      as closely as possible on micronutrients and sensory (palatability, sweetness, texture)
      quality.

      Preload meals be provided under fasting conditions and consumed within 20 minutes. Subsequent
      food intake will be measured in lab at a test meal and then by food records at home
      thereafter.

      Subjects will receive each preload meal in random order ~ 1 month apart in order to
      standardize cyclic phase within the pre-menopausal group. Each preload test session will
      include collection of food records and menstrual logs, in-lab preload and test meal
      consumption, multiple blood sampling and visual analog scale completion.

      Blood sample collection and visual analog scale (VAS) completion will occur before (fasting,
      time 0) preload meal consumption and then at 20, 40, 60, 90, 120, 150, and 180 min
      thereafter. A test meal lunch will be offered 2.5 h post-preload meal consumption. Test meal
      will be provided ad libitum. Final two blood draws and satiety evaluation will occur after
      lunch (210 and 240 minutes).

      Blood will be measured for glucose, insulin, triglycerides and CCK at the specific time
      periods listed above. Occuring at the same time period, the subject will complete the VAS, a
      validated method for assessing subjective measures of appetite. Subjects will also rate the
      preload meals using the VAS on a number of sensory qualities to assess palatability.
    
  