
    
      In this study, investigators seek to address gaps in the knowledge base related to pediatric
      post-hospitalization morbidity in 3 phases: first (Phase A) by examining the understanding
      and execution of post-hospitalization discharge instructions in the context of low HL, second
      (Phase B) by beginning to develop a low literacy discharge plan template to enhance and
      standardize provider counseling, and third (Phase C) by examining the effects of the
      intervention. The focus will be on those at greatest risk for low HL and poor outcomes,
      families from low SES backgrounds. Investigators therefore propose a prospective study (Phase
      A) to:

      AIM 1. Examine associations between HL and parent execution of inpatient discharge
      instructions (overall and 4 key domains: medication management, follow-up, diet/activity
      restrictions, and concerning symptoms to act on;.

      Hypothesis: Low HL will be adversely associated with execution (overall/individual domains).

      AIM 2. Examine the role of understanding in the relationship between HL and parent execution
      of inpatient discharge instructions. a) Examine associations between HL and understanding
      (overall and 4 key domains). b) Examine the degree to which understanding mediates the
      relationship between HL and execution (overall and individual domains).

      Hypothesis: Low HL will be adversely associated with understanding and its individual
      domains. The relationship between HL and execution will be partially mediated by
      understanding.

      AIM 3 (Exploratory). Explore the role and mechanism through which low HL is related to
      post-hospitalization morbidity (as defined by readmissions, ED use, or unplanned doctor
      visits) by examining a) the association between HL and post-hospitalization morbidity, and b)
      the degree to which the relationship between HL and post-hospitalization morbidity occurs
      through overall understanding and execution.

      Preliminary data from Phase A showed that >80% of parents make ≥1 error related to hospital
      discharge instructions. Notably, 30% of parents made medication errors, 20% missed >1
      follow-up appointment, and 70% were not aware of concerning symptoms that should prompt
      medical attention. Findings from Phase A will be used to inform development of (Phase B) and
      to examine the efficacy of (Phase C) interventions to reduce post-hospitalization morbidity
      through a HL-informed approach as recommended by the Institute of Medicine. This work will
      build on a longstanding program of research and intervention development in this area by the
      study team.

      The specific aims for Phases B and C are to:

      AIM 4. Design a health literacy-informed discharge plan template tool to address domains of
      medication management, follow-up appointments, concerning symptoms to act on, and
      diet/activity restrictions.

      AIM 5. Explore the efficacy of the tool in improving parent understanding and execution of
      discharge instructions (e.g. medication errors, appointment attendance, actions related to
      concerning symptoms, diet/activity restrictions).

      Hypothesis: Parents will demonstrate improved understanding/execution of discharge
      instructions.

      AIM 6. Explore the feasibility and utility of the tool with providers and parents.

      Hypothesis: Providers/parents will find the tool to be easy to use and helpful.
    
  