
    
      Experimental Design:

      Hypothesis. Dose-volume histograms (DVHs) of bowel, sigmoid colon and rectum are expected to
      be predictive of IT prospectively self-assessed by patients by means of IBDQ (Inflammatory
      Bowel Disease Questionnaire). Similarly, DVHs of pelvic bony subvolumes (lumbar-sacral, iliac
      and the lower pelvis) should predict HT, while DVHs and dose-surface histograms (DSHs) of the
      bladder are expected to be predictive of UT self-assessed by patients by means of IPSS
      (International Prostate Symptoms Score) and ICIQ-SF (International Consultation on
      Incontinence Questionnaire- short form) questionnaires. Moreover, some specific urinary and
      intestinal-rectal symptoms are expected to lead to impairment in emotional, social and
      systemic domains, as assessed by the IBDQ questionnaire, more than others, with several
      possible "clusters" of symptoms prevailing in different treatment settings. Finally, the
      intestinal, urinary and hematologic toxicity profile of WPRT IMRT could emerge to be
      extremely different in patients treated with radical (RAD), adjuvant (ADV) or salvage (SALV)
      intent.

      Task1. The principal aim of the project is to develop sophisticated quantitative predictive
      models of IT, UT and HT (without the confounding bias of chemotherapy) from WPRT IMRT in both
      radical and postoperative treatment of localized PCa. The possible correlation between the
      radiation doses received by different pelvic structures and different toxicities will be
      analyzed.

      Task2. To try to individuate the intestinal/rectal and urinary symptoms most negatively
      affecting the Emotional, Social and Systemic patient domains, with the ultimate objective of
      "focusing" the quantitative predictive models including both clinical and physico-dosimetric
      parameters only upon these main symptoms. This approach could theoretically permit the
      creation of a "shortened and radiotherapy adapted" version of the IBDQ questionnaire.

      Task3. A thorough assessment of the different self-assessed toxicity profiles to be expected
      in patients treated with RAD, ADV or SALV intent will be carried out, with the ultimate aim
      of accumulating a set of extremely detailed information to be provided to patients in order
      to offer them appropriate counselling after the initial diagnosis of PCa with regard to the
      choice between radiotherapy vs surgery. In those selecting the latter and in the presence of
      risk factors at prostatectomy suggesting a possible role for postoperative radiotherapy, the
      ultimate objective would be that of assisting patients in the always extremely problematic
      choice between immediate adjuvant and timely, postponed, salvage irradiation in the case of
      biochemical recurrence.

      Task4. Secondary end-points: to search for a possible correlation between HT and IT/UT.

      Throughout the treatment period, patients will be seen every 2 weeks for toxicity monitoring.
      Subsequently, a follow-up visit will be performed at 3 months from the end of treatment, and
      every six months thereafter, up to 5 years.

      Intestinal and urinary toxicities, including urinary incontinence, will be self-assessed by
      patients by means of the Italian validated version of the IBDQ, IPSS and ICIQ-SF
      questionnaires: at baseline (no more than 30 days before RT start), at radiotherapy mid-point
      and end, at 3, 6,12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54 and 60 months from radiotherapy conclusion.

      A blood sample for white blood cells (WBC), with absolute neutrophil and lymphocyte counts
      (ANC and ALC, respectively), red blood cells (RBC) and platelets (PLT) counts will be
      collected at the same time intervals. In addition to the self-reported assessment of
      rectal/bowel and urinary symptoms during and after radiotherapy, an evaluation of acute and
      late IT and UT will be performed by the medical staff for possible future comparison between
      its subjective and objective measurement. IT, HT and UT will be graded according to the
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03.
    
  