
    
      Task 1.1: Synovial fluids will be collected from 60 patients referred to IRCCS Galeazzi
      Orthopedic Institute for the revision of a septic prosthesis and from 40 patients undergoing
      revision due to aseptic failure. The collected synovial fluids will be stored at -80°C until
      analysis.

      According to MSIS guidelines, the measurement of CRP and ESR levels, synovial WBC count, and
      the microbiological culture of the explanted device and periprosthetic tissue will be
      conducted following routine protocols. Only synovial fluid collected from patients of the
      infected group diagnosed with a PJI mediated by CoNS will be eligible for subsequent
      proteomic analyses. Task 1.2: The secretome of at least 10 isolates of the retrieved species
      of CoNS will be characterized. In particular, CoNS clinical isolates will be cultured in a
      drip flow reactor to induce the production of biofilm and the secretome analyzed to perform
      the first selection of proteins of interest.

      Task 2.1: Proteins extracted from the synovial fluids of patients with or without PJI will be
      carbamidomethylated and digested by trypsin. Thereafter, peptide mixtures will be analyzed by
      nano liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (nano LC-MS/MS). Label-free
      quantifications (LFQ) will be applied to assess the levels of proteins expressed by bacteria
      and secreted in patient synovial fluids.

      Task 2.2: Using proteomic software (i.e. MaxQuant, Perseus, etc.), the bioinformatic analysis
      will be performed to determine a pool of proteins of interest present only in samples
      belonging to the infected group of patients which would be closely related to the presence of
      bacteria.

      Task 3.1: Proteins of interest identified in Task 1.2 and Task 2.2 as putative biomarkers
      related to CoNS-mediated PJIs will be selected for targeted proteomic analyses by means of
      additional bioinformatic analyses.

      Task 3.2: To confirm the presence of putative biomarkers defined in Task 3.1 in synovial
      fluid of enrolled patients, targeted proteomic analysis will be performed on all the
      infected/not infected samples collected in Task 1.1. Prototypic peptides for each putative
      biomarker will be selected by Skyline software. Ionization and fragmentation behaviors of all
      candidate peptides will be studied.

      Task 3.3: Finally, the information from the targeted proteomic analysis will be correlated to
      the outcomes of the diagnosis formulated following the MSIS guidelines in order to evaluate
      the diagnostic value of each selected biomarker.
    
  