
    
      Study setting:

        -  The study will be held at the center of Pediatric Nephrology and transplantation, El-
           Mounira children's hospital (Abu El rish).

        -  The data collected through the questionnaire will be obtained through an interview
           between the investigator and the parent or the legal guardian that's based on WHO guide
           for health surveys(WHO Oral health surveys, 2013)

        -  For patients undergoing dialysis, examination will be performed at the dialysis unit
           during dialysis session (there is no waiting room for patients before dialysis).

        -  For patients who received renal transplantation, examination will be performed at the
           outpatient nephrology clinic during follow up visits.

        -  Clinical examination will be performed for both oral (soft tissue) and dental (hard)
           tissue.

        -  Decayed-Missing-Filled Index ( DMF ) which was introduced by Klein, Palmer and Knutson
           in 1938 and modified by WHO.

      The components are:

      D component:

      Used to describe (Decayed teeth) which include:

      Carious tooth. Filled tooth with recurrent decay. Only the roots are left. Defect filling
      with caries. Temporary filling. Filled tooth surface with other surface decayed.

      M component:

      Used to describe (Missing teeth due to caries) other cases should be excluded.

      F component:

      Used to describe (Filled teeth due to caries). Teeth were considered filled without decay
      when one or more permanent restorations were present and there was no secondary (recurrent)
      caries or other area of the tooth with primary caries. A tooth with a crown placed because of
      previous decay was recorded in this category. Teeth stored for reason other than dental
      caries should be excluded.

      deft / defs , which was introduced by Gruebbel in 1944

      d- decayed tooth . e- decayed tooth indicated for extraction . f- filled tooth

      • The coding system for the Modified DDE Index has three items of information that will be
      recorded for each tooth surface. (Clarkson and O'Mullane, 1989)

      First, the Type of Defect, codes 0-7, was recorded. Then the Sub-type of that defect was
      noted, i.e., when a demarcated opacity was present, the Sub-type was either white/cream (code
      1) or yellow/brown (code 2), or when a diffuse opacity was present, then six options were
      possible. Finally, the extent of each defect was recorded. The new additional sub-type (code
      3) termed "diffuse confluent opacity" is defined as a diffuse opacity in which any patchiness
      has merged into a regular condensed chalky white area, and it could cover the entire surface
      of a tooth or be confined to a localized area of the tooth surface.

        -  Oral candidiasis assessment will be based on the Lehner scale (Cleverson et al., 2014)

        -  In assessing the degree of gingival hyperplasia we will use the index of Angelopoulos
           and Goaz, described by Prof. T. Djemileva. (Dencheva et al., 2011)
    
  