
    
      Heart Failure (HF) remains a major public health problem. Despite significant advances in the
      pharmacological management of this condition, the high mortality associated with heart
      failure remains a concern with annual figures ranging from 10 - 15% in mildly symptomatic
      patients to 50 - 60% in patients with severe heart failure.1

      The major aetiological cause of HF is ischemic heart disease (IHD). While guidelines on the
      treatment of IHD recommend the use of lipid lowering therapy with
      hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) to improve prognosis, recent
      surveys from the UK and have shown that these effective therapies are being under-utilised.2
      The reasons appear to be multifactorial but include issues related to efficacy, safety,
      potential for adverse drug reactions, failure to prescribe appropriate medication or dose and
      noncompliance with therapy.3

      Some data from the large trials of statins are suggestive of benefit. In the 4S study 412
      patients (9.2% of the study population) developed chronic heart failure requiring treatment,
      i.e. 228 (10.3%) in the placebo group and 184 (8.3%) patients in the group treated with
      simvastatin (p < 0.015). However, several questions remain, not least how statins might be
      beneficial in the setting of symptomatic heart failure.4 Treatment of heart failure has been
      targeted to a certain extent at the cause - and in the case of the majority of heart failure
      patients, the cause is related to ischemic heart disease and, perhaps, atherosclerosis.
      Furthermore, it is believed that the non-lipid lowering effects of statins, including
      neoangiogenesis, inhibition of proinflammatory cytokine activity, anti-fibrotic effects and
      favorable modulation of the autonomic nervous system, could play a positive role in the
      medical management of HF.5,6

      However, there are several specific concerns, which clinicians may have in relation to the
      use of statins in heart failure. The average age of a community heart failure population is
      generally above 70 years and observational data from Framingham have suggested an inverse
      relationship between total cholesterol levels and all-cause mortality in older patients.5
      There is an association between a total cholesterol level less than 5.2 mmol/L and impaired
      one-year event free survival in a large group of patients with heart failure.6 Statins can
      have a deleterious effect on myocardial function and thus have adverse effects on skeletal or
      cardiac muscles due to the inhibition of the synthesis of mevalonate, a precursor of
      ubiquinone.7

      Elevated levels of markers such as C-reactive protein, TNF alpha and other inflammatory
      cytokines have been associated with poorer outcome in patients with HF, but excluding those
      with clear sources of infection or other inflammatory disorder, elevated C-reactive protein
      correlates with NYHA functional class and is associated with higher levels of morbidity.9
      Several therapies in HF, notably ACE inhibition and AII Receptor Blockade have been shown to
      have anti-cytokine effects.10 Statins have been shown to reduce levels of circulating
      inflammatory cytokines in IHD. Recent data using atorvastatin has suggested that significant
      reductions in C-reactive protein levels are only seen in the patients with the highest
      pre-existing levels.11

      Chronic inflammation can promote excessive cardiomyocyte loss, cardiac fibroblast
      proliferation, increased rates of extracellular matrix (ECM) turnover and altered composition
      of the ECM resulting in reduced functional performance of the heart.12-17

      Natriuretic peptides have been shown to be useful markers for screening, diagnosis and
      treatment monitoring in heart failure. New data suggests that BNP may be an important
      counter-regulatory protein operating through the natriuretic peptide receptor type-A (NPRA)
      as a protective response, not only to stretch and volume overload in the myocardium13 but
      also to myocardial fibrosis and inflammation.18

      In summary, from a clinical practice point of view the under usage of statins in heart
      failure populations may reflect the ongoing debate about their efficacy, safety and the
      potential for adverse drug interactions in this patient population. From a mechanistic point
      of view, the potential benefits of statins in heart failure may relate to direct improvements
      in ischemia and/or cardiac function and may be mediated via suppression of inflammatory
      cytokines, alteration of myocardial fibrosis and may be unrelated to cholesterol lowering
      effects. This project will have two phases with the following objectives:

      [Objective 1] To evaluate the usage of statins in a community heart failure population
      admitted to our institution.

      [Objective 2] To study the impact of statin therapy on natriuretic peptides, inflammatory
      markers and markers of fibrosis in a population with heart failure and normal cholesterol

      To evaluate objective 2, a prospective, randomized, open-label study of mild to moderate HF
      patients was approved by the St Vincent's University Hospital ethics committee. All recruited
      patients give their informed consent and are randomized using a computer generated protocol
      to atorvastatin therapy [Intervention group (I)] or no statin therapy [Control group (C)] for
      a six month period.

      Additionally, a further group of individuals without heart failure or proven cardiovascular
      disease and with normal cholesterol are enrolled for the purposes of baseline comparison
      (Normal group).

      In the randomized study, all patients have mild to moderate HF (NYHA class II-III) of any
      aetiology and documented left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVEF < 45%) by
      echocardiography within 3 months of randomization. These patients are clinically stable, on
      optimal HF medical therapy which had remained unaltered for at least four weeks prior to
      recruitment. All have normal fasting total cholesterol (TC < 5.1 mmol/L). The following
      patients are excluded from the study: those receiving lipid lowering agents; those with
      absolute or relative contraindications to statins; those with known chronic inflammatory
      conditions; patients with medical conditions requiring anti-inflammatory or
      immuno-suppressive therapies. The same exclusion criteria are applied to the Normal group.

      In addition to optimal HF therapy, the I group (n=28) receive atorvastatin titrated from
      10-40 mg/day over 3 months and maintained at 40mg/day for a further 3 months. The C group
      (n=28) receive optimal HF medication only.

      Patients undergo routine clinical examination at the heart failure unit, which includes
      clinical history, physical examination and chest X-Ray appearance. Fasting Blood samples are
      taken and stored for subsequent measurement of cholesterol, FBC, High Sensitivity CRP, TNF
      alpha, IL-6, U & E, TFT, BNP and markers of collagen turnover. 12-lead ECG and
      Echocardiography is performed at baseline and six months. The Minnesota Living With Heart
      Failure (MLWHF) questionnaire was self-administered at baseline and 6 months. The Normal
      group underwent phlebotomy at baseline to enable comparison with the HF study sample.

      Routine clinical review at the heart failure unit is carried out during the trial, including
      clinical examination FBC (including LFTs), U & E and assessment for side effects. The
      patients are advised to attend their general practitioner for all non heart failure related
      problems.

      Comparisons between the Normal group and the randomized study patients (C and I groups) at
      baseline are made using independent t-test, Mann Whitney or chi square test where
      appropriate. Due to non normal distributions in the biochemical markers and lipids,
      Friedman's ANOVA is used to test for treatment effects over the study period. Pairwise
      comparisons are made using the Wilcoxon test. Repeated measures analysis of variance (RM
      ANOVA) is used to test treatment effects on quality of life (QOL) and LVEF. To enable
      statistical control for the effects of age and gender, non normal variables are log
      transformed and a RM ANCOVA fit to the data. Correlations are computed using Spearman's rank
      order correlation.
    
  