
    
      Most males with precocious puberty who have been referred to NIH have been successfully
      treated under protocol 79-CH-0112 "Treatment of True Precocious Puberty with a Long-Acting
      Luteinizing Hormone Releasing Hormone Analog (D-Trp6-Pro9-Net-LHRH)." A subset of these
      patients, however, all of whom had familial male isosexual precocity, had an inadequate
      response to LHRH analog as demonstrated by high serum testosterone levels, rapid advancement
      in bone age, testicular growth, sperm production, and lack of regression of secondary sex
      characteristics. These patients had low baseline gonadotropin levels and lacked a pubertal
      response to LHRH, whereas the patients who had responded to LHRH analog all had clear
      evidence of central precocious puberty.

      As an alternative approach to treatment, the patients with familial male precocious puberty
      were enrolled in protocol 83-CH-0028, "Spironolactone Treatment of Boys with Familial
      Isosexual Precocious Puberty". Spironolactone (Aldactone) is an antiandrogen that also
      reduced testosterone synthesis by inhibiting the enzyme 17-hydroxylase. This treatment
      decreased the plasma testosterone level and inhibited the peripheral effect of testosterone
      on target tissues. This was apparent through a decrease in acne and in the frequency of
      spontaneous erections.

      Bone age advancement, however, was not slowed by spironolactone and gynecomastia had begun to
      occur in a number of patients. Both of these processes may be the result of persisting
      elevated estradiol levels. To attempt to reduce elevated estrogen levels in these patients to
      normal prepubertal levels, we plan to use testolactone (Teslac) to inhibit aromatase, the
      last step of estrogen biosynthesis. Testolactone has previously been used for a similar
      purpose in girls with gonadotropin-independent precocious puberty (McCune-Albright Syndrome)
      under protocol 82-CH-0165, "Testolactone treatment of girls with LHRH analog-resistant
      precocious puberty due to autonomous non-neoplastic ovarian estrogen secretion."

      We plan to administer combined spironolactone and testolactone treatment-spironolactone to
      inhibit the action of androgen, and testolactone to block the formation of estrogen. The goal
      of this treatment is to delay sexual maturation and to prevent early closure of the epiphyses
      and adult short stature. These goals are being partially met with spironolactone and we
      postulate that the addition of testolactone will improve response by slowing bone growth and
      preventing gynecomastia. Preliminary results using this regimen demonstrate that blockade of
      both androgen action and estrogen synthesis is an effective treatment for familial male
      precocious puberty. Throughout the therapy, patients will receive frequent clinical,
      hormonal, and toxicological monitoring.
    
  