
    
      Frontline Arm: Safety Phase and Expansion Phase

      Safety Phase: The Frontline Arm will begin with a Safety Phase to identify a feasible and
      safe dose of ruxolitinib to be given in combination with the "gold standard" HLH-directed
      agents dexamethasone and etoposide. For this part of the trial, a minimum of 6 newly
      diagnosed HLH patients will be included. These patients will first receive ruxolitinib 25
      mg/m2/dose by mouth BID (twice a day), dexamethasone 5 mg/m2/dose PO or IV BID, and etoposide
      150 mg/m2/dose IV weekly. Etoposide dosing is to be initiated within the first 24-48 hours.
      The first dose of dexamethasone and etoposide will be at least 8 hours after the first dose
      of ruxolitinib for PK testing purposes, but patients will not be excluded if dexamethasone
      has already been started before initiating ruxolitinib. The dose of ruxolitinib may be
      escalated or de-escalated as needed, based on observed toxicities and surrogates of disease
      response. Dexamethasone will be weaned every 2 weeks. In case of disease reactivation,
      patients will receive individualized re-intensification.

      Expansion Phase: When a dose of ruxolitinib deemed feasible and safe is identified, the
      Expansion Phase of the Frontline Arm will begin. Patients with newly diagnosed HLH in the
      Expansion Phase will receive ruxolitinib (at the maximally tolerated dose [MTD] established
      in the Safety Phase) and dexamethasone 5 mg/m2/dose by mouth or IV BID. The first dose of
      dexamethasone will be given at least 8 hours after the first dose of ruxolitinib for PK
      testing purposes, but patients will not be excluded if dexamethasone has already been started
      before initiating of ruxolitinib. Disease response evaluations will be completed at 1, 2, 4,
      6, and 8 weeks. Treatment will be individualized based on response.

      Patients whose HLH responds favorably after 1 week (SD 8) of therapy (e.g., favorable
      response (FR), Week 1) will remain on ruxolitinib and dexamethasone. As long as patients show
      a CR or partial response (PR) at Week 2 (SD15), ruxolitinib and dexamethasone are tolerated,
      and patients are clinically stable, they will remain on both agents for the remainder of the
      8-week study period. Dexamethasone will be weaned every 2 weeks as tolerated. In case of
      disease reactivation, therapy will be re-intensified.

      Patients whose HLH responds unfavorably after 1 week (SD8) of therapy (e.g., unfavorable
      response, Week 1) will have etoposide added (150 mg/m2/dose, IV weekly). As long as patients
      show CR or PR at Week 2 (SD15), combination treatment with ruxolitinib, dexamethasone, and
      etoposide is tolerated, and patients are clinically stable, they will remain on these 3
      agents for the remainder of the 8-week study period. Dexamethasone will not be weaned until
      patients have shown at least a PR, with the weaning schedule determined by the treating
      physician. Dexamethasone weaning may continue beyond the 8-week study period. Patients whose
      HLH does not respond favorably (e.g., exhibit non-response (NR), progressive disease (PD))
      despite treatment with ruxolitinib, dexamethasone, and etoposide will be taken off treatment
      and salvage therapy will be considered and decided by the treating physician.

      Salvage Arm: Patients with relapsed/refractory HLH will be treated on the Salvage Arm. They
      will not be included in the Safety Phase; instead, they will be treated using the
      response-adapted approach. Patients may be enrolled on the Salvage Arm as the Safety Phase is
      ongoing. Patients will receive ruxolitinib 25 mg/m2/dose by mouth BID and dexamethasone 5
      mg/m2/dose by mouth or IV BID. The first dose of dexamethasone will be given at least 8 hours
      after the first dose of ruxolitinib for PK testing purposes, but patients will not be
      excluded if dexamethasone has already been started before starting ruxolitinib. Disease
      response evaluations will be completed at 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks. Treatment will be
      individualized based on response as described for the Expansion Phase of the Frontline Arm.
      When the MTD of ruxolitinib has been determined on the Safety Phase of the Frontline Arm, it
      will be the dose used for any additional patients enrolled on the Salvage Arm. Any patients
      already on the Salvage Arm who show no adverse effects or toxicity at an assigned dose of 25
      mg/m2 BID will be continued on this dose for the 8 week study period.

      HLH Reactivation: For patients who initially respond favorably but then worsen (e.g.,
      "reactivate") during the later phases of induction when dexamethasone is weaned,
      dexamethasone will be increased back to 5 mg/m2/dose PO/IV BID (10 mg/m2/day). If the patient
      is on a reduced dose of ruxolitinib due to prior toxicity(ies), the ruxolitinib dose may be
      increased to patient's starting dose, provided the prior toxicity(ies) has resolved for at
      least 1 week. Patients whose HLH responds favorably will continue to receive ruxolitinib and
      dexamethasone or ruxolitinib, dexamethasone and etoposide. Patients receiving ruxolitinib,
      dexamethasone and etoposide whose HLH responds unfavorably will be taken off treatment and be
      considered for an alternative salvage therapy. For patients receiving ruxolitinib and
      dexamethasone whose HLH responds unfavorably, etoposide may be added. If the response is
      favorable, the patient will continue on all 3 medications. If the response is unfavorable
      after adding etoposide, the patient will be taken off treatment and will be considered for an
      alternative salvage therapy.

      All patients with CNS disease will receive intrathecal (IT) MTX and hydrocortisone (HC), per
      age-based dosing, once per week for up to 4 weeks.

      Patients will be followed for one year after starting protocol therapy or 1 year after HSCT
      (for those undergoing HSCT).
    
  