
    
      Background Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) COPD is a disease of the lungs
      characterised by airway inflammation leading to airflow obstruction. It is a progressive and
      largely preventable disease caused by the inhalation of noxious gases generally through
      cigarette smoking. Patients experience persistent symptoms including breathlessness, reduced
      exercise tolerance and an increase in the production of mucus in the airways. The impact of
      the disease to the individual is substantial in terms of physical disability and
      psycho-social issues.

      Patients with COPD can experience an exacerbation of their disease, defined as a sudden
      worsening of symptoms above and beyond the individual's normal daily variation. COPD
      exacerbations are the second most common cause of emergency hospital admissions in the UK,
      with an estimated 94,000 admissions per annum. Indeed, COPD is one of the most expensive
      inpatient conditions in the UK, costing the National Health Service (NHS) over £800 million
      in direct healthcare costs. COPD is also set to become the third leading cause of death
      worldwide by the year 2030, surpassed only by heart disease and stroke. Despite this high
      level of mortality, public awareness of COPD is low in the United Kingdom (UK): around 89% of
      the general public have never heard of COPD.

      Under-diagnosis of COPD Evidence suggests that 13% of people over 35 have COPD but many are
      diagnosed late and most are currently undiagnosed. Almost a third of patients admitted to
      hospital with a COPD exacerbation had not been diagnosed. Opportunities for early diagnosis
      of COPD are missed in primary care: a recent study demonstrated that 85% of patients had
      consulted primary care with lower respiratory symptoms in the five years immediately before
      their diagnosis of COPD. The insidious onset of COPD means undiagnosed patients may
      unconsciously modify their way of life, and only present to primary care in the later stages
      of disease. Furthermore, smokers, who constitute a substantial portion of the target
      population for case finding, have been shown to hold self-exempting beliefs and thus may be
      less likely to present to primary care. In addition, many patients visit their GP for
      problems related to COPD, such as chest infections and breathlessness, but the correct
      diagnosis is not made.

      The importance of early diagnosis of COPD National health policy initiatives in the UK
      underscore improved diagnosis as a priority Early diagnosis of COPD followed by optimisation
      of treatment has potential cost savings for the NHS of more than £1 billion over 10 years .
      Prevention strategies (smoking cessation, dietary, exercise promotion, self-management and
      vaccination) can be targeted on this group of patients to maintain and improve health, and
      appropriate pharmacologic therapies (that can improve symptoms, exercise tolerance and
      quality of life and reduce the risk of exacerbations) commenced in newly identified people if
      appropriate. A recent systematic review of the literature concluded that a combination of a
      screening questionnaire and micro-spirometry seems to demonstrate the best overall screening
      test accuracy, but there has been little uptake of this strategy in UK primary care and
      doubts remain as to its feasibility and cost-effectiveness. However, whilst a variety of
      approaches to case finding have been trialled world-wide published studies have been variable
      in quality and the most effective, economical method of screening has yet to be identified.
      The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and the Department of Health
      (DoH) in the UK have recommended both systematic and opportunistic case finding to diagnose
      symptomatic patients . The UK National Screening Committee concurs, explicitly recommending
      case finding (defined as targeting patients with symptoms suggestive of COPD) rather than
      screening (defined as identifying apparently healthy people who may be at increased risk of
      COPD). A recent All Party Parliamentary Group report on Respiratory Deaths (APPG RD)
      concluded that tools to aid health care professionals to case find for COPD need to be
      developed in order to prioritise for use at national level.

      Case-finding: identifying symptomatic but not yet diagnosed patients 'TargetCOPD' is an
      ongoing NIHR funded randomised controlled trial comparing the cost-effectiveness of two
      alternative case-finding approaches for identifying undiagnosed COPD. Both approaches rely on
      patient self-reported questionnaires to identify symptoms; one opportunistically
      administered, the other systematically administered. 'TargetCOPD' should provide some useful
      information on case-finding using questionnaires. However, evidence suggests that alternative
      approaches to case finding such as electronic searches based on routine primary care data may
      be a valuable tool for identifying symptomatic patients with as yet undiagnosed COPD.
      However, further validation of electronic case-finding strategies is required.

      In early 2015 the Wessex CLAHRC, WAHSN and West Hampshire CCG ran a service development
      project in two surgeries in West Hampshire using notes review and a different electronic case
      finding instrument, GRASP-COPD. The project identified a need for further investigation into
      the efficiency of case-finding strategies.

      The investigators propose to use an electronic case-finding algorithm developed and validated
      in Birmingham, UK as part of a NIHR funded programme grant centred on case finding for COPD.

      'Complex' patients: identification and management Over the past two decades, there has been a
      shift in the locus of care for the majority of patients with chronic respiratory diseases in
      the UK towards the community. Respiratory diseases are amongst the most common causes of
      primary care consultations, accounting for 24 million consultations annually. Increasing
      numbers of complex respiratory patients are being managed in the primary care setting by
      generalist teams, with a focus on avoidance of admissions to hospital. Specialist secondary
      care is restricted to those patients admitted to hospital in a crisis or referred because of
      uncontrolled disease.

      There is evidence of significant and unwarranted variability in the standards of respiratory
      management in both the primary and secondary care sectors. Marked variations in outcomes for
      patients with respiratory disease have also been shown, both regionally and between
      individual General Practitioner (GP) practices. There is evidence linking the quality of care
      provided in general practice with unplanned admissions to secondary care , and decreased
      admission rates have been reported in a number of long-term conditions (including COPD and
      asthma) where GPs were financially incentivised to provide high-quality care . Moreover,
      higher levels of professional education, nurse staffing and clinical recording in primary
      care are all associated with an improvement in the quality of clinical care for patients with
      COPD. However, a 'skills gap' may exist in some primary care settings, where GPs and other
      health care professionals lack advanced training in the management of these common
      conditions, particularly in the case of patients with multi-morbidity, uncertain diagnosis or
      complex problems .

      The investigators have performed pilot studies which have identified widespread variability
      in practice level competencies for the diagnosis and management of respiratory conditions in
      primary care; in particular quality assured spirometry is only performed in a minority. No
      practices currently deliver FeNO measurements central to draft NICE Asthma guidelines.
      Knowledge of inhaled therapy options and techniques is highly variable. Patients with more
      severe or complicated disease may receive suboptimal care, which may in turn lead to poor
      outcomes. Such patients may fail to reach a specialist assessment that could potentially
      improve outcomes, either because they are not offered referral to a specialist clinic or
      because they decline going to a hospital clinic for such an assessment. Therefore, a
      community-based integrated care approach with joint specialist-generalist "mentorship"
      clinics in the community which utilise both specialist skills and the overall holistic
      perspective of the generalist primary care teams may be a promising solution. We have piloted
      a series of such 'mentorship' clinics as part of a service improvement programme of work with
      West Hampshire Clinical Commissioning Group (WHCCG) and the Wessex Academic Health Sciences
      Network (WAHSN). Pilot data suggest significant impacts on suboptimal outcomes including a
      reduction in inappropriate inhaled medication, exacerbations, unscheduled visits to primary
      care and attendance and admission to hospital. Furthermore, attendance rates and feedback
      from patients and care-givers suggest such clinics have high levels of acceptability to
      patients and their families.

      Further potential benefits of 'mentorship' clinics in the community include not only
      improvement in quality of care for each of the individual patients seen, but also on-site
      education for the primary care teams, leaving a legacy of improved skills and greater
      confidence in managing complex disease. Such clinics have the potential to increase patient
      and staff satisfaction, reduce secondary care use and consequently reduce the financial
      burden of respiratory disease on the local health economy.

      Up to 20 GP practices throughout Wessex will be recruited to the intervention arm. Practices
      in the intervention arm will be recruited pragmatically through the relevant CCG or local
      clinical and academic networks. Practices will be supported by the clinical research team
      from study set up to study end. The study team will directly engage with each practice in
      order to ensure that study processes align with administrative and clinical arrangements in
      each specific practice. A briefing/debriefing session will be held with each practice prior
      to the study commencing and at study conclusion.

      Practices in the control arm will be matched if possible by size, demographic profile,
      socio-economic status profile and rural/urban setting. Control practices will be identified
      through the Hampshire Health Record Analytic Database (HHRA). The HHRA is a separate
      electronic database created for research, analysis and commissioning support within the local
      NHS. It currently includes data from 133 practices across Hampshire which is linked to the GP
      patient database system. The Governance body is the Hampshire Health Record Advisory Group
      (HHRAG), which ensures the security and confidentiality of the HHRA and HHR (Hampshire Health
      Records) and considers issues of data integration, data sharing and data extraction/analysis.
      The HHRA receives data monthly from the HHR, but in a pseudonymised format,. Although the
      HHRA can be viewed in a pseudonymised format by analysts working directly with the database,
      all data used for research purposes is extracted in an anonymised format.
    
  