
    
      Background: Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) is common among critically ill patients and is
      associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Severe AKI requiring renal replacement
      therapy (RRT) is associated with in-hospital mortality rates exceeding 40%. The investigators
      designed and implemented an AKI Standardized Clinical Assessment and Management Plan (SCAMP),
      a decision-making algorithm to assist front-line nephrologists caring for patients with AKI.
      The investigators piloted the implementation of the AKI SCAMP in the medical intensive care
      unit at Brigham and Women's Hospital prospectively over the course of 1-year, and illustrated
      that patients whose nephrologists adhered to the SCAMP recommendations had lower in-hospital
      mortality. The investigators have a publication in press in the Clinical Journal of the
      American Society of Nephrology detailing our findings (Mendu et al. CJASN January 2017).

      Aims: The primary aim of this study is to expand the prospective implementation of the AKI
      SCAMP to multiple intensive care units (ICUs) at Brigham and Women's Hospital in an
      interrupted time series study (nephrologists will be asked to complete the AKI SCAMP
      alternate months). The investigators aim to test the hypothesis generated by our pilot study,
      that the utilization of an AKI SCAMP by providers in a critical care setting can reduce
      in-hospital mortality. Expanding to multiple ICUs and introducing a time series design will
      mitigate the limitations of our pilot data, such as a small sample size and confounding by
      disease severity.

      Design: The investigators seek to conduct a prospective interrupted time series study of the
      implementation of an AKI SCAMP utilized by nephrologists in intensive care units during the
      time period of 1 year to determine if utilization of the AKI SCAMP reduces in-hospital
      mortality.
    
  