
    
      Volunteers will meet with study personnel in the Clinical Skills Center at Stonybrook
      University. Informed consent will be obtained from all groups ('operators', 'patients',
      'clinicians'). A survey will be conducted to evaluate the subjects' prior experience in
      ultrasound. Subjects who qualify will continue to participate in the study.

      The 'patient' will initially be evaluated by US by an expert and 'ideal' images will be
      captured and stored for later comparison against those obtained by 'operators'.

      The 'operator' will be given an smart phone/table with video communication function and will
      be connected with the US 'expert', who will be located in a different room, physically and
      audibly out of range. For the first portion of the study, the 'expert' will instruct the
      'operator' on how to conduct an US exam limited to the lung. Using the two-way video and
      audio communication through the video communication application, the expert will guide to the
      operator on how to utilize the US machine, where to place the probe, and how to capture and
      save images. The 'patient' will be instructed not to assist the 'operator' in any way. For
      the second portion of the study, the 'operator' will utilize the US machine to conduct a
      similarly limited lung exam on themselves, again with the assistance of the 'expert' but no
      other study personnel.

      Finally, the 'clinicians' will carry out similarly limited lung exams on the 'patient', first
      without instruction from the 'expert' and then again under similar guidance as the previous
      portions of the study.

      During all portions of the study, time to image capture will be measured by observing
      personnel. All captured images will be sent to expert reviewers at which time a quality score
      will be generated. The score will be generated based off of the clinical utility of the
      image, general image quality, and several technical components of the image. Please see the
      accompanying Score Sheet for further details. Reviewers will be blinded as to the origin of
      the images ('operator' vs. 'clinician'). Scores obtained from 'operators' will be compared
      against those of 'clinicians'. Reviewers will be comprised of three experts in the field of
      US, all MDs who have received formal training in US and have at least 5 years of clinical US
      practice experience. Each captured image will be reviewed and scored by all three reviewers.
    
  