
    
      Objective

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate the potential role of mild traumatic
      brain injury (mTBI) in the development of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). We will
      characterize the central GABAergic system function in patients with PTSD after TBI
      (TBI-PTSD), subjects with TBI only (TBI-no PTSD), subjects with PTSD only (PTSD-no TBI ), and
      healthy non-TBI non-PTSD subjects (HC), using PET imaging with (11)C-Flumazenil (FMZ). Our
      hypothesis is that neuronal and axonal damage due to TBI results in GABAergic system
      dysfunction which could potentially lead to or contribute to the development of PTSD. We will
      also correlate the degree of (11)C-FMZ binding abnormalities with time elapsed since the
      original physical or psychological trauma in TBI-PTSD and PTSD-no TBI patients.

      Study Population

      Fifty-six male and female adult subjects will be recruited: 14 subjects with PTSD following
      an episode of non-penetrating mTBI (TBI-PTSD), 14 subjects with mTBI but no history of PTSD
      (TBI-no PTSD), 14 subjects with PTSD but no history of TBI (PTSD-no TBI), and 14 healthy
      volunteers (HC) with no PTSD and no history of TBI. The subjects will be recruited from the
      Walter Reed National Military Medical Center (WRNMMC).

      Design

      This is a prospective case-control study of the four subject groups mentioned above. Subjects
      will be stratified according to detailed psychiatric evaluation performed at WRNMMC. Subjects
      will not be treated with experimental therapies as part of the research study. This study
      will provide no direct benefit to subjects.

      Outcome Measures

      The main outcome measure will be (11)C-FMZ binding potential (BP) differences among these
      four subject groups. Other outcome measures will include Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
      anatomical findings and the correlation of (11)C-FMZ binding abnormalities with time elapsed
      since the original physical trauma in TBI-PTSD group or original psychological trauma in PTSD
      only group.
    
  