
    
      Email messages and posters announcing onsite HealthyRoads Wellness biometric screening
      clinics will inform ~1,800 DSM employees at 19 locations of the opportunity to participate in
      an omega-3 research study and have their blood omega-3 levels measured.

        -  Participants attending a Healthyroads Wellness® biometrics screening clinic will be
           invited to participate. If they agree and sign an Informed Consent form, they need to
           complete an Omega-3 Index Test Request form, and write their name, date of birth and
           collection date on the filter paper. The request form includes some dietary questions
           about fish/meat consumption.

        -  Omega-3 research participants will proceed to the biometric screening station where
           blood obtained from the finger stick for blood cholesterol measurements will be applied
           to a filter paper by a Healthyroads Wellness® professional.

        -  The filter paper, the Omega-3 Index Test Request, and Informed Consent form will be
           stapled together, packaged with all other samples obtained at that location, and shipped
           by DSM to a CLIA-approved laboratory.

        -  Within about a week of receiving the blood sample, the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
           Amendments (CLIA)-approved laboratory (#43D1105229) will email the Omega-3 Index Test
           results directly to each participant.

      Locations will be randomized such that approximately 50% of participants will receive a
      coupon for a discount on a 90 day supply of omega-3 capsules. These coupons will be offered
      to participants in order to determine rates of coupon redemption. If a coupon is offered at a
      biometrics screening site, a single coupon will be offered to each participant at that
      location. The coupon will be offered after the finger stick procedure so that it is not an
      incentive for participation.

      Three-four months later, all employees at each location will be offered a second opportunity
      to have their omega-3 index measured. The filter paper, the Omega-3 Index Test Request, and
      Informed Consent form will be stapled together, packaged with all other samples obtained at
      that location, and shipped by DSM to a CLIA-approved laboratory. Based on email address,
      birthdate, date of collection, and gender, data will be identified as a new participant or
      second omega-3 index determination. This data will allow for anonymized comparison of first
      versus second determination of blood omega-3 index measurement to assess the impact of
      providing participants with information on their omega-3 status vs information + coupon.
    
  