
    
      The implementation of the MMT program in China is one of the most significant measures ever
      taken by the Chinese government to address drug use and HIV prevention challenges. In 2004,
      China launched a series of MMT programs at eight pilot clinics in five provinces. By December
      2007, 503 MMT clinics had been established nationwide across 23 provinces. Several studies
      have found that positive outcomes in drug use, criminality, and employment were associated
      with participation in MMT. However, special challenges are facing the current MMT programs
      are facing: 1) clients' drop-out rates are high; and 2) providers at MMT clinics do not have
      sufficient training, and some of them hesitate to serve the population. We have recognized
      the urgent need and conducted the study to address these challenges.

      The intervention pilot proceeds in two phases in Sichuan, China. In Phase 1, we developed the
      intervention manuals and supporting materials, and finalized assessment measures and
      implementation procedures. In Phase 2, we conducted an intervention pilot across 6 MMT
      clinics involving 41 service providers and 179 clients, and followed up at three, six, and
      nine months.

      The specific aims of the proposed study are:

      Specific Aim 1: To assess the feasibility and acceptability of the MMT PLUS intervention with
      process evaluation and participant feedback.

      Specific Aim 2: To examine primary outcomes on whether service providers in the intervention
      group, compared to providers in the standard care, will demonstrate improved adherence to MMT
      protocol, decrease in prejudicial attitudes, increase in comfort working with MMT clients,
      increase in motivating clients and making personalized risk management plan.

      Specific Aim 3: To explore secondary outcomes on whether MMT clients in the intervention
      group, compared to clients in the standard care, will report increased motivation to change,
      improved psychological and physical health, increased positive support network, and reduced
      HIV risk behavior.

      Specific Aim 4: To investigate exploratory outcomes on whether MMT clients in the
      intervention group, compared to clients in the standard care, will report improved MMT
      treatment retention and decreased drug use.
    
  