
    
      Background: Novel targeted therapeutic strategies are being developed for genetic subsets of
      ALS, such as those caused by dominantly inherited mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1
      gene (SOD1). Investigators have developed an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) inhibitor of
      SOD1 biosynthesis for ALS patients who carry mutations in SOD1. This ASO is now ready for
      clinical trial (ClinicalTrials.gov #NCT02623699). The initial success of the ASO will depend
      on showing a pharmacodynamics result on SOD1 in participants, and thus a key challenge in
      applying this targeted therapy involves rigorous examination of pharmacodynamics markers.

      The Investigator's previous data suggest that SOD1 in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) will be
      an excellent pharmacodynamics marker for an SOD1-focused therapeutic approach. However, one
      of the central missing components in understanding SOD1 as a marker is SOD1 CSF half-life
      data. The half-life of this protein will aid in clinical trial planning since half-life
      influences the amount of SOD1 protein reduction by ASO and thus dictates the optimal timing
      of drug administration and CSF collection for pharmacodynamics measures.

      Objectives:

        -  Enroll a total of 86 ALS participants

        -  Determine the kinetics for total SOD1 protein, as well as the wild type and mutant
           protein separately

        -  Determine this in patients with known SOD1 mutation as well as sporadic ALS patients
           Eligibility

        -  Adults over age 18

        -  fALS with confirmed genetic testing showing a mutation in the SOD1 gene; asymptomatic
           SOD1 gene carriers and sporadic ALS patients.

      Measures: The key outcome of this study is to determine the half-life of the SOD1 protein in
      symptomatic and asymptomatic ALS patients which will provide critical information to inform
      future therapeutic studies in ALS. For ALS patients, The Investigators will also perform Slow
      Vital Capacity testing and the ALSFRS-R at the screening visit and at each lumbar puncture
      visit.

      Measures: Participants will have up to 7 in-person visits over 4 months. The study involves
      labeling or marking SOD1 with a special type of leucine. Leucine is an essential amino acid
      that is found in the foods we eat. This method involves an overnight stay for a 16 hour
      intravenous infusion of labeled leucine along with a collection blood and urine followed by 5
      lumbar punctures scheduled over the period of 4 months.

      At each subsequent visit, subjects will undergo a blood draw, urine collection, lumbar
      puncture, a questionnaire (ALS Functional Rating Scale) which measures motor function, and a
      breathing test to determine Slow Vital Capacity (SVC) measurements.

      Analysis: In addition to determining the half-life of the SOD1 protein in ALS patients, the
      Investigators will also analyze the kinetics of wild type SOD1 protein separately from mutant
      SOD1 protein to determine differences in half life. The Investigators will also compare CSF
      Tau half-life between ALS patients and controls as a disease specificity control. The
      Investigators hope to correlate this data with clinical measures which may reveal other
      important hypotheses regarding SOD1 kinetic rates and disease manifestations.
    
  