
    
      Congenital heart diseases are nowadays frequently treated in newborns. These congenital heart
      defects can directly affect the right ventricular ejection tract (RVOT), or sometimes
      indirectly, when the left ventricular ejection tract (LVOT) is replaced by the ROVT in a Ross
      operation. Originally introduced by Ross and Somerville in 1966, the reconstruction of ROVT
      by valved homografts is since then widely used. The technique became particularly popular
      from the mid-1980s, through the routine use of cryopreservation. Pulmonary and aortic
      homografts then constituted the gold standard in conduit replacement between the right
      ventricle and the pulmonary artery (VD-AP). Early failure of homografts is mainly due to
      early calcifications. Lung homografts are, however, less prone to obstructions and
      calcifications than aortic homografts but are not readily available, particularly in small
      sizes (10-18mm).

      The increasing demand for homografts currently induces a shortage and unmet demands. This
      lack of availability, and the durability of homografts in young patients, has encouraged the
      search for alternative conducts. For example, in 1999, Medtronic® put a bovine jugular vein
      xenograft (VJB) on the market, the Contegra® conduct, as alternative for the homograft for
      RVOT reconstruction. This duct naturally has a central valve with three valvules, and there
      is on both sides of the valve a generous duct length allowing unique adaptation options. It
      is stored in a glutaraldehyde solution in concentrations sufficient enough to make it
      non-antigenic, yet low enough to maintain the flexibility of the tissue.This conduit has many
      advantages: 1) Immediate availability 2) Available size range from 12 to 22mm internal
      diameter 3) Possibility of adaptation to morphology and easily suturable 4) Good hemodynamics
      5) No need for proximal or distal extension 6) lower cost than homograft and 7)
      non-antigenicity.

      This conduit, however, is not perfect. On the one hand, it has no growth potential and
      therefore risks becoming too small and no longer suitable as the child develops. This problem
      is particularly encountered in small patients, in whom ducts less than 16mm in diameter have
      been implanted, and is not specific to the duct in VJB. On the other hand, there is a source
      of failure specific to the Contegra® prosthesis. These are the stenoses at the level of the
      distal anastomosis between the duct and the pulmonary artery. Several mechanisms explain this
      distal stenosis: 1) hypoplasia or distal stenosis of the branches of the pulmonary artery, 2)
      difference in size between the duct and the pulmonary artery being too important, 3) the
      surgical technique , 4) immunological and inflammatory reactions, 5) neointimal
      proliferation, 6) thrombi formation. The most likely cause is multifactorial, with a
      combination of factors cited above.

      Prior et al proposed an operative protocol for reducing the distal stenosis rate. With this
      protocol distal stenosis has become a rare complication but there are still situations in
      which the VJB conduit needs to be replaced.

      Therefore, whether using Contegra® ducts or homografts, replacement is inevitable. The aim of
      this study is to compare operative morbidity and mortality when replacing Contegra® or
      homograft.
    
  