
    
      The WHO analgesic ladder, even with its limitations, is widely used to guide the beginning of
      opioid therapy in chronic pain. According to this approach the choice of drug is based on the
      intensity of pain reported by the patient; belong to the first step acetaminophen and
      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and if these drugs fail it is planned to
      introduce a weak opioid (tramadol, codeine) alone or in combination.

      The association codeine-paracetamol, one of the most widely used drug combinations in the
      treatment of moderate pain from osteoarthritis, demonstrated analgesic efficacy superior only
      to paracetamol in the short term; however, its use was less effective in the long term and
      worsen by multiple side effects, especially gastrointestinal with results in poor adherence
      to the therapy.

      Lately, the international guidelines on the treatment of chronic pain in cancer have
      suggested the possibility of moving, in case of inadequate efficacy of paracetamol and / or
      NSAIDs, directly to the third step, using a low dose of a strong opioid.

      The side effects associated with the use of opioids in the treatment of chronic pain, such as
      itching, side effects of gastrointestinal and central nervous system effects (drowsiness,
      giddiness), often necessitate dose reduction (thus compromising the analgesic effect), with
      often resulting in discontinuation of treatment.

      A recent strategy to face the underlying cause of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) is the
      oral administration of an antagonist of opioid receptor that acts specifically and locally at
      the level of the gastrointestinal tract. This prevents or minimizes gastrointestinal side
      effects but does not affect the central analgesic effect of the opioid thank to the low
      bioavailability of the antagonist.

      A recent review on the effects of chronic pain on cognitive function of patients describes a
      series of clinical evidence suggestive of a intellectual impairment predominantly associated
      with a significant psychomotor slowing.

      An interesting corollary of the problematic pain-cognition is represented by the possible
      neuropsychological side effect due to teh use of opioid drugs in the treatment of chronic
      pain.

      The objective of the research becomes to determinate how much the analgesic relief, derived
      from the assumption of opioid drugs, can lead to an improvement in cognitive function without
      the possible side effects of the drugs themselves.
    
  