
    
      Dihydroartemisinin/Piperaquine (DHA-PQP or Eurartesim®) is recommended by World Health
      Organization Expert Board for the treatment of P.vivax malaria, in case of
      chloroquine-resistance (CQR). However, no clinical study has been conducted to assess the
      efficacy of DHA-PQP in P.vivax malaria in the Americas. According a study performed in
      Amazonas state, Brazil, Artesunate/Amodiaquine (ASAQ) exhibited high efficacy against CQ
      resistant Plasmodium vivax and is an adequate alternative in the study area. They recommend
      other studies with an efficacious comparator, longer follow-up and genotype-adjustment can
      improve CQR characterization. Other publication, a meta-analysis of randomized controlled
      trials, found nine publications from January 1989 to May 2013 in which DHA-PQP was more
      efficacious than CQ and Artemether/Lumefantrine in treating uncomplicated P. vivax malaria.
      However, this drug combination is not active against the hypnozoite stage of P. vivax. So,
      more efforts are required to establish how best combine this treatment with appropriate
      nonrelapse therapy.

      In 2015, primaquine was assessed in high dose for 14 days as treatment for the hypnozoite
      forms with DHA-PQP or artesunate-pyronaridine (AS-PYR). Both the treatment arms offer
      evidence of good tolerability and efficacy.

      In other previous study performed in an area with high chloroquine-resistance (Southern
      Papua, Indonesia), DHA-PQP was compared to ASAQ, but never compared to chloroquine by itself
      in areas where chloroquine still works. The objectives of this trial are to demonstrate the
      superiority of adequate parasitological response at D42 of Dihydroartemisinin plus
      Piperaquine versus Chloroquine and to evaluate the proportion of failure until D180
      considering different starting days of Primaquine (0.50 mg/kg/day) for 14 days.

      This clinical trial will be undertaken in the Amazonas State (Western Brazilian Amazon), in
      Manaus, at Fundação de Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira Dourado. The climate is tropical,
      with mean temperatures between 26°C and 30°C. It is a prospective, open-label, 4-arm,
      randomized and comparison trial. One hundred and fifteen (115) patients will be enrolled in
      each treatment arm. A total number of 460 patients should be enrolled. In this protocol, all
      the subjects will be screened to evaluate Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD)
      deficiency and the laboratorial tests (specially haemoglobin) in all the visits will be
      evaluated, as well. The referred deficiency is estimated to be 3% among men from the Amazon
      and essentially the A-type (african type) (27), which leads to moderate deficiency and minor
      clinical complications. Each dose of the schizonticidal treatment will be administered by a
      study pharmacist, and the patient will be monitored for 30 minutes after administration. The
      assessment schedule will be done in days 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, 42, 63, 90, 120, 150 and 180
      (in addition, patient will be asked to come back to the health centre if fever occurs at any
      time).
    
  