
    
      Preoperative anemia is a common and important problem in the elderly.

      Many studies have established association between preoperative anemia and poor postoperative
      outcomes. Some propose that preoperative anemia is an independent risk factor of adverse
      outcomes. Preoperative anemia is also one of the strongest predictors of perioperative blood
      transfusion which is independently associated with increased risk of perioperative morbidity
      and mortality. Consequently, preoperative anemia increases healthcare utilization and costs
      due to increased blood transfusion requirements, prolonged length of hospital stay and
      hospital readmission rates. As more elderly patients undergo surgery yearly, there is a need
      to improve perioperative outcome, contain healthcare costs and help rapid return to
      community. Addressing preoperative anemia could be one such strategy as it may lead to
      decreased need for blood transfusion, and reduction of morbidity and mortality, and improved
      health-related quality of life. The relationship between anemia and quality of life is well
      documented in patients with cancer and with end-stage renal failure, but not so well examined
      in elderly postoperative patients.

      The primary aim of this study is to investigate the impact of preoperative anemia on
      postoperative complications as defined by presence of Postoperative Morbidity Survey (POMS)
      defined complications at day 5. The 9 domains within POMS allow classification of
      complications into various organ categories, such as cardiac, respiratory, infectious etc.
      The secondary aim of this study is to investigate the impact of preoperative anemia on the
      severity of post operative complications as classified with the Clavien Dindo Classification
      and Comprehensive Complication Index.

      Other secondary aims of this study include investigating the association between preoperative
      anemia and length of hospital stay, readmission within 6 months, days alive and out of
      hospital (DaOH) within 6 months, and 30-day mortality. Data generated on the potential
      healthcare costs of this modifiable risk factor would help to provide the background for
      future studies on intervention strategies and its cost effectiveness.

      Another secondary aim of the study is to examine the relationship between preoperative anemia
      and baseline and postoperative health-related quality of life indices up to 6 months
      postoperative using the EQ-5D questionnaire. The results of this study will encourage
      policies that risk profile patients who may require extra support on returning to the
      community. In the longer term, the investigators hope to spur studies which look at the
      optimal hemoglobin level prior to hospital discharge after surgery.

      Significance of the Study

      The findings from this study will have a significant impact on the way clinicians and
      researchers approach preoperative anemia in the elderly. The full clinical, patient-centred,
      and economic impact of operating on an anemic elderly patient has not been clearly
      elucidated, especially in the local context. In the longer term, this study may set the
      foundation for nationwide policies to address anemia in the surgical population with the aim
      of improving patient outcomes in the most cost effective manner.
    
  