
    
      Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a common chronic anxiety disorder that is often
      debilitating and follows exposure to an overwhelming traumatic event. The burden of PTSD on
      individuals and society is significant. The majority of PTSD sufferers also meet the
      diagnostic criteria for several other psychiatric disorders and many attempt suicide. Despite
      the devastating impact of PTSD on the lives of millions worldwide, little is known about the
      etiology or pathophysiology of this disorder. Although disruptions in the
      hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) Axis, noradrenergic, serotonergic systems have been
      proposed as neurobiological substrates in the development of PTSD, the exact underpinnings of
      the neurobiology of PTSD remain to be fully elucidated.

      PTSD is responsive to treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, but response
      rates rarely exceed 60%, and even fewer patients (20%-30%) experience improvement that could
      be characterized as remission. Thus, there is a clear need to develop novel and improved
      therapeutics for PTSD. A growing body of preclinical evidence suggests that activation of the
      Substance P (SP) and its receptor NK1 is anxiogenic and that NK1 antagonists, upon chronic
      administration, exert significant dampening (albeit complex) effects on the SP-NP system.
      Furthermore, several stress paradigms are believed to exert many of their deleterious effects
      on hippocampal structures via enhancement of SP-NK1 system. Overall, excess activity of the
      SP-NK1 system stands as a prime candidate for involvement in the pathophysiology of anxiety
      disorders such as PTSD.

      In this study, we propose to investigate the potential antianxiety efficacy of the highly
      specific NK1 antagonist GR205171 in PTSD. Furthermore, we propose to, in a preliminary
      fashion, longitudinally investigate whether neuroendocrine surrogate markers are predictive
      of treatment response.

      This is an 8-week double-blind placebo-controlled study that will examine the efficacy and
      safety of an NK1 antagonist in patients with PTSD.

      Patients, ages 18 to 65 years with a diagnosis of PTSD, will in this pilot study be
      randomized to double-blind treatment to receive either the NK1 antagonist, GR205171 (5
      mg/day) or placebo for a period of 8 weeks.

      Approximately 52 patients will enter the study to obtain 40 subjects who complete the 8 weeks
      of acute NK1 antagonist treatment.
    
  