
    
      Study Design & Procedure The primary purpose of this evaluation is to quantify the diagnostic
      performance of the Autoscope version 2 prototype in a field setting. The performance of the
      Autoscope version 2 prototype will be assessed by scanning of negative and positive slides
      with the Autoscope version 2 and comparing the results with expert microscopy. Plasmodium
      genus- and species-specific PCR will also be performed as an additional confirmatory test for
      the detection of malaria parasites and their species if present. Testing by microscopy and
      Autoscope will be performed in field clinic settings on Giemsa-stained stained slides
      prepared from febrile patient blood collected from a finger-prick. Patient recruitment will
      aim to recruit up to 80 slide-confirmed malaria cases (P. falciparum, P. vivax or other
      species) per country (i.e., total 160 cases) have been included in the study.

      Patient procedures Patients who present at the clinic will be screened to assess eligibility.
      A consent form in the local languages (Karen or Burmese at SMRU sites, Bahasa in South
      Sumatera at EOCRU site) will be administered to patients with a description of the intentions
      of this study in order to protect human subjects before any study specific procedures are
      conducted. It will be clearly stated that participation is voluntary and that the subject or
      guardian is free to discontinue participation or withdraw consent to participate at any time
      for any reason without prejudice to future care, and with no obligation to give the reason
      for discontinuation nor for withdrawal. The subject or guardian will be allowed as much time
      as needed to consider the information and the opportunity to question the authorized research
      member, or other independent parties to decide whether they will (or allow his/her charge to)
      participate in the study. Written informed consent will then be obtained by means of subject
      or guardian dated signature or thumb print (if unable to write), with signed and dated
      signature of a witness and dated signature of the person who presented and obtained the
      informed consent. All individual written informed consent forms will be stored securely.

      Children capable of understanding the study (approximately 7 years of age or above for SMRU
      sites and 12 years of age or above for EOCRU sites) will be asked to sign an assent form. A
      copy of the signed informed consent document(s) will be given to the participants.

      Once informed consent has been obtained, the subject number will be assigned and recorded on
      the screening and enrollment log. A few drops of blood (maximum of 150-200 µL) will be
      obtained from a finger-prick and study-specific laboratory procedures as described below will
      be performed. The patient will then receive clinical care as appropriate according to the
      routine procedures.

      Laboratory procedures All laboratory procedures will be performed according to the applicable
      standard operating procedures.

      At the clinics (Wang Pha, Mawker Tai, Thailand and Hanura, South Sumatera, Indonesia)

        -  Blood collection from finger-prick (maximum 150-200 µL), which will be used to prepare
           slides.

        -  Perform malaria RDT (part of routine practice for malaria detection), prepare 2 slides
           each with thick and thin blood films, store remainder of blood sample for PCR to detect
           and determine species of malaria parasites

        -  Microscopy of Giemsa-stained blood films (microscopists will remain blinded to RDT and
           Autoscope results), record results

        -  Run Autoscope detection, record results, store images captured by the device At SMRU and
           EOCRU

        -  Review of all slides by expert microscopists (microscopists will remain blinded to RDT
           and Autoscope results)

        -  PCR to detect and determine species of malaria parasites At the WWARN Laboratory,
           Bangkok

        -  Review of field data to identify discrepant readings and tie-breaker readings in case of
           discordance between results obtained on site and on re-checking of the slides Quality
           Assurance

        -  Quality control performed by WWARN expert microscopists on 20% randomly selected slides
           or 25 positive and 25 negative slides per country, whichever is greater

      The funder is Intellectual Ventures Lab/ Global Good and grant reference PA No.3.

      Summary of Results

      The sensitivity and specificity of the Autoscope version 2 prototype were 92.2% and 89.2%,
      respectively. The accuracy was 90.03%. Parasite species were correctly determined in 132/158
      slides (83.5%) and kappa value for species detection was 0.60(0.45-0.73). 45.6% of the
      parasite density estimates from the Autoscope were within 25% range of the reference results,
      yielding the interclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.78 (95%CI: 0.70-0.83).
      Bland-Altman plot showed no systematic bias of the measurement. Differences between the 2
      counts increased in higher parasite density (correlation coefficient (r) = 0.861, P < 0.001).
    
  