
    
      Many of the complications of sickle cell disease, such as stroke, kidney damage, skin
      ulceration,pulmonary hypertension, and cardiac hypertrophy are prevented, delayed or reduced
      by inheritance of one of more deletions of the alpha globin genes. Our long-term research
      goal is to understand how deletions of alpha globin protect against the vascular
      complications of sickle cell disease.

      Deletions of alpha globin are common and found in approximately 5% of the world s
      population.They are especially common among Africans and people of African ancestry, as well
      as in India, China, and the Pacific Islands, where prevalence can range from 5 - 80%. A
      single deletion has little effect on the red blood cell, but two deletions can give rise to
      alpha thalassemia, a mild microcytic anemia. Patients with sickle cell disease who have two
      alpha globin deletions tend to have a higher hemoglobin level, smaller red blood cells, and a
      lower fraction of circulating reticulocytes consistent with decreased hemolysis and red cell
      turnover. They also have a lower number of dense or irreversibly sickled cells. These changes
      might explain why alpha globin deletions reduce the severity of sickle cell disease.

      However, a novel function for alpha globin as a regulator of endothelial nitric oxide (NO)
      has recently been identified that raises new questions about how alpha globin deletions
      protect against sickle cell disease. We hypothesize that individuals with two alpha globin
      deletions will have decreased gene expression and protein levels of alpha globin in vascular
      endothelium, permitting more NO to diffuse across the myoendothelial junction, compared to
      individuals who have all four alpha globin genes intact. In this protocol we will screen
      healthy volunteers to identify those with two alpha globin deletions; these individuals as
      well as matched controls will be referred to a separate protocol to undergo studies of
      vascular endothelial function.
    
  