
    
      Study Participation:

      Participants will be contacted either before their initiation of chemotherapy or following
      their referral to pain management service for neuropathic cancer treatment-related pain.

      The sensory tests will take about 1 hour to complete. These tests will seek to find the
      threshold (a measure of sensitivity) at which you perceive stimuli, such as touch, coolness,
      warmth, hot/cold feeling and pinprick. You will be asked to rate the intensity of each of
      these stimuli that you perceive to be painful. You will also be asked to rate the intensity
      of stimuli that are at a fixed intensity above the pain threshold for most people. Your skin
      temperature using a radiometer, a scan of your fingers and/or toes, grooved peg board, a
      timed task to place pegs in slots, and pain scale rating will be collected. Each part of the
      sensory test are optional and will be collected when possible.

      You may either be tested at repeated intervals throughout your chemotherapy or at later
      follow-up dates to check the length of symptoms.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation will be complete once you have completed all the sensory testing.

      Healthy Controls:

      Study Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will take part in sensory tests. The sensory
      tests will take about 1 hour to complete. These tests will seek to find the threshold (a
      measure of sensitivity) at which you perceive stimuli, such as touch, coolness, warmth,
      hot/cold feeling and pinprick. You will be asked to rate the intensity of each of these
      stimuli that you perceive to be painful. You will also be asked to rate how severe the
      stimuli that are above the level considered painful by most people. Your skin temperature
      using a radiometer, a scan of your fingers and/or toes, grooved peg board, a timed task to
      place pegs in slots, and pain scale rating will be collected. Each part of the sensory test
      are optional and will be collected when possible.

      A skin biopsy will also be performed. If you are taking anticoagulants (blood thinners), you
      may be asked to stop taking them for several days, before the procedure, due to the risk of
      bleeding. For the skin punch biopsy, the skin is numbed with lidocaine and cleaned with
      betadine and an alcohol swab. Once the skin is anesthetized (numb), a small amount of skin
      will be collected using a sterile 3 mm punch tool (knife). After removal of the skin, the
      area where you were tested will be wiped with a sterile gauze, and antibiotic ointment will
      be applied. Then, it will be covered with a band aid. You will be given a small supply of
      antibiotic ointment and band aids. You will be asked to clean the skin with soap and water
      twice each day and to apply the ointment and band aid.

      Researchers will study the skin sample and compare it to skin samples from cancer patients,
      so that they can try to better understand the cause of pain that occurs because of cancer
      therapy.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation will be complete once you have completed the sensory testing and skin
      biopsy.
    
  