
    
      With the goal of helping employed Veterans with depression to participate fully in the labor
      market, this randomized controlled trial has two objectives: 1) test the effectiveness of a
      new evidence-based, vocationally-focused telephonic counseling program for employed Veterans
      with depression, the Veterans Work and Health Initiative (V-WHI), which was developed by this
      study's research partners from the Tufts Medical Center; and 2) if the V-WHI is effective,
      quantify its return on investment. This study will test the impact of the BWAW intervention
      in combination with the Philadelphia VA's Primary Care Mental Health Integration program, the
      Behavioral Health Lab (BHL).

      For the main hypothesis, concerning the effect of BWAW, the primary endpoint is the
      post-intervention at-work mean productivity loss score based on the validated Work Limitation
      Questionnaire (WLQ) adjusted for baseline score. For Hypothesis 2, concerning maintenance of
      post-intervention effects at nine months, the primary outcome is the mean difference of the
      change in productivity loss score. For hypothesis 3, the primary outcome was the return on
      investment (ROI) from BWAW.

      After informed consent and eligibility screening, subjects are randomized to one of two
      groups: the V-WHI intervention group or to the usual care group (BHL). 250 employed Veterans
      with depression and work limitations will be enrolled (half per group). The "usual care"
      group participants are assigned to standard behavioral health care. The second group,
      assigned to BWAW intervention, is the experimental group. Participants in this group are
      assigned to an innovative program designed explicitly to address mental health and vocational
      issues that interfere with working in addition to standard care. V-WHI counselors offer work
      coaching and modification strategies and work-focused cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).
      This counseling is provided solely over the phone with sessions every 2 weeks for 4 months
      (eight sessions total). At 8 months post-baseline, the V-WHI group is provided with a booster
      session. Participants in both groups are administered follow-up questionnaires at two
      time-points: month four (post-intervention) and month nine.
    
  