
    
      Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-β (Aβ) plaque buildup and phosphorylated
      tau (p-tau) in the brain, as well as widespread neurodegeneration. There is no current
      treatments that alter disease progression.

      Investigators will recruit 20 individuals with AD with evidence of amyloid placques in the
      brain through Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging. Investigators will use a novel
      approach, transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS), to target the region of
      maximum amyloid burden in the brain. All participants will receive tACS. Each individual's
      participation in the study will consist of approximately 16 visits: 3 days for
      screening/baseline procedures as described below, 10 tACS study visits, and 3 days for
      follow-up assessments. Subjects will undergo baseline cognitive assessment, structural and
      functional MRI characterization, and resting-state EEG measurement. Additionally, patients
      will undergo a tACS-EEG recording session to assess brain plasticity levels and identify
      markers of response to stimulation. All subjects will then undergo 10 1-hour sessions of
      gamma-frequency (40 Hz) tACS, targeted to the region of maximal tracer uptake on the amyloid
      PET study. Subjects will take a standardized adverse effect questionnaire before and after
      each session and complete a short cognitive test after each session to demonstrate safety and
      tolerability. At the end of the 10 sessions, subjects will then repeat the baseline
      assessments, followed by repeat amyloid PET imaging to assess for changes in amyloid burden.

      Investigators anticipate that targeting the region of amyloid burden in the brain with tACS
      will reduce the amyloid burden as evidence by the follow up PET imaging and show improvement
      on electrophysiological measures of brain function and on cognitive testing. If our
      prediction is correct, this will will provide a critical first step in the development of a
      novel intervention to prevent and treat AD.
    
  