
    
      Primary care practices in the Greater Cincinnati region, that are part of the Ohio Valley
      Pediatric Care Association (OVPCA) will be recruited to take part in the study. It is
      estimated that approximately 170 providers in 40 practices will take part overall. The study
      participants will be the PCPs and nurses in their practices.

      Prior to the educational intervention (described below), participating PCPs and nurses will
      be asked to complete Constipation Action Plan (CAP) forms detailing the treatments they
      prescribed to each patient with constipation symptoms at each new visit and the subsequent
      follow up visits for constipation. The CAP form will contain a section to describe the
      patient's symptoms as well as fields to be checked for each treatment the PCP instructed the
      patient to follow.

      Practices will be clustered by size (number of providers) and randomly assigned to 1 of 2
      educational interventions (Dissemination or Dissemination +Interactive Spaced Education).

      Dissemination will include webinars and e-mail distribution of the Constipation Management
      Guideline and a slide set containing the evidence-based rationale as well as clinical tips
      for advanced management of functional constipation. All PCPs will receive the guideline and
      slide set and be offered an opportunity to ask questions of a gastroenterologist.

      Participating PCPs and nurses randomized to the Interactive Spaced Education (ISE) arm will
      complete an online ISE course assessing their understanding of the constipation guidelines.

      Constipation knowledge will be tested via quiz in multiple choice format. Online surveys to
      assess satisfaction with the educational intervention, likelihood to change practice, ease of
      participation in the SE course (if applicable) and feedback for ways to improve future
      educational efforts will be administered at three time-points.
    
  