
    
      This is an open label, randomized Phase II trial for patients with metastatic pancreatic
      cancer. The trial is designed to compare the outcomes (primary endpoint will be
      progression-free survival (PFS)) for patients who receive molecularly-tailored therapy (MTT)
      to those who receive physician discretion standard of care (SOC). To successfully allow for
      this assessment, and minimize confounding variables, we will need to ensure that:

        -  There is enough tissue for the molecular profiling to occur. Thus, only patients with
           adequate tumor tissue will be allowed to enroll.

        -  There is enough time for the molecular profiling to be completed; for the medical review
           panel (MRP) to render a determination on the optimal molecularly-guided therapy; and for
           the treating physician to obtain access to therapies, particularly if the MRP-determined
           therapy includes an off-label treatment OR a clinical trial. We anticipate this process
           will take a minimum of 4 weeks.

      These factors will inevitably lead to a selection bias towards patients with a better
      prognosis. However, the randomization design should mitigate this selection bias.

      Patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer who are actively on (or about to initiate)
      first-line therapy, who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria as detailed in Section 3
      will be enrolled. For all enrolled patients, at the time of enrollment, the treating
      physician will be asked to submit the planned second line SOC treatment he/she would
      recommend.

      In an effort to streamline accrual, and based on data that demonstrate that the tumor genetic
      profile does not change significantly overtime in patients with pancreatic cancer, archived
      tumor tissue may be used for determination of MTT. The archived tissue may be, for example,
      core needle biopsies obtained at the time of establishing the diagnosis of metastatic
      disease; or for example, a surgical specimen obtained prior to the identification of
      metastatic disease. Archived tissue may be used as long as there is sufficient tissue for
      full molecular testing. Of note, even if sufficient archived tissue is available for testing,
      patients will still be required to undergo a new biopsy to obtain fresh tissue for ex vivo
      analysis, prior to initiation of second line therapy.

      Patients will then undergo tumor testing, as detailed next. If a patient undergoes tumor
      testing but his/her disease progresses on first-line therapy prior to an MRP-determined
      therapeutic plan, then the patient will be considered a screen failure, and will be replaced.

      Then, for all patients for whom adequate tissue is available for profiling, an MRP-determined
      therapeutic plan will be developed. This process of determining the MRP-determined
      therapeutic plan will be kept blinded to the treating physician (i.e. each treating physician
      will NOT be involved in the determination of MTT for his/her patient) - but once the plan is
      available, the patients will be randomized to either MTT or SOC (See Figure 4):

      Patients will be monitored closely while on first-line therapy. For patients who are
      randomized to MTT, the MRP-determined therapeutic plan will be unblinded to the treating
      physician, and preparation for MTT can begin, including acquiring access to off label
      therapy, if required. Patients who are randomized to SOC therapy will receive the SOC
      treatment initially recommended by the treating physician

      Once a patient experiences disease progression on first-line therapy, they will receive MTT
      vs. SOC as second-line therapy, according to their randomization. Patients in both groups
      will receive second-line therapy until disease progression or therapy intolerance (with dose
      and schedule modifications as needed). Response assessment will occur approximately every 8
      weeks (based on the calendar) as determined from the time of the initiation of therapy. All
      patients will have the option to undergo a repeat tumor biopsy upon disease progression.

      Once patients on SOC therapy experience progressive disease on second-line therapy, the
      MRP-determined therapeutic plan will unblinded to the treating physician, and MTT therapy can
      be administered as third-line therapy (crossover to MTT). Third-line therapy can also
      incorporate correlative analyses on the patient tumor samples tested ex vivo (detailed below)
      if these results are available at the time that third line therapy is required. As this may
      impact the overall survival assessment, the primary endpoint is disease progression at 4
      months (PFS4mos), and the primary objective is to compare the PFS4mos for MTT treated vs. SOC
      treated patients. We hypothesize that MTT will improve the PFS4mos from 50% for SOC (based on
      historical data), to ≥75%. We anticipate having 80% power to detect an improvement in the
      PFS4mos from 50% to ≥75% (hazard ratio (HR) = 0.5), assuming a 1-sided significance level of
      0.05 and an accrual rate of 4 patients per month (see statistics below).

      Of note, the treating physician may opt to incorporate the molecular data to select
      third-line therapy for patients whose disease progresses on second-line MTT therapy. The
      results of ongoing analyses and testing of the patient tumor samples, ex vivo including the
      CRCs, organoids, and the zebrafish avatars may be available at the time that the patient
      requires third-line therapy. If so, the treating physician may incorporate the results of
      these analyses into the decision plan for third-line therapy. These patients will continue to
      be followed longitudinally for survival, but there will be no formal comparison of third line
      therapy outcomes with the "crossover" group.
    
  