
    
      Background:

        -  Due to their synergistic action and non-overlapping toxicity profiles, the combination
           of Rituximab and Fludarabine is the treatment of choice for advanced stage chronic
           lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL).

        -  As such, we have designed this protocol to better understand the genetic basis of
           CLL/SLL, to identify predictors of treatment response and to study the molecular effects
           of Rituximab Fludarabine on the leukemic cells.

        -  A new technology utilizing complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) microarrays now
           permits the simultaneous quantitation of the expression of thousands of genes; this
           methodology can evaluate defined cellular pathways, and also discover novel genes
           influencing cell biology.

        -  In addition to improving our understanding of the pathogenesis of CLL/SLL, these
           molecular studies may identify new therapeutic targets in CLL/SLL, and may help to
           identify those CLL/SLL patients most likely to respond to the combination of Fludarabine
           and Rituximab.

      Objectives:

        -  Evaluate CLL/SLL patients during and following Rituximab Fludarabine chemotherapy for
           changes in lymphocyte gene expression using DNA microarray analysis.

        -  Evaluate gene expression by DNA microarray analysis of leukemic cells in blood, bone
           marrow and lymph nodes.

      Eligibility:

        -  Low, Intermediate or High-Risk Category of CLL/SLL, using the Modified Three- Stage Rai
           Staging System

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

        -  Patients must have received no previous cytotoxic or monoclonal antibody therapy.

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0-2.

        -  Patients must not be pregnant or breast-feeding.

        -  Patients with active autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA)) grade III or higher
           (transfusion or steroids indicated) or immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) grade III or higher
           (platelets less than 50,000/microL) shall not be enrolled.

        -  Any patient with a medical condition that requires chronic use of corticosteroids shall
           not be enrolled.

      Design:

        -  Patients who do not require treatment will be followed every 3-6 months and will donate
           cellular products, bone marrow biopsies, bone marrow aspirates and/or lymph nodes for
           research purposes.

        -  Patients who do require treatment will received the standard dose of the Rituximab
           monoclonal antibody and the standard dose of Fludarabine for a total of six cycles. In
           the first cycle, Rituximab will be given on day 1 with Fludarabine being given on days
           2-6. This will allow for appropriate samplings of the effects of Rituximab on
           lymphocytes before during and at the end of the first 24 hours. In subsequent cycles
           2-6, the Rituximab and day 1 Fludarabine can both be given on day 1.
    
  