
    
      Patients admitted to the Westchester Medical Center as a level 2 trauma patient who meet the
      admission criteria will be asked to join the study and written consent will be obtained.
      Every patient who consents to participate will fill out a questionnaire of general
      information including education level, marital status, social support etc. and administered
      the Beck Anxiety Inventory. They will be asked to collect urine samples until the next
      morning.

      The next morning at about 9-11 AM vital signs will be measured, including standing systolic
      blood pressure. Blood and the overnight urine samples will be collected for biomarker
      testing. This will include urinary norepinephrine levels, plasma ACTH and epigenetic changes
      in the genes for glucocorticoid receptor and norepinephrine transporter.

      Subjects will then receive intranasal NPY (GMP-grade) delivered to the upper nasal cavity
      with an intranasal device from Kurve. We have chosen this device since it appears to be the
      best delivery system to the upper olfactory region of the nose for delivery to the brain. It
      has been used most widely, including the earlier clinical trial with intranasal NPY. After
      the intranasal NPY, patients will be evaluated for potential adverse reactions and vital
      signs measured at 30 min, 90 min, and every 4 hrs until released from the hospital. 1 and 3
      days after the intranasal infusion.

      The dose escalation of intranasal NPY will follow the 3 plus 3 model and Fibonacci dose
      escalation scheme with a starting dose of 9.6mg, selected based on the highest previously
      studied dose (Sayed et al. 2018). According to this model if no participant has a dose
      limiting toxicity (DLT), we will proceed to the next dose. If 1/3 has a DLT, 3 additional
      participants will be enrolled and if more than 1/6 have a DLT the dose escalation will be
      terminated.

      A DLT will be defined as an adverse event or a clinically significant change in vital signs
      as follows: (1) any serious adverse event experienced at any time during the study that was
      determined to be at least "possibly" related to the study drug, or (2) a non-serious adverse
      event rated at least moderate in severity and at least "possibly" related to the study drug,
      or (3) occurrence of any of the following changes in vital signs with 90 minutes following
      administration of the NPY: (i) symptomatic hypotension or >20% decrease in systolic blood
      pressure (SBP) and an absolute SBP < 90; (ii) symptomatic hypertension or >20% increase in
      SBP and an absolute SBP >170 or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) > 95; (iii) new onset of
      tachyarrhythmia (defined as a heart rate >100 bpm) or symptomatic bradycardia (heart rate <60
      bpm).

      Tests for Persistent ASD and Development of PTSD At 3-7 and 14-30 days post trauma, subjects
      will be asked to fill out the National Stressful Events Survey Acute Stress Disorder Short
      Scale (NSESSS). After at least 60 days from the trauma they will be given an interview to be
      evaluated with the PTSD Symptom Scale Interview for DSM-5 (PSS-I-5) as well as the Beck
      Anxiety Inventory.

      Dose escalation cohort After reaching the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of intranasal NPY or
      four dose escalation steps without reaching a DLT, we will add a dose escalation cohort. The
      individuals in this cohort will be randomly assigned to be administered intranasal NPY or
      vehicle (placebo).

      Based on the statistical analysis, we hope to be able to expand to 25-33 individuals per
      group in order to detect a 15% reduction in incidence of PTSD beyond the influence of the
      placebo with power of 80%.

      Subjects will be tested for: Persistent ASD (NSESS) at days 3-7 and 14-30 after the trauma,
      PTSD and t 3-7 and 14-30 days post trauma: development of PTSD ( PSS-I-5), > 60 days post
      trauma); and anxiety (Beck Anxiety Inventory) and compared to groups given no intervention.

      The information is expected provide preliminary data on efficacy of intranasal NPY
      administration to reduce the severity of ASD and attenuate the progression to PTSD. In
      addition, the results should provide preliminary information on usefulness of several
      biomarkers to inform on the progression of ASD and PTSD in level 2 trauma patients and on the
      response to intranasal NPY.
    
  