
    
      We want to study, whether early treatment with infliximab for 6 months started parallel with
      the combination therapy of methotrexate, sulphasalazine, hydroxychloroquine and prednisolone
      (COMBI) can induce quick remission in patients with early RA, if the remission can be
      sustained after 6 months on patients continuing the COMBI treatment and can diminish the risk
      of progression of erosive changes in patients with early RA, and if we can reduce costs of
      the 2 treatment arms with respect to costs due to the disease.

      100 patients with early RA will be included in the study. The patients are randomised into
      COMBI + placebo or into COMBI +infliximab.

      All patients are treated openly with COMBI, starting with a combination of methotrexate,
      sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine and prednisolone. In addition, the patients are randomized
      into a) infliximab or b) similar placebo. The COMBI treatment will be continued for 2 years,
      but the infliximab/placebo will be given only during the first 6 months. After 2 years, if
      the patient is in remission, the prednisolone will be gradually tapered off. If the patient
      is still in remission, the conventional DMARDs can be sequentially tapered down. If the
      remission is lost, the last DMARD is reinstituted. If the patient is not in remission of
      COMBI, after 26 weeks, treatments are free, including the institution of a biological drug.

      The patients will be evaluated clinically at week 0, 4, 6, 10, 14, 18, 22 and 26 (at the day
      of infusion, prior to the infusion) and at months 8, 10, 12, 15, 18, 21, and 24 and at
      annually thereafter till 10 years.

      If a patient has adverse events due to individual drugs in the COMBI, the treatment can be
      substituted by another DMARD.The disease activity will be measured according to the ACR core
      set of disease activity.

      Radiology of hands (PA projection) and feet (PA projection) at baseline and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
      7 and 10 years. We also will record adverse events, sick leaves, loss of income, costs, and
      work disability.
    
  