
    
      Cirrhosis is common among patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); in China, for
      example, it occurs in approximately 80% of HCC patients. Another common comorbidity of HCC is
      clinically significant portal hypertension (PHT), which occurs in 25-55% of patients with
      both HCC and cirrhosis. PHT correlates with the severity of cirrhosis, and it can complicate
      HCC treatment by increasing the risk of perioperative hemorrhage and liver failure.

      Hepatic resection (HR) is a widely used radical therapy for HCC. Although HR is often
      suitable for HCC patients with cirrhosis, it is widely regarded as unsuitable for HCC
      patients with PHT because of the potential for postoperative hepatic decompensation. In fact,
      the absence of PHT is the best predictor of excellent HR outcomes. Guidelines of the American
      and European Associations for the Study of Liver Disease do not recommend HR as an option for
      HCC patients with PHT. Several studies, however, have reported that HCC patients with and
      without clinically significant PHT showed similar short- and long-term outcomes after HR.
      This controversy is important to resolve because more than 25% of cirrhotic patients with HCC
      also present with PHT.

      Actually, official guidelines recommend liver transplatation for patients with HCC and PHT.
      However, implementation of liver transplantation is restricted by the lack of liver donation
      and the high cost of the procedure in many countries, especially China. However, as a
      minimally invasive therapy, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is a popular treatment modality for
      patients with HCC within Milan Criteria. Moreover, randomized controlled trials have
      validated and proposed its clinical usage.

      So here, we plan to address the safety and efficacy of HR comparing with RFA for HCC patients
      with PHT using a population from Guangxi province of China, where the population shows the
      highest HCC incidence in the world.
    
  