
    
      Patients aged from 20-60 years old, scheduled for flank surgery procedure will be included in
      the study. Patients will be randomly allocated using concealed closed envelope method into
      one of three groups:

      Group A (n=16): will receive USG TransmuscularQLB after induction of general anesthesia.

      Group B (n=16): will receive unilateral USG posterior TAP Block after induction of General
      anesthesia.

      Group C (n=16): (control group) will not receive any blocks.general anesthesia will be
      induced using propofol 2-3 mg/kg over 20-30 seconds, fentanyl 2 µg/kg, and atracurium 0.5
      mg/kg to facilitate endotracheal intubation. Anesthesia will be maintained using isoflurane
      1.5 %, atracurium at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg every 20 minutes. For all patients, fluid management
      will be strict according to body weight and blood loss will be adequately estimated and
      replaced. In the three groups, the observing anesthetist will be advised to give fentanyl
      increment doses (0.5 µg/kg) when mean blood pressure, heart rate or both increased by more
      than 20% from the baseline, lacrimation or sweating (signs of inadequate analgesia).

      Postoperatively, all patients will receive IV paracetamol 1gm every 8 hours. As a rescue
      analgesic, meperidine (0.5 mg/kg) will be used when VAS score > 4. The following data will be
      recorded1- Duration of the surgery 2- Time required to perform the blocks in minutes 3-
      Intraoperative mean blood pressure and heart rate will be recorded in all groups immediately
      after induction, at the surgical incision and every 15 minutes till the end of the procedure.

      4- Total amount of intraoperative fentanyl consumption will be recorded 5- Immediate
      postoperative blood pressure and heart rate will be recorded 6- Visual Analogue scale (VAS)
      for pain will be applied postoperatively at rest and during movement. Pain will be assessed
      with a 10-cm ruler ranging from no pain (0) to severe pain (10). Evaluation will be performed
      immediately postoperative, at 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours, 6hours and 12 hours
      postoperatively.

      7- The time of the first analgesic request (rescue analgesia) in the postoperative period
      will be recorded (defined as the time between the end of surgery and the request of the first
      dose of postoperative analgesics). As a rescue analgesic, meperidine (0.5 mg/kg) will be used
      when VAS score > 4.

      8- Postoperative nausea and vomiting
    
  