
    
      Articular cartilage has limited potential for regeneration, and full-thickness cartilage
      defects in the knee are frequently symptomatic and debilitating. If left untreated, such
      injuries may progress to generalized osteoarthritis. The management of these injuries remains
      unsatisfactory despite intense research activity, and the clinical and social impact of this
      problem is growing, involving as it often does the young and the active.

      Numerous surgical techniques have been developed to treat these injuries, but none has yet
      been shown to be superior. One of the most widely employed and best-studied means of
      achieving cartilage repair in patients with discrete regions of chondral destruction in the
      knee is that of microfracture. Microfracture is an arthroscopic technique that involves
      penetrating the subchondral bone at the base of full-thickness articular cartilage defects,
      thus allowing marrow pluripotent stem cells to egress into the chondral defect, facilitating
      cartilage repair. However, doubts have been raised concerning the quality and durability of
      the microfracture-induced repair tissue. In recent years, autologous chondrocyte implantation
      (ACI) has emerged as the technique with the greatest potential for advancing the management
      of chondral injury. In this procedure, autologous chondrocytes are harvested from
      non-critical areas on the articular surface, then expanded through cell culture in the
      laboratory, before being implanted 4-6 weeks later into the chondral defect, using a 'patch'
      of adjacent periosteum for containment of the cells within the defect. There are several
      disadvantages to the ACI technique just described: it is a two-stage procedure, chondrocyte
      culture can be lengthy and expensive, and the periosteal patch used to contain the cells is
      associated with a significant risk of complications such as detachment and hypertrophy. 2nd
      generation ACI techniques have focused on addressing some of these problems by substituting
      the periosteum patch with artificial membranes that served as scaffolds for the cultured
      chondrocytes.

      A novel technique has recently been developed that could prove to avoid some of the
      deficiencies of the ACI technique. The Cartilage Autograft Implantation System (CAIS) is a
      single-stage procedure in which cartilage is harvested from non-critical regions of articular
      cartilage, but then immediately morcellated and loaded onto a polymer membrane-scaffold,
      which is subsequently used to fill the chondral defect. The autograft-membrane composite is
      fixed to the defect with a biodegradable staple.

      We aim to evaluate this new technique through a pilot clinical trial involving 36 patients
      randomized into microfracture and CAIS treatment arms (randomisation ratio 1:2), with a
      minimum follow-up of 1 year, using both clinical and radiological (magnetic resonance
      imaging) outcomes. If the results of this pilot trial are successful, we plan to expand the
      study by recruiting more patients to achieve a suitably-powered trial.

      Primary hypothesis 1: That functional scores will increase by at least 0.5 SD over
      pre-operative values, by 1 year following the CAIS procedure

      Primary hypothesis 2: That articular cartilage height will have a sustained increase of at
      least 2 mm at 1 year following the CAIS procedure

      Primary hypothesis 3: That functional scores in the CAIS group will be equivalent or superior
      to those in the microfracture group
    
  