
    
      Injectable medications called gonadotropins are often necessary for fertility treatments.
      Superovulation is the process of using injections to stimulate a woman's ovary to produce
      multiple eggs. Having multiple eggs mature increases women's chances that at least 1 egg is
      fertilized.

      The daily injections required for superovulation, can be an anxiety provoking process for
      many women and a deterrent to treatment. Alternative needle-free injection systems have been
      developed with the intention of reducing needle phobia and pain, while providing similar
      results. However, these needle-free systems are not yet being widely used for women with
      infertility.

      The purpose of this study is to assess whether the pain and apprehension patients often
      associate with needles and injections, can be alleviated by using a new, Health Canada
      approved, needle-free system. Studies have shown that needle-free injection systems are just
      as effective as standard self injections when used for the delivery of medications
      subcutaneously (i.e., delivered just beneath the skin) - such as insulin, vaccinations and
      local anesthetic.

      To date, there have been two studies that have examined the use of needle-free injections
      specifically for in vitro fertilization. The results of these studies showed that the
      needle-free system was as successful as standard injections in promoting ovarian stimulation
      and achieving pregnancies. However, what has not yet been demonstrated is whether patients
      think that the needle-free system is easier is use and less painful to administer than the
      standard injections. The purpose of the current study is to assess whether patient
      satisfaction is improved in patients using a needle free injection system for the daily self
      injections required for superovulation induction as compared to patients using the standard
      needle and syringe.
    
  