
    
      In an observational, prospective, case-control investigation, the clinical data of all adult
      (18 years-old or more) patients undergoing robotic-assisted mitral surgery in the Sponsor
      hospital during the study period will be collected, including preoperative, intraoperative
      and early postoperative variables. Patients need to be affected by severe mitral
      regurgitation due to degenerative lesions and be eligible to robotic-assisted surgery. An
      informed consent for inclusion in the study and management of personal data will be asked
      from all participants. A total of 30 Baseline variables, 9 intraoperative variables, 26 early
      postoperative variables and 55 follow-up variables will be collected. Systematic in-house
      follow-up (clinical and echocardiographic) will be performed at the 3rd, 6th and 12th
      postoperative months. The database will be managed by research assistants under the
      supervision of the surgical team. Operations will be performed according to the Institutional
      protocol using the DaVinci X robotic platform by a trained multidisciplinary team including
      cardiac surgeons, anesthesiologists, cardiologists, perfusionists and scrub nurses.

      The same data will be obtained for all patients undergoing minimally invasive, video-assisted
      non-robotic-assisted mitral repair during the study period. These patients will serve as
      controls.

      Study Endpoints will include procedural success, early postoperative complications,
      postoperative functional recovery (both immediate and at follow-up), echocardiographic
      results of mitral repair.

      Such data will be compared with those from control patients undergoing minimally invasive,
      non-robotic-assisted mitral surgery in our Department during the study period.

      In cooperation with Hospital Administration Team, all direct and indirect costs (Euros)
      associated with the in-hospital pathway of each individual patient will be quantified (17
      variables per patient within a separate database). Data collection will be expanded to any
      hospitalisation occurring during the 1st postoperative year. Such data collection will
      include patients undergoing both the robotic-assisted and the minimally invasive
      video-assisted non-robotic-assisted strategy.

      Data will be analysed using intergoup comparison statistical tests.
    
  