
    
      The patients in the active group will be taken to the operating room and standard american
      society of anesthesiologists monitors will be applied. After induction of general anesthesia,
      the ultrasonographic anatomy of the umbilical region will be studied in each patient. The
      probe will be adjusted until optimum view of both rectus abdominis muscles, their sheaths and
      surrounding structures are identified. Once the umbilical region anatomy has been identified
      the puncture sites will be determined. The puncture sites will be aseptically prepped, the
      ultrasound probed will be covered with a sterile tegaderm, and sterile ultrasound gel will be
      used on the field. A 21-g EchoStim echogenic needle will be used. The needle will be inserted
      in the long axis parallel to the ultrasound probe. The needle will be advanced carefully
      until the needle tip is seen between the posterior aspect of the rectus muscle and its
      sheath. After a confirmed negative aspiration, 15 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine will be inserted in
      2 ml increments, aspirating in between.

      The placebo group will have the exact same procedure performed except 15 ml of normal saline
      will be injected in each rectus sheath instead of 0.25% bupivacaine. For all patients, when
      the block has been completed the surgery team will then prep the patient and proceed with the
      planned operation. The surgery staff and anesthesia providers taking care of the patient in
      the operating room will be unaware of the patient's group. At this point, all patients will
      be treated exactly the same. For intubation purposes, all patients will only receive
      succinylcholine. After intubation, elimination of the succinylcholine dose will be determined
      using a twitch monitor on the ulnar nerve. If at any point during the surgery, the surgery
      team needs more muscle relaxation then the anesthesia staff will give appropriate
      medications.

      The first step will be to administer propofol 50mg IV, if hemodynamics allow, and to verify
      that the patient has 1.0-1.2 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of volatile anesthetic. If
      the patient is not at 1.0 MAC, then the volatile anesthetic should be increased. If this does
      not provide sufficient relaxation, then a nondepolarizing muscle relaxant will be given in
      10mg increments titrated to a train of four of 2 twitches at the ulnar nerve. All patients
      will receive ofirmev and fentanyl in the operating room for pain control. Ofirmev 1000mg will
      be given pre-incision to each patient and 1.5 mcg/kg loading dose of fentanyl will be given
      to each patient. Fentanyl will be redosed in 50mcg increments for a 20% increase in blood
      pressure or heart rate above preinduction values that is sustained for 5 minutes despite an
      adequate depth of anesthesia, defined as 1 MAC or greater.
    
  