
    
      Chronic non-healing wounds represent a major source of morbidity, disability, and mortality
      in diabetic patients. Diabetes is the leading cause of non-traumatic limb amputations
      worldwide. Many patients with ischemic or neuroischemic wounds are not candidate to
      surgical/endovascular revascularization, owing to anatomical vascular reasons or for the
      underlying conditions and co-morbidities. Therefore, identification of novel medical
      treatment strategies to improve wound healing in diabetic patients is a major challenge for
      clinicians, researchers, and health care systems.

      Defects in bone marrow (BM)-derive stem and progenitor cells, including EPCs, contribute to
      diabetic complications. Stem cell mobilizing agents have been previously studied as an
      adjunctive therapy for critical limb ischemia and chronic non-healing wounds in diabetic and
      non-diabetic patients, as well as for the treatment of diabetic wound infections .
      Meta-analyses of such studies indicate that stem cell mobilization in these clinical
      conditions is safe and potentially effective in improving surrogate outcome measures and hard
      endpoints (such as rates of wound healing and amputation).

      However, diabetes impairs the response to the most commonly agent used to mobilize stem
      cells, namely human recombinant granulocyte colony stimulating factor (hrG-CSF). This notion
      comes from extensive data in animal models, a retrospective case series in patients with
      hematological disorders, a meta-analysis of studies conducted in patients with cardiovascular
      disease, and our proof-of-concept prospective study in otherwise healthy outpatients. Vice
      versa, our data strongly indicate that diabetic patients adequately mobilize stem/progenitor
      cells (including vascular progenitors, like EPCs) in response to the CXCR4 antagonist
      Plerixafor. Plerixafor (Mozobil, Sanofi) is clinically available in Europe (including Italy)
      as a second-line regimen for stem cell mobilization in patients with myeloma or lymphoma
      scheduled for autotransplantation, only in combination with hrG-CSF, after failure of hrG-CSF
      alone, to mobilize a sufficient amount of CD34+ stem cells to start apheresis. Preclinical
      studies in animal models of delayed and diabetic wound healing support the idea that
      Plerixafor can be effective as an adjunct therapy to accelerate diabetic wound healing.

      This study plans to evaluate whether a single injection of Plerixafor improves wound healing
      in diabetic patients with stage III-IV (neuro)ischemic wounds.
    
  