
    
      The HIV virus has a marked tropism for the central nervous system. In 1986, the term AIDS
      Dementia Complex (ADC) has been coined which includes in a single syndrome, a whole series of
      severe neurologic manifestations, characterized by cognitive, motor and behavioral disorders.

      The introduction of HAART has led to a profound change of the neurological HIV-mediated
      profile.

      The increased morbidity that occurs in HIV patients on antiretroviral therapy is related to
      inflammatory processes and cardiovascular diseases, resulting from the damage of the mucosa
      of the gastrointestinal tract.

      The massive depletion of CD4 T cells in the GI tract, low frequencies of CD4 and CD8 T
      producing IL-17, apoptosis of enterocytes (resulting in structural damage to the barrier of
      the GI tract) and the increase in intestinal permeability, are all manifestations of
      progressive HIV infection in humans.

      The main consequence of the structural and functional disruption of the enteric mucosal
      barrier is constituted by the passage into the systemic circulation of products of microbial
      origin including the lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a phenomenon known as "microbial
      translocation" (MT). A direct consequence of MT is the increase in the levels of systemic
      innate and adaptive immune activation. The alteration of the intestinal mucosa also involves
      changes in the composition of the local microbial flora, event that changes the normal
      balance of the so-called axis "brain-gut", the function of this axis is in fact influenced by
      metabolic products of the resident bacterial flora.

      The disturbance of this balance can cause diseases such as anxiety and depression

      It's scientifically proved the importance that the intestinal microflora (in particular
      bifidobacteria and lactobacilli) plays in relation to the multiple tasks that you can
      perform, such as:

        1. reduction of the intraluminal pH by the production of lactic acid, acetic acid and other
           organic acids;

        2. production of nutrients (short chain fatty acids, arginine, glutathione, vitamins,
           etc..) of extreme importance for the normal trophism of the intestinal mucosa;

        3. stimulation of the immune system and in particular: the macrophage activity, cytokine
           production, natural killer activity, the proliferation of lymphocytes, the production of
           IgA;

        4. competition with pathogens for nutrients and adhesion in the gut epithelium;

        5. production of bacteriocins;

        6. modulation of the inflammatory response.

      The intestinal microflora, therefore, plays a metabolic activity of enormous importance both
      on a purely nutritional level and for the maintenance of an efficient barrier activity of the
      intestinal mucosa, which together with the modulation of local and systemic immune response,
      is fundamental for the protection of the host organism.

      VSL # 3 (original De Simone's formulation) is a probiotic preparation at a high concentration
      (450 billion bacteria per sachet) consisting of: 4 strains of lactobacilli (L. acidophilus,
      L. paracasei, L. delbrueckii subs. bulgaricus, L. plantarum), 3 strains of bifidobacteria:
      (B. breve, B. infantis, B. longum) and one strain of Streptococcus thermophilus. This product
      is able to colonize the intestine and to modulate the intestinal microflora. The efficacy of
      VSL#3 was proven in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases (ulcerative colitis,
      pouchitis mainly) as well as in the prevention or treatment of various gastrointestinal
      disorders such as diarrhea from rotavirus, traveler's diarrhea, diarrhea after antibiotic
      therapy and radiotherapy. Several studies have demonstrated the efficacy of VSL# in chronic
      diseases of the liver (steatosis, steatohepatitis, NAFLD, etc ...). Recently Klatt et al
      demonstrated that treatment antiretroviral (ARV) in association with VSL#3 at a dose of 225
      billion / day) and prebiotics (inulin), for a period of 5 months in a population of macaques
      resulted in an increased reconstruction and functionality of CD4 + cells and a reduced
      fibrosis at the level of lymphoid follicles of the colon mucosa, compared to the group of
      macaques treated with ARV therapy alone. A decrease of immuno-activation of CD4 + cells in
      the mucosa of the colon and a decrease of plasma levels of D-dimers was observed in macaques
      treated with ARV therapy in combination with probiotic + prebiotic, compared to the group
      control. It is good to emphasize that the dimers are biomarkers of inflammation-related
      cardiovascular disease in HIV patients treated with ARV therapy (Klatt, 2013). All this
      clearly leads to an improvement of the immunity of the gastrointestinal tract, with
      consequent reduction of inflammatory processes and improving the prognosis of HIV infection.

      SUB-STUDIES:

      Given the implication of chronic immune activation and intestinal microbiota alterations in
      HIV-1 disease progression and non-AIDS related damages, we considered that supplementing
      antiretroviral therapy in HIV-1 infected patients with a probiotic mixture might promote
      beneficial effects in the restoration of HIV related damage of the intestinal epithelium and
      Gut-Associated Lymphoid Tissue (GALT).

      To explore the potential impact of probiotics on intestinal damage, we have designed a
      substudy that analyzes the following parameters: T cell activation and CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell
      subsets expressing interferon (IFN)γ (Th1, Tc1) or interleukin (IL)-17A (Th17, Tc17) by
      multi-parameter flow cytoflorimetric analysis, histological and immunohistochemical analysis
      of intestinal biopsies TUNEL assay to determine enterocytes apoptosis index.

      Addendum: - Amendment 1 (enrollment of naive patients) Amendment 2 (enrollment of healty
      controls) Amendment 3 (enrollment of control group) Amendment 4 (supplementation for 6
      months)
    
  