
    
      Subjects will include both males and females with an age range between 5 and 18 years. Study
      will include subjects from any race or ethnicity that meet eligibility criteria. Inclusion
      criteria: children with a diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder, are between the ages of 5
      and 18, and like 70% dark chocolate. Exclusion criteria: Food allergies, Caffeine
      hypersensitivity, Theobromine hypersensitivity, History of seizures or epilepsy,
      Developmental age < 24 months, and Diabetics. The target study population is school aged
      children with a diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder. Participants will be recruited using
      snowballing and judgmental sampling via word-of-mouth, flyers, emails, and social media with
      a $50.00 gift card offered for participants who complete the study in full and $15.00 gift
      card for Special Education teachers who complete study in full. Flyers will be distributed
      throughout the Southern California area due to proximity, however, participants may come from
      any region if satisfying inclusion criteria and time commitment. Flyers will be placed in,
      but not limited to, common public places such as local community centers, pediatric therapy
      clinics, pediatricians' offices, churches, schools, and more. The principal student
      researcher or appropriate PhD committee personnel will acquire email addresses of potential
      participants. Specific social media outlets will include postings on, but not limited to,
      Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. The name of the principal investigator and contact
      information of the student researcher will be available on the flyer with an invitation to
      contact researchers with any questions about the study. Families of those children with a
      diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder will be offered a flyer to determine if they are
      interested in participating in the study. The informed consent process will be facilitated by
      the student researcher with the parents of the child with a diagnosis of Autism Spectrum
      Disorder. The informed consent process will take place at a location of convenience for
      parents who will be provided fifteen minutes for decision making and discussion. Due to the
      subjects' impaired decision making capacity, the parents will provide consent on their
      behalf. HIPPA compliance forms will be included with informed consent process. Privacy of
      medical and research records will be secured in a locked cabinet in a locked
      office.Procedures are listed as follows:

        1. Informed Consent and HIPPA documents.

        2. Subject will also be offered a taste testing of the chocolate bar to be used in the
           study as liking the 70% dark chocolate is part of inclusion criteria.

        3. After consent is provided, parent will fill out the Youth & Adolescent Food Frequency
           Questionnaire based on their child's typical dietary habits, an Autism Spectrum Rating
           Scale, an Aberrant Behavior Checklist, and the Parental Stress Index Questionnaire.

        4. Student researcher will prepare doses (4 squares per dose or 8 grams) of the dark
           chocolate for each child in one week increments at a time. The dark chocolate will be
           wrapped in foil to protect against light and kept in a sealed Ziploc bag to prevent
           against oxidation in order to maintain the cacao's integrity.

        5. Student researcher will meet with each parent/family once per week to collect any
           questionnaires and to deliver the dark chocolate doses for the subsequent weeks.

        6. Student researcher will meet with teachers at baseline, end of week two, and end of week
           four to collect all questionnaires.

        7. Subject will consume 4 squares of the dark chocolate twice daily between the hours of 6
           a.m. and 6 p.m.

        8. Student researcher will contact parents and teachers weekly via phone/email to follow up
           on administration of the chocolate.

        9. Parent and primary school teacher will fill out the Autism Spectrum Rating Scale and the
           Aberrant Behavior Checklist at the end of week two and at the end of week four.

       10. Parent will fill out the Parental Stress Index Questionnaire at the end of week four.

      Research analysis plan will include non-parametric statistics. For the pre-test and post-test
      analysis of the Parental Stress Index scale Friedman's test will be used. For all other
      repeated measures such as the Aberrant Behavior Checklist and the Autism Spectrum Rating
      Scale the Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test will be used.
    
  