
    
      Malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum continues to be a global problem with devastating
      consequences, in particular for at-risk populations such as pregnant women and young infants.
      Pregnancy malaria is associated with low birth weight (LBW), maternal anemia, and gestational
      hypertension; both inflammation and the fetal response to infection may contribute to these
      poor outcomes. Placental malaria (PM) is caused by P. falciparum-infected erythrocytes that
      bind to the placental receptor chondroitin sulfate A (CSA) and sequester in the placenta,
      where they cause disease and may lead to death for the mother and her offspring. Women become
      resistant to PM as they acquire antibodies that target surface proteins of placental
      parasites. In areas of stable transmission, acute severe malaria syndromes are limited to
      children under 5 years of age. The pathogenesis of severe malaria remains poorly understood,
      although some evidence suggests that parasites causing severe malaria may express distinct
      antigens on the surface of infected erythrocytes. Thus, vaccines to prevent malarial disease
      may need to target distinct antigens in order to protect pregnant women or young children.

      The primary hypothesis in this study is that the burden of P. falciparum infection around
      Maferinyah, Guinea is sufficient to support future studies of malaria pathogenesis and
      immunity. We plan to enroll 1050 pregnant women and 1050 infants into a cross sectional study
      that will be conducted in Maferinyah and neighboring areas, Guinea. Women presenting for
      routine antenatal visits and older infants presenting for routine healthy visits (e.g,
      vaccinations, vitamins) at the health center in Maf(SqrRoot)(Registered Trademark)rinyah will
      be offered enrollment. Samples collected from the women and infants will be examined for
      evidence of infection by Pla smodium and other parasitic diseases in order to assess
      prevalence in these important reservoir populations. For our primary outcome, we will
      determine the prevalence of P. falciparum infection in these two key demographic groups,
      including their annual and seasonal variations, as these data will form the basis to design
      future natural history or interventional studies at this site. For our secondary outcomes, we
      will determine the prevalence of other parasitic infections based on multiplexed serologic
      assessments of blood samples.
    
  