
    
      Laparoscopic appendectomy provides enhanced recovery at increased costs due to a need for a
      specific sophisticated equipment. Currently many of the commonly used devices are labeled by
      manufacturers as single-use only. This trend has stronghold in concerns about patient safety,
      especially about prevention of cross-infections and other safety-related issues. On the other
      hand, surgery costs are increased exponentially. There is paucity of evidence on safety of
      reusing single-use devices (SUD) in surgery. Reuse of SUD which may include refurbishing or
      reprocessing and resterilization is a complex issue with moral, technical, economical and
      environmental repercussions. There are several papers discussing the ethical dilemmas
      involved. The reprocessed instruments are generally deemed equally safe as new one. However
      there are only few experimental and clinical studies on this topic. Most of them are
      influenced by sponsors or manufacturers and therefore biased. What's more their conclusions
      are sometimes highly controversial. Goal of this study is to provide solid evidence on safety
      of reuse of SUD and to discover differences in in-vitro and clinical outcomes. One of the
      most common SUD for laparoscopic surgery is ultrasonic scalpel which uses high-frequency jaw
      vibration which simultaneously coagulates and divides structures with minimal thermal damage
      to surrounding tissue. One of the best known ultrasonic shears intended for single-use is
      harmonic scalpel (Ultracision® Ethicon EndoSurgery, Johnson&Johnson Company). Ultrasonic
      shears are being refurbished and/or resterilized for repetitive use in limited number of
      cycles or until become dysfunctional or disintegrate. Routine depends on local regulations
      and variations in practice. To encourage or to ban aforementioned practice we need solid
      evidence based on properly conducted clinical trial. Therefore we have designed a
      single-blind randomised clinical trial depending on virginity of instrument used for tissue
      dissection. Since Ultracision device is the most commonly used ultrasonic sealing device we
      decided to study outcomes of surgery performed with the new (unused) instrument versus
      resterilized reused instrument.

      All of the patients with clinical and radiological suspicion of having acute appendicitis
      will be blindly allocated in two arms according to the predefined random sequence provided by
      independent statistician. Eligible patients will sign an informed consent form. First arm
      will have laparoscopic appendectomy with new ultrasonic device. The patient will be blinded
      for the allocation, but the surgeon can not be blinded since packing of the new and reused
      instruments differ. Even if the scrub nurse would give surgeon instruments without packing,
      some minor damage might be seen on the plastic coating of the instrument jaws. The second arm
      will have laparoscopic appendectomy with reused ultrasonic device. All other treatment
      including surgical technique, postoperative management and follow-up will be unchanged or
      within the standard of care. Surgical technique is standardised three-trocar approach in
      general anesthesia. All other details of the surgery are variable depending on local
      findings, extent of inflammation, anatomy variations etc. Removed specimens will be analyzed
      routinely with addition of measurement of lateral thermal damage of mesoappendix and
      appendiceal base. Patients will be screened for antibiotic therapy length, analgesics
      consumption, early surgical complications according to Clavien-Dindo classification and
      length of stay. Additionally one month follow-up will be conducted to pick-up possible late
      complications or readmissions. Study will be conducted in two centers for a period of time
      until sufficient number of participants are recruited.
    
  