
    
      Right ventricular (RV) dysfunction is a major risk factor in coronary artery disease (CAD)
      and patient undergoing revascularization with this combination , incidence of RV dysfunction
      is reported in about 20% cases of CAD.

      RV dysfunction is a possible cause of cardiac failure after cardiac surgery and has a high
      mortality rate.

      RV dysfunction is a recognized cause of hypotension early after coronary artery bypass graft
      surgery (CABG)

      A decrease in RV function is an event known to occur after CABG. Right ventricular
      dysfunction can be seen during and immediately after cardiac surgery. Although the mechanism
      of this phenomenon is not well understood, cardiopulmonary bypass, perioperative myocardial
      ischemia, intraoperative myocardial damage, cardioplegia, and pericardial disruption or
      adhesion have been suggested as probable causes.

      Major reasons for complications of cardiac surgery are the need for hypothermic cardiac
      arrest, aortic cross clamping, and exposure to a cardiopulmonary bypass circuit.

      It has been postulated that avoidance of these factors by performing off-pump coronary artery
      bypass (OPCAB) surgery might reduce perioperative morbidity and improve outcome.

      Recently, the portion of coronary artery bypass grafting on the beating heart without the use
      of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) has been expanded in cardiac surgery as a result of awareness
      of the damaging effect of CPB

      Whether OPCAB surgery can fulfill these expectations, or to which degree, is yet unclear.

      A few studies on hemodynamic alternations associated with OPCAB reported that reduced
      functions of both ventricles during coronary artery anastomosis are the main mechanism of
      hemodynamic derangements and especially, impaired diastolic function of the right ventricle
      (RV) plays an important role

      However, clinical studies evaluating the change in RV function in patients with ischemic
      heart disease are very rare. It is reported that the major cause of hemodynamic changes
      during OPCAB was disturbed diastolic filling of the RV through the measurement of chamber
      pressures or monitoring of echocardiography.

      There was no significant change in the RVEF and cardiac index during anastomosis of the left
      anterior descending artery and right coronary artery. However, the significantly reduced RVEF
      accompanied by an increase in RV afterload and decrease in the CO was observed during
      anastomosis of the obtuse marginal (OM) artery. RV volumes did not significantly change
      during anastomoses, though the right atrial pressure increased during anastomoses of all
      coronary arteries. The displacement of beating heart for positioning during anastomosis of
      the graft to OM artery caused significant derangement of RV function and decrease in CO.
    
  