
    
      1. Overview This multi-center pilot trial is designed to determine the feasibility and
           safety of hypotensive resuscitation for the early resuscitation of patients with
           traumatic shock compared to standard fluid resuscitation. Blunt and penetrating trauma
           patients with a prehospital systolic blood pressure (SBP) ≤ 90 mmHg will be eligible. In
           the hypotensive resuscitation group, an intravenous line (IV) will be placed and a
           radial pulse will be palpated. If the radial pulse is present or the SBP is greater than
           or equal to 70, a 250 ml bag of normal saline will be hung and maintained at a keep the
           vein open rate only. If the radial pulse is absent, the 250 ml of normal saline will be
           given as a bolus. This process using small bags of fluid will be repeated until a radial
           pulse is palpable or until 2 hours after Emergency Department (ED) arrival or until
           hemorrhage control has been achieved. The decision to utilize a SBP versus a radial
           pulse will be made a priori. Patients in the standard fluid resuscitation group will
           have an IV placed and a 1000 ml bag of normal saline (NS) will be hung. Fluid will be
           given as rapidly as possible and continued until hospital arrival. If the prehospital or
           hospital fluid resuscitation exceeds 2 liters, it will be stopped when the SBP exceeds
           110 mmHg and restarted as necessary to maintain a goal SBP of 110 mmHg. This
           randomization scheme will be continued for 2 hours after hospital arrival or until
           hemorrhage control is achieved whichever occurs first. The randomization will not affect
           the indications for the administration of blood products but we hypothesize that less
           blood products and total fluid will be given in the experimental group due to avoidance
           of the pop-the-clot phenomenon, less hemodilution and less coagulopathy.

           Patients who experience ground level falls are characterized as having low injury
           severity scores. (70) Patients with suspected ground level falls will be excluded in an
           effort to focus enrollment on the more severely injured patients at risk for trauma
           related hemorrhagic shock. Patients with severe traumatic brain injury will be excluded
           due to lack of equipoise. In observational studies (1-5) a relationship between
           hypotension and poor neurologic outcomes has been observed and EMS personnel as well as
           researchers at this time believe that it is unethical to withhold resuscitation fluid
           from patients with traumatic brain injury. Patients with suspected spinal cord injury
           will also be excluded based on evidence that indicates they are at risk for
           cardiovascular failure due to hemodynamic compromise correlated with the presence of
           neurogenic hypotension at the time of hospital admission. (69) All enrolled patients
           will be retrospectively screened to determine if they had evidence of severe traumatic
           brain injury with GCS≤8 or spinal cord injury at the time of enrollment.

           Screening information will be obtained for all potentially eligible patients who meet
           all inclusion criteria. Screening will also document whether each exclusion criterion is
           met. The rate at which screened patients were enrolled and later found to have met one
           or more of the exclusion criteria will be assessed to determine if the inclusion and
           exclusion criteria need to be adjusted to avoid enrollment of these patients for future
           studies. These patients will also be assessed to determine if enrollment in the protocol
           potentially harmed these patients.

           The study will be a two arm, randomized interventional trial comparing the two
           resuscitation strategies. Due to obvious differences in the treatment of enrolled
           patients, the study will not be blinded. Nevertheless, treatment bags will be packaged
           in containers such that providers will not be able to identify whether treatment
           containers house 1000 ml bags or 250 ml bags until the treatment containers are opened.
           The patient will be considered randomized at the time a study bag is opened regardless
           of whether any fluid is given or not. Hospitals will be provided with 250 ml bags of NS
           to continue treatment of those patients randomized to the hypotensive resuscitation arm.

           The primary outcomes of the study will be volume of prehospital and in-hospital fluid
           administered from time of injury until 2 hours into the hospital stay or until
           hemorrhage is controlled to test feasibility and 24 hour survival for the safety
           hypothesis. Secondary outcomes will include measures of protocol adherence, 24 hour
           fluid volume, 24 hour blood product requirements, ventilator days, hospital length of
           stay, intensive care unit (ICU) length of stay, admission base deficit, development of
           renal failure, admission hematocrit and admission coagulation parameters. The primary
           goals of this pilot study will be to determine if the described model will result in
           different early fluid volumes being delivered to the two groups and to determine if
           these differing volumes impact mortality. If this pilot study shows that hypotensive
           resuscitation is feasible and safe, a larger trial will be planned to determine the
           efficacy of hypotensive fluid resuscitation.

           This study will be conducted by the Resuscitation Outcomes Consortium (ROC) which is a
           collaboration of 7 regional sites in the United States and Canada and a Data
           Coordinating Center. This consortium is charged with the task of conducting clinical
           trials in patients with life threatening trauma and cardiac arrest. The following ROC
           sites have committed to participating in this trial: Alabama, Dallas, Milwaukee, Ottawa,
           Pittsburgh, Portland, and Vancouver.

        2. Specific Aims and Hypotheses Specific Aim 1: To investigate whether early crystalloid
           (normal saline) resuscitation volume can be reduced for trauma patients with hemorrhagic
           shock who receive hypotensive resuscitation versus those who receive standard early
           resuscitation (feasibility) and whether there are differences in 24-hour survival
           between the groups (safety).

      Primary Hypotheses: The null hypothesis is that patients who receive hypotensive
      resuscitation and patients who receive standard resuscitation will have the same volume of
      early crystalloid (normal saline) resuscitation administered and will have the same 24-hour
      survival from 911 call received at dispatch time.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess protocol adherence and differences in morbidity and adverse events
      for hypotensive versus standard resuscitation.

      Secondary Hypotheses: The null hypotheses are that protocol adherence is low and that
      hypotensive resuscitation versus standard resuscitation will result in the same amount of
      total fluid volume and total blood product requirements within 24 hours from 911 call
      received at dispatch, the same base deficit, hematocrit and coagulation parameters on
      admission to the ED, number of days on a ventilator, duration of hospital stay, ICU length of
      stay, and incidence of renal failure.
    
  