
    
      The purpose is to transfer the embryo during the 'window of implantation', what is defined as
      the period during which the uterus is receptive for implantation of the free-lying
      blastocyst. This has been a subject of debate since many years (Bourgain et al, 2007).

      Succesful implantation requires a co-ordinated series of events allowing a timely dialogue
      between a receptive endometrium and the intrusive blastocyst (Tabibzadeh, 1998). The period
      of receptivity is thought to be 3 days in human (Rogers et al, 1989; Yoshinaga, 1988;
      Psychoyos, 1993; Harper, 1992). It is suggested that blastocyst apposition begins about day
      LH+6 and is completed by day LH+10 (Lessey, 2000).

      A number of structural and functional endometrial changes have been suggested to play a role
      in the implantation process: the formation of luminal epithelial pinopodes (Enders et al,
      1973), expression of adhesion molecules and growth factors and cytokines (Lessey, 2000). Most
      of them are related directly or indirectly to progesterone secretion and influence on the
      endometrium.

      In the Centre of Reproductive Medicine of the Brussels University Hospital, the investigators
      start progesterone supplementation 5 days before the transfer of a day 3 embryo. In order to
      mimic the natural cycle, since progesterone starts to rise 2 to 3 days before ovulation, due
      to the LH-stimulated production by the peripheral granulosa cells (Speroff). In fresh
      IVF-cycles, progesterone is started from the day of oocyte retrieval. HCG administration in
      fresh cycles will lead to an increase in progesterone levels and therefore, endometrium will
      progress quickly, compared with frozen-thawed cycles which are hormone supplemented
      (Nawroth).

      In other centres, progesterone supplementation is generally started 3 days before the embryo
      transfer.

      In this trial, the investigators want to determine the optimal duration of progesterone
      supplementation: 3 or 5 days before embryo transfer.
    
  