
    
      Participants Study participants are caregivers, recruited from the Medical Oncology Clinic
      (under NCIS) at NUH.

      Intervention and Evaluation of the Psycho-educational Support Group Therapy This is a pre and
      post-intervention study with a control group design. The strength of this design is its
      experimental nature but without randomization, thereby avoiding the problems related to
      randomization. Instead, a wait-list is used as the control group.

      Consecutive family caregivers who agree to participate will be placed in the first group
      (Group 1a) till a group size of ten is reached. The next ten will be put on a wait-list and
      form the control group (Group 1b), who will still be able to benefit from the program at a
      later time. In this manner subsequent treatment and control groups will be recruited.

      The Intervention consists of weekly Psycho-educational Support Groups focusing on topics
      specific to psychosocial and emotional aspects of the cancer caregiving role. The
      Intervention is over a short duration of 4 weeks so as to appeal to caregivers and reduce the
      attrition rate. The proposed intervention is exploratory in nature but is hypothesized to be
      beneficial in helping to recognize and handle the difficult and often tumultuous journey of
      cancer caregiving. The planned Intervention was developed in discussions and consensus views
      using the Delphi method and adapted the brief integrative psychological therapy developed by
      Kua et al and psycho-educational programs at overseas centres. The CQOLC, the Perceived
      Stress Scale, and the HADS will be administered to participants at 4 time points: T1 (week
      0), T2 (end of week 4), T3 (end of week 8) and T4 (end of week 12). The fourth time point is
      to evaluate whether the effects of the intervention are sustained. A Satisfaction and
      Feedback Questionnaire will be administered to participants at T2, immediately upon
      completion of the intervention. Some participants who have gone through the program will be
      invited to take part in a 15 minute interview. The purpose of the interview is to obtain
      feedback on the ways in which the program has been beneficial. The participants in the
      control group will complete a set of the same questionnaires when they are entered into the
      wait list; they will complete the questionnaires 5 times.
    
  