
    
      BACKGROUND Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are commonly prescribed for patients with chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but their role in the management of COPD is currently
      being re-evaluated in light of new evidence and the emergence of alternative treatments.
      Recent concerns have been expressed about the safety of ICS in COPD following several
      randomized controlled trials of fluticasone propionate and fluticasone furoate demonstrating
      an increase in rates of pneumonia as an adverse event. Several systematic reviews and
      observational studies confirm an association between ICS use and risk of pneumonia.

      A series of post-hoc analyses of large randomized controlled trials of ICS/ long acting
      beta-agonists (LABA) or ICS alone have suggested that benefits of ICS in terms of
      exacerbation reduction and preventing lung function decline are limited to a subgroup of
      patients with eosinophilic airway inflammation. Eosinophils are highly sensitive to ICS, and
      so there is a compelling rationale for this association, and therefore an emerging consensus
      that ICS should be reserved for those patients with eosinophilic disease. This can be
      identified on the basis of blood eosinophil count although the precise cut-off is yet to be
      determined. This is strongly supported by a post-hoc analysis of the WISDOM randomized
      controlled trial of ICS withdrawal in which ICS withdrawal was only associated with an
      increase in exacerbations above blood eosinophil counts of 300 cells per ul. Furthermore in
      the FLAME study which excluded patients with very high eosinophils counts, LABA/long acting
      muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) was superior to ICS/LABA in terms of reducing exacerbations.

      If there is an emerging consensus regarding the treatment of "eosinophilic COPD", then the
      unmet need in the management of COPD is for the majority of patients that have neutrophilic
      airway inflammation. Neutrophilic inflammation does not respond to inhaled corticosteroids
      and indeed there is in-vitro evidence that inhaled corticosteroids may exacerbate
      neutrophilic inflammation by delaying neutrophil apoptosis. Neutrophilic inflammation is
      associated with disordering of the lung microbiome with overgrowth of Proteobacteria, a
      process that may be exacerbated by ICS. Release of proteolytic enzymes such as elastase and
      matrix metalloproteinase from neutrophils are associated with disease progression and lung
      function decline in COPD.

      RATIONALE FOR STUDY It is hypothesised that the combination of tiotropium and olodaterol may
      be an ideal treatment option for patients with neutrophilic COPD because

        -  Tiotropium and olodaterol have both been shown to have potentially beneficial effects in
           suppressing neutrophilic inflammation without impairing bacterial killing

        -  These effects may reverse the detrimental impact of inhaled corticosteroids on airway
           neutrophil function and the microbiome.

      In particular olodaterol was evaluated in cigarette smoke- and Lipolpolysaccharide - induced-
      models of neutrophil lung inflammation in mice and guinea pigs. The results showed Olodaterol
      to suppress neutrophil recruitment to the lung (by up to 90%) while preserving chemotactic
      function (which is required for effective phagocytosis of pathogens). Tiotropium has also
      been extensively investigated and is known to suppress neutrophil recruitment and neutrophil
      dependent remodelling in a number of in-vivo models and may work synergistically with
      olodaterol in reducing neutrophil retention in the lung.

      This extensive preclinical work justifies a study of olodaterol/tiotropium in human subjects
      evaluating its impact on neutrophilic inflammation. This could establish the combination of
      olodaterol/tiotropium as the first line therapy for patients with neutrophilic COPD.

      This trial will compare treatment of patients with COPD previously treated with ICS
      randomized to either tiotropium/olodaterol combination or fluticasone furoate/vilanterol
      combination. The objective of the trial is to evaluate in-vivo effects of these drugs on the
      lung microbiota and airway neutrophil function. In particular, we expect that 6 months
      treatment with olodaterol/tiotropium will result in a reduced airway bacterial load (through
      restored neutrophil function allowing neutrophils to kill airway bacteria), an increase in
      microbiota diversity, an enhanced ex-vivo killing of Haemophilus influenzae and reduced
      markers of neutrophilic airway inflammation.

      HYPOTHESIS Tiotropium and olodaterol combination treatment will result in a reduced airway
      bacterial load at 6 months compared to fluticasone furoate and vilanterol. The reduced
      bacterial load will be associated with improvements in the airway microbiota and reduced
      markers of neutrophilic inflammation and restored neutrophil function.
    
  