
    
      There will be four groups of participants based on when the infant is in the NICU.

      Parents of infants born from April -Mid-August 2018 (Group 1) Group 1 participants will
      receive usual care which includes 1) a welcome packet from the nursing staff, 2) access to
      their infant's medical team including doctors and nurse, 3) opportunities to ask any
      questions and understand the care their baby is receiving through participation in daily work
      rounds or through setting up family meetings with the medical team.

      At NICU admission, parents in Group 1 will be asked to complete a brief demographics form and
      several standardized surveys that measure stress and life experiences. Surveys will again be
      administered 7-10 days later, the day before discharge, two weeks after discharge and 30 days
      after discharge. These surveys will be available both via on paper or an email link.

      Parents of infants born from Mid-August - January 2019 (Group 2) At NICU admission, parents
      in Group 2 will be asked to complete a brief demographics form and several standardized
      surveys that measure stress and life experiences. Surveys will again be administered 7-10
      days later, the day before discharge, two weeks after discharge and 30 days after discharge.
      These surveys will be available both via on paper or an email link.

      In addition to the usual care made available to Group 1 and described above, Group 2 parents
      will also be asked to download the NICU2HOME app from a given website where they will enter
      MRN, DOB, name, gender, and due date of their infant into the smartphone app. In case there
      are difficulties downloading or using the app, the research team will be available to assist
      parents with any questions or concerns.

      Parent of infants born from February 2019- June 2019 (Group 3) At NICU admission, parents in
      Group 3 will be asked to complete a brief demographics form and several standardized surveys
      that measure stress and life experiences. Surveys will again be administered 7-10 days later,
      the day before discharge, two weeks after discharge and 30 days after discharge. These
      surveys will be available both via on paper or an email link. In addition to the usual care
      made available to Group 1, Group 3 parents will also be asked to download the SMART NICU2HOME
      app from a given website where they will enter MRN, DOB, name, gender, and due date of their
      infant into the smartphone app.

      Parent of infants born from November 2019- December 2020 (Group 4) At NICU admission, parents
      in Group 4 will be asked to complete a brief demographics form and several standardized
      surveys that measure stress and life experiences as well as parental efficacy. Surveys will
      again be administered 30 and 60 days later depending on the gestational age of the baby, the
      day of discharge, two weeks after discharge and 30 days after discharge. These surveys will
      be available through an email link.

      In addition to the usual care made available to Group 1 and described above, Group 4 parents
      will also be asked to download the NICU2HOME app from a given website where they will enter
      MRN, DOB, name, gender, and due date of their infant into the smartphone app. In case there
      are difficulties downloading or using the app, the research team will be available to assist
      parents with any questions or concerns. Participants in Group 4 will not be paid for their
      contribution to the research.

      Each participant (in both groups) will be asked to complete the surveys independently without
      sharing responses. If completed on paper, the research team will arrange either to pick the
      survey up at the NICU if the baby is still in the hospital, via a pre-paid stamped envelope
      provided, or over the phone. Online surveys will be automatically returned.

      Optional Interview:

      In addition to the intervention study, an optional qualitative interviews will be conducted
      with 30 families from group 2 and group 3 for about 30-45 minutes. Patients will have the
      option to opt to participate in the interviews when consenting to the main study by signing
      their initials on the "Optional Elements" to be interviewed. Consenting to be interviewed
      also means that they have agreed to let us audio record the interview for research purposes.
      Of those who opted to be interviewed, only 30 families will be randomly selected to partake
      in the interviews.

      Using maximum variation sampling method, the interview will occur around 1-2 days prior to
      discharge (final thoughts, use patterns) with approximately 5 families per gestational age
      bracket: <28 weeks; 28-<30 weeks; 30-<32 weeks; 32-<34 weeks; 34-<37 weeks. The interviews
      will be semi-structured, one-on-one phone on in-person interviews (option is the family's)
      designed to elicit feature feedback reasons for their level of usage. With consent, all
      interviews will be audio-recorded, transcribed, coded, and analyzed for themes to improve
      further iterations. These audio recordings (either in voice or transcription) may be used in
      scholarly presentations or publications serve to help other professionals understand the
      research. No identifiers will be present when sharing the recordings to maintain anonymity,
      and recordings will be saved with a study ID number rather than name.

      NICU2HOME app was created for parents of premature infants to meet their demands. The app
      will teach parents about their baby and the NICU. It will allow them to receive educational
      material every day that is specifically geared towards their baby's journey in the NICU. The
      app will also all parents to connect with their friends and family allowing them to privately
      and safely share and post among themselves.

      SMART NICU2HOME app includes the same features and functions as the NICU2HOME app stated
      above; however, it also allows parents to receive a daily update of the clinically benign
      information of their infant directly from the EPIC EMR, such as, days of life, adjusted
      gestational age, weight, length, etc.
    
  