
    
      Study population:

      This is a single-centre, prospective cohort study. The patients are evaluated at four time
      points: visit 1 (V1), before the initiation of anthracycline therapy; visit 2 (V2), after
      reaching a cumulative dose of 150 mg/m²; visit 3 (V3), at the end of the treatment; and visit
      4 (V4), 1 year after V1.

      Clinical examination at each visit and standard echocardiography are performed. The study is
      approved by our ethics committee (EudraCT number 2011-002721- 22).

      Two-dimensional echocardiography:

      Echocardiography examinations are performed using a Vivid E9 imaging device (GE Medical
      systems, Horten, Norway). The left ventricular end-diastolic and endsystolic volumes are
      measured from the apical two- and four-chamber views; LVEF are calculated using Simpson's
      rule. GLS is computed from high frame rate (>50 frames per second) apical views (four-, two-,
      and three-chamber). By tracing the endocardial borders on an end-systolic frame, myocardial
      speckles are automatically tracked on the subsequent frames. Adequate tracking is verified,
      and manually corrected if necessary. GLS is obtained as the average of regional strains.
      Percentage change in GLS and absolute reduction in GLS are calculated between baseline and
      V2. Other classic diastolic and systolic parameters are recorded according to current
      guidelines. Digital loops are stored for off-line analysis. For LVEF and GLS, digital loops
      are done in triplicate to assess inter- and intraobserver variability. LVEF and GLS are
      analysed by two readers. The readers are blinded to each other's measurements and to the
      patient visit number.

      Echocardiographic definition of AIC:

      According to a recent consensus paper, anthracycline cardiotoxicity is defined as a decrease
      in the LVEF of >10 percentage points, to a value <53%, at V4. This decrease has to be
      confirmed by a repeat echocardiography performed a few weeks after V4.
    
  