
    
      Despite current treatments for type 1 diabetes, maintaining blood glucose levels within a
      good range is a difficult task. A primary source for poor glucose control in adolescents is
      skipping insulin boluses at mealtimes. Advances in glucose sensors have motivated the
      research towards closed-loop delivery systems to automatically regulate glucose levels.
      Closed-loop delivery (artificial pancreas) is composed of an insulin pump, a continuous
      glucose sensor and a dosing algorithm that calculates the insulin dose to infuse based on
      sensor readings. The performance of a closed-loop delivery after a missed bolus may be
      improved if the computer program that calculates the insulin is enhanced with a meal
      detection module. The meal detection module will automatically detect the meal (which had no
      bolus delivered), and signal the delivery of more insulin.

      The aim of this study is to conduct a randomized, three-way, cross-over trial to compare the
      efficacy of closed-loop delivery, closed-loop delivery with a meal detection module, and
      conventional pump therapy. The study aims to compare these three interventions for 9 hours in
      adolescents with poorly controlled type 1 diabetes.

      Each 9 hours will include two meals of different carbohydrate content, of which one will not
      have a carbohydrate-matched prandial bolus. This study will allow for the assessment of the
      safety and efficacy of closed-loop delivery with and without a meal detection module compared
      to conventional pump therapy in regulating post-prandial glycaemia.

      The aim of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of a closed-loop delivery with and
      without meal detection module compared to conventional pump therapy in regulating
      post-prandial glycemic levels after omission of a meal bolus.

      The primary hypothesis is that closed-loop delivery with no meal detection module will reduce
      the mean increase in postprandial glucose levels after a missed bolus compared to
      conventional pump therapy.

      The secondary hypotheses are:

        1. Closed-loop delivery with meal detection module will reduce the mean increase in
           postprandial glucose levels after a missed bolus compared to conventional pump therapy.

        2. Closed-loop delivery with meal detection module will reduce the mean increase in
           postprandial glucose levels after a missed bolus compared to closed-loop delivery with
           no meal detection module.
    
  