
    
      Rationale:

      Scar contracture remains a considerable problem for the burned patient. The standard method
      of treatment is contracture release in combination with the application of a full or split
      thickness graft to close the defect. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of skin grafts is
      limited by scar contraction, which often necessitates additional reconstructions. Moreover,
      parts of the skin graft may be lost due to poor revascularisation or infection.

      Since the discovery of perforator vessels, many types of new flaps can be harvested as long
      as it incorporates a perforator bundle (artery and vein). This flap design based on
      perforator vessels and local available skin, should lead to an increased flap survival and
      superior functional outcome. Based on this concept we developed and explored the possibility
      of an algorithm for treatment by means of a pilot study performed on 22 patients with a scar
      contracture. Results show a survival of all flaps of 100% and an expansion of the surface
      area by 16% after a follow up of at least 3 months. However the implications of the use of
      perforator based flaps for burn surgery by means of a RCT has yet to be determined.

      Primary objective:

      Is interpositioned skin of superior quality, as represented by less contraction with the use
      of the perforator based interposition flaps, compared to the gold standard (full thickness
      grafts), after 3 months, as measured by transparent sheet planimetry?

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Survival of the flap/graft: i.e. measured by the amount of necrosis

        -  The quality of the scar: elasticity, colour, subjective scar evaluation

      Inclusion criteria are:

        -  Indication for release of burn scar contracture

        -  Sufficient tissue for a perforator- based interposition flap (preferably normal skin)

        -  Able to give informed consent

      Exclusion criteria are:

        -  Age < 18 years

        -  Location: scars on the face and scalp

        -  Smoking (however, the patient is eligible if smoking is quit > 3 weeks before the
           operation)

        -  Psychiatric disorders (if a loss to follow-up is anticipated)

        -  Language barrier
    
  