
    
      Total joint arthroplasty (TJA) is one of the most common surgical procedures performed in the
      United States (US), with approximately 2.5 million individuals with total hip arthroplasties
      (THAs) and 4.7 million individuals with total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) in 2010. Patients
      who undergo TJA commonly have Vitamin D deficiency, with rates reported to be 24-61% in
      primary TJA patients. Vitamin D deficiency affects women and minorities at high rates, in
      addition to non-Hispanic whites. Previous studies demonstrated that Vitamin D deficiency
      poorly impacts outcomes after various surgical procedures. Specifically in TJA patients,
      recent studies show a higher rate of Vitamin D deficiency in periprosthetic joint infection
      (PJI) patients, and a higher rate of postoperative complications and infection in revision
      TJA patients with low Vitamin D. In a PJI mouse model, Vitamin D-deficient mice were shown to
      have an increased bacterial burden when compared to Vitamin D-deficient mice that received
      "rescue" cholecalciferol (Vitamin D3) supplementation. Bacterial burden was similarly
      decreased between normal mice and the Vitamin D-deficient "rescue" mice receiving
      supplementation. A single dose of Vitamin D3 supplementation in Vitamin D-deficient mice
      using the same mouse model reversed the effect of PJI by decreasing bacterial burden and
      neutrophil infiltration.

      The serum concentration of 25-hydroxycholecalciferol or 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) is the
      most accurate measure of stores of Vitamin D in the body. There are currently different
      recommendations regarding the optimal serum 25(OH)D level for bone health, the optimal daily
      intake of Vitamin D, and the treatments for Vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency. These
      controversial topics do not provide clear clinical guidance on how to optimize Vitamin D
      levels in surgical patients to reduce complication rates. The US Institute of Medicine (IOM)
      committee recommended a 25(OH)D level >20 ng/mL but other organizations recommend ≥30 ng/mL.
      At present, deficient levels of Vitamin D are generally defined as a 25(OH)D <20 ng/ml,
      relative insufficiency as 20 to 29 ng/mL, and sufficient levels as ≥ 30 ng/ml. In 2011, the
      IOM established Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) for Vitamin D of 600-800 IU/d in order
      to achieve a 25(OH)D level of 20 ng/ml for 97.5% of the general population. The debate
      concerns recommendations based upon population science, in contrast to care of an individual
      patient. Thus, there is continuing debate among several groups that recommend higher Vitamin
      D3 doses and 25(OH)D levels of ≥30 ng/mL for optimal bone health and in high-risk individuals
      with osteoporosis. The National Osteoporosis Foundation recommends 800 to 1000 IU Vitamin D3
      daily for adults aged 50 years and older, as do the International Osteoporosis Foundation and
      Endocrine Society. The Endocrine Society recommended even higher doses up to 1500 to 2000
      IU/d of Vitamin D3 for older adults. For Vitamin D deficiency, the recommended treatment is
      50,000 units of Vitamin D3 weekly for 8 weeks with an assay repeat to determine whether
      Vitamin D-sufficiency ≥30ng/mL was achieved. The proposed study was designed in light of
      debated recommendations in the literature and should result in rigorous new information about
      25(OH)D levels achieved with different doses of Vitamin D3 supplementation and their impact
      on post-TJA complications.

      There are no current studies in literature examining whether preoperative supplementation and
      correction of Vitamin D deficiency may reduce complications following TJA. The aim of this
      randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the ability of different doses (low and high dose)
      of Vitamin D3 supplementation to affect adverse events and functional outcomes following
      total joint arthroplasty surgery. To conduct this study, investigators propose randomizing
      subjects with 25(OH)D levels between 10 and 29 ng/mL to receive different doses of Vitamin D
      to assess the effects of Vitamin D3 supplementation dosage on postoperative TJA complication
      rates. Consented patients with serum 25(OH)D levels equal or greater than 30 ng/dL will be
      included in the control group.
    
  