
    
      Rationale: Prostate cancer is a frequently observed malignancy in men, especially in elderly
      men. Besides diagnosis and treatment, also prevention of prostate cancer is an important
      point of interest to reduce the incidence and mortality of prostate cancer. Selenium is
      considered to be a promising chemopreventive agent for prostate cancer. Exact mechanisms of
      chemoprevention by selenium are not fully understood. However, it is expected that selenium
      (among other effects) directly affects gene expression in the prostate.

      Objective: The aim of this study is to get insight into bioavailability of selenium in
      prostate tissue and changes of gene expression profiles that might be responsible for
      selenium-induced chemoprevention. To meet this objective, the relationship between dietary
      selenium intake and changes in gene expression profiles, tissue selenium levels and blood
      flow in prostate tissue will be examined.

      Study design: The present study is designed as a double-blind, randomized and
      placebo-controlled intervention trial. Blood samples, toenails, questionnaires, MR images and
      surgical specimens will be collected to examine effects of selenium supplementation.

      Study population: The study population will consist of 60 men, diagnosed with prostate cancer
      and scheduled for radical prostatectomy. Written informed consent will be obtained from each
      participant.

      Intervention: Participants will receive 300 ug selenium / day or a placebo during 5 weeks
      prior to radical prostatectomy. Selenium will be supplemented in the form of selenized yeast
      tablets (SelenoPrecise, Pharma Nord).

      Main study parameters: Levels of selenium in prostate tissue and changes in prostate gene
      expression profiles of participants supplemented with selenium or placebo, compared before
      and after the short intervention period, will be considered as the main parameters of the
      present study. Besides gene expression profiles in prostate tissue, also gene expression
      profiles of peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMC), levels of selenium in blood and toenails and
      blood flow and permeability of blood vessels of prostate tissue will be analyzed.
    
  