
    
      The basic study design is to:

        1. Obtain informed consent from patient or the patients LAR

        2. Randomize subjects to treatment with either:

             1. Sham therapy, consisting of bilateral placement of Niveus Medical Muscle
                Stimulation System 110 electrodes for 30 minutes twice daily without activation of
                the electrical circuitry of the unit, or

             2. Active therapy, using the Niveus Medical Muscle Stimulation System 110 electrodes
                to actively produce a rhythmic quadriceps contraction for 30 minutes twice daily

        3. Measure magnetic stimulated quadriceps twitch (QuadTw) strength bilaterally as well as
           ultrasound assessment of quadriceps size

        4. Continue sham or active treatment daily for 7 days for a total of 14 sessions

        5. Repeat measurements of magnetic stimulated QuadTw strength and ultrasound assessment of
           quadriceps size on Day 8 or before Day 8 if the subject is to be discharged from the
           hospital prior to the allotted duration of sham or active treatment

        6. Functional measurement of the patient using the Functional Status Score for the ICU
           (FSS-ICU) at the end of the treatment period or upon discharge

        7. A member of the research team will visit the subject until hospital discharge and will
           record total duration (days) of mechanical ventilation, duration (days) of mechanical
           ventilation following study entry, duration of ICU stay, ventilator weaning time (days
           measured from time of first spontaneous breathing trial to extubation), and total
           duration (days) of hospitalization

        8. The investigators will also review each subject's medical record on entry into the study
           to obtain demographic information including the following: age, sex, diagnoses,
           medications, reason for institution of mechanical ventilation, vital signs at the time
           of the initial visit, bedside parameters of mechanical ventilation use (including mode
           of ventilation, duration of ventilation, level of oxygen, breath volume and rate, %
           triggered breaths), most recent arterial blood gas values, and chest radiograph readings
           at the time of the initial visit. The investigators will also record the subject's
           weight, BMI and total intake and output values since admission to the ICU. In addition,
           investigators will monitor each subject's progress in the ICU daily by reviewing the
           subject's medical record and recording the clinical parameters as well as recording
           daily weights and total intake and output. These parameters will also be assessed until
           the time that the patient is discharged from the ICU. In addition, the investigators
           will record and note all physical therapy and occupational therapy sessions that the
           subject receives as part of the standard of care in the ICU and in the hospital up until
           the time of discharge. In the University of Kentucky hospital, occupational therapy
           records the Barthel Index at each session which uses a scale of 0-100 to assess an
           individual's functional independence when performing activities of daily living (ADLs).
           Physical therapy assesses functional status using Kansas University Hospital Physical
           Therapy Acute Care Functional Outcomes, which also assesses functional status in the
           categories of bed mobility, transfer, gait and walking distance.
    
  