
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab
      in patients with relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). (Phase I) II. To determine
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of
      lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory NHL. (Phase I) III. To
      evaluate the feasibility and toxicities of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in
      patients with relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's disease (HD). (Phase IB) IV. To evaluate the
      efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in terms of overall response rate
      in patients with relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) and diffuse large B-cell
      lymphoma (DLBCL). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with
      relapsed/refractory NHL in terms of overall response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR),
      progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase I) II. To evaluate the
      efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with
      relapsed/refractory HD in terms of complete response rate (CR). (Phase IB) III. To evaluate
      the efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with
      relapsed/refractory HD in terms of duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival
      (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase IB) IV. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination
      of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL in terms of
      duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase
      II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the relationship between prognostic parameters including ki-67 staining, PD-1
      staining and cell of origin (activated B-cell or ABC versus germinal center B-cell or GCB)
      with ORR to the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with
      relapsed/refractory NHL. (Phase I) II. To evaluate and monitor effects on B-, T-, and natural
      killer (NK)-cell function with the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with
      relapsed/refractory NHL. (Phase I) III. To explore the relationship between prognostic
      parameters including ki-67 staining, PD-1 staining and cell of origin (activated B-cell or
      ABC versus germinal center B-cell or GCB) with ORR to the combination of lenalidomide and
      nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate and
      monitor effects on B-, T-, and NK-cell function with the combination of lenalidomide and
      nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21 and nivolumab intravenously (IV) over
      60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of courses 1-4 and on day 1 of courses 5-12. Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months for up to 3 years.
    
  