
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS in different treatment
      regimens (alone [group A] and in combination with ruxolitinib phosphate [ruxolitinib] [group
      B]) in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma, acute myeloid leukemia, or T-cell
      lymphoma and in combination with ruxolitinib and cyclophosphamide (group C) in
      relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety profile of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS (alone and in combination with
      ruxolitinib).

      II. To estimate clinical response rate of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS (alone and in combination with
      ruxolitinib) in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma, acute myeloid leukemia,
      or T-cell lymphoma overall and by disease type.

      III. To estimate progression-free and overall survival of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS (alone and in
      combination with ruxolitinib) in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma, acute
      myeloid leukemia, or T-cell lymphoma overall and by disease type.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination, and the
      biodistribution of virally infected cells at various times points after infection with
      VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS using planar and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/computed
      tomography (CT) imaging.

      II. To assess virus replication, viremia, viral shedding in urine and respiratory secretions,
      and virus persistence after systemic administration of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS.

      III. To characterize the pharmacodynamics (PD) of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS by way of measuring serum
      interferon-beta and also vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV)-real time (RT)-polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS.

      IV. Assess CD8+ T cell (both general and VSV-IFNbeta-NIS specific) and natural killer (NK)
      cell responses.

      V. Gene expression analysis pre- and post-virotherapy. VI. Assess presence of VSV in tumor
      and normal tissues subsequent to administration of intravenous (IV) VSV-IFNbeta-NIS.

      VII. To identify the best dose of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS in the regimen being evaluated based on
      activity observed in the correlative measures described above in those dose levels identified
      as tolerable.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3
      groups.

      GROUP A: Patients receive VSV-IFNbeta-NIS intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Patients undergo SPECT/CT scans at baseline, and at days 3 and 8 after VSV-IFNbeta-NIS
      infusion.

      GROUP B: Patients receive VSV-IFNbeta-NIS IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and ruxolitinib
      phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -1 to 9. Patients undergo SPECT/CT scans at
      baseline, and at days 3 and 8 after VSV-IFNbeta-NIS infusion.

      GROUP C: Patients receive VSV-IFNbeta-NIS IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and ruxolitinib
      phosphate PO BID on days -1 to 9. Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on
      day 2. Patients undergo SPECT/CT scans at baseline, and at days 3 and 8 after VSV-IFNbeta-NIS
      infusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days, and then every 3
      months for up to 1 year or until progressive disease, then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  