
    
      This is a prospective, randomized clinical study performed at one centre. The objective is to
      assess the efficacy of a single cryoballoon application per vein guided by a multipolar
      recording catheter as compared with a conventional technique with 2 cryoballoon applications
      for pulmonary vein isolation in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF).

      140 subjects with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation referred for their first AF
      ablation procedures will be enrolled.

      Recruitment, ablation and follow-up will be performed at Dep of Cardiology in Uppsala
      University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

      Study duration is 2 years with 12--months enrolment period and 1 year follow-up per subject.

      Pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) will be performed using the Arctic Front Advance cryoballoon
      ablation catheter. Patients will be randomized to a single cryoballoon application guided by
      a multipolar recording catheter or to a conventional technique with 2 cryoballoon
      applications. After cryoballoon ablation of all pulmonary veins, PV conduction block will be
      assessed by a separate circular mapping catheter. Acute procedural success is defined as
      complete electrical isolation of a pulmonary vein assessed by entrance and exit block,
      including 20 minutes waiting time. Complications and duration of the procedure will be
      assessed.

      Patients will be followed at three, six and 12 months after the ablation procedure. A 12 lead
      ECG, a 7 day Holter monitoring, quality of life (EQ5D) and EHRA score, will be performed at
      baseline, 6 and 12 months. as well as Biomarkers including nTproBNP and troponin I, will be
      performed at baseline, and at 6 and 12 months (only nTproBNP). Predictive variables for
      successful outcome/AF recurrence will be analysed.

      The frequency of symptomatic recurrence of AF and number of reablations will be compared at 6
      and 12 months, and in those requiring a redo ablation procedure the status of PV reconduction
      will be assessed.
    
  