
    
      Introduction

      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), typically diagnosed
      between the age of 15 and 40 and characterized by colonic mucosal inflammation and
      ulcerations. These mucosal changes lead to bloody diarrhea and in severe cases, fever,
      anemia, weight loss and death if not treated appropriately. The condition requires prompt
      immunosuppressive treatment and monitoring. To characterize disease severity and guide
      treatment decisions, clinicians typically use a combination of clinical scores based on
      patients symptoms, endoscopic scoring systems based on mucosal appearance endoscopic
      assessments of disease extent and blood and stool markers of inflammation.

      Most patients experience a mild to moderate disease course with varying periods of activity
      and remission. However, 15-25 % will experience a flare of acute severe UC (ASUC), a
      condition characterized by extensive and deep ulcerations on endoscopy combined with a high
      clinical score of severity. Due to the risk of bowel wall perforation, these patients are
      usually admitted to the hospital ward for intensive monitoring and medical therapy. The
      medical therapy ultimately aims at avoiding acute colectomy, a procedure that still carries a
      30-day mortality rate of 5 %, which is higher compared to elective surgery (OR 1.82; CI 95 %
      1.19 - 2.62). Initial therapy is well established and consists of intravenous
      corticosteroids, which in early clinical trials dramatically improved the disease outcome by
      reducing the mortality rate from 24 to 7 %. Unfortunately, even today 30 - 50 % of patients
      with ASUC fails to respond to initial corticosteroid treatment and are therefore eligible for
      medical rescue treatment if surgery is not imminent.

      Accordingly, primary non-responders to high dose intravenous corticosteroids are usually
      switched to infliximab (or at certain centers ciclosporine) after 5-7 days, if an acute
      colectomy is not needed. Infliximab is an anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha antibody,
      which blocks TNFα, a key inflammatory mediator in UC,and has been proven effective in
      corticosteroid resistant UC reducing the risk of acute colectomy from 58 % to 29 %.

      Despite advances in medical treatment ASUC still carries a 10 % risk of acute colectomy.
      Further improvement in medical therapy and strategy is therefore highly warranted. A decrease
      in serum albumin is associated with an increased clearance of infliximab, and it has been
      suggested that postponement of infliximab treatment in ASUC could reduce the bioavailability
      of the drug as a result of severe hypoalbuminemia. In addition, infliximab is lost in feces
      in the setting of ASUC, suggesting that an accelerated infliximab induction regimen or an
      increased starting dose compared to standard procedures could be beneficial. However, a
      recent review of retrospective studies showed no difference in colectomy rates when comparing
      an accelerated infliximab induction regimen with standard induction regimen (both induced
      after 3-5 days of corticosteroid treatment), although confounding by disease severity cannot
      be excluded. Hence it is currently unresolved if optimized timing and dosing of infliximab
      rescue treatment could be of major importance to reduce the need of acute colectomies and
      thereby the morbidity and mortality among ASUC patients. Therefore, data to support
      clinician's recognition of corticosteroid non-responders early in the process are warranted.

      Unfortunately, there are currently no patient friendly, effective or objective point-of-care
      tool to identify corticosteroid non-responders early in the process. A high clinical score,
      C-reactive protein (CRP) and a low albumin is correlated with an inferior response, but due
      to poor positive and negative predictive values they are not routinely used to pre-select
      patients for specific medical therapies. Endoscopic severity is predictive for the outcome of
      ASUC, but the use of close monitoring with endoscopy is limited in this setting due to the
      risk of perforation and the need for repeated bowel cleansing.

      Transabdominal gastrointestinal ultrasound (GIUS) is potentially a relevant objective
      point-of-care tool, which could be used for treatment outcome assessment in ASUC. A recent
      study in ulcerative colitis patients using GIUS to monitor anti-TNFα treatment demonstrated a
      high correlation between change in GIUS parameters, bowel wall thickness (BWT) and color
      Doppler Signal (DS), compared to baseline with treatment response after 6 and 12 weeks. The
      results are in accordance with other studies showing a correlation between endoscopic
      activity, clinical symptom scores, CRP and GIUS parameters after 2-3 months of treatment. In
      this setting, GIUS can also predict treatment outcome after 12-15 months. Ultrasound has
      several advantages compared to other modalities as it is non-invasive and does not inflict
      pain, is easily repeatable and available and does not expose the patient to radiation.
      Although some studies suggest 4 hours of fasting to diminish peristalsis and intraluminal
      air, fasting before examination is generally not necessary, making it preparation free.

      Not all bowel segments can be easily visualized, which can be an issue when assessing disease
      extent. Especially the rectum and the left colonic flexure can be difficult to visualize and
      examine with the transabdominal approach. The combined reported sensitivity and specificity
      for detection of colonic inflammation is 74 % and 93 % per segment, whereas the sigmoid colon
      and the terminal ileum are easy to identify and measure, showing a higher diagnostic
      performance (sensitivity 92 % and specificity 87 %) compared to endoscopy. There is no
      significant difference in diagnostic accuracy per bowel segment compared to other radiologic
      modalities and in the latest ECCO guidelines GIUS is recommended as a valid alternative to CT
      or MR.

      There are different signs of inflammation to look for when examining the bowel using GIUS;
      the most reported and prominent one being BWT. BWT in healthy subjects ranges between 0.5-3.0
      mm depending on anatomical location. Studies on UC patients use different cutoff values,
      usually ranging between 3.0-4.0 mm. There is an ongoing discussion within the scientific
      community about cutoff values. In general, sensitivity decreases and specificity increases
      with a higher value. Vascularization is another important measure and can be estimated with
      DS and the Limberg score to define the presence of a high blood flow; a high blood flow
      correlates well with inflammation. Further, the bowel wall layers are easily identified due
      to echo-stratification on ultrasound. These layers are still present in the mild and moderate
      UC cases, whereas the stratification can be lost in severe UC. Severe inflammation can also
      cause colonic de-haustration, although this parameter might also correlate to the chronicity
      of the condition. Inflammatory mesenteric fat wrapped around the affected intestine is rarely
      seen in UC patients but frequently in Crohn's disease.

      No study examining the ability of GIUS to predict treatment response in ASUC patients has yet
      been conducted on a shorter timeframe than 6 weeks. The investigators have unpublished
      preliminary data suggesting a rapid detectable change in GIUS parameters in patients
      responding to high-dose corticosteroids. If GIUS can be used as an objective point-of-care
      tool for treatment response, it may be useful to identify corticosteroid non-responders at an
      early stage, thus providing an opportunity for optimized individual treatment, i.e. rescue
      infliximab treatment, and hopefully a decreased morbidity and mortality rate.

      Methods and analysis

      Study aims The primary aim is to determine if early changes in GIUS parameters (BWT,
      vascularization, echostratification, inflammatory mesenteric fat and haustration) from
      baseline to 48 ± 24 hours after intravenous corticosteroids initiation in hospitalized
      patients with ASUC, can predict clinical corticosteroid non-response and need for biological
      treatment and/or colectomy.

      The secondary aims are to:

        1. Determine if changes in GIUS parameters from baseline to day 6 ± 1 and 3 months after
           intravenous corticosteroids initiation can predict treatment non-response and need for
           colectomy.

        2. Identify the potential interrater variability between investigators and central reading
           for GIUS parameters.

        3. Correlate GIUS parameters with changes in fecal calprotectin and endoscopic disease
           activity (Mayo endoscopic sub-score and Ulcerative Colitis Endoscopic Index of Severity
           (UCEIS)) at baseline and 3 months after hospitalization.

        4. Correlate GIUS parameters with changes in clinical scores (Mayo score and Simple
           Clinical Colitis Activity Index (SCCAI)), blood samples (hemoglobin, CRP, albumin and
           alpha-1-antitrypsin), pulse, blood pressure, temperature and time since last meal at 48
           ± 24 hours, 6 ± 1 days and 3 months after hospitalization.

        5. Examine GIUS´s ability to assess disease extent compared to endoscopy and CT (if a
           CT-scan is performed after an ordination by a treating physician).

        6. Determine the ideal cutoff values for GIUS parameters for optimal sensitivity,
           specificity and accuracy.

      Study design The study design is a prospective clinician blinded multi-center observational
      study. Fifty patients will be included and followed for 12 months. The study is approved by
      the Danish National committee on health research ethics H-18031264 and the Danish data
      protection agency VD-2018-319.

      Procedures and scheduled follow-up visits

      Included patients will prior to intravenous corticosteroid treatment have the following
      information registered as baseline characteristics:

        -  Date of birth, age at disease diagnoses, previous and present IBD medication, previous
           intestinal surgery, previous extent of disease, other known chronic diseases, smoking
           status, extra-intestinal manifestations, weight and height, symptoms (blood and
           frequency of stools, urgency of defecation, general well-being, physician's general
           assessment), family history of IBD and previously known gastrointestinal infections
           (Clostridium difficile, Salmonella, Campylobacter jejuni, CMV, Yersinia enterocolitica
           or other).

        -  Mayo endoscopic sub-score, UCEIS and current endoscopic extent of inflammation.

        -  Blood samples (hemoglobin, CRP, albumin, alpha - 1 - antitrypsin), fecal calprotectin
           results, pulse, blood pressure and temperature.

        -  GIUS assessment of the BWT, vascularization, echostratification, inflammatory mesenteric
           fat and haustration.

        -  Time since last meal prior to GIUS examination. The intestinal ultrasound together with
           blood samples and recordings of pulse, blood pressure, temperature, time since last
           meal, time since first intravenous corticosteroid administration as well as clinical
           scores will be repeated 48 ± 24 hours, 6 ± 1 days and 3 months after the first dose of
           intravenous corticosteroids. Endoscopic examination and fecal calprotectin will be
           repeated after 3 months. Treatment outcome (response to corticosteroid, infliximab or
           colectomy) will be registered at 48 ± 24 hours, 6 ± 1 days, 3 months and 12 months after
           the first dose of intravenous corticosteroids. Results of eventual CT-scans or extra
           endoscopies will be stored.

      Clinical assessment Patient disease status is monitored during hospitalization using the Mayo
      clinical score and SCCAI. Mayo clinical score is based on blood and stool frequency, baseline
      endoscopy results and the physician's global assessment. SCCAI is based on bowel frequency
      divided by night and day, urgency of defecation, blood in stool, patient general well-being
      and extra-intestinal features. Endoscopic severity is graded using the Mayo endoscopic
      subscore and the UCEIS, which is based on the severity of the vascular pattern, presence of
      blood, erosions and ulcers. The clinical assessment and endoscopies will be performed by a
      physician blinded to the GIUS measurements. Endoscopic assessment is based on the worst
      segment and documented with still images on a secure drive.

      GIUS assessment and measurements Each examination will be performed by a GIUS trained
      gastroenterologist using the same high-end ultrasound scanner and 9L probe for the same
      patient. Probe frequency will be between 5-8 MHz. Scans are performed by localizing the
      sigmoid colon at the site of the iliac vessels and then followed in both anal and oral
      direction. The most severe part of the bowel segment will be assessed and documented by still
      images and cineloop files and stored in DICOM format on a secure drive. Sigmoid colon is
      always assessed as the primary point of interest. However, if topical treatment has been
      applied or a more oral located bowel segment has a higher BWT this segment will also be
      documented as above and stored. GIUS examination recordings will be subjected to central
      reading by an independent GIUS specialist, blinded to the original scans. Fasting will not be
      required, but the time passed since patients last meal will be registered. The GIUS examiner
      will have no knowledge about the patient disease status (blood and stool sample results,
      clinical scores or endoscopic activity).

      • BWT is measured in the most severe segment (largest BWT) using the average value of four
      measurements with one decimal (two longitudinal scans, more than 1 cm apart and two
      cross-sectional scans, which can be in the same image, but in different quadrants). A BWT
      value < 3.0 mm is regarded as no inflammation and ≥ 3.0 mm is regarded as active disease.

      In segments with a BWT ≥ 3.0 mm, vascularization will be classified using a color Doppler and
      a modified Limberg score, as well as echostratification and the eventual presence of
      inflammatory mesenteric fat and absence of haustration.

        -  Vascularization is measured in both the cross-sectional and longitudinal plane.
           Pathological vascularization is defined as a modified Limberg score > 1 and normal
           vascularization is defined as ≤ 1. No signal, 0 points; minimal pixels, 1 point;
           increased doppler signal limited to the wall, 2 points; and if the signal is significant
           in the wall as well as the mesentery, 3 points.

        -  Normal echostratification is measured in a longitudinal plane and defined as 3-5 echo
           layers in each bowel wall (mucosa, submucosa, lamina muscularis) and will be
           characterized as 1. normal/preserved, 2. uncertain, 3. focal disruption < 3 cm or 4.
           extensive disruption ≥ 3 cm.

        -  Inflammatory mesenteric fat will be defined as a bright looking mass surrounding or
           wrapping the bowel, usually brighter and more homogenous than normal intraabdominal fat
           in obese; characterized as either 1. absent, 2. uncertain or 3. present.

        -  Haustration will be defined as either 1. present (normal), 2. uncertain or 3. absent.

      Centre selection The study is devised by leading researchers in IBD and trained bowel
      ultrasound experts at the Department of Gastroenterology, Herlev Hospital, Denmark. The IBD
      clinic at Herlev Hospital is one of the largest clinical and academic IBD centers in Denmark
      and an international training center for GIUS. Recruitment and examination of the patients
      will be conducted at the gastroenterological departments of the university hospitals in
      Herlev, Aarhus, Vejle and Hvidovre. All GIUS gastroenterologists engaged in the study meet
      and train together to make the procedures identical and standardized before patient
      inclusion.

      Sample size calculation The sample size was calculated to be able to detect a 0.7-fold
      decrease in thickness of the intestinal wall with a common standard deviation (sigma) of 30 %
      and a desired power of 80 % to determine a statistically significant difference (α = 0.05,
      two-sided test). The estimated sample size is 17 subjects in each group
      (responders/non-responders). The investigators aim to include 20 UC patients in each group,
      and since 40 % are expected to be non-responders to steroids, the overall aim is to include
      50 patients. Our department currently admits 3-5 patients/month with ASUC. Together with the
      other departments, the estimated inclusion period is 15 months.

      Statistical analysis Clinical data will be entered into a validated data capture system
      provided by the Danish Capital Region. The data system will include password protection and
      internal quality checks, such as automatic range checks, to identify data that appear
      inconsistent, incomplete or inaccurate. Descriptive data will be provided for all outcomes
      (table 2) according to data type; number of patients, mean, SD (for interval data), median 25
      % and 75 % quartiles (for ordinal data). Frequency (absolute and relative) distributions will
      be provided for categorical data. Two-sided p values will be presented throughout. Data
      management and analysis will be performed using REDCap and SPSS.

      Primary endpoint analysis Patients will be divided into steroid responders and steroid
      non-responders and compared to GIUS parameters (BWT, modified Limberg score,
      echostratification, inflammatory mesenteric fat and haustration at baseline to 48 ± 24 hours)
      using non-parametric statistics (Mann-Whitney and Wilcoxon test) and time to endpoints by
      survival statistics (Kaplan Meier).

      Secondary endpoints analysis The same statistical tests as used for primary endpoint analysis
      will be applied to predict responders versus non-responders throughout the observational
      period. GIUS measurements at baseline compared to 6 ± 1 days and 3 months, with a follow up
      at 12 months. GIUS interrater-variability between GIUS examiners and proof reader will be
      calculated as kappa values, interclass correlation co-efficiency and Limits of Agreement for
      continues variables. Correlation between the GIUS measurements and endoscopic variables will
      be assessed using Spearman's rank correlation coefficient, multiple logistic regression and
      receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analyses. An additional ROC analyses will be
      performed to determine the best cutoff values for GIUS parameters for optimal sensitivity,
      specificity and accuracy.

      Variables associated with non-responders and responders GIUS measurements (CRP, Hemoglobin,
      Albumin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, Mayo clinical score, SCCAI, pulse, blood pressure, temperature,
      time since last meal and fecal calprotectin) will be assessed with univariate analyses. Those
      who achieve a p-value of < 0.2 will be included into a multivariable logistic regression
      analysis.

      Discussion There is an unfulfilled need for a reliable, easy, non-invasive and safe modality
      to repeatedly assess treatment response in patients admitted with ASUC. GIUS presents itself
      as such a modality and the investigators hypothesize that within 48 hours after
      corticosteroid treatment GIUS has the potential to identify steroid non-responders. This has
      not previously been investigated. An early identification allows for an accelerated treatment
      decision in steroid resistant ASUC patients and thus a potential decrease in the need of
      acute colectomies. To achieve this goal, the investigators first need to validate GIUS as a
      point-of-care tool to predict treatment outcome in patients with ASUC.

      Ethics and dissemination In accordance with the Helsinki V declaration and the Ethics
      committee of the Capital Region of Denmark enrollment in the study is based on voluntary
      informed written consent. All patients can at any time withdraw their participation without
      any change in standard care or treatment. Written information about the project will ensure
      patient knowledge of their rights. Ultrasound is a safe and patient friendly examination
      without any side effects, damage or radiation for the patient. The trial will contribute to a
      new partially unexplored field with promises of improving disease activity monitoring and
      consequently more rational and timely treatment intervention and decreased morbidity and
      mortality. Results will be published in international journals and disseminated at
      international conferences.
    
  