
    
      The incidence of diverticular disease of the colon has increased over the last few years.
      Since it presents potentially severe complications (both in terms of morbidity and
      mortality), the most recent studies are focusing on the underlying mechanisms and therapeutic
      options.

      Diverticular disease of the colon presents important etiopathogenetic events. The first is
      that the severity of microscopic inflammation is correlated to the disease activity. The
      second is the bacterial overgrowth which is observed in the colon, where the diverticula form
      "recesses" where bacteria can proliferate. The third is that the "metabolome" plays an
      important role in the pathogenesis of diseases of the gastrointestinal tract (and not only).
      An extensive combination of microbial species live permanently in the human gut and
      participate in the metabolic activities of the gastro-intestinal tract (such as the synthesis
      of certain vitamins, improvement of the immune system, and balance of the resident bacterial
      species). There is little published clinical evidence suggesting a direct link between
      microbiota and diverticular disease; however, an altered microbiota in the flora of patients
      with colon cancer, irritable bowel syndrome, and IBD has been described.

      It is clear that human metabolism and inflammatory response are influenced by genetic
      information outside our genome. Insights into the influence of microorganisms on the
      pathogenesis in gastrointestinal function and diverticular disease are in their infancy and
      often rely on extrapolation from other disease states. Microbiological analysis of fecal
      microbiota can provide important information on the role that the microbial-mammalian axis
      might have on the pathogenesis of diverticular disease.

      Alteration of the metabolome play an important role in some pathologies of the
      gastrointestinal tract, from Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD) to Irritable Bowel Syndrome
      (IBS). Most likely, it plays the same role in diverticular disease. In fact, the current
      western diet is poor in fibers and can cause an alteration of the resident bacterial species,
      with a reduction of bifidobacteria and an increase of clostridia.

      This alteration might be present in diverticular disease and the manipulation of the
      microbial flora might represent both a treatment option for diverticular disease and the
      prevention of its complications.

      Recent studies showed that the treatment with probiotics can help reduce the activity index
      in patients with DDS and as well as reduce the recurrence of the disease.

      A new method has now been validated to assess the microbiota: the analysis of the faecal and
      urinary metabolome by high resolution Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. The
      microbioma is the combination of the DNA of the microorganisms that compose the intestinal
      microflora (microbiota). Metabolomics allow to assess the metabolic activity of the
      microbiota and its possible interactions with the host.

      The metabolomic analyses of stools and urine offer a new approach to evaluate the metabolome
      of diverticular disease, and compare it in patients who take a probiotic, fibers,
      non-absorbable antibiotics or an anti-inflammatory drug.
    
  