
    
      STUDY DESIGN A mixed-method study design will be used to assess functional outcomes of the
      Students Teaching Elderly Prevention and Safety (STEPS) program on senior participants, as
      well as the impact of the program on both participants and students. In order to assess
      functional outcomes, a retrospective chart review will be conducted on a convenience sample
      of participants enrolled in the STEPS program from September 2018 to April 2019.

      In order to explore participant and student perspectives of the STEPS program, a Glaserian
      grounded theory approach will be utilized. Grounded theory is a qualitative research
      methodology commonly employed in healthcare research due to its inductive, systematic process
      of gathering and interpreting data. Data gleaned from focus groups is continuously analyzed
      for patterns, from which a thematic consensus emerges. Semi -structured interview questions
      will be proposed to focus groups of students and senior participants who were involved in the
      STEPS program during the study time frame. Prior to starting the focus group discussion,
      subjects will be given a demographic survey to complete.

      DEMOGRAPHIC SURVEYS Demographic information will be collected from senior participants and
      students via a written survey filled out prior to the focus group session.

      MEASURES OF FUNCTIONAL OUTCOMES To analyze the impact that the STEPS program has upon
      participant health, functional outcomes will be obtained from a retrospective chart review of
      included senior participants.

      Information from the initial evaluations, the mid-term evaluation, and the final evaluation
      will be collected. Additionally, the total number of sessions each senior participant
      attended will be collected. The data that will be extracted from the chart review will
      include, vital signs, and physical outcome measures, which are discussed further below. We
      are looking specifically for measures of aerobic capacity, balance, and indicators of
      cardiovascular and pulmonary health.

      Measures of aerobic capacity will include the Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT) and the Two Minute
      Step Test (2MST). The 6MWT assesses the distance an individual can walk in six minutes and it
      is considered a valid and reliable test to assess exercise tolerance in community dwelling
      seniors . The 2MST measures the number of high knees an individual can complete in a
      two-minute timeframe, and it is also considered a valid means to evaluate aerobic capacity in
      seniors. Measures of balance that will be analyzed will include the Timed-Up-and-Go Test, the
      Activities-Specific Balance Confidence Scale, the BERG Balance Scale, the Mini Balance
      Evaluation Systems Test, the Dynamic Gait Index, the Functional Reach Test, the Single Leg
      Stance Test, the Romberg Test, and the Clinical Test of Sensory Interaction on Balance.
      Indicators of cardiovascular and pulmonary health will include vital signs, such as blood
      pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate.

      INTERVIEW QUESTIONS Questions will be pilot tested with a purposive sample of eligible STEPS
      participants and students. Questions will be used to direct the focus groups, however, focus
      group discussion will be not restricted to these topics, as the Glaserian grounded theory
      approach allows for focus group members to guide the discussion process. Depending on
      feedback gained from pilot focus group sessions, questions may be modified.

      PILOT INTERVIEWS In order to assess the construct validity of proposed focus group questions,
      prospective questions will be pilot tested with a group of seniors and students who
      participated in the STEPS program prior to the 2018-2019 academic year. Focus groups of pilot
      testers will be conducted in a manner similar to their respective demographic cohort. Focus
      groups of student pilot testers will be convened over a private virtual chat platform. Focus
      groups of senior pilot testers will be convened in a private virtual chat room. Each pilot
      sessions will last for fort-five to sixty-minutes, and will end when saturation is achieved.
      One or two researchers will facilitate the focus groups and another researcher will observe
      the session.

      STEPS PARTICIPANT INTERVIEWS In order to assess the impact that the STEPS program has upon
      seniors, focus groups of 4 to 6 subjects will be convened for forty-five to sixty-minute-long
      sessions in a private virtual chat room. Sessions will end when saturation is met, meaning
      that no new insights are being revealed by focus group members. One or two researchers will
      facilitate the focus groups and another researcher will observe the focus group and take
      field notes. All researchers will receive training regarding proctoring focus groups. Focus
      groups will be conducted between June 2020 and November 2020 and will be audio-taped and
      later transcribed by the researchers. After transcription is complete, transcripts will be
      reviewed by research participants to confirm that transcription and initial interpretation
      objectively captured participant insights.

      STUDENT INTERVIEWS In order to assess the impact that the STEPS program has upon students,
      focus groups of 4 to 6 subjects will be convened for forty-five to sixty-minute-long sessions
      in a private virtual chat platform. Sessions will end when saturation is met, meaning that no
      new insights are being revealed by focus group members. One or two researchers will
      facilitate the focus groups and another researcher will observe the focus group and take
      field notes. The focus group facilitators have had no prior relationship with student
      participants. No-one else, aside from focus group members and researchers, will be present
      during the sessions. Focus groups will be conducted between June 2020 and November 2020 and
      will be audio-taped and later transcribed by the researchers. After transcription is
      complete, transcripts will be reviewed by research participants to confirm that transcription
      and initial interpretation objectively captured participant insights.
    
  