
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the safety and efficacy of unrelated-donor umbilical cord blood
           transplantation (UCBT) using a nonmyeloablative preparative regimen in patients with
           hematological disease, in a multi-institution UK setting.

        -  To confirm that unrelated-donor UCBT following nonmyeloablative conditioning is
           associated with consistent and durable engraftment in these patients.

        -  To assess transplant-related mortality at day 100 associated with nonmyeloablative UCBT
           in these patients.

        -  To assess the incidence of grades II-IV and III-IV acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) in
           these patients.

        -  To assess the risk of relapse and progressive disease in these patients at 1 year post
           transplant after nonmyeloablative UCBT.

        -  To assess overall and progression-free survival of these patients at 1 year after
           nonmyeloablative UCBT.

        -  To assess immune reconstitution at 1, 2, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after transplant as
           measured by quantitative recovery of B, T, and NK cells (flow cytometry), qualitative
           recovery of T cells (TREC and spectratyping), in vivo functional T-cell responses (EBV
           and CMV tetramers), and quantitative immunoglobulins.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Reduced-intensity conditioning regimen: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2
           hours on day -6 and fludarabine phosphate IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -2. Patients
           undergo a single fraction of total-body irradiation on day -1.

        -  Umbilical cord blood (UCB) transplantation: Patients undergo umbilical cord blood
           transplantation on day 0.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV or orally on days -3
           to 100 followed by taper and mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally on days -3 to 35
           followed by taper.

      Blood and bone marrow samples are collected periodically for analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months in year 1, every
      4 months in year 2, every 6 months until 5 years, and then annually thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  