
    
      The aim of the proposed supplemental study is to test a single session motivational
      interviewing (MI) program designed to promote the acceptance and use of PrEP for high-risk
      young Black men who have sex with men (YBMSM) and to determine whether previous assignment to
      study condition moderates these outcomes. In the parent study we had the foresight to include
      a cross-sectional survey of men's attitudes toward PrEP use as part of their first follow-up
      assessment. Using that data, we will identify the predictors of readiness to accept PrEP and
      we will use these findings to inform the design of a brief Motivational Interviewing session
      (MI-PrEP) that will promote uptake of PrEP. We will enroll 65 YBMSM who have completed the
      12-month follow-up assessment from the parent study and 35 YBMSM (same inclusion criteria)
      from either of two clinics used in the parent study (the Crossroads Clinic or the Open Arms
      Clinic) who did not participate in the parent study. Using small block randomization, these
      100 men will be assigned to the MI-PrEP condition or to the standard of care only control
      condition. At the conclusion of the enrollment session men will be asked if they would like
      to schedule an appointment to begin taking PrEP. This same offer will be made again
      approximately 14 days after the enrollment session. The dependent variables will thus include
      measures of whether men made/kept an appointment to begin PrEP and, if so, how much time
      elapsed before doing so and whether they filled the prescription for PrEP. For those who do
      fill the prescription we will test their blood for levels of tenofovir and emtricitabine
      after 3 months of time has elapsed. Group differences (Intervention vs. Control) in uptake,
      time to uptake, and actual use/adherence of PrEP are hypothesized to favor those receiving
      the MI-PrEP intervention program. If this is the case then an initial body of evidence will
      exist supporting the potential efficacy of a Motivational Interviewing-based, single session
      intervention that can be delivered to YBMSM in clinical settings.
    
  