
    
      The main aims of this study will compare the effectiveness and safety of the three most
      common bariatric surgical procedures: Roux-en-y gastric bypass (RYGB), adjustable gastric
      banding (AGB), and sleeve gastrectomy (SG).

      Question (Aim) 1: To what extent does weight loss and weight regain differ across the three
      bariatric surgical procedures at 1, 3, and 5 years? This aim addresses the primary outcome of
      interest among most patients seeking bariatric surgery - the differential impact of these
      procedures on maximum weight loss as well as the extent of longer-term weight regain. We will
      also explore the heterogeneity in weight loss and regain across several key subgroups that
      may have differential response to surgical treatment, specifically groups defined by age,
      race/ethnicity, baseline BMI, smoking status, and pre-operative comorbidities.

      Question (Aim) 2: To what extent do these bariatric procedures differ on improvements in
      diabetes risk at 1, 3, and 5 years? Among patients with diabetes, remission or "cure" of
      their disease (defined as HbA1c <6.5% off diabetes medications) has been cited as the most
      important outcome of bariatric surgery. Thus, we will examine the comparative effect of these
      procedures on rates of diabetes remission as well as relapse (recurrence). Secondary analyses
      will examine the comparative impact of the procedures on glycemic control independent of
      diabetes remission.

      Question (Aim) 3: What is the frequency of major adverse events following these three
      different bariatric surgical procedures at 1, 3, and 5 years? We will examine four important
      adverse event outcome categories across the three procedures: 1) short- and long-term (1, 3,
      and 5 year) mortality rates, 2) a composite end point of 30-day major adverse outcomes: based
      on the definition used in the Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric Surgery (LABS) study that
      included death; venous thromboembolism; percutaneous, endoscopic, or operative subsequent
      intervention; and failure to be discharged from the hospital; 3) subsequent hospitalization
      (any hospitalization following initial surgery); and 4) subsequent
      reoperation/reintervention: defined as any additional bariatric procedure and other
      procedures related to device removals, gastric revisions, abdominal or incisional hernia
      repair, laparoscopy or laparotomy, and percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube placements.
    
  