
    
      BOOST is a manualized intervention that combines psychoeducation and cognitive restructuring
      to replace stigmatizing views about early psychosis and help patients challenge negative
      self-evaluations. Assertiveness skills training is a unique component that was added to the
      group to empower individuals and provide them with the behavioural skills to fight back
      against self-stigma and get their needs met during social interactions.

      Sessions are 60 minutes long and occur once a week for 8 weeks. Groups comprise 4-6
      outpatients enrolled in a specialized outpatient clinic for early psychosis. Session are led
      by one therapist and co-facilitated with a peer support worker who has "lived experience"
      with early psychosis to provide unique insights on living with and overcoming self-stigma.
      The group format is informal and discussion-based, with an emphasis on sharing personal
      experiences.

      Early sessions (1-4) focus on dispelling popular myths associated with psychosis and
      challenging erroneous beliefs, as a way to provide psychoeducation to patients. Additionally,
      time is spent identifying the impact of self-labelling, how this can lead to self-fulfilling
      prophecies, and getting participants to reflect on examples of when self-stigma might have
      behavioural consequences. Cognitive behavioural therapy techniques are used as a basis for
      the intervention, with an initial focus on cognitive restructuring to fight back against
      negative, stigmatizing thoughts.

      Later sessions (5-8) target behavioural approaches for self-empowerment through assertiveness
      skills training and goal setting. Discussions are focused on the verbal and non-verbal
      characteristics of passive, aggressive, and assertive communication, in addition to
      techniques for speaking in an assertive manner. Role play scenarios that are specific to
      young people with psychosis provide opportunities to practice these skills in session. For
      example, Speaking up to a psychiatrist about the negative side effects of a medication or
      reaching out to a friend for support after returning from a hospitalization.

      Weekly "missions" (i.e., home practice activities) are administered following each session to
      build on group content and help participants fight back against self-stigmatizing thoughts
      and attitudes in everyday contexts.
    
  