
    
      American Indians are at high risk for developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and its
      complications. Major factors responsible for this finding include obesity and intrauterine
      exposure to diabetes; the latter increases the risk of diabetes in the offspring particularly
      during childhood and adolescence. This study is designed to evaluate the feasibility of
      conducting an intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) in adult (age greater than or equal to
      18 years) pregnant women of any race or ethnicity who are eligible for prenatal care at
      Phoenix Indian Medical Center (PIMC). Most of these women or their fetuses will be of
      American Indian heritage. Interventions will be provided to overweight and obese pregnant
      women who may have diabetes, develop gestational diabetes (GDM), or be at high risk of
      developing diabetes. We will evaluate our ability to maintain engagement and motivate
      adoption of a healthy diet and increased physical activity. The lifestyle intervention will
      be patterned after the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) that prevented or delayed the onset
      of diabetes in non pregnant adults; the interventions will be modified to be appropriate in
      pregnancy. A major modification will be to encourage managed weight gain instead of weight
      loss. For women who have or develop diabetes, interventions will include coaching to optimize
      glycemic control. In this protocol, we will seek to identify strategies that can successfully
      accomplish these goals. Results from this study will permit us to formulate appropriate
      intervention strategies for a large randomized clinical study to evaluate the impact of an
      intensive lifestyle intervention on pregnant women and their offspring.

      The project will be conducted in collaboration between the nurse midwifery and obstetrics
      services at Phoenix Indian Medical Center (PIMC) and the National Institute of Diabetes and
      Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). Important feasibility measures include evaluating our
      ability to enroll and retain pregnant women in a lifestyle intervention program and collect
      serial measures of gestational weight and glucose, objective measures of physical activity,
      and nutritional questionnaires.
    
  