
    
      Vesicovaginal fistula (VVF) is a debilitating maternal morbidity that largely results from
      complications of prolonged, obstructed labor when the trapped fetal head applies direct
      pressure to pelvic/vaginal tissues and causes widespread ischemia, tissue necrosis, and
      subsequent extensive fistula formation. Women living with VVF, the most common anatomical
      presentation of obstetric fistula, experience urinary incontinence which causes discomfort,
      malodor, and skin infection, as well as social and psychological consequences that increase
      their vulnerability to the negative effects of stigma and reduce their quality of life.

      Traditional management requires surgical repair; however, many women either do not have
      access to surgery, or access is delayed due to various individual, social, or structural
      barriers. Non-surgical management, previously explored with non-invasive techniques for
      residual urinary incontinence, has been under-examined for fistula-related urinary
      incontinence. The menstrual cup may be a useful option for non-surgical management of
      obstetric fistula. Clinical and programmatic reports suggest a potential translation of the
      menstrual cup for collection or control of urine leakage in women with VVF; however, evidence
      has not been collected and examined systematically within a population in an endemic setting.

      While surgical management of fistula remains the gold standard in treatment, research on
      non-surgical therapies is necessary.Therefore, this study aims to assess the feasibility
      (including efficacy, safety, and acceptability among users) of using the menstrual cup over a
      short period among women seeking care for VVF in a clinical setting and, unlike prior
      reports, includes standardized measures of leakage and prioritizes user perspectives.

      A repeated measures design compared volume of leakage with the and without the cup to
      baseline leakage via a 2-hr pad test among women with VVF seeking surgical repair at a health
      facility in Ghana. A questionnaire was later administered followed by a physical exam. A
      paired t-test was used to analyze effect.

      Beginning October 2018, semi-structured interviews with up to 24 women seeking treatment at a
      health facility in Ghana will be carried out on women's experience with fistula, including
      strategies for coping with urinary incontinence and resulting stigma, as well as their
      acceptability to the insertable device. This mixed methods approach is necessary to compare
      quantitative results and qualitative findings regarding what women are already doing to cope
      with incontinence and stigma, and their acceptability to this device to manage leaking and
      support coping.
    
  