
    
      Complications like bacterial wound colonization and infections in wound treatment are still a
      serious problem. Several therapy approaches are available to treat these complications, e.g.
      surgical wound debridement, antimicrobial therapy that can be divided into a local and a
      systemic antisepsis.

      The local antisepsis (the local utilization of antiseptics directly to the wound) is in many
      ways advantageous to the systemic antisepsis (orally or intravenously administered
      antibiotics): e. g. the direct contact of the antiseptic to the bacteria at the site of
      infection whereas antibiotics may not sufficiently reach the wound due to limited blood
      perfusion of wounds; growing utilization of systemic antisepsis also leads to an increasing
      number of resistant bacteria worldwide. To the concerns of many specialists, the first
      pan-resistant bacterial strain which is resistant to all available antibiotics including
      colistin was recently published.

      In future, the role of local antisepsis therefore becomes more important in the antimicrobial
      treatment. Luckily, resistances of local antiseptics occur slowly due to the chemical and
      structural characteristics of antiseptics but even resistances of bacteria to antiseptics
      were reported. Unlike the antimicrobial resistance testing for antibiotics that is done in
      the clinical routine, such testing is not a standard procedure for antiseptics for no obvious
      reason. The utilization of antiseptics is determined by the availability of products provided
      within the institution and preferences of the clinician. Thus, it is unknown whether the
      chosen antiseptic has any bactericidal effect on the confirmed bacteria.

      University Hospital RWTH Aachen Wound Care only uses polyhexanide and octenisept.
      Iodine-containing preparations are explicitly not desired.Improvement (bacteria reduction,
      acceleration of wound healing) of the local antiseptic therapy by adapting the antiseptic to
      the results of antimicrobial resistance testing. Antimicrobial resistance testing has so far
      only been used to adapt systemic antibiotic therapy.
    
  