
    
      -  Retrospective study was conducted on patients diagnosed with cancer receiving
           chemotherapy or radiotherapy to evaluate the relation between cancer or cancer therapies
           and ischemic stroke development.

        -  Patients had been recruited from the oncology center, nuclear medicine department and
           neurology department in Mansoura University and private centers.

      After obtaining informed consent, patients are subjected to the following:

        1. Detailed History taking of previous cerebrovascular insults and cancer diagnosis onset
           and therapies.

        2. Determination of major cerebrovascular risk factors as :

             -  Hypertension: which is diagnosed when a patient had received antihypertensive
                treatment or when hypertension is diagnosed during the hospital stay by repeated
                detection of blood pressure of 140/90 mm Hg .

             -  Diabetes mellitus (DM): diagnosis based on history of DM with or without current
                treatment or random blood glucose is 200mg/dl or higher.

             -  Hypercholesterolemia: diagnosis based on history of hypercholesterolemia with
                current treatment or serum cholesterol level >220mg/dl.

             -  Smoking: is coded when the patient is a current smoker or an ex-smoker within 5
                years.

             -  Cardiac abnormality

        3. Physical and neurological examination.

        4. Investigations:

             -  Laboratory investigations as complete blood count, lipid profile, coagulation
                profile, CRP , D dimer .

             -  Radiological investigations: MRI brain to detect vascular abnormalities that may be
                associated with cancer such as: lacunar infarction , white matter changes and
                microbleeds.

        5. For all patients in the prospective group the duration and type of chemotherapy, dose of
           radiotherapy was recorded.
    
  