
    
      Percutaneous stent implantation has revolutionized the revascularization procedure for
      patients with obstructive coronary disease and angina. The major risk of coronary stenting,
      both during and after the procedure, is clot formation (thrombosis) which often leads to
      significant heart muscle damage. The standard medical practice for patients undergoing
      coronary stenting is the use of antiplatelet (plavix, aspirin) and anticoagulant (blood
      thinner) therapy. The results from our recently completed CLEAR PLATELETS I study showed that
      the addition of eptifibatide (a potent antiplatelet agent) to current therapy resulted in
      superior reduction in clot formation, inflammation and heart damage after elective coronary
      intervention. Recent studies have also suggested the drug bivalirudin to be a safer and more
      effective therapy compared to heparin, the current anticoagulant agent of choice. It has been
      hypothesized that bivalirudin acts not only as an anticoagulant but also as an antiplatelet
      agent, making the use of eptifibatide in current coronary therapy unwarranted. In the CLEAR
      PLATELET II study, we will compare levels of clot formation (platelet aggregation), markers
      of heart muscle damage, and inflammation in two groups. The first group will be on a regimen
      of high-dose clopidogrel used in combination with bivalirudin plus eptifibatide, and the
      second group will be on a regimen of high-dose clopidogrel with bivalirudin alone. The
      antiplatelet/antithrombotic effect that bivalirudin has in combination with these current
      therapies is unknown; therefore we hope to see the effect that bivalirudin has on arresting
      platelet formation with and without eptifibatide.

      This research will be done at Sinai Hospital of Baltimore with Paul Gurbel M.D. as the
      principal investigator. It will include 200 patients who will be randomized equally between
      groups.

      Clopidogrel (600 mg) + eptifibatide + bivalirudin Clopidogrel (600 mg) + bivalirudin

      All patients will receive treatment with clopidogrel in the cath lab immediately after
      successful stenting. All patients post-stenting will receive standard antiplatelet treatment
      (75mg Plavix and 325 mg aspirin). Patients will have serial assessment of platelet
      reactivity, myocardial necrosis markers, and inflammatory markers (3 tablespoons of blood per
      time point) at baseline, 2 hours, 8 hours, and 18- 24 hours post-stenting. All blood work
      will be processed at the Sinai Center for Thrombosis Research. Clinical outcomes will be
      recorded using a standard case report form. Patients will be followed up at 30 days and 1
      year by telephone to assess for adverse events.
    
  