
    
      All patients consented will be randomly assigned into one of three groups: nasal cannula
      (control group, our current standard of care), high-flow nasal cannula, high-flow nasal
      cannula plus noninvasive ventilation.

      After obtaining consent, patient will be randomized to interventions 1:1:1 within each of two
      groups: patients admitted to the ICU without being intubated OR intubated patients undergoing
      an extubation.

      Randomization will be managed through RedCap. After consent, the treating clinician will log
      into RedCap to obtain the patient's treating assignment.

      The primary outcome of interest is failure of conservative ventilation intervention in
      prevention of initial intubation or prevention of reintubation.

      A chart review of all enrolled patients will be done quarterly to assess morbidity,
      mortality, and outcomes.

      No placebo will be used as all qualifying patients will be placed on nasal cannula, high-flow
      nasal cannula, or high-flow nasal cannula plus noninvasive ventilation. All other treatments
      will be standard of care.

      Participants in the study will continue until the patient is discharged from the trauma ICU.

      The study will end when the last person enrolled has been discharged from the trauma ICU. If
      patient's participation ends prematurely, available data will be entered into the database
      and evaluated appropriately.

      This study will take place at the OU Medical Center (OUMC) among patients admitted to the
      Trauma Intensive Care Unit.

      Consent for study enrollment will take place at OUMC during discussion with physician
      providing trauma care and the patient, family member, or next of kin consenting for the
      study.

      The following data will be collected and recorded: Supplemental oxygen requirements,
      Date/Time of arrival, Date/Time of Admission to ICU, Date/Time of intubation procedure,
      Date/Time of extubation, Ventilator settings, Duration of intubation, Comorbidities, PaCO2
      values, PaO2 values, Vital signs at arrival and at admission to ICU, Age,Gender, Weight,
      Height, BMI, Traumatic injuries, Diagnosis, Past medical history/medical co-morbidities,
      Glasgow coma scale, Oxygen saturation, Negative inspiratory force score, Rapid shallow
      breathing index score, Pulmonary treatments, including an intolerance to therapy, Injury
      Severity Score (ISS) and/or Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS).
    
  