
    
      The prognosis of patients with TTC is believed to be favorable. This assumption is mainly
      based on the observations of a rapid recovery of global left ventricular function and low
      cardiac in-hospital mortality. In fact, the clinical course following TTC events after
      hospital discharge is largely unknown due to a lack of large prospective long-term follow-up
      studies and inconsistent and limited findings from available studies to date.

      The TTAC registry represents the first attempt to initiate an international registry with
      special focus on comorbidities, particularly malignancies, in patients with TTC to further
      elucidate the relationship between these diseases. In addition, the TTAC registry will enable
      documenting the exact underlying causes of death and long-term prognosis of patients with TTC
      and to identify possible predictors of short and long-term mortality in these patients.

      The first objective of this prospective, multicenter, observational registry is to evaluate
      the prevalence and incidence of cancer in patients with TTC.

      The second objective is to document the underlying causes of death during hospital stay and
      follow-up and to determine the long-term prognosis of patients with TTC.

      The third objective is to identify possible predictors of short and long-term mortality in
      patients with TTC.

      Available information is collected from subjects being treated according to routine clinical
      practice. In addition, during the index hospitalization, each subject is screened for occult
      cancer disease. During follow-up, cancer screening will be performed according to appropriate
      legal preventive examinations.

      Subjects will be followed at 6 months and annually after the index event for up to 5 years by
      phone call, office visit, or by contacts with primary physicians or referring cardiologists,
      according to each investigator's preference.

      As regulated by data protection and privacy laws and in accordance with local ethics
      committee requirements, subjects will be informed and requested to grant their approval after
      the index procedure (= cardiac catheterization for suspected acute coronary syndrome) to
      review their medical records and collect and analyze personal medical information. The
      confidentiality of the records will be maintained at all times. Subjects will be asked to
      agree to perform a cancer screening during index hospitalization and will also be asked to
      agree to be contacted during the 5-year follow-up period.

      Patients in whom TTC was diagnosed will be informed and requested to grant their approval to
      review their medical records, to collect and analyze personal medical information, while
      maintaining the confidentiality of the records at all times. Subjects will be asked to agree
      to perform a cancer screening during index hospitalization and will also be asked to agree to
      be contacted during the 5-year follow-up period. Informed consent will be requested after the
      index procedure (= cardiac catheterization for suspected acute coronary syndrome proving
      presence of TTC) and the informed consent form (ICF) has to be signed prior to entering
      subject's data in the database or prior to any follow-up contact, whichever occurs first.

      The investigator and/or designee must clearly document the process of obtaining informed
      consent in the subject's source documents. The voluntary process of obtaining informed
      consent confirms the subject's willingness to participate in the registry. It is the
      investigator's responsibility to ensure that the informed consent process is performed in
      accordance with Good Epidemiological Practice (GEP) - IEA Guidelines for proper conduct of
      epidemiological research and where applicable country regulations.

      Subjects will be followed at 6 months and annually after the index event for up to 5 years by
      phone calls, office visits, or by contacts with general practitioners or referring
      cardiologists, according to each investigator's preference.
    
  