
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the cumulative 5-year incidence rate of HPV-related malignancies,
      oropharyngeal, anal, and penile cancer, in men aged 50-64 who test serologically positive for
      antibodies to HPV 16 E antigens.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the association of persistent oral HPV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and
      subsequent diagnosis of oropharyngeal cancer.

      II. To estimate the prevalence of serological antibodies to HPV E antigens in men aged 50-64.

      III. To investigate behavioral risk factors for HPV-related malignancies in men.

      IV. To compare the incidence rates of HPV-related malignancies, oropharyngeal, anal, and
      penile cancer, between the matched HPV serologically positive and negative men.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the performance of serological testing of HPV, when used for screening men for
      HPV-related malignancies.

      II. To evaluate the feasibility and performance of narrow band imaging to diagnose
      oropharyngeal cancer.

      III. To evaluate the feasibility and performance of transcervical ultrasonography of the neck
      lymph nodes and oropharynx for early diagnosis of oropharyngeal cancer.

      IV. To evaluate the performance of anoscopy and HPV/cytology testing of anal swab (anal
      Papanicolaou [Pap]) to diagnose anal cancer.

      V. To determine the feasibility of nucleic acid-based techniques (circulating HPV16 DNA
      [cvDNA] in serum as well as oral HPV16 DNA and integrated HPV16 DNA in oral rinse and swabs)
      to refine high-risk group selection for screening and to facilitate oropharyngeal
      localization of cancers and pre-cancers within a group undergoing screening.

      VI. To evaluate T cell response to E2, E6, and E7 antigens as a diagnostic biomarker for
      HPV-related cancer.

      VII. To evaluate the association between oral HPV16 infection and the oral microbiota as well
      as factors that modify any such association.

      OUTLINE:

      STAGE I: Participants undergo collection of blood and oral gargle samples.

      STAGE II: Participants complete a head and neck exam by using brushing of the oropharyngeal
      mucosa, a thorough oropharyngeal exam including narrow band imaging, undergo collection of
      oral gargle sample, transcervical ultrasonography of the neck lymph nodes and oropharynx,
      anoscopy, and complete Papanicolaou/HPV testing. Participants undergo repeat oropharyngeal
      screening, oral HPV DNA test, oral HPV integration testing, and ultrasound once every 6
      months for 5 years. Participants also undergo collection of blood.
    
  