
    
      This will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center, multi-national,
      escalating dose, pilot study comparing two doses of THR-18 (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) to placebo
      when administered to patients suffering acute ischemic stroke and treated with Tissue
      Plasminogen Activator (tPA).

      A total of 22 subjects suffering from acute ischemic stroke that are eligible for tPA
      treatment will be recruited into the study. Eligible for recruitment are patients with an
      entry National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score of 5-18 and a clinical
      syndrome that includes at least 1 of the following: language dysfunction, visual field defect
      or neglect (specifically, at least 1 point on NIHSS items 3 or 9 or 11). Alternatively,
      patients without at least 1 point on NIHSS items 3, 9 or 11 may be enrolled if routine
      diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography perfusion scan
      (CT) indicates that the acute stroke involves the cerebral cortex, and as long as the overall
      acute neurological deficit is within the range of 5-18 NIHSS points.

      Stroke onset will be defined as the time the patient was last known to be without a new
      clinical deficit. Patients whose symptoms started more than 3 hours before presentation are
      not eligible for the study. If the stroke started during sleep, stroke onset will be recorded
      as the time the patient was last known to be normal.

      Patients will be recruited after obtaining informed consent. Female subjects of childbearing
      potential (less than 2 years' postmenopausal or not surgically sterilized) will have a urine
      pregnancy test at baseline and will be required to use adequate and effective birth control
      measures for the duration of the trial. Effective birth control measures include hormonal
      contraception, a barrier method such as a diaphragm, intrauterine device (IUD) and/or condom
      with spermicide (IUD, diaphragm, condoms alone or the rhythm method are not considered
      reliable methods).

      Patients will be randomized to receive either 0.25 or 0.5 mg/kg of THR-18 or placebo in an
      escalating manner. tPA should be administered as 0.9 mg/kg (10% of the total dose as an Intra
      Venous(IV) bolus and the reminder infused IV over 60 minutes). THR-18 bolus should be given
      immediately prior to the tPA bolus, and the 60 min infusion of both THR-18 and tPA will be
      done in parallel.
    
  