
    
      The liver has a central role in maintaining glucose homeostasis. During periods following
      food intake the liver stores glucose whilst during fasting periods it produces and releases
      glucose into the circulation. These key regulatory features prevent hyperglycaemia after
      meals via increase in hepatic glucose uptake and prevent hypoglycaemia during food
      deprivation via hepatic glucose output. Although the exact numbers are unknown, it is
      suggested that approximately 25%-30% of an oral glucose load are taken up by the liver. Since
      hepatic glucose uptake is closely linked with hepatic glycogen synthesis, the fraction of an
      oral glucose load that is converted to glycogen is similar or somewhat less. Other pathways
      downstream of hepatic glucose uptake are the conversion to lactate, oxidation to carbon
      dioxide (CO2) or synthesis of fatty acids. Glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis contribute to
      hepatic glucose output, in yet unknown proportions. Key regulators of hepatic glucose
      metabolism act through diverse mechanisms. Hepatic glucose uptake is mainly regulated by the
      level of insulin, the rate of glucose appearance in the portal vein, the portal-peripheral
      glucose and insulin gradient and neuronal signalling1. Hepatic glucose production is
      regulated by the provision of substrates such as lactate and glycerol, allosteric control by
      metabolites such as glucose, and balance of hormones such as insulin, glucagon and
      catecholamines. An imbalance between hepatic glucose uptake and hepatic glucose output
      results in dysglycaemia which can be both hyper- or hypoglycaemia.

      Hepatic glucose metabolism is dysregulated in a broad spectrum of diseases. Prime examples
      are type 1 and type 2 diabetes in which altered hepatic glucose handling contributes to
      hyperglycaemia, although via distinct mechanisms. Whereas in type 2 diabetes, insulin
      resistance and hence impaired suppression of hepatic glucose output is the key
      pathophysiological feature, lack of the portal-peripheral insulin gradient (insulin levels
      normally threefold higher in portal vein than in arterial blood due to drainage of secreted
      endogenous insulin into the portal vein) seems to be more relevant in type 1 diabetes. In the
      latter case absolute insulin deficiency and hence coverage of total insulin requirements by
      the exogenous subcutaneous route generates a very different vascular insulin profile compared
      with endogenously secreted insulin. Experiments in conscious dogs showed that glucose uptake
      is equally divided between the liver and muscle when insulin is infused via the portal vein,
      but when insulin is delivered peripherally the percentage of glucose taken up by the liver is
      less than half of normal. These findings suggest that peripherally delivered insulin cannot
      replicate the physiologic regulation of postprandial hepatic glucose uptake, but direct
      evidence in humans is currently lacking.

      Another condition that is characterised by an altered portal milieu are patients having
      undergone bariatric surgery. The re-arrangement of the gastrointestinal tract substantially
      alters the portal milieu by accelerated glucose fluxes and higher and earlier gut peptide
      hormone patterns. The two most commonly performed bariatric surgery procedures, namely
      Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, which re-routes the small intestine to a small stomach pouch, and
      sleeve gastrectomy, which reduces the stomach to about 15% of its original size,
      significantly accelerate glucose absorption. It was recently demonstrated that this effects
      is more pronounced after Roux-en-Y-gastric bypass than sleeve gastrectomy. Accelerated
      glucose absorption leads to higher glucose concentrations in the portal vein. Of note, animal
      experiments using portal vein catheterization showed that under elevated glucose levels in
      the portal vein promote hepatic glucose uptake, however direct evidence in post-bariatric
      surgery patients is lacking.

      Organ-specific substrate exchanges (uptake and output) can be best studied by measuring
      arterio-venous substrate concentration difference and organ blood supply. The additional use
      of isotopically labelled substrates further allows calculating intra-organ turnover rate.
      Although invasive, this method can be applied for most organs or tissue, such as the kidney,
      heart, brain or whole limbs. The liver's anatomical location and connection to the portal
      circulation makes the the calculation of arterio-venous-substrate gradient in humans
      particularly challenging, however. Surgical catheterization of the portal vein in humans is
      not possible for practical and ethical reasons. As a consequence, current non-invasive
      approaches in humans rely on the use of stable isotopes and can only provide an estimate of
      splanchnic glucose uptake (sum of liver and intestinal glucose utilisation) but do not allow
      for the quantification of hepatic glucose uptake.

      Since it is generally assumed that the liver is the sole source of glucose production (an
      assumption essentially verified in normal condition, since the kidney appears to contribute
      less than 10% total glucose output), a simplified tracer approach with analysis of the
      systemic dilution of infused labelled glucose can reliably estimate hepatic (endogenous)
      glucose output. However, such isotope dilution cannot estimate hepatic glucose uptake, which
      has essentially been indirectly assessed in multiple (oral+iv) glucose tracers experiment and
      calculation of the systemic appearance of ingested labelled glucose. These measurements are
      however tightly dependent on the mathematical model used and hence remain semiquantitative.
      Furthermore, they do not allow to differentiate gut and hepatic glucose uptake.

      Thus, the only way to directly assess hepatic glucose uptake is through highly invasive
      portal vein catheterization which requires animal models. Such models can simulate
      postprandial hepatic glucose handling but applicability to humans are limited. Current
      concepts of hepatic glucose uptake under different conditions mainly stem from animal
      experiments in which overnight fasted conscious dogs underwent portal vein catheterization.

      From the above mentioned dilemma it follows that obtaining quantitative data on hepatic
      glucose uptake in humans requires a non-invasive approach such as imaging. Positron emission
      tomography (PET) scanning with the tracer fluorine-18 (F-18) fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), called
      FDG-PET enables direct observation of tissue glucose uptake by quantifying radioactivity over
      time in vivo. Some researchers have thus suggested to use FDG-PET to study human glucose
      metabolism. However, FDG-PET confers the major downside of exposing individuals to remarkable
      amounts of radiation, a risk that is not considered justified for research purposes only. In
      addition FDG-PET does not inform on metabolism downstream of glucose uptake and the
      intravenous administration route of the radioactive glucose is not reflective of normal
      physiology.

      Clearly, there is a demand for a non-invasive, non-radioactive and easily applicable approach
      to investigate human hepatic glucose metabolism including the quantification of hepatic
      glucose uptake. Deuterium metabolic imaging is a novel, non-invasive imaging approach that
      combines deuterium magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging with oral intake or intravenous
      infusion of nonradioactive 2H-labeled substrates to generate three-dimensional metabolic
      maps. Deuterium metabolic imaging can reveal glucose metabolism beyond mere uptake and can be
      used with other Deuterium (2H)-labeled substrates as well. It has recently been demonstrated
      by De Feyter et al. that deuterium metabolic imaging allows mapping of glucose metabolism in
      the brain and liver of animal models and human subjects using 6,6-2H2-glucose. Deuterium
      metabolic imaging is a promising, non-invasive and easy-to-implement imaging technique that
      opens new avenues to address important knowledge gaps such as the extent and dynamics of
      postprandial hepatic glucose uptake and utilisation.
    
  