
    
      Cardiovascular Diseases (CVD) affects as many lives each year as cancer, chronic lower
      respiratory diseases, accidents and diabetes mellitus combined. One in three American adults
      (about 80,000,000) has one or more types of cardiovascular disease. Prevention and management
      of CVD is a public health goal, yet, it remains a major challenge. Even hypertension, which
      is easily detected and usually controllable, has only a 50 percent control rate.

      Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) is one type of CVD, which affects about eight million
      Americans and is also associated with significant morbidity and mortality. PAD increases with
      age and disproportionately affects African Americans. Interestingly, despite its prevalence
      and cardiovascular risk implications, only 20 to 30 percent of PAD patients are undergoing
      treatment.

      Medical management of these diseases has substantially contributed to improved morbidity and
      mortality. However, for the medical therapies to be successful the patients need to take
      their medications and adjust their lifestyles, as prescribed. Overall, "typical adherence
      rates for the general population are about 50 percent for medications and are much lower for
      lifestyle prescriptions and other more behaviorally demanding regimens". Few studies have
      investigated the reactions and thoughts regarding the efficacy of therapies/interventions
      from the perspective of the participants. Meta analyses on adherence have also revealed that
      the patients' perspectives are often absent and that present adherence theories are more
      successful in explaining non-adherence than improving adherence. Therefore, it is important
      to understand, from the perspective of the patient; the factors they believe improve their
      cardiac outcomes with an emphasis on the adherence to prescribed therapies.

      This qualitative study will investigate the question: What are patients' perspectives of
      factors that support the management of their cardiovascular condition to improve outcomes in
      a Peripheral Arterial Disease population? Cardiac outcomes of interest are health status
      defined by symptom burden, functional status, and health related quality of life, patients'
      perception of the quality of care that they receive, and the experience of living with PAD.
    
  