
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that
      affects approximately 400,000 persons in the United States, and 1,200,000 persons between 16
      and 65 years of age worldwide. It is a neurodegenerative pathology which can be characterized
      by a course of demyelination-mediated relapses and remissions, superimposed upon gradual
      neurologic deterioration, resulting in a clinical course that is unpredictable in its
      progression and severity. The pathophysiology associated with MS is the slowing or stopping
      of saltatory conduction of action potentials along myelinated axons in the CNS. This results
      in a clinical presentation that is varied and unpredictable in age of onset, disease
      progression, and the signs and symptoms experienced by each person with MS (PWMS).

      Individuals with Multiple Sclerosis have a variety of symptoms before and after diagnosis.
      Common symptoms include double vision, partial loss of vision, numbness or weakness of the
      limbs, fatigue, depression, cognitive dysfunction, dizziness, tremor, decreased coordination,
      and unsteady gait. Many symptoms of MS are associated with increased fall risk similar to
      that found in older individuals.

      The purpose of this study is to use and compare two different interventions in people with MS
      in a community setting. The first intervention is an assisted personal training program
      offered in a community setting to improve functional limitations and reduce risk for falls in
      people with MS. This exercise program will be provided by personal trainers educated in
      exercise training in people with MS. The personal training program is an ongoing program
      supported by the National MS Society. The second intervention is the use of Whole Body
      Vibration (WBV) platforms to improve gait ability and improve balance in people with MS.

      Assisted personal training, circuit training has limited research in people with MS. This
      method of exercise is similar to exercise healthy individuals would complete in a fitness
      center setting with guidance from a personal trainer. In this study, the personal training
      program will be provided by educated personal trainers. These personal trainers completed a
      24 hour continuing education course on exercise in people with neurodegenerative diseases.
      The facility, MindSet Charities has a strong ongoing personal training program for people
      with MS, and this program is supported by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society (NMSS). The
      individuals with MS attend 2 personal training sessions each week. The effectiveness of this
      type of program has not been studied to date.

      There is a desire to improve training options to increase endurance, gait ability, and
      balance in people with MS. In the past decade whole body vibration has been studied in
      athletes, older individuals, people with chronic stroke, people with Parkinson Disease, and
      there are a few studies in people with MS. During WBV training, individuals stand on the
      platform and complete a series of exercises designed to improve gait ability and balance. The
      vertical vibrations during the session are thought to cause muscle contractions initiated by
      sensory receptors and reduce the recruitment threshold of motor units possibly resulting in
      increased activation of high threshold fast twitch muscle fibers.

      Hypothesis:1. Individuals with MS who participate in either a personal training class or a
      WBV exercise protocol will have improvements in gait, balance, endurance, fatigue, and
      quality of life (QOL). 2. Individuals in the WBV training group will have a greater
      improvement in strength.
    
  