
    
      Metabolic disease, including type 2 diabetes (T2D) and pre-diabetes is a significant health
      issue globally, particularly in the Hispanic population. The impact of this disease on
      morbidity and mortality is unquestionable, as it is associated with various aspects of neural
      and cardiovascular disease. The incidence of T2D is continually increasing, which threatens
      the health of future generations and poses a significant financial burden to the health care
      system. Early detection of "at-risk" patients could lead to more targeted treatments and
      improved outcomes.

      The oral glucose tolerance test (GTT) is the gold standard for assessing pre-diabetes, and is
      used world-wide. Recent work has uncovered an important finding demonstrating that
      hyperglycemia from the GTT causes acute microvascular insulin resistance of skeletal muscle
      in healthy Caucasians, even with normal insulin response and blood glucose. It is likely that
      the GTT causes acute glucotoxicity which impairs normal vascular function. These findings
      have a significant clinical impact as they imply that the GTT does not have the sensitivity
      to identify people with vascular-derived insulin resistance, one of the earliest events in
      the development of T2D. Therefore, people with vascular-derived insulin resistance cannot be
      identified or diagnosed with the GTT.

      An alternative test exists that has greater sensitivity to identify vascular-derived
      pre-diabetes than the GTT or by measuring HbA1c levels in otherwise healthy Caucasians. Using
      a mixed meal challenge (MMC - liquid drink comprising carbohydrate, protein and lipid) in
      combination with specific microvascular blood flow (MBF) and metabolic tests, MBF and
      metabolic abnormalities can be detected with greater sensitivity than traditional testing.
      However, no work in this area has been conducted in the Hispanic population. Therefore, it is
      important to determine if, like Caucasians, Hispanics display microvascular insulin
      resistance as the first step towards developing pre-diabetes.

      Respiratory exchange ratio (RER) is a non-invasive test for measuring whole body fuel
      (carbohydrate or fat) utilization by measuring the amount of CO2 expired and the amount of O2
      consumed. The ratio of these gases (or RER) gives an indication of whether a person is
      burning predominately fat (RER = 0.7) or carbohydrate (RER = 1.0). RER in healthy people
      under fasting conditions is typically ~0.75. Metabolic flexibility is the ability to switch
      from fat oxidation during fasting conditions to carbohydrate oxidation.

      There are preliminary data showing that healthy people, who have normal glucose responses to
      an GTT and normal HbA1c levels , but are metabolically inflexible (MI) have a higher blood
      glucose excursion post-MMC when compared those who are metabolically flexible (MF) despite a
      similar plasma insulin excursion. Importantly, healthy MI have lower muscle microvascular
      perfusion post-MMC when compared to MF.

      Also, the MMC distinguishes differences in carbohydrate use between these groups. The healthy
      MI population had a delayed switch from utilising fat to carbohydrate despite having a
      similar fasting respiratory exchange ratio (RER, ~0.77). This inability to switch to
      carbohydrate oxidation is more pronounced when expressed as the change in the RER area under
      the curve (AUC).

      Thus, the lack of microvascular blood flow in skeletal muscle in the MI in response to the
      MMC is linked to the delayed ability to metabolize glucose (or carbohydrate), but not with
      changes in blood glucose levels. Therefore, the MMC is an alternative and more sensitive test
      for detecting early stages of microvascular insulin resistance that would otherwise go
      undetected with the GTT. However, the lack of correlation between impaired MBF in skeletal
      muscle during the GTT and blood glucose in some people suggest an alternate destination for
      glucose delivery, such as liver.

      In addition, there are several genes that are associated with metabolic disease in adults and
      children. Lipid infusion is known to acutely impair MBF. As such, SNPs regulating lipid
      transport and storage are also likely to impact local MBF, though thus far remain untested.
      Therefore, in addition to the gold-standard MBF and metabolic assessments, genetic analysis
      of targeted SNPs known to affect lipid transport and storage. Cardiometabolic and genetic
      data will be correlated with additional lifestyle and physiological factors using
      non-invasive techniques to assess: a) habitual physical activity levels, b) central blood
      pressure and arterial stiffness, and c) skeletal muscle fiber type. These data will help
      explain mechanisms whereby specific genes and lifestyle combine to affect early
      pathophysiology of vascular-derived insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome.
    
  