
    
      Subjects Subjects with balance disorder related to a first hemispheric stroke, or vestibular
      trouble, or neuropathy and or aging

      Apparatus Balance evaluation Subjects stand barefoot on a force platform (FeeTest
      Technoconcept®) consisting of two separate aluminium plates, distant of 12 cm, each placed on
      2 force transducers that recorded the vertical ground reaction forces. The position of the
      center of pression (COP) was calculated from the ground reaction force. The data are
      collected with a sampling frequency of 40 Hz.

      Sensory disturbance Sensory information (vision, proprioception and vestibular information)
      are successively disturbed. For each sensory information, different perturbations are tested
      in order to induce a sway in a determined direction (anterior, posterior, right and left).

      Vision is disturbed by an optokinetic stimulation in a dark room, an optokinetic bowl
      (OPTOTEST, Technconcept®) placed behind the subject projecting moving luminous dots on the
      wall in front of the subject at the speed of 60/°s. The subjects are instructed to stare
      straight ahead at the stimulus pattern without attempting to follow the moving dots. Four
      trials are conducted for the visual stimulation in which the direction of the stimulus
      pattern differs: the direction of the displacement of the luminous dots is first top to
      bottom up, then bottom to top down, right to left and finally left to right.

      Proprioceptive information is disturbed by a vibratory stimulation: vibration is delivered by
      two mechanical vibrators (VB 115, TECHNOCONCEPT ®). The vibration is of 1mm amplitude and the
      frequency is 50 Hz. Vibratory stimulation is first applied on the muscle tendon of the
      triceps sural, afterwards on the tendon of the tibialis anterior.

      Then lateral stimulation is applied with a frequency of 90 Hz on the gluteus medius.

      Vestibular information Is disturbed by a galvanic stimulation: a binaural galvanic
      stimulation of 2 mA is applied using a constant current stimulator (World Precision
      Instruments®). Surface electrodes are placed over the mastoid processes. Four conditions are
      tested: cathode placed on the right mastoid process then on the left mastoid process with the
      head looking straight ahead ; cathode placed on the side of the cerebral lesion (or on the
      right side for the healthy subjects), and head turned to the right then the left.

      Procedure Each trial begins with a 15 second baseline period without stimulation, followed by
      a 35 second period of stimulation and a final 20 second period of observation without
      stimulation.

      Subjects are asked to stand as steel as possible with their arms along the body looking
      straight ahead (except for the last two trials of the galvanic stimulation where the head is
      tilted). A trial without stimulation is registered in order to use the subject to the
      procedure and for each condition sensory perturbation is tested by the subject before
      starting the recording.

      The subjects are tested as soon as possible after the onset of their disease and are retested
      4 to 6 weeks later as they completed rehabilitation program.

      Healthy subjects are also tested. Data analyzed For each sensory perturbation, we analyze two
      characteristics of the behavior of the subjects during the stimulation: the displacement
      induced by the stimulation and the intensity of sway during the stimulation ·Because the
      position of all the subjects can not be rigorously identical among all the subjects, the
      displacement induced by the stimulation is calculated by the mean of the displacement (in
      millimeters)(MD) of the COP (15 to 50 seconds) in the plane of the attended effect (for
      example anterior-posterior for a triceps sural trial and lateral for an optokinetic trial
      from the right to the left) minus the mean position of the CoP during the prestimulation
      period (2 to 13 seconds). A sensorial score is obtained in each direction for the successive
      sensory stimulation. From these values, and for each sensory perturbation (visual,
      proprioceptive and vestibular) a composite score is calculated as the mean of all the trials
      done for one sensorial stimulation. Thus, we obtain three scores: a visual composite score, a
      proprioceptive composite score and a vestibular composite score.

      The number of falls induced by the stimulations is also registered.

      ·The intensity of sway during the stimulation is evaluated by a fast fourier transform
      Statistical analysis The reproducibility of our test is assessed by the intra-class
      correlation coefficient (ICC). Reproducibility is considered as correct if the ICC is
      superior at 0.6 and excellent if superior at 0.8.

      Descriptive data are reported as means with the (standard deviation) SDs. Correlation between
      the force platform values and the subjects characteristics are evaluated by non parametric
      statistics: Wilcoxon signed-rank test, Mann-Whitney test and Kruskal-Wallis test. P values
      are chosen at 0.05.
    
  