
    
      Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has tremendous potential to prevent HIV-associated morbidity,
      mortality and transmission. With reliable ART supply and monitoring, the life expectancy of
      HIV-positive persons in southern Africa is comparable to that of HIV-negative persons.
      However, HIV-associated mortality continues to be high among HIV-positive persons not
      diagnosed and not engaged in care. Of the 35 million persons worldwide who meet WHO (World
      Health Organization) guidelines for ART, only 15 million are on ART. For already burdened
      health care systems faced with more than doubling of persons on ART, effective and efficient
      ART initiation and monitoring strategies are needed. First line ART regimens are once daily
      oral regimens and well-tolerated, which increases the simplicity of ART delivery in general,
      including community-based ART delivery a feasible alternative to clinic-based delivery. A
      priority for optimization of ART delivery is to directly compare and evaluate the impact and
      cost of community-based ART initiation and resupply to clinic delivery of ART in high
      prevalence settings in Africa, in order to expand capacity to provide ART coverage.

      The investigators have extensive experience with community-based strategies for HIV testing
      and linkage to care. In a series of studies, the investigators have demonstrated that
      community-based HIV testing and counseling (HTC) results in >90% knowledge of serostatus and
      similarly high linkage rates for HIV-positive persons to HIV care. However, the investigators
      observed bottlenecks within HIV clinics that resulted in delays in ART initiation,
      particularly for those with higher CD4 counts; only 59% of HIV-positive ART eligible persons
      were virally suppressed at 12 months, far below the UNAIDS target of 80%. Those findings
      suggest that community-based strategies for ART initiation and maintenance could address
      clinic inefficiencies and patient opportunity costs and barriers to optimize ART delivery.

      South Africa and Uganda plan to provide decentralized services, including community health
      workers, CHWs, (known as community health extension workers, CHEWs, in Uganda) conducting HTC
      and linkage to care and local pharmacy pick-up locations for medication, to meet the
      challenge of scaling up ART. The investigators proposed Delivery Optimization for
      Antiretroviral Therapy (The DO ART Study). A rigorous evaluation of an innovative,
      decentralized ART optimization strategy to safely and cost-effectively deliver ART and
      monitor viral suppression among HIV-positive persons in South Africa and Uganda. Using a
      prospective individually-randomized design, the investigators will compare home ART
      initiation and local mobile van ART resupply to clinic centered care among HIV-positive
      persons in South Africa and Uganda. Following community sensitization, participants will be
      recruited through community-based HTC and HIV clinics. HIV-positive persons who are eligible
      for ART by national guidelines will be randomized to one of three ART delivery arms: (i) Home
      ART initiation and mobile van ART monitoring and resupply, (ii) A hybrid model of clinic ART
      initiation with mobile van ART monitoring and resupply, and (iii) Clinic ART initiation,
      monitoring and resupply - the standard of care (SOC).

      The co-primary outcomes are 1) the proportion of HIV-positive persons who initiate ART and
      achieve viral suppression and 2) cost per HIV-positive person with suppressed HIV viral load
      at 12 months. The secondary outcomes are safety, social harms, acceptability, the
      cost-effectiveness of community-based ART delivery, and understanding qualitatively the
      drivers of engagement in care.

      The investigators hypothesize that community-based ART initiation will be acceptable,
      efficient and improve outcomes, specifically with prompter ART initiation and a higher
      proportion of HIV-positive persons achieving viral suppression, compared to the standard
      clinic ART delivery model. Decentralizing HIV care for asymptomatic individuals will expand
      the overall capacity of the health system to provide care for HIV-positive persons using the
      existing clinical infrastructure.
    
  