
    
      The primary endpoint of this study is the presence of tumor upgrading at the time of radical
      prostatectomy. Upgrading is defined as: Gleason 3+4 or higher grade A secondary study
      endpoint is presence of prostate cancer beyond the prostate (pathologic T3 disease) at
      radical prostatectomy. (This finding may be considered as a rationale for treatment.)
      Evidence of pathologic stage T3 or higher disease will be assessed by the presence of: (1)
      seminal vesicle invasion or (2) positive surgical margins or (3) established extracapsular
      extension or (4) lymph node involvement by tumor. It should be noted that pathologic stage T3
      disease, while generally portending a greater risk of disease recurrence, may not be an
      intrinsic feature of disease prognosis but can be an artifact of surgical technique.
      Nonetheless, a secondary risk assessment tool will include both a Gleason 7-10 endpoint plus
      any patients with pT3+ disease to a composite endpoint that could indicate disease best
      managed with treatment in lieu of active surveillance.Prostate cancer, confirmed on prostate
      biopsy, within two years of scheduled radical prostatectomy.

      2. Prostate cancer must be graded as Gleason 3+3 on the biopsy immediately prior to radical
      prostatectomy. (Secondary eligibility will be established on central review of pathology
      slides, and blocks if available, at Cornell Central Pathology Laboratory to confirm
      eligibility.) 3. Prostate cancer may have been detected on prior biopsy as well but must not
      be greater than Gleason 3+3. (Also requires Central Pathology Laboratory review.) 4. Slides
      must be available for Central Pathology Laboratory review on any biopsy showing prostate
      cancer. FFPE (formalin fixed paraffin embedded) blocks may also be requested if available.

      5. Patient must have selected radical prostatectomy as treatment for prostate cancer.

      6. Signed informed consent. 7. Blocks and/or slides from prostate biopsy and from radical
      prostatectomy must be available for analysis by Central Pathology laboratory.

      8. Willingness to provide long-term follow-up information regarding additional treatments and
      cancer status.

      9. Willingness to provide blood and urine specimens prior to radical prostatectomy for
      placement in the Early Detection Research Network (EDRN) Upgrading Reference Set repository.

      10. Willingness to provide demographic and clinical information related to prostate cancer
      and prostate cancer risk (e.g., race/ethnicity, family history of prostate cancer).
    
  