
    
      Following injury to the central nervous system (CNS), immune-mediated inflammation profoundly
      affects the ability of neural cells to survive and to regenerate. The role of inflammation
      comprises mostly of macrophages, is controversial, since macrophages can both induce neuronal
      and glial toxicity and promote tissue repair. The opposite effects of macrophages may be
      conditioned by their functional heterogeneity. Thus, classical pro-inflammatory macrophages
      (M1) are tissue-destructive, while anti-inflammatory (M2) macrophages mediate tissue repair.
      In addition, M2 macrophages predominantly induce the Th2 response, which is particularly
      beneficial in CNS repair. Using low serum conditions the investigators have generated M2-like
      macrophages and evaluated their phenotypic and functional features [1, 2]. Our data indicate
      that M2 macrophages, in contrast to pro-inflammatory M1 cells, produced significantly lower
      levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-6, IL-18, IL-12),
      chemokines (IL-8, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1-1) and Th1/Th2-cytokines (interferon-γ,
      IL-2, IL-4) coupled with a higher IL-10 level. M2 macrophages were capable of producing
      neurotrophic- (brain-derived neurotrophic factor,insulin-like growth factor-1), angiogenic-
      (vascular endothelial growth factor), and other growth factors (erythropoietin,
      granulocyte-colony stimulating factor , basic fibroblast growth factor, epidermal growth
      factor) with neuroprotective and regenerative activity.

      Our pilot clinical trials have demonstrated the safety and clinical efficacy of intrathecal
      administration of M2 macrophages in children with severe cerebral palsy [3] and in non-acute
      stroke patients [4].

      Since cell-free culture medium of M2 macrophages contains a wide variety of neurotrophic,
      immunoregulatory and pro-angiogenic factors, the investigators expect that intranasal
      administration of these auto-M2-BFs will improve the treatment/rehabilitation efficacy and
      functional outcome of patients with organic brain syndrome. Of note, intranasal
      administration of M2-macrophage soluble factors allow to delivery bioactive agents to brain
      through the olfactory and trigeminal ways across brain-blood barrier.
    
  