
    
      Research Overview - The overarching aim of this study is to improve health outcomes for
      patients presenting to EDs by modifying and testing a disability diagnostic tool. The
      investigators expect a more accurate and precise tool will lead to better discharge plans and
      referrals for ED patients, reduce morbidity and mortality, and reduce unnecessary hospital
      visits and costs. The investigators will develop the core set of indicators with face
      (logical) validity from our research team of disability, emergency medicine, and geriatric
      medicine experts and practitioners. These experts will choose which pieces of information
      need to be included and group the selected pieces of information into content areas. Each
      content area will contain pieces of information that measure the same unidimensional concept.
      The investigators go through a series of Rasch analyses to establish which sets of
      information are in fact unidimensional and form usable scales. The investigators will test
      the validity of this preliminary version of the RDDT on existing hospital data by using it to
      predict health outcomes. Finally the investigators will consult the panel of experts to
      determine which information items, if any, are essential and missing from each content area.
      If there are such items they will be added to the RDDT. As described in the Preliminary
      Studies section, previous measures of disability were used for persons in long term care
      (LTC) and thus, need to be validated for use in the ED. The retrospective analysis will
      determine which indicators have superior measurement properties for use in the ED, plus, the
      retrospective analyses will link ED patient disability to health outcomes a necessary
      external validation step. A modified RDDT will be used in the prospective phase of the study.
      As lengthy diagnostic tools are neither feasible nor practical in the ED, Rasch scales are
      more useful in that subsets scale well and retain their measurement properties that remain
      accurate and precise. The investigators will conduct a randomized clinical trial (prospective
      phase) allocating patients into the study arm utilizing the RDDT (new tool) to compare with
      the control arm (standard care using MOD) to determine which measure is more accurate and
      precise as a measure of disability. There are both retrospective and prospective aspects to
      this multi-methodological interdisciplinary study.
    
  