
    
      Rationale: In 20 - 30% of the patients sufficient weight loss is not achieved (low
      responders) after bariatric surgery. Secondary and/or tertiary bariatric procedures can lead
      to successful weight loss and resolution of comorbid conditions though, morbidity and
      mortality rates of these procedures are high. Therefore, additional pharmacotherapy has been
      suggested. Liraglutide is one of the medications that might improve outcome in the
      post-bariatric population. It is a Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor analogue developed to
      treat type 2 diabetes which causes glucose-dependent insulin secretion and promotes satiety
      and inhibits glucagon secretion. In obese (non-bariatric) patients, Liraglutide has shown to
      improve glycemic control, decrease blood pressure, lower cardiovascular risk and decrease
      body weight. There are only a few small retrospective trials assessing the effect of
      additional pharmacotherapy in low responders after bariatric surgery. These trials show
      promising results, with weight loss up to 9.7 % and limited side-effects.

      Objective: To study the effect of Liraglutide (3.0 mg daily) on 9-month weight loss in low
      responders 3-months after bariatric surgery.

      Study design: Pragmatic trial.

      Study population: Bariatric patients with a pre-operative BMI ≥ 35.0 kg/m2 who have undergone
      a primary Roux-en-Y gastric bypass or sleeve gastrectomy, are treated with group
      consultations by the Nederlandse Obesitas Kliniek and are low responders at 3-months
      follow-up for which they will be treated with the plus module. A low responder is defined by
      comparing the measured percentage total weight loss (%TWL) at the 3-month follow-up with the
      expected weight loss. When %TWL is below the 25% quartile of expected weight loss the patient
      is considered a low responder. The plus module is an extra intervention our clinic provides
      for the patients who are considered low responders at the 3-month follow-up moment after
      surgery, this is part of our standard care program.

      Intervention: Addition of Liraglutide 3.0 mg daily for 6 months to standard care.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary objective is to study the effect of Liraglutide
      (3.0 mg daily) on 9-month weight loss in low responders after bariatric surgery. The
      secondary objectives are the description of persistence of therapy and used daily dose,
      gastro-intestinal symptoms and eating habits and weight loss up to 36 months after surgery.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The burden of participation consists of extra usage of medication which patients
      have to administer subcutaneously daily, the extra consultations and two questionnaires. The
      risks consist of the mainly gastro-intestinal side-effects.
    
  