
    
      The primary objective for this study is to validate the clinical utility of the new Centre
      for Addiction in Mental Health (CAMH) antipsychotic induced weight gain (AIWG) markers and
      demonstrate the superior predictive capabilities of E-GEN as compared to GEN/TAU.

      The second primary objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of GEN to treatment as
      usual (TAU) in improving response to psychotropic treatment in the subset of patients
      suffering from schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorder.

      This study is designed as a three-arm multi-centre, double-blind (participants and raters),
      randomized controlled trial to compare the clinical and economic outcomes of GEN, E-GEN and
      TAU for patients suffering from psychiatric disorders indicated for antipsychotic
      utilization. Participants will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to each of the three treatment
      arms. Recruitment will be 36-months and follow-up 12 months.

      Subjects will complete short diagnostic interviews specific to their clinical diagnosis,
      basic metabolic measures (eg. blood pressure, weight), and provide buccal swab samples for
      genetic analysis (the unanalyzed buccal swabs and associated DNA will be biobanked). During
      the first visit, blood and urine samples will be required for laboratory panel screening and
      blood biobanking. Subjects will be monitored over a one year period and clinical measures and
      healthcare resource utilization will be obtained. Treating clinicians in the GEN and E-GEN
      arms will receive an easy to implement report providing pharmacogenomic guidance for
      prescribing psychotropic medications to their patients.

      The study will recruit participants from 3 sites, stratified into 2 clusters. Chatham-Kent
      and Ontario Shores will form one of the stratified clusters. CAMH will constitute the second
      stratified cluster. The sample size required for this study was calculated for a large effect
      size (Cohen's d = 0.8) for weight change between treatment groups (GEN and E-GEN) and TAU.
      Sample size calculations are based on the weight gain differences observed between carriers
      and non-carriers of genetic risk markers in the CAMH discovery studies (18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
      23). Assuming intraclass coefficient between clusters of 20%, statistical power of 80%, an
      alpha level of 0.05, and an expected drop-out rate of 28.3% by Week 12, a total of 90
      participants (i.e., 30 per treatment arm) are required to detect the same effect in this
      study. Sample size calculations were determined using G*Power (version 3.1.9.2, Germany).
    
  