
    
      Project Background: One in five Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF)/Operation Iraqi Freedom
      (OIF)/Operation New Dawn (OND) Veterans resides in rural areas and primarily receives care
      from VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs). Compared to their urban counterparts,
      rural Veterans experience a significantly greater MH burden and poorer outcomes.
      Nevertheless, less than 10% of OEF/OIF/OND Veterans with a new PTSD diagnosis attend a
      minimum number of sessions required for evidence-based treatment, with rurality being one of
      the strongest predictors of poor engagement. The investigators' pilot study in urban
      OEF/OIF/OND Veterans demonstrated that telephone Motivational Interviewing (MI) delivered by
      research staff significantly improved MH treatment initiation and retention in care. However,
      the investigators do not know whether telephone MI will have as strong an effect on MH
      treatment engagement when implemented by VA staff in CBOCs serving rural Veterans.

      Project Objectives: As a part of the Center for Mental Healthcare and Outcomes Research
      (CeMOHR) CREATE application to improve rural Veterans' access to evidence-based mental
      healthcare, the overall goal of this project is to adapt, implement and test an MI-based
      coaching intervention to improve MH services engagement at CBOCs serving rural Veterans. The
      specific aims of this project are: (1) Conduct a developmental formative evaluation of
      perceived barriers to MH treatment engagement and adapt the MI-based treatment engagement
      intervention and implementation strategy to the needs of stakeholders; (2) Conduct a
      randomized multi-site pragmatic effectiveness trial comparing MH Referral alone with MH
      Referral plus MI-based coaching; and (3) Conduct an implementation-focused formative
      evaluation and use this information to make mid-course corrections to the implementation
      strategy based on stakeholder and key informant input.

      Methods: The investigators will conduct the pragmatic effectiveness trial of the telephone
      motivational coaching intervention to determine whether, in comparison to MH Referral alone,
      telephone MI coaching improves MH treatment initiation and retention, the use of e-health MH
      resources, and perceived need and readiness for and access to MH treatment among rural
      Veterans who use CBOCs (Aim 2).

      Impact: This research will help close the knowledge gap about barriers to care and
      preferences for MH services among rural Veterans. In addition, information from this project
      will be used to develop implementation toolkits for MH treatment engagement interventions for
      rural Veterans. Finally, this project will determine the effectiveness of a telephone
      Motivational Interviewing engagement intervention using e-health adjuncts, thereby filling a
      gap in the scientific literature about whether novel interventions can be used by VA staff in
      CBOCs to overcome rural-urban disparities in MH treatment engagement.
    
  