
    
      The quality of an image on the retina is determined by the optical system of the eyeball,
      which is dominated by the refractive contribution of the optically powerful cornea. The large
      difference in refractive index between air and the cornea is the basis for anterior corneal
      refractive surgery such as Laser in situ Keratomileusis (LASIK) which reshapes the naturally
      aspherical cornea to correct a patient's vision. In addition to correcting refractive errors,
      current spherical LASIK treatments have been shown to increase ocular wavefront aberrations
      which can reduce visual quality postoperatively. Modifications of the corneal-ablation
      algorithm have been suggested to correct this issue.

      Until recently, most ablation algorithms have relied on the Munnerlyn formula, which assumes
      the anterior corneal surface to be spherical before and after refractive surgery. One concept
      for customized ablation is to apply an ablation during the surgical procedure which has been
      adapted to the patient's own aberration pattern. Since custom ablation algorithms are
      proprietary and we do not know how they consider the role of asphericity.

      Precisely altering the corneal asphericity after refraction surgery is a complex phenomenon
      which includes biomechanical effects. Thus, knowledge of the cornea's response to the
      different aspherical ablation profiles is vital for understanding corneal properties and
      prediction of surgical outcomes.

      This study will involve computer simulation of ablation profiles for the respective lasers,
      interferometric analysis of actual ablation profiles on PMMA plates, optimization for visual
      correction, functional studies of the short and long term effects of the profiles on in vivo
      human corneas, and quantitative subjective (questionnaire and visual tests) and objective
      analysis (calculation of retinal image quality metrics) and comparison of the effects
      aspherical ablation profiles on visual quality. The completion of the project will lead to
      objective evaluation of current ablation profiles as well as the development and evaluation
      of new optimized laser refractive surgery procedures with improved outcomes.
    
  