
    
      Study Description:

      Connect is an observational cohort study that will prospectively collect exposure information
      and biospecimens and follow participants for cancer and other endpoints. Participants will be
      free of cancer at study invitation. Because most cancers develop over long periods of time
      and biological, behavioral and environmental factors can influence cancer development and
      change over time, participants will be asked to provide repeated exposure information and
      biological specimens. The study protocol takes advantage of developments in digital
      technologies as well as exposure and biomarker assessment tools to investigate suspected and
      emerging factors that can influence cancer development. The study data system will be built
      within an efficient, flexible and integrated cloud-hosted infrastructure that leverages
      modern interoperability standards in order to be an accessible research resource for current
      and future generations of scientists.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective is to build a prospective cohort in the US using new technologies and
      methods to provide a diverse and comprehensive research resource for the scientific community
      to study:

      cancer etiology

      precursor to tumor transformation

      cancer risk assessment

      early detection of cancer

      second cancer development and survivorship after a cancer diagnosis

      The secondary objective is to provide this rich database and biorepository for general
      research use.

      Endpoints:

      The primary endpoints are the continuum of cancer incidence, progression, and survival.
      Secondary endpoints are numerous and could include methodological research, human biology,
      ancestry, evolution or health-related outcomes.

      Study Population:

      At least to 200,000 adults aged 40 to 65 years, no personal history of invasive cancer, and
      patients or members of participating integrated health care systems are eligible to
      participate.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      Nine US integrated healthcare systems will host enrollment.

      Study Duration:

      Recruitment will last at least five years. Participants will be followed for life. Analysis
      of the data is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.

      Participant Duration:

      Completion of the baseline study activities will take participants approximately four hours.
      Subsequent activities are expected to take one to four hours.
    
  