
    
      Objectives:

      The description of cell-free fetal DNA in maternal plasma offered the possibility of a non
      invasive approach for prenatal diagnosis (Non Invasive Prenatal Diagnosis, NIPD). However,
      only a small fraction of total cell-free DNA is of fetal origin, and its study widened only
      recently with the development of new technologies, such as digital PCR and Massively Parallel
      Sequencing.

      Circulating fetal cells (CFC) represent a promising approach, but need further development
      before routine implementation To date, clinical applications are limited to Non Invasive
      Prenatal Testing for fetal aneuploidy and non invasive detection of fetal-specific genomic
      regions, for example fetal sex determination or fetal RHD genotyping, or more recently de
      novo mutations that can be suspected after echographic findings, such as achondroplasia. Yet,
      NIPD of maternally-inherited monogenic diseases remains challenging, for the fetal allele is
      hidden within a large amount of identical maternal sequences. Some publications report
      successful NIPD of maternally-inherited monogenic diseases, but only on case reports or small
      cohorts, without a standardized protocol and control of statistical risks.

      In this study, we aim :

        -  to develop a new non invasive approach to Prenatal Diagnosis using both direct and
           indirect strategy by Massively Parallel Sequencing,

        -  to identify and characterize CFC.

      Methods:

      We recently acquired the Chromium™ technology (10XGenomics™). This approach, relying on
      microfluidic-based linked-read sequencing, allows direct haplotype phasing from long input
      DNA molecules, in this case parental genomic DNA. It is therefore possible to identify the
      mutant-linked haplotype for each parent and deduce fetal status with concomitant plasma DNA
      analysis.

      We plan to include couples at risk of transmitting cystic fibrosis, during genetic counseling
      for prenatal diagnosis (PND). Non invasive analysis will be performed concomitantly to
      conventional PND, which will be performed on invasive fetal sample. After sequencing, we will
      use a new analysis algorithm that allows strict control of statistical risk.

      Furthermore, we plan on using the Chromium Single Cell Solution (10XGenomics™) to isolate
      CFC. This approach allows analysis of single cell gene expression from thousands cells in a
      sample.

      Expected results:

      In this first study, we wish to include 20 couples in the course of 12 months, which will
      represent the largest cohort published to date.

      We aim to assess feasibility of this new promising technology of Universal Haplotyping by
      linked-read sequencing in the context of NIPD of monogenic diseases, in terms of result
      accuracy as well as analysis time and technical cost. This straightforward protocol opens
      perspectives for a first-intention non invasive approach of prenatal diagnosis of familial
      monogenic diseases.

      The Single Cell Solution will also enable us to differentiate the cell types circulating in
      maternal blood, and to identify molecular markers to isolate CFC.
    
  