
    
      This is a clinical study aimed to provide a proof of concept of the safety and efficacy of
      beta-blocker treatment in PAH-associated right ventricular failure.

      The protocol of the proposed double blinded cross over design.

      The reasons for not choosing an initial open phase 1 study, but to start directly with a
      placebo controlled study are:

        1. Although the drug is considered contraindicated in the studied patient population, it is
           very common for PAH patients to receive beta-blocker therapy in an uncontrolled way;
           without reports of serious side effects until now

        2. Dose titration in the study will be performed on the basis of side-effects and at this
           moment the investigators cannot predict the optimal dose which is both safe and
           efficacious. Therefore, safety assessment can only be performed in combination with the
           assessment of pharmaceutical effectiveness.

      After obtaining informed consent, 30 idiopathic PAH patients (NYHA II-III) will be randomly
      assigned to either the placebo group or beta-blocker therapy. For the randomization and study
      blinding the investigators will use a VUMC computer based procedure in close collaboration
      with the VUMC pharmacy.

      In the first 4 months of study, the dose of the drug will be gradually increased; the
      titration scheme is based on the 'farmacotherapeutisch kompas' (described below) and
      monitored according to the ACC/AHA/ESC guidelines. Up titration will be performed under the
      responsibilities of an experienced heart failure cardiologist and pulmonologist.

      MEASUREMENTS Time points 1, 3 and 5 (6 months periods): this includes a complete assessment
      of the patient

        -  Clinical assessment: physical examination, NYHA class, ECG, routine lab including
           NT-proBNP and urine tests for proteinuria.

        -  Imaging of right ventricular function: the primary measure of this study will be right
           ventricular ejection fraction measured by means of MRI. Additional MRI and
           echocardiographic measurements will be performed. (the complete study protocols are
           added as supplements).

        -  Right Heart Catheterization (performed under local anesthesia): Measurements of
           pressures in the pulmonary artery, right ventricle and right atrium, while patients are
           breathing room air and at end-expiration.

        -  Exercise capacity by means of a maximal incremental cycle testing (CardioPulmonary
           Exercise Test) to measure maximal work load, VO2 max, anaerobic threshold, heart rate
           response, oxygen pulse and ventilatory efficiency. And by means of 6 minute walking
           distance.

        -  Heart Rate Variability (HRV)

        -  Nuclear scanning: a comprised PET protocol will be performed to measure 11C-acetaat,
           oxygen-15-labeled water (H215O) and ¹¹C-HED uptake in the right ventricle. A summary of
           the protocol is added as a supplement.

      UP-TITRATION PHASE (first 4 months; either on placebo or Bisoprolol): patients will be
      monitored every second week under supervision of an experienced pulmonologist, specialized in
      PAH, and a cardiologist, specialized in chronic heart failure during a visit to the
      outpatient clinic. If no contra-indications are found the dose will be increased to the next
      step.

      The investigators will start with a dosage of 1,25 mg Bisoprolol once daily. Every two weeks
      dosage is increased by 1,25 mg, until maximum dosage of 10 mg once a day is reached, or as
      high as tolerated by the patient.

      Increasing the dosage will be stopped, or if needed the dosage will be reduced, in case of:

        -  systolic systemic pressure < 90 mmHg

        -  clinical progression in heart failure

        -  clinically relevant bradycardia or <60b/min

        -  progression of complaints

        -  drop in 6 minute walk distance > 15% The titration procedure for the placebo will be the
           same as for titration of Bisoprolol. The dosage of the medication will be altered for
           maximal four months and after this the patients will use a stable dose for the rest of
           the six month period.

      Every clinical visit will at least contain a clinical assessment, assessment of NYHA class, 6
      minute walk distance, ECG and a Minnesota quality of life questionnaire. Every fourth week
      NT-proBNP, kidney- and liver functions will be assessed. In addition, the patient will be
      instructed to use a diary to record his/her symptoms and body weight.

      STABLE PHASE: It is expected that up to 4 months are required to reach an acceptable dose of
      Bisoprolol. After this up-titration phase, the patient will be followed closely during the
      remaining part of the six month period, using a stable medication dose. The monitoring
      includes continuation of the diary, monthly visits to the outpatient clinic including the
      measurements as described in the up-titration phase and a telephone call every 4 weeks in
      between office visits.

      CROSS OVER After six months new measurements will be done. Thereafter the medication will be
      tapered down in a two week period and than finally stopped. This will be done to prevent the
      patients for possible side effects (rebound tachycardia) of stopping their medication. The
      same tapering down procedure will be performed after the third set of measurements.
    
  