
    
      Background: Physicians in Canadian emergency departments (EDs) annually treat 185,000 alert
      and stable trauma victims who are at risk for cervical spine (c-spine) injury. Only 0.9% of
      these patients have, however, suffered a cervical spine fracture. Current use of radiography
      is not efficient. More than 98% of c-spine radiographs are negative and there is considerable
      variation among hospitals and physicians in radiography use. C-spine radiographs are little
      ticket items, low cost procedures that significantly add to health care costs due to high
      volume. In addition, alert and stable trauma patients are often immobilized on a backboard
      with a rigid collar and sandbags for many hours. This leads to considerable patient
      discomfort and unnecessary use of valuable time and space in our crowded EDs. This renewal
      application builds on previous MRC/CIHR grants to determine feasibility (phase 0, MRC
      GR-13304D, 1995-96), develop a decision rule for c-spine radiography (phase I, MRC MT-13700,
      1996-99, N=8,924), and prospectively validate this Canadian C-Spine Rule (phase II, CIHR
      MT13700, 1999-2002, N=8,000), all part of the University of Ottawa Group Grant in Decision
      Support Techniques (CIHR 2000-143). The Canadian C-Spine Rule is comprised of simple clinical
      variables (Figure 1) and allows physicians to be much more selective in ordering radiography
      (JAMA 2001). In the recently completed prospective validation (phase II), we confirmed the
      accuracy and reliability of the rule.

      Objectives: The goal of phase III is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of an active
      strategy to implement the Canadian C-Spine Rule into physician practice. Specific objectives
      are to: 1) Determine clinical impact by comparing the intervention and control sites for: a)
      C-spine radiography rates, b) Missed fractures, c) Serious adverse outcomes, d) Length of
      stay in ED, and e) Patient satisfaction; 2) Determine sustainability of the impact; 3)
      Evaluate performance of the Canadian C-Spine Rule, with regards to: a) Accuracy, b) Physician
      accuracy in interpretation, and c) Physician comfort and compliance with use; 4) Conduct an
      economic evaluation to determine the potential for cost savings with widespread
      implementation.

      Methods: We propose a matched-pair cluster design study which compares outcomes during 3
      consecutive 12-month before, after, and decay periods at 6 pairs of intervention and control
      sites (Figure 3). These 12 hospital ED sites will be stratified as teaching or community
      hospitals, matched according to baseline c-spine radiography ordering rates, and then
      allocated within each pair to either intervention or control groups. During the after period
      at the intervention sites, simple and inexpensive strategies will be employed to actively
      implement the Canadian C-Spine Rule: a) physician group discussion and consensus, b)
      educational initiatives (lecture, posters, pocket cards), and c) a process-of-care
      modification with a mandatory reminder of the Rule at the point of requisition for
      radiography. These outcomes will be assessed: 1) Measures of clinical impact will compare the
      changes from before to after between the intervention and control sites: a) C-spine
      radiography ordering proportions (the primary analysis); b) Number of missed fractures; c)
      Number of serious adverse outcomes; d) Length of stay in ED; e) Patient satisfaction. 2)
      Performance of the Canadian C-Spine Rule: a) Accuracy of the rule; b) Physician accuracy of
      interpretation; c) Physician comfort and compliance. 3) Economic evaluation measures: a)
      Radiography rate after discharge; b) Length of stay in ED and hospital; c) Hospital
      admission; d) Operative repair. During the 12-month decay period, implementation strategies
      will continue, allowing us to evaluate the sustainability of the effect. We estimate a sample
      size of 4,800 patients in each period in order to have adequate power to evaluate the main
      outcomes.

      Importance: This implementation study (phase III) is an essential step in the process of
      developing a new clinical decision rule guideline for health care practitioners. Phase I
      successfully derived the Canadian C-Spine Rule and phase II confirmed the accuracy and safety
      of the rule and, hence, the potential for physicians to improve care. What remains unknown is
      the actual change in clinical behaviour that can be effected by implementation of the
      Canadian C-Spine Rule and whether implementation can be achieved with simple and inexpensive
      measures. We believe that the Canadian C-Spine Rule has the potential to significantly reduce
      health care costs and improve the efficiency of patient flow in busy Canadian EDs.
    
  