
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) affects 5 million people in the United States, with an
      additional 550,000 cases diagnosed each year. Despite major recent strides in treatment, a
      diagnosis of CHF still carries significant annual morbidity and mortality. The resultant
      economic burden associated with the management of this disease has been estimated at $40
      billion per year, with 60% - 75% resulting from inpatient management(1). Emergency room
      visits, frequent outpatient encounters and the hemodynamic monitoring and intensive care
      associated with inpatient management contribute significantly to this total cost.

      Current outpatient heart failure management programs focus on lifestyle changes,
      pharmacotherapy, and disease awareness, emphasizing self identification of signs and symptoms
      of volume overload. Despite the best efforts of all involved, frequent unscheduled visits to
      the outpatient clinic or emergency department remain common, even in those patients
      participating in formal management programs. Accurate identification of elevated filling
      pressures and intravascular volume prior to the significant worsening of symptoms remains an
      elusive goal of management.

      Although elevated jugular venous pressure and the presence of a third heart sound have been
      shown to have prognostic value in patients with heart failure(2), physical exam findings of
      elevated filling pressures do not reliably correlate with invasive hemodynamics(3).

      Invasive measurement of filling pressures and cardiac output with a pulmonary artery catheter
      has been the gold standard for hemodynamic assessment for decades. However, this method
      carries significant inherent risks of placement and maintenance and is not well-suited for
      frequent assessment in the outpatient setting. Development of a method that would accurately
      and reliably identify hypervolemia and elevated filling pressures prior to the onset of
      symptoms may allow earlier intervention and have a significant impact on quality of life,
      morbidity, and mortality in patients with CHF.

      Blood volume analysis has been used for over 100 years in the assessment of plasma volume and
      red cell mass. Earlier techniques relied on dilution of various dyes and were based on the
      concept that the concentration of a known quantity of dye was inversely proportional to the
      volume of blood into which it was injected. Later, using the same concept, 51Cr labeled red
      blood cells and 125I labeled albumen, were developed to measure the red cell and plasma
      compartments respectively. Although the dual isotope method is considered the gold standard,
      it is cumbersome and requires at least 6 hours for completion.

      A newer, highly automated method using 131I labeled albumen and serial hematocrit
      measurements (BVA-100, Daxor Corp. New York, NY) has been shown to correlate well with the
      dual isotope method requiring only 1 ½ hours for completion (Dworkin et al, unpublished
      data). Additionally, this method can automatically compare measured blood, plasma and red
      cell volumes to norms based on the sex, weight and height of the patient in the manner of
      Feldschuh and Enson(4).

      Using this method, Androne et al(5) found that 65% of nonedematous CHF patients had
      unrecognized hypervolemia. More recently, anemia has been shown to be a poor prognostic
      marker in CHF. In a separate report, Androne et al(6) found that 46% of anemic CHF patients
      had dilutional anemia vs. 54% with true anemia. The success of targeted therapy may depend on
      determining whether anemia is dilutional or due to reduced red cell mass. Despite this
      method's accuracy, it is not practical for the serial measurements required to proactively
      intervene in a CHF population.

      Transthoracic impedance cardiography (ICG) relies on changes in transthoracic electrical
      impedance when alternating currents are applied across the thorax. Derived measures include
      stroke volume, cardiac output and thoracic fluid content. Although earlier studies have
      validated the use of this method in the assessment of intrathoracic volume(7), there have
      been conflicting results in regard to the correlation of cardiac output (CO) derived from
      transthoracic ICG and that obtained from more traditional methods such as thermodilution,
      indicator dye-dilution and the Fick method(8). In addition, the cumbersome nature of serial
      data acquisition and the realization that derived hemodynamic data may be affected by lead
      placement make this method less attractive in the ambulatory setting.

      Intrathoracic impedance is similar to transthoracic ICG in that it relies on changes in
      impedance as a surrogate marker of volume status. The technique measures impedance from a
      right ventricular lead to a pacing/defibrillator case. The technique is not subject to the
      operator dependent variability of ICG and is well suited to serial measurements in the
      outpatient setting.

      The Optivol® system developed by Medtronic (Minneapolis, MN) employs proprietary software
      (TFS) that collects and averages impedance values during a specific time period each day to
      produce the Daily Impedance Value. The TFS software then derives and stores the Daily Mean
      Impedance, Reference Impedance, and Cumulative Difference from the Daily Impedance Value. The
      use of predetermined thresholds for the Cumulative Difference from the Daily Impedance Value
      can provide an early warning of increasing thoracic fluid. This data is accessible to health
      care practitioners through periodic download in the clinic via interrogation or through
      Medtronic's web-based CareLink system.

      Abraham et al(9) demonstrated that TFS trends are consistent with clinical fluid status in a
      small group of patients. In addition, a recent study by Yu et al(10) found that intrathoracic
      impedance is inversely related to pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, and begins to decrease
      days before the onset of symptoms of CHF.

      While data derived from the Optivol® system appears to mirror intrathoracic fluid content,
      and is useful for determining trends, certain shortcomings remain. First, though changes in
      intrathoracic impedance may inversely mirror changes in thoracic fluid content, the system
      provides no absolute reference standard to determine euvolemia in an individual patient.
      Secondly, it is unclear whether certain concomitant conditions (anemia, COPD) can affect the
      relationship.
    
  