
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) continues to be a major problem in the UK and is the second most
      common cause of cancer death. The annual incidence is approximately 30,000 cases with an
      annual mortality rate of in the region of 16,000 (1). Most sporadic non-hereditary CRCs arise
      from benign colorectal adenomas (2). The detection and resection of colorectal adenomas at
      colonoscopy has been shown to reduce the subsequent risk of CRC by as much as 80% (3).

      The NHS Bowel Cancer Screening Programme (BCSP) began roll-out in 2006 in England and as of
      April 2010, was established across 99.4% of the country. The BCSP is based on a strategy of
      biennial faecal occult blood test (FOBt) screening for men and women aged 60-75, followed by
      colonoscopy for those who test positive. Among its aims is the detection and resection of
      potentially pre-malignant colorectal adenomas thereby potentially reducing the incidence of
      CRC. The introduction of the BCSP has resulted in a dramatically increased demand for
      colonoscopy. To date approximately 80,000 colonoscopies have been performed within the BCSP
      and at least one adenoma found in just under half of the procedures (4). In addition, from
      2012, the BCSP will introduce flexible sigmoidoscopy screening for all individuals aged 55 yr
      olds. This extrapolates to approximately 500,000 flexible sigmoidoscopies per year, with at
      least one polyp expected to be found in 75,000 procedures.

      Greater than 90% of polyps detected at colonoscopy are small (6-9mm) or diminutive (≤5mm),
      with the latter making up the majority (5-7). In addition, approximately 50% of small polyps
      are non-neoplastic (8), known as adenomas. The number of adenomas present strongly influences
      the future risk of the development of advance neoplasia for the individual patient and
      therefore determines decisions on future surveillance intervals. As a result even small
      polyps, with little risk of harbouring cancer, are currently sent for histological assessment
      in order to determine whether or not they are adenomatous (9-11).

      The ability to correctly diagnose a small polyp (< 10mm) during colonoscopy as adenomatous or
      non-adenomatous from its endoscopic characteristics (optical diagnosis) would allow small
      adenomas to be resected and discarded without the need to retrieve the polyp for formal
      histological assessment. Additionally, hyperplastic rectosigmoid polyps can be left in situ
      thereby reducing the need for polypectomy and the associated risks. Optical diagnosis would
      also enable surveillance intervals to be determined immediately after colonoscopy thereby
      avoiding the need for out-patient follow up, potentially leading to significant time and cost
      savings. Notably, histological assessment is an imperfect current gold standard as polyps may
      be lost or be unable to be assessed due to diathermy artefact in 8-25% of cases. Furthermore,
      standard histological techniques may misclassify up to 15% of adenomas as benign lesions.

      Narrow band imaging (NBI; Olympus, Japan (12, 13)) is a new 'blue light' optical imaging
      modality available at a push of a button on the colonoscope head. By enhancing mucosal detail
      and in particular vascular structures it allows assessment of microvascular density (vascular
      pattern intensity - VPI (14); meshed brown capillary network (15-17)). Neoplastic tissue is
      characterized by increased angiogenesis and, therefore, adenomas appear darker when viewed
      with NBI. The use of microvascular assessment appears to have a short learning curve, as
      short as 60 histologically verified polyps (18-20), making it a potentially attractive and
      practical option for optical diagnosis. There are no known adverse events associated with
      NBI.

      Two studies to date have assessed clinical implications of endoscopic diagnosis of small
      polyps on surveillance intervals using white light in combination with NBI. A study of
      diminutive polyps (≤5 mm) performed by a single expert colonoscopist (21), 134 out of 136
      (98.5%) of patients would have had the same surveillance intervals when recommendations based
      on optical and histological diagnoses were compared. Similar results were reported in a study
      performed by three of the co-applicants (AI, JEE, BPS)(22) where 82 out of 130 patients could
      be given a surveillance interval immediately after colonoscopy based on optical diagnosis
      alone and the same interval was found after formal histopathology in 80 patients (98%) using
      British Society of Gastroenterology guidelines (23). Optical diagnosis accurately diagnosed
      186 of 198 adenomas (sensitivity 0.94; 95% CI 0.90-0.97) and 55 of 62 hyperplastic polyps
      (specificity 0.89; 0.78 -0.95) with an overall accuracy of 241 of 260 (0.93; 0.89-0.96) for
      small polyp characterisation. In this study, using simple cost analysis, the authors
      estimated that optical diagnosis would have resulted in 77% cost savings for polyp analysis
      and clinical follow up (£13343 for 130 patients examined). Using Markov modelling, Hassan et
      al modelled the cost-effectiveness of 'resect and discard policy' and found that using it for
      diminutive polyps (≤5mm) would result in annual saving of $33 million when applied to
      colonoscopy screening of the US population (corresponding to overall saving of $330 million,
      assuming cumulative period of 10 years to screen just under a quarter of US population) (24).

      Optical diagnosis may therefore benefit:

        1. Patients: Shorter, more accurate examinations with fewer complications as a results of
           fewer polypectomies (less perforation and bleeding), reduced anxiety (awaiting histology
           results) and more appropriate use of endoscopic surveillance programmes.

        2. NHS and other Healthcare providers: Increased efficiency (shorter lists, more exams per
           endoscopy list, fewer out-patient appointments, avoids unnecessary use of histology
           capacity) and reduced risk (fewer complications and fewer polyp 'misses'). Since the
           need for histology is set to greatly increase with an expansion of screening, a move to
           the routine use of NBI may substantially reduce the need to expand histology services.

      We foresee no significant constraints to adoption of optical diagnosis as financial costs
      should be easily offset by savings from the efficiency benefits described above as 90% of
      polyps detected at colonoscopy are <10mm in size and therefore suitable for optical biopsy.

      Study Design DISCARD 2 is a blinded calibration diagnostic study which will compare NBI
      optical diagnosis with histological assessment (as a reference standard) for patients with
      small polyps (<10mm) identified at colonoscopy

      Recruitment Patients who are due to attend for a routine colonoscopy will be identified
      during out-patient clinics, during colonoscopy booking, or on the day of colonoscopy at each
      of the participating sites. Patients will be sent or given an information pack containing an
      information sheet and consent form. There will be two phases of recruitment to the study. All
      consenting patients undergoing colonoscopy are included in phase 1 of the study. Those who
      undergo a complete colonoscopy and in whom one or polyp <10mm in diameter is found will enter
      phase 2 of the study.

      More detail regarding inclusion and exclusion criteria and outcome measures are provided
      below.
    
  