
    
      Device Description

      Two types of commercially approved thoracic aortic stent-grafts will be modified under the
      aegis of a physician-sponsored IDE protocol (G200159). The Cook (Bloomington, IN) Zenith
      Alpha proximal tapered mainbody thoracic stent-grafts and the Cook Zenith TX2 proximal
      tapered mainbody will be modified to form the fenestrated/branched aortic components. The
      Alpha thoracic stent-grafts are constructed of woven polyester graft sewn to discrete rows of
      self-expanding Nitinol Z stents. The most proximal sealing stent is located internally with
      fixation barbs that protrude through the graft material. The second proximal stent is
      straight, and the third stent is tapered by 4mm in diameter.

      The diameter of the TX2 proximal tapered stent-grafts will range from 32mm to 42mm, depending
      on the size of the aorta at the proximal seal zone. The lengths will range from 154 to 210mm.
      The TX2 thoracic stent-grafts are constructed with woven polyester graft sewn to discrete
      rows of self-expanding stainless steel Z stents. The most proximal seal stent is sewn inside
      the polyester fabric. The third stent is tapered by either 4mm or 8mm in diameter.

      The modification design will be planned using a 3-D multiplanar reconstruction analysis of
      the CT angiography. Proximal seal zone will be chosen at 2cm disease free parallel aortic
      walls. Target vessel position will be determined by the longitudinal distance between the
      proximal extent of the seal zone to the middle of the vessel orifice, as well as radial clock
      position. Based on these measurements, patient specific modification map will be constructed.

      The modification will be designed to incorporate visceral and renal branches, utilizing a
      various combinations of fenestrations and branch cuffs. The choice between fenestrations and
      branch cuffs will be made based on the aortic size and angulation at the level of the target
      branches. For example, when the target branches are within the seal zone, fenestrations will
      be chosen. Conversely, branch cuffs will be incorporated onto the mainbody if the aorta at
      the level of the target branches is aneurysmal, or angulated where precise three dimensional
      position of the target branch, hence fenestration, along the implanted stent graft is
      difficult to predict.

      Modification Technique

      Modification will be performed on the day of the operation using strict sterile technique.
      Tapered low profile Cook Zenith Alpha proximal component thoracic stent grafts will be
      unsheathed. One of the trigger wires is retrieved from the inner cannula of the delivery
      system, to be used as a diameter constraining wire. This wire is rerouted posteriorly through
      and through the fabric of the stent graft using a long 22-gauge needle.

      Fenestrations at planned locations will be created using an ophthalmic cautery, and
      reinforced with a double layer of Amplatz Gooseneck Snare (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN) wires
      made up of braided Nitinol. The wires will be secured around the fenestration by tightly
      spaced 5-0 Ethibond (Ethicon, Somerville, NJ) locking sutures. Additional radiopaque markers
      will be sutured around each fenestration. When necessary, directional branch cuffs will be
      created by fashioning 8mm or 6mm Viabahn self expanding covered stents (Gore & Associates,
      Flagstaff, AZ) into 2cm long side branch cuffs. The branch cuffs will be sutured to the oval
      fenestration created on the aortic stent grafts by running 5-0 Goretex sutures. Radiopaque
      markers will be sutured around the entrance and exit of each branch cuff.

      Prior to resheathing, the posterior aspect of Z-stents are constrained using loops of prolene
      sutures as diameter reducing ties. Proximal fixation barbs will be removed using a wire
      cutter. Fenestrations and branches designed to be catheterized from the brachial approach
      will be pre-wired with 0.014 inch guidewires. The modified stent graft will be resheathed
      using 2-0 Silk ties and Umbilical tapes.
    
  