
    
      HPV and Cervical Cancers:

      Human papillomaviruses (HPV) are small, nonenveloped DNA viruses which induce epithelial
      tumors of skin or mucosa. The majority of tumors are benign, show limited growth and usually
      regress spontaneously. However, a number of human papillomaviruses induce tumors that may
      eventually progress to carcinomas. The genital HPV types 16 and 18, and less frequently,
      types 31, 33, 35, 45, 51 and 56, have been implicated in the etiology of cervical and other
      anogenital cancers. Approximately 500,000 women worldwide develop cervical cancer yearly and
      it is the second leading cause of death from cancer in women. In developed countries, cancer
      of the cervix ranks behind cancers of the breast, lung, uterus, and ovaries and accounts for
      7% of all female cancers. In the United States, there are about 4,800 deaths annually from
      cervical cancer. The evidence linking HPVs to anogenital cancer comes from epidemiologic and
      laboratory studies. More than 90% of cervical cancers and their precursors, so-called
      cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), contain human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA sequences.
      The HPV types found in cancer cells have transforming activity in in vitro studies and the
      viral transforming proteins, E6 and E7, are consistently expressed in cervical cancer cell
      lines and in HPV-associated cancers of patients. In HPV-associated malignant transformation,
      viral DNA may be integrated into the cellular DNA and integration often results in deletion
      of large sectors of the viral genome. Late genes (L1 and L2) and some early genes (E1 and E2)
      are usually lost, leaving E6 and E7 as the only open reading frames frequently found in
      carcinomas. Expression of E6 and E7 is likely to overcome the regulation of cell
      proliferation normally mediated by proteins like p53 and Rb, allowing uncontrolled growth and
      providing the potential for malignant transformation.

      HPV Oncogenic Proteins, E6 and E7, as Ideal Targets for the Development of Antigen-Specific
      Immunotherapies or Vaccines for HPV-Associated Cervical Malignancies:

      E6 and E7 represent ideal targets for the development of antigen-specific immunotherapies or
      vaccines for HPV-associated malignancies. First, more than 90% of cervical cancers have been
      associated with HPVs, particularly type 16, and E6 and E7 are consistently expressed in most
      cervical cancers. Second, while most tumor specific antigens are derived from normal proteins
      or mutated proteins, E6 and E7 are completely foreign viral proteins, and potentially may
      harbor more antigenic peptides/epitopes than a mutant protein (i.e. p53) or a reactivated
      embryonic protein (i.e. MAGE-1). Third, since E6 and E7 are required for the induction and
      maintenance of malignant phenotypes of cancer cells, cells of cervical cancer cannot evade an
      immune response through antigen loss. Without functional E6 and E7, these cells would cease
      to be tumorigenic. Therefore, E6 and E7 proteins represent ideal targets for developing
      antigen-specific immunotherapies or vaccines for cervical cancer.

      Various forms of vaccines, such as vector-based vaccines, tumor-based vaccines, DNA based
      vaccines and protein/peptide-based vaccines have been described in experimental systems
      targeting HPV-16 E6 and/or E7 proteins. For example, Meneguzzi et al. reported that
      inoculation of rats with vaccinia recombinants expressing HPV-16 E6 or E7 retarded or
      prevented tumor development in 25-47% of rats challenged with a tumorigenic rat cell line
      co-transfected with HPV-16 and activated ras. In addition, Chen et al. demonstrated that
      immunization of mice with syngeneic non-tumorigenic cells transfected with the HPV-16 E7 gene
      confers protection against transplanted HPV-16 E7 positive syngeneic tumor cells. Feltkamp et
      al. identified a CTL epitope in HPV-16 E7 using H-2Kb and H-2Db MHC class I-peptide-binding
      studies. Immunization with this peptide rendered mice resistant to a challenge with HPV-16
      transformed tumor cells. Furthermore, chimeric papillomavirus-like particles (CVLPs) consist
      of HPV-16 L1-E7 (Nieland et al., personal communication) or HPV-16 L1/L2-E7 (Greenstone et
      al., personal communication) chimeric proteins have been used as therapeutic vaccines against
      HPV-16 E7 expressing tumors in murine models. More recently, a phase I/II clinical trial was
      performed in eight patients with late stage cervical cancer using a live recombinant vaccinia
      virus expressing the E6 and E7 proteins of HPV 16 and 18 (TA-HPV). In that study, no
      significant clinical side-effects or environmental contamination by live TA-HPV were
      observed.

      Importance of Cell Mediated Immune Responses in Controlling both HPV Infections and
      HPV-Associated Neoplasms:

      Several lines of evidence suggest that cell mediated immune responses are important in
      controlling both HPV infections and HPV-associated neoplasms. First, the prevalence of
      HPV-related diseases (infections and neoplasms) is increased in transplant recipients and
      human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected patients, both of whom are known to have impaired
      cell mediated immunity. Second, animal studies have demonstrated that immunized animals are
      protected from papillomavirus infection and from the development of neoplasia. Immunization
      also facilitates the regression of existing lesions. Third, infiltrating CD4+ (T helper
      cells) and CD8+ (cytotoxic/suppressor T cells) T cells have been observed in spontaneously
      regressing warts and fourth, warts in patients who are on immunosuppressive therapy often
      disappear when this treatment is discontinued.

      Cellular Immune Responses to HPV:

      The understanding of T-cell mediated immunity to HPV infections was facilitated by
      identification of MHC class I and class II epitopes of HPV proteins. Several groups have
      attempted to map murine and human T helper (Th) cell epitopes on HPV proteins. Several groups
      have also tried to map murine as well as human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes on HPV
      proteins. Kast et al. have identified several high affinity binding peptides of HPV-16 E6 and
      E7 proteins for human HLA-A alleles. Furthermore, HPV-specific CTLs recognizing HPV E6 and E7
      proteins have been demonstrated in peripheral blood of cervical cancer patients, in healthy
      donors and in patients with CIN lesions [Nakagawa, 1997 #562]. Furthermore, infiltration of
      cervical cancer tissue with HPV-specific CTLs has been recently described.

      Cell-mediated immune responses in HPV-infected lesions can be demonstrated by in vivo skin
      tests, in vitro CTL assays and in vitro lymphoproliferative responses. For instance, Hopfl et
      al. have used bacterially-expressed HPV-16 proteins for skin tests in patients with CIN
      lesions and have found specific skin responses to the virion protein L1 and not the E4
      protein. In patients with CIN lesions, HPV-specific CTLs have been identified in PBMC and in
      cervical tissues. The in vitro lymphoproliferative responses in patients with CIN lesions
      have been actively investigated. For example, de Gruijl et al. reported that T cell
      proliferative responses against HPV-16 E7 oncogenic protein were most prominent in CIN
      patients with a persistent HPV infection. However, Kadish et al. reported that
      lymphoproliferative responses to specific HPV-16 E6 and E7 peptides appeared to be associated
      with the clearance of HPV infection and the regression of CIN lesions.

      Importance of Helper T Cell Functions in Generating Effective Antitumor Responses:

      Increasing evidence has suggested that inadequate antitumor responses can result from a
      failure of the helper arm of the immune response. The events leading to the activation of CTL
      are tightly regulated in order to protect against the development of inappropriate immune
      responses to self antigens or exaggerated responses to foreign antigens. This regulation is
      mediated by lymphokines produced by CD4+ T helper cells. CD4+ T helper cells are critical to
      the generation of potent antitumor immune responses. CD4+ T cells have been shown to be
      instrumental in generating immune responses against several solid malignancies in murine
      [Fearon, 1990 #833; Golumbek, 1991 #834] and in human populations [Topalian, 1994 #396;
      Topalian, 1994 #397]. Several mouse tumors that are transfected with syngeneic MHC class II
      genes become very effective vaccines against subsequent challenge with wild type class II
      negative tumors [Ostrand-Rosenberg, 1990 #177; James, 1991 #272; Chen, 1993 #213] In
      addition, as crucial memory cells in the T cell arm of the immune system, CD4+ cells may be
      able to provide long term immunity against specific antigens [Tew, 1990 #624; Sprent, 1994
      #625].

      Role of Cytokines in Cell-Mediated Immunity:

      Cell mediated immunity is regulated by cytokines which are secreted by T helper cells. In
      general, T helper cells can be classified as Th1 and/or Th2 cells based on the different
      types of cytokines they secrete. Th1 cells secrete interleukin (IL) 2 and interferon gamma
      (IFN-gamma). Th2 cells produce IL-4, IL-5, IL-10 and IL-13. The Th1 lymphocytes are the most
      important effector cells in inflammatory reactions associated with vigorous delay-type
      hypersensitivity but low antibody production, as occurs in contact dermatitis and in viral or
      intracellular bacterial infections (for review, see [Mosmann, 1989 #168; Romagnani, 1992
      #130]). The functional phenotype of most Th2 cells may account for both the persistent
      production of certain antibody isotypes, particularly IgG1 and IgE, and the eosinophilia
      observed in human helminthic infections and allergic disorders. Lymphocyte mediated
      protection from viral infections as well as control of tumors is thought to be mediated by
      Th1 cytokine responses and impaired by Th2 cytokine responses. The IL-2 and IFN-gamma
      producing Th1 response is likely to be the major component that contributes to the
      development of cell mediated immunity against HPV infections and HPV-associated neoplasms.

      Chimeric E7-specific vaccines can control the HPV16 E7-expressing tumor model. By cooperating
      with Prof. TC Wu at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutes, we have successfully developed
      several chimeric DNA, RNA, and virus-vector vaccines to prevent and treat HPV16 E7-expressing
      tumors in animal models. We found that these E7-chimeric DNA vaccines are capable of
      preventing and treating the growth of murine model tumors expressing E7. These positive
      results from the preclinical murine models have encouraged us to focus on the development of
      a cancer vaccine and immunotherapy and apply these vaccines to human subjects.

      However, it is very important to set up various E7-specific immunologic assays of human
      beings to evaluate the effect of a cancer vaccine or immunotherapy in future clinical trials.
      So we would like to provide this proposal to address the development of HPV 16 E7-specific
      immunologic assays in human beings. There are several aims in this project:

        1. to develop and utilize assays to measure CTLs to HPV 16 E7 proteins, and

        2. to develop and utilize assays to measure T helper (Th) responses to HPV 16 E7 antigens.
    
  