
    
      Our study will be carried out in Fırat University Training and Research Hospital. Individuals
      who are diagnosed with stroke by the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Specialist and who
      are directed to the physiotherapy program will be included. 20 hemiparesis patients who
      underwent stimulation and conventional physiotherapy and rehabilitation of the back
      extensors, will constitute 20 volunteer patients who only provided conventional physiotherapy
      and rehabilitation applications. 20 cases were included in the study and 20 cases as control
      group. All cases will be informed and approved before they start working.

      Inclusion Criteria

        1. Having a chart of hemiplegia or hemiparesis due to the first story of cerebrovascular
           accident (SVO)

        2. At least 3 months after SVO

        3. Mini-mental State Examination (MMSE) value ≥ 15

        4. Being in the 30 to 80 age range

        5. Back extensor muscle spasticity value <4 according to modified Ashworth Scale

      Criteria for Inclusion of Patients in the Study

        1. Ataxia, dystonia, dyskinesia

        2. The presence of lower motor neuron or peripheral nerve lesion

        3. Degraded deep senses

        4. Detection disorder and dementia

        5. Skin and peripheral circulatory disorder

        6. History of CVO, bilateral hemiplegia

      As demographic characteristics; age, gender, body weight, height of the patients, the hand
      (dominant hemisphere), occupation and educational status, as a history of the disease; It
      will be noted whether the patient has undergone SVO or transient ischemic attack. Our
      neurological evaluation form; Reflexes, sensory defects, cranial nerve lesion, visual
      disturbances, speech problem and type will be recorded.

      All patients will be evaluated after treatment (TS). Spasticity will be graded from 0 to 5
      according to the Modified Ashworth Scale.

      Postural Assesment of Stroke Scale (PASS), Short Form-36, Adapted Patient Evaluation and
      Conference System, Stroke Rehabilitation Assesment of Movement (STREAM), Brunel Balance
      Assessment (BBA), Functional Ambulation Scale(FAS) and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE)
      surveys and scales will be used.

      Stimulation program, symmetrical biphasic waveform, 50 Hz frequency, 400 μs width flow
      characteristics are used and the duration of treatment should be 30 min.

      The current density will be adjusted to give full contraction of the back extensor muscle at
      each warning. It will be adjusted separately in each session without any discomfort or pain.
      In cases where contraction is reduced, the intensity of the current will be increased to
      achieve the same quality contraction. However, the target muscles outside the muscles will
      spread to the muscles strong enough to be created.

      Statistical analysis of the study will be done with Statistical Package for Social Sciences
      (SPSS) Version IBM Statistic 20. Mann Whitney U test will be used for the differences between
      the two groups. Comparisons between the pre-treatment and post-treatment values of the
      patients will be done by Wilcoxon Signed Rank test in dependent groups.

      The obtained values will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD). The differences
      below p <0.05 would be considered significant.
    
  