
    
      All published randomized controlled trials that compared a routine invasive strategy with
      early PCI and a standard therapy in STEMI patients after fibrinolysis will be included in
      this analysis.

      We will exclude all non-randomized trials, randomized studies if the individual patient data
      will not be available for analysis, randomized studies in which angioplasty was mainly
      performed without stenting (<80% stenting population) and in which the type of lytic therapy
      was different from modern fibrin-specific agents. Two investigators independently will
      evaluate studies for possible inclusion. The quality of searched trials will be evaluated
      based on the 5-point scale outlined by Jadad et al (5), with criteria for randomization with
      proper concealment of the allocation sequence, blinding of the patient and investigators to
      treatment allocation with description of the blinding method, and completeness of follow-up.

      Recruitment:

      An electronic database will be compiled consisting of data from each single patient of all
      enrolled trials, according to the guidelines for the performance of individual patient
      meta-analysis.(6-7-8). The database will include demographic data and baseline
      characteristics. Attention will be paid to clinical complications during transfer for early
      PCI and to the precise calculation of the following times-window: from symptoms onset to
      lytic therapy, from lytic therapy to early or rescue PCI, from randomization to all adverse
      events as defined below. Data will be checked for completeness and for consistency with
      published reports. Two investigators independently will extract all data, with disagreements
      resolved in consultation with a third investigator.

      End-points

      The following end-points will be investigated:

      Primary End Point: Combined death/reinfarction at 30 days.

      Secondary end-points:

        -  Death, reinfarction, recurrent ischemia and urgent revascularization at 30 days.

        -  Combined death/reinfarction/recurrent ischemia/urgent revascularization and new
           presentation CHF and shock at 30 days.

        -  Major bleeding and hemorrhagic stroke at 30 days.

        -  Combined death/reinfarction and combined revascularization/recurrent ischemia at 6-12
           months.

      Secondary analysis will also investigate the influence of the timing of post-thrombolysis
      early revascularization on the above considered events.

      Investigators: The study is coordinated by Prof. C. Di Mario. An executive committee composed
      of the Principle Investigators of the enrolled trials will overview the quality of data
      collected (OTTER Investigators). No publication will be sent without written consent of all
      the PIs of the individual trials. Statistical analysis will be performed at the Royal
      Brompton Hospital (London) and the Canadian Heart Research Centre (Toronto, Ontario, Canada).

      References:

        1. Cantor WJ, Fitchett D, Borgundvaag B, Ducas J, et al. TRANSFER-AMI Trial Investigators.
           Routine early angioplasty after fibrinolysis for acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J
           Med. 2009 Jun 25;360(26):2705-18.

        2. Di Mario C, Dudek D, Piscione F, et al. Immediate angioplasty versus standard therapy
           with rescue angioplasty after thrombolysis in the Combined Abciximab REteplase Stent
           Study in Acute Myocardial Infarction (CARESS-in-AMI): an open, prospective, randomized,
           multicentre trial. Lancet 2008; 371:559-568.

        3. Van de Werf F, Bax J, Betriu A, et al. Management of acute myocardial infarction in
           patients presenting with persistent ST-segment elevation: the Task Force on the
           Management of ST-Segment Elevation Acute Myocardial Infarction of the European Society
           of Cardiology. Eur Heart J 2008; 29:2909-2945.

        4. Antman EM, Hand M, Armstrong PW, et al. 2007 focused update of the ACC/AHA 2004
           guidelines for the management of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a
           report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
           Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol 2008; 51:210-247.

        5. Jadad AR, Moore RA, Carroll D, et al. Assessing the quality of reports of randomized
           clinical trials: is blinding necessary? Control Clin Trials. 1996 Feb;17(1):1-12.

        6. Simmonds MC, Higgins JP, Stewart LA, et al. Meta-analysis of individual patient data
           from randomized trials: a review of methods used in practice. Clin Trials.
           2005;2(3):209-17.

        7. Clarke MJ, Stewart LA. Meta-analyses using individual patient data. J Eval Clin Pract.
           1997 Aug;3 (3):207-12. Review. PubMed PMID: 9406108

        8. Stewart LA, Clarke MJ. Practical methodology of meta-analyses (overviews) using updated
           individual patient data. Cochrane Working Group. Stat Med. 1995 Oct 15;14(19):2057-79.
    
  