
    
      Sepsis is a complex set of signs and symptoms caused by Systemic Inflammatory Response
      Syndrome (SIRS) to an infection. Sepsis-related mortality is directly proportional to the
      severity of organ dysfunction, and can be up to 80% in the case of septic shock.

      Due to the pro-inflammatory response to this insult, tissues can be damaged far away from the
      primary site of infection. Concurrently with pro-inflammatory cytokines, the immune system
      produces anti-inflammatory mediators such as IL-10, which exert a compensatory antagonist
      response. The imbalance toward the anti-inflammatory one can conduce to "immuno-paralysis"
      that undermines the defense of the organism against infection.

      Antibodies play a crucial role in fighting infections; low levels of protective antibodies
      are directly related to worst outcome. In consideration to that, polyvalent immunoglobulins
      (Ig) represent a potential therapeutic support for modulation of immune response and of
      inflammation in sepsis and septic shock.

      They contain a broad spectrum of antibodies direct against a wide variety of bacterial
      antigens (all three classes normally found in human plasma - IgG and IgM and IgGAM
      conjugate).

      In addition to antibody activity and antigen neutralization, benefits of Ig may include:
      inactivation of bacterial toxins (endotoxin and exotoxins); increased clearance of
      lipopolysaccharide; stimulation of leukocytes and their bactericidal activity through
      mechanism of opsonization; reduction in the activity of the classical pathway of the
      complement; modulation of cytokine production by blood mononuclear cells; synergistic
      activity with antibiotics.

      Meta-analysis of main studies produced so far have shown that the Ig support, in particular
      the IgM-enriched ones, are associated with improved survival of patient with severe sepsis;
      these are promising results but the quality of the studies doesn't allow yet to have strong
      evidence in favour of their use.

      The IgM-enriched immunoglobulins (IgGAM) proved to be most effective and are currently in the
      formulary and usable in case of severe infections (Pentaglobin ®). However, they are not
      commonly prescribed, and there aren't any guidelines to determine how and when to use them.

      Unpublished clinical data suggest a beneficial effect even at microvascular level by
      application of the method of near infrared spectroscopy with vascular occlusion tests on
      level of tenar eminence of the hand.

      Microcirculatory dysfunction (endothelial damage and glycocalyx, increased permeability and
      tissue edema, leukocyte adhesion, pro-coagulating agent, reduction of deformability of red
      blood cells) is a crucial aspect in the pathogenesis of sepsis-induced organ dysfunction,
      resulting in hypoperfusion and tissue hypoxia. Persistent microvascular perfusion
      abnormalities have been associated with an unfavorable outcome in patients with septic shock.

      In consideration to that, a therapy that can prove to act on the microcirculation by
      restoring tissue perfusion would represent a promising pathophysiological approach to the
      patient in septic shock.

      Material and Methods This is a double blind phase II prospective randomised controlled trial.
      It will include patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the University Hospital
      "Ospedali Riuniti" of Ancona, after no more than 24 hours from development of severe sepsis
      or septic shock (diagnosis according to the criteria established by the Consensus Conference
      of 2001).

      Patients younger than 18 years old, pregnant women, patients with severe sepsis/septic shock
      for more than 24 hours, chronic renal failure, terminal state with a life expectancy of less
      than 24 hours, contraindications to treatment with IgGAM, lack of informed consent will be
      excluded.

      When inclusion criteria present and there aren't any exclusion criteria for this trials
      written informed consent will be taken by patient.

      Demographic and clinical data will be collected by the investigator (age, weight, sex, acute
      and chronic diseases present at inclusion, GCS, APACHE II, SAPS II, arterial blood gases,
      SOFA score, lab data such as Hb, WBC, hepatic and renal function, blood sugar, Procalcitonin
      ) Patients will be randomized into two groups (treaties and controls): patients in Group of
      the treaties will be submitted to infusion of IgGAM conjugate (Pentaglobin ®) at dosage of
      250 mg/kg IV (5 mL/kg) per day (rate of 0.4 mL/kg/h), for 72 hours. The controls will receive
      equal amount of physiological NaCl solution (0.9%) as placebo. Neither the patient nor the
      staff nurses and MD will be aware of the group and of the treatment applied (double blind
      trial). IgGAM solutions or NaCl 0.9% are provided by the hospital pharmacy in similar bags.

      All patients of the two groups will receive the optimal therapy for their conditions,
      according to good medical clinical practice (GMP), with appropriate antibiotic therapy,
      vasoactive and infusional therapy.All treatments except from Pentaglobin/placebo will not be
      changed and will be at the discretion of the doctor who's in charge of the patient.At the
      time of inclusion, the following data will be collected: gender, age, anthropometric
      parameters, ICU admission diagnosis, known or suspected infection, results of microbiological
      tests. Prior to initiating therapy (T0), after 24 hours (T24) and at the end of therapy with
      IgGAM conjugate sublingual microcirculation will be evaluated by "Incident Dark Field Imaging
      (Medical imaging, Cytocam, IDF Braedius, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) and tissue oxygenation
      by using "Near Infrared Spectroscopy technique " (NIRS, InSpectra ™ Model 650; Hutchinson
      Technology Inc., Hutchinson, MN, USA). Both techniques are commonly used in our clinical
      practice and include CE mark.

      At the same time points temperature and hemodynamic parameters (mean arterial pressure and
      heart rate; cardiac index, global end-diastolic volume, extravascular Lung water when
      monitored) will be collected, together with arterial and venous blood gas and lab data,
      diuresis and water balance, GCS. Concomitant treatments are noted. Data regarding the
      duration of hospital stay in intensive care and the outcome will be recorded.

      The sample size has been assessed on the basis of the primary objective of the study, based
      on a significantly higher PVD in the Group of patients treated with IgGAM compared with
      controls at 72 hours after starting treatment. Assuming an average difference between the two
      groups at 72hrs of 4 mm/mm2 with a SD of 3, nine patients per group would be sufficient with
      an α error of 0.05 and a power of 80%. In total 20 patients will be included (10 per group
      All data will be collected anonymously, attributing to each selected patient only an
      alpha-numeric code, into an electronic database (password protected), respecting privacy and
      confidentiality of the data.
    
  