
    
      Aging is associated with a decline in cognitive functioning (CF), which influence negatively
      the motor capacities of older adults (1). Differences on dynamic brain, namely reductions in
      structural and functional connectivity contribute to cognitive decline. However, efficient
      communications between brain regions works like a prerequisite for CF (2,3).

      Programs targeting cognitive functioning improvement evidenced the importance of the
      information processing speed (IPS). However, IPS may not be the only factor conditioning the
      relationship between CF and gait in the older people, especially in locomotive tasks that
      require attention (4). According to Lezak et al. (5), the performance in each area of CF
      decreases with aging, and the most significant decline is reported on the performance of
      complex attentional tasks such as selective or divided attention.

      Recent studies focusing cognitive or physical fitness programs, have been shown that
      dual-task (DT) performance, particularly involving walking while performing a task with
      cognitive interference, predicts the risk of frailty, disability and mortality in older
      people (6,7).

      According Bahureksa, et al. (8), for balance maintenance is needed to incorporate and
      decipher the sensorimotor information through CF. On the other hand, exercise programs
      reported as effective strategies for agility, muscle strength and body composition
      improvement (9, 10). However, no studies were found focusing the effect and benefits of a
      multimodal exercise program privileging IPS on brain electrical activity, CF and functional
      fitness in community-dwelling older adults.

      This multimodal exercise program, privileging information processing speed and comprising
      sensorimotor and neurocognitive exercises, may revert the process of loss and decline on
      brain dynamics, CF and physical fitness in community-dwelling older adults.
    
  