
    
      New sepsis 3.0 definition has for the first time included a dysregulated host response to
      infection as the cause of organ dysfunction, however, sepsis remains a highly heterogeneous
      syndrome without an accepted definition of what constitutes a dysregulated host response. The
      field is only now realising that inclusion of specific characteristics of the host response
      (transcriptomic or immunological profiles) facilitate stratification of patients with sepsis
      into subgroups (endotypes), allowing for prognostic enrichment and targeted therapeutic
      intervention.

      Unfortunately, new guidelines continue to ignore the role of pathogens, virulence, sites of
      infection and lower-socio-economic settings. Additionally, it remains to be seen whether
      parasitic, viral and fungal conditions, common in LMIC, should be lumped with bacterial
      infections in the definition of sepsis. MARS -India will allow the investigators to compare
      these parameters and those of multi-drug resistant (MDR) pathogens on the impact of the host
      response and outcomes in sepsis. Not least develop an accurate temporal association of
      endotypes and detailed understanding of the immune suppressed phenotype. A functional
      immunology approach throughout and correlations with changes in the gut microbiome will
      further fortify our understanding of sepsis pathophysiology to help establish a 'sepsis
      fingerprint' and framework for novel interventions in future. Epidemiology data in itself
      will considerably heighten our understanding towards a global perspective on sepsis.

      Furthermore, little guidance is offered in the Surviving Sepsis Guidelines toward optimal
      management of the seemingly cured post-acute sepsis patient, who is commonly readmitted with
      an infection or worse has a significantly reduced life expectancy (>40% 1yr mortality in some
      studies). MARS-India will also aim to establish the burden of this stage of sepsis in a LMIC
      setting and study the underpinning pathophysiology in more detail to establish groundwork in
      uncovering pathways for future therapeutic targeting.

      It is apparent that biomarkers reflecting activity of targetable immunological pathways will
      be of paramount importance in managing the septic patient in future.
    
  