
    
      Formative Research Phase (Months 1-6) We will undertake qualitative formative studies to: (1)
      identify barriers to HAART and strategies currently used to engage PLH in care; (2) identify
      access points and ways to reach a diversity of PLH social networks; (3) gain an understanding
      of PLH views, motivations, barriers, and facilitators of care entry, maintenance, and
      adherence; (4) examine the structure and segments of the PLH community in St. Petersburg; and
      (5) elicit input from members of the PLH community and its stakeholders concerning the
      planned network recruitment, assessment, and intervention procedures and content. We will
      refine protocols used in our intervention pilot study based on findings of the formative
      research phase.

      Key informant interviews. In-depth individual interviews will be conducted with approximately
      30 persons with a high level of understanding about the PLH community. They will include
      persons occupying formal and informal roles with PLH such as care providers in clinics,
      testing programs, and AIDS centers; and leaders of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that
      serve PLH. Interviews will be recorded, conducted by staff experienced in open-ended
      interviewing, last about 2 hours, and follow a topic guide with latitude to pursue new themes
      that emerge. The guide will elicit information on: (1) current strategies to link, maintain,
      and promote adherence of PLH to care, and the success and shortcomings of these strategies;
      (2) structural, psychosocial, service availability, and other barriers and facilitators of
      care and adherence; (3) reasons PLH avoid, drop out, or interrupt care and adherence; (4)
      characteristics of PLH who are most and least likely to enter, remain in, and adhere to care;
      (5) access points for reaching PLH not in care; and (6) recommendations concerning planned
      study methods.

      In-depth interviews with PLH. We will also carry out in-depth interviews with at least 50
      PLH, purposively selected to maximize diversity with respect to gender, age, mode of
      exposure, longstanding versus recent infection, involvement in care systems, and reported
      HAART adherence. To achieve this heterogeneity, PLH will be recruited in both clinical and
      community settings and use PLH who were successfully recruited to recruit PLH they know who
      are not in care. In addition to the topics above, PLH interviews will assess characteristics
      of interactions with other PLH in their social networks including where they interact with
      PLH not in care, including virtual and physical locations; ways they talk about issues
      related to HIV status, how these may differ between males and females, experiences with care
      systems, adherence, perceived stigma, and coping. We will also elicit feedback related to
      recruitment, assessment, and intervention methods planned for the main trial. 2-hour
      interviews, conducted by experienced interviewers, will be audio recorded.

      Qualitative phase data analysis and integration of formative findings into intervention
      planning. All interview tapes will be transcribed in Russian and translated into English by
      bilingual study staff experienced in AIDS-related vernacular, coded, and analyzed for key
      themes and patterns of responses. Data analysis will look for reasons why PLH are or are not
      in care for their HIV disease; reasons why PLH adhere or do not adhere to antiretroviral
      regimens; experiences with HIV care systems; beliefs, attitudes, and intentions regarding
      treatment as held by individuals and among friends who are also PLH; how and when PLH talk
      with HIV-positive friends about the disease and treatment; existing peer norms regarding
      HAART and adherence; access points to reach PLH not in care including community venues and
      virtual sites; and other themes relevant to intervention planning. Analysis will take place
      inductively and deductively in relation to the study's major analytic domains and constructs.
      Coding of data will occur in three stages. The first stage will code the data by participant
      type (key informant or PLH) and, for PLH, by key participant background characteristics
      (gender, mode of exposure, in treatment, or not in treatment). The second stage will apply
      codes to reflecting the main analytical domains (engagement in care, adherence to HAART,
      network norms regarding HAART, barriers to care systems, and others). Sub-codes will be
      identified through careful reading of interview transcripts to identify themes, event
      sequences, and relationships among factors within the major study domains. Creation of
      sub-codes is the third stage of the coding process, allowing discovery of unexpected patterns
      and relationships.

      Qualitative data analysis will first summarize the variability in each domain. We will then
      look for patterned differences and relationships among codes such as differences between PLH
      who did not link or remain in care and those who did, and those who are or are not adherent
      to HAART. For example, we will look at differences in mode of exposure, gender, experiences
      with the health care system, and other life circumstances among those who linked into care
      compared to those who did not. We will then form initial hypotheses regarding reasons why
      some PLH engage in care while others do not, which we will test by comparing participants
      with the hypothesized explanatory factor (e.g. gender, negative experiences with health care
      systems) to see if they differ in engagement in care. This iterative and comparative process
      will continue until the research team is comfortable with the explanatory model developed. We
      will then present findings to the Community Advisory Committee in order to translate findings
      into development of intervention content including messages, attitudes, motivations, and
      skills needed to promote entry and maintenance in care; strategies and skills for maintaining
      HAART adherence; benefits of care to the health of oneself and others; handling barriers to
      care involvement; areas in which the intervention needs to be tailored by gender; ways to
      handle issues that may arise in cross-gender communication; and development of a positive
      self-identity as a PLH. We will also identify access points to recruit initial PLH seeds. We
      will specifically elicit Advisors' recommendations concerning recruitment, assessment, and
      intervention content and delivery.

      Community Advisory Committee. We have extensively discussed the project with PLH community
      advocates and stakeholders in St. Petersburg. A 7-member Advisory Committee has already been
      formed, including leaders of NGOs and agencies that serve PLH: Doctors to Children,
      Humanitarian Action, The Society of People Living with HIV/AIDS, The Unity of People Living
      with HIV, Astra, and the Leningrad Oblast AIDS Center. We will meet at least annually to
      solicit committee guidance about project activities, findings, community perspectives and
      concerns.

      Main Trial Phase (Months 7-60)

      Overview of the main intervention outcome trial's experimental design. The main trial is a
      two-arm randomized outcome study. A total of 32 sociocentric social networks of PLH will be
      recruited by first identifying initial seeds-always PLH who are either out-of-care or
      treatment nonadherent-in multiple access points that were identified in the formative phase.
      We will then enroll three rings of HIV+ friends outward beginning with each seed. Each
      sociocentric network is expected to consist of approximately 16 to 18 individuals (expected
      n=32x18=576 participants). This estimate is based on the size and density of participants'
      personal networks observed in our pilot studies. Each network member will be assessed at
      baseline using measures to be described shortly and will receive individual counseling about
      the benefits and availability of HIV care and of antiretroviral therapy adherence. This
      session will "prime" participants to an understanding about the availability, accessibility,
      and benefits of care. The counseling will be given to all study participants, including those
      in the comparison group. Members of the 16 PLH networks randomized to the experimental
      condition will then additionally receive the network intervention. Cadres of empirically
      identified influence leaders within each experimental condition network will be identified,
      trained, and engaged to reinforce other network members for engagement and adherence. At 6-
      and 12-month followup points, assessment data will again be collected to determine
      intervention impact on the primary outcomes.
    
  