
    
      Either primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism may necessitate parathyroidectomy in some
      patients to improve the related biochemical abnormalities or symptoms, or both. Many patients
      diagnosed with hyperparathyroidism today do not have the classic or historical severe
      manifestations such as osteitis fibrosa cystica or nephrocalcinosis. The well-known pentad of
      symptoms - painful bones, kidney stones, abdominal groans, psychic moans, and fatigue
      overtones - is more common, although most patients have few dramatic symptoms. The
      multifactorial causes for many of the symptoms that patients have make it difficult to know
      to what extent surgical intervention will alleviate the symptoms. Several endocrine surgeons
      from the western countries have used a standardized health status assessment tool such as the
      SF-36 (the Medical Outcomes Study Short-Form Health Survey) to assess symptoms and health
      state in patients with hyperparathyroidism. Results of the studies confirmed that these
      patients are indeed impaired in several domains and even seemingly "asymptomatic" patients
      benefit from parathyroidectomy. More recently, Canadian surgeon Pasieka designed and
      validated a disease-specific surgical outcome tool, the parathyroidectomy assessment of
      symptoms (PAS) score, for patients with hyperparathyroidism. Using this tool, several studies
      from different countries showed that the study group of patients with hyperparathyroidism had
      significantly more symptoms than controls, and some of the symptoms are remarkably
      ameliorated after surgery. In Taiwan, only a small number of studies have evaluated
      neuropsychiatric function and neuromuscular abnormalities in these patients. None of the
      studies has used a patient-based measure of health status or quality of life intended to
      capture patient-reported perceptions of health and function.
    
  