
    
      In SCD, exertional hypoxia and nocturnal hemoglobin desaturation (NHD, or hemoglobin
      deoxygenation during sleep) are common, treatable, and associated with bad outcomes in
      children and young adults15,16. The median life-expectancy of SCD has risen dramatically in
      the last 40 years. One consequence of this is an expanding young adult population in whom the
      comorbidities are not yet fully characterized. The prevalence, clinical consequences, and
      treatment outcomes of exertional hypoxia and NHD are poorly described in adults with SCD.
      Therefore, it is important to identify and better understand any clinically significant
      hypoxia (during exercise or sleep or at rest) in this expanding adult population. The
      investigators will study whether RBC adhesion at baseline and when exposed to hypoxia in
      vitro is significantly increased in adult HbSS patients with baseline hypoxia, exertional
      hypoxia or nocturnal NHD due to RBC membrane changes arising from prolonged in vivo exposure
      to hypoxia, which may be mitigated by oxygen therapy.

      Hypotheses: The investigators hypothesize that disease activity and RBC adhesion (under
      normoxia) will be greater in subjects with HbSS plus baseline in vivo hypoxia, exertional
      hypoxia, or NHD, due to RBC membrane damage from prolonged hypoxia in vivo. Successful
      treatment with therapeutic oxygen, at baseline, with exertion, or during sleep, may decrease
      RBC adhesion in vitro.

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate for resting hypoxia, exertional hypoxia or NHD, and its clinical
      associations, in adults with HbSS.

      Specific Aim 2: To examine baseline RBC adhesion under normoxia or hypoxia in vitro in adults
      with HbSS, with and without in vivo resting or exertional hypoxia or NHD.

      Specific Aim 3: To examine serial changes in S-RBC adhesion at baseline and with hypoxia in
      vitro, in adults with HbSS and resting or exertional hypoxia or NHD, before and after
      therapeutic intervention with oxygen.

      The investigators are testing whether:

        1. Subjects with Hb desaturation at baseline, with exertion, or during sleep (NHD),
           compared to those without, will have increased disease activity (exertional or nocturnal
           symptoms, priapism, WBC activation, reticulocytosis, and/or hemolysis).

        2. S-RBCs from subjects with clinical Hb desaturation at rest, with exertion, or during
           sleep, compared to those without, will have increased adhesion at baseline and when
           exposed to hypoxia in vitro.

      2.A. Treatment of baseline hypoxia, exertional hypoxia, and/or NHD with supplemental oxygen
      will decrease S-RBC adhesion and HEA, and may decrease symptoms, especially night- time
      symptoms.
    
  