
    
      1. Background Cervical Cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors of Chinese
           females. Women with evidence of para-aortic node involvement have a poor prognosis with
           a five-year survival rate of approximately 40 percent. Despite low-quality data, the
           routine practice to treat these patients is radiation with concurrent cisplatin. It is
           not clear whether systemic chemotherapy delivered following RT will obtain survival
           benefit.

        2. Objective The aim of this study is to compare systemic chemotherapy with observation
           after radiation with concurrent cisplatin of cervical cancer ( with pelvic or
           para-aortic node involvement) for incidence of adverse events, 3y-PFS and 5y-OS, .

        3. Patients

      A patient will be enrolled when patient have:

        1. Pathologically diagnosed cervical cancer;

        2. pelvic or para-aortic lymph metastases, at least match one of following

             -  CT or MRI scan shows pelvic or para-aortic node with a minimal axial diameter
                diameter ≥ 7mm in the largest plane

             -  pelvic or para-aortic lymph node shows necrosis or extra capsular spread

             -  PET/CT scan finds positive pelvic or para-aortic node lymph node

             -  biopsy confirms lymph metastase

        3. Stage IB1-IVA diseases (FIGO system ver. 2014) without treatment before;

        4. Karnofsky Performance Scores ≥ 70;

      4.Method

        1. Randomization is performed to divide the patients into the control group (Group A) and
           the experimental group (Group B). In Group A, observation is given after radiation with
           concurrent cisplatin. But in Group B, three cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy ( Paclitaxel
           plus Cisplatin) are administered after radiation with concurrent cisplatin. The regimen
           of adjuvant chemotherapy following radiation is Paclitaxel 135mg/m2 plus Cisplatin
           60mg/m2 once 3 weeks.The Grade 3/4 adverse events (CTCAE criteria ver. 4.03), the 3-year
           progression-free survival of the 2 groups, the 5-year overall survival of the 2 groups
           are compared.

        2. In Group A and Group B, both the radiation method and the regimen of concurrent
           chemotherapy are the same.The gross tumor volume (GTVnd) is the lymph node lesion and
           given a dose of 60Gy. The clinical target volume (CTV) is according to the lymph
           drainage pathway and given a dose of 45Gy. The regimen of concurrent chemotherapy is
           Cisplatin 80mg/m2 once three weeks.
    
  