
    
      Pressure ulcers (PUs) pose a major healthcare challenge and are associated with an increased
      risk of infection and sepsis, longer hospital stay, and higher hospitalization costs. Their
      reported incidence in critical care patients varies widely from 1% to 56%. Therefore it is
      important to take appropriate preventive measures, which can often be successful and less
      costly than the treatment of established ulcers. Among these measures are the use of
      pressure-reducing surfaces and repositioning strategies in a protocolized way. Though there
      is general agreement that critical care patients, including those under mechanical
      ventilation must use pressure-reducing surfaces, there is no enough evidence in the
      literature about what is the best repositioning schedule when new, high technology mattresses
      are used. The use of this new technology has lead to propose that repositioning can be less
      frequent. In the only clinical trial where this subject (time interval turning) has been
      addressed (Vanderwee et al, Journal of Advanced Nursing), it is concluded that a turning
      regimen every 4 hours is equally effective than a 2-hour turning, using this kind of
      mattresses. Nonetheless this study is not made in critically ill patients, that have more
      risk factors for developing PUs, the reason we don´t share this findings and recommendations
      cannot be generalized.

      The study hypothesis is that in patients using APAMs, a turning regimen every 2 hour compared
      to a 4-hour is most effective in the prevention of PUs and could be equally safe.

      The objective of this study is to investigate the effect of postural turnings every 2 hours
      compared to every 4 hours on the incidence of grade > II pressure ulcers (PU) in patients in
      ICU on mechanical ventilation (MV) ≥ 24h that use alternating-pressure air mattresses (APAMs)
      The study is an open label, randomized, controlled clinical trial. The main variable is the
      incidence of Pus grade ≥ II. As secondary variables measures of efficacy and safety of
      patients will be registered. The study will take place in a 26 bed medical-surgical ICU with
      APAMs. Randomization will be done between 24h-48h from the beginning of MV. The final
      analysis will be by intention to treat.
    
  