
    
      Background:

      Experiencing labour pain is a challenge to the parturient woman and can possibly cause a
      traumatic birth experience, post traumatic stress syndrome, post partum depression, caesarean
      section or refraining from having more children.

      Pharmacological pain relief methods to relieve birth pain are limited and often associated
      with side effects. Investigating new methods without adverse effects to relieve labour pain
      is therefore important.

      Several studies indicate that a mental trainings method, self-hypnosis, has a positive impact
      on labour pain and several other birth outcomes. However, many of these studies were based on
      observational data with a limited amount of participants that may be prone to bias and
      confounding.

      Aim:

      The aim of this study is to examine the effect of a short antenatal course in self hypnosis
      on the use of epidural analgesia during childbirth.

      Method:

      The study is designed as an interventional single center study taking place at one of the
      largest birth departments in Denmark. It is a randomised, controlled, single blinded trial
      using a 3 arm group design.

      The participants will be randomised by a voice respond program. The intervention group
      receives 3 antenatal classes in self hypnosis taught by midwives with qualified training in
      hypnosis. The course includes audio compact discs for homework in self hypnosis.

      The active comparator group also receives 3 antenatal classes. The program is taught by the
      same midwives as in the intervention group and includes a mixture of training in different
      relaxation methods and mindfulness. This course also includes audio compact discs for
      homework.

      The control group will only receive ordinary antenatal care and no additional interventions.

      The data collection will be based on questionnaires, register data, medical records and
      biological material.

      The endpoints are:

      Primary:

        -  The use of epidural analgesia during birth

      Secondary:

        -  Length of birth

        -  Birth progression at arrival at birth department

        -  Birth experience (pain, control, anxiety)

        -  Medical interventions during birth including mode of delivery

        -  Hemorrhage during birth

        -  Saliva cortisol profile at birth and 6 weeks p.p.

        -  Infection during birth and the first 6 weeks p.p. (mother and child)

        -  Postnatal depression

        -  Breastfeeding duration

        -  Child's condition and wellbeing at birth and 6 months later

        -  Future mode of delivery

      At the start of the study, we performed our power calculations based on the fact that 44% of
      all primiparas at Aarhus University Hospital Skejby in 2007 had received epidural analgesia.
      We hypothesized that the observed frequency of epidural analgesia would be 25 % in the
      intervention group, 35 % in the placebo effect group and 40 % in the placebo group.

      According to these power calculations, we should include 328 participants in the hypnosis
      group, 328 participants in the active comparator group and 152 participants in the control
      group to obtain a power of 80 % (α 0.05 (two sided)) in detecting a difference of 5
      percentage points (relative risk (RR) 0.71) between the intervention and the active
      comparator group. By including 152 participants in the control group we would have a larger
      power to detect a difference of 15 percentage points (RR 0.63) in the use of epidural
      analgesia between the intervention and the control group.

      Because we expected that some participants would develop medical conditions that required
      epidural analgesia during delivery, give birth prior to receiving their allocated
      intervention, or give birth by caesarean section, we decided to increase the sample size by
      10% in all groups to a total of 890 participants.

      In 2010, the study board experienced that in 2009 the general frequency of epidural analgesia
      in primiparas giving birth at Aarhus University Hospital Skejby had decreased to
      34%.Therefore it was decided to adjust the sample size according to this new information.

      When the sample size was adjusted we maintained the same sample ratios between the groups and
      hypothesized that the observed frequency of epidural analgesia would be 22 % in the
      intervention group, 30 % in the placebo effect group and 32 % in the placebo group. To obtain
      a power of 80 % (α 0.05 (two sided)) in detecting a difference of 8 percentage points (RR
      0.73) between the intervention and the active comparator group in the use of epidural
      analgesia and a difference of 10 percentage points (RR 0.68) between the intervention and the
      control group we should include 446 participants in the hypnosis group, 446 participants in
      the active comparator group and 226 participants in the control group, in total 1097
      participants. Again, we further increased the sample size with an extra 10% to account for
      those women that would not be able to comply with their allocated treatment because of
      obstetric conditions and reached a sample size in total of 1208.

      Analyses will primarily be performed as "intended to treat". Secondary analyses according to
      "as treated" and preplanned subgroup analysis will also be performed.
    
  