
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine progression-free survival in patients with refractory or progressive
           follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with immediate or delayed autologous
           immunoglobulin idiotype-KLH conjugate vaccine and sargramostim after rituximab (groups I
           and II).

        -  Determine the immune response rate in patients treated with these regimens (groups I,
           II, and III).

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of these regimens in these patients (groups I, II, and
           III).

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study for patients previously registered on and
      confirmed ineligible for randomization in protocol Genitope-G2000-03.

      Patients receive rituximab IV weekly for 4 weeks.

        -  Group I: The first 30 patients to achieve and maintain a partial response (PR) or better
           receive autologous immunoglobulin idiotype-KLH conjugate vaccine subcutaneously (SC) on
           day 1 and sargramostim SC on days 1-4 beginning 26 weeks after the last dose of
           rituximab. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 14 weeks (8 immunizations).

        -  Group II: All subsequent patients who achieve a PR or better receive autologous
           immunoglobulin idiotype-KLH conjugate vaccine and sargramostim SC as in group I
           beginning 13 weeks after the last dose of rituximab.

        -  Group III: Patients who are not eligible for group I or II and, in the investigator's
           opinion, are suitable candidates for immunization with autologous immunoglobulin
           idiotype-KLH conjugate vaccine and sargramostim SC receive the same treatment as groups
           I and II, beginning no more than 1 year after the last (fourth) dose of rituximab.

      In all groups, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or emergence of an
      illness that may interfere with study assessments.

      Patients are followed for initial response 8 weeks after completion of immunizations and then
      every 12 weeks for an additional year. Thereafter, all immunized patients will be followed
      every 6 months until receipt of first subsequent anti-lymphoma therapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Up to 120 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  