
    
      Preterm birth (PTB), defined as birth at less than 37 completed weeks is the leading cause
      for neonatal mortality and morbidity in the USA. The most common risk factor for PTB is a
      prior preterm birth. The etiology includes several risk factors including prior preterm
      birth, cervical insufficiency, short cervical length, low socioeconomic and educational
      status, extremes of maternal age, genital tract infection/colonization, smoking, underlying
      chronic disease, uterine anomalies, cervical surgery, injury to the endometrium, race, and
      exposure to environmental factors. The objective of our study specifically focuses on
      cervical insufficiency and a short cervical length at <24 weeks gestation defined as less
      than 25 mm as measured by transvaginal ultrasonography. It is well known that infants born
      prematurely have increased morbidity and mortality, including respiratory distress syndrome,
      intraventricular hemorrhage, necrotizing enterocolitis, long term health and neurologic
      abnormalities, extensive hospital stays, neonatal death, etc. The risks are significantly
      more pronounced at earlier gestational ages. Cervical cerclage, when indicated, has been
      shown to be beneficial in reducing preterm birth rates and therefore decrease adverse
      neonatal outcomes, perinatal morbidity, and mortality. The indications for cervical cerclage
      include a history of recurrent second trimester losses and/or PTB (history indicated), short
      cervical length (<2.5cm on transvaginal ultrasound (ultrasound indicated), or a dilated
      cervix on physical exam (physical exam indicated). Our study focuses on history and
      ultrasound indicated cerclage.

      There are various surgical approaches to placement of cervical cerclages- transvaginal and
      transabdominal. Our study focuses on the transvaginal approach and the modified McDonald
      technique with transvaginal placement of a purse-string suture at the cervicovaginal
      junction. Suture material varies by the surgeon's preference and can involve monofilament
      suture (Prolene), polyester fiber (Mersilene tape), or a braided polyester suture (Ti-Cron or
      Ethibond). Clinically, the number of sutures can also vary by surgeon preference to one or
      two sutures in one procedure. This is often decided in the operating room (OR) on the day of
      surgery but is poorly studied in the efficacy of maintaining the closed cervical length.
      Retrospective data found no significant benefit on placing two stitches instead of one in
      preterm birth rate but was extremely limited and heterogenous in many clinical characteristic
      among the cerclage procedures. There were suggestions that two cerclage sutures may reduce
      the risk of cerclage revision, birth before 20 weeks, and a nonsignificant improvement in
      outcome of early preterm deliveries. Therefore, two randomized controlled trials one
      prospective study and one meta-analysis were performed. They did suggest a beneficial effect
      of double cerclage on obstetrical outcomes especially in earlier preterm birth rates although
      all were limited in sample size and therefore power. A randomized control trial with adequate
      sample size is still needed to answer the question of whether double cervical cerclage suture
      is more beneficial than a single suture.
    
  