
    
      THE CONTEXT

      Aspirin is the anti-thrombotic therapy of choice for patients in the acute or chronic phase
      of vascular, cardiac, and neurological diseases, unless there is a specific indication for
      sodium warfarin (for instance, cardiac thrombus, chronic atrial fibrillation, cardio-embolic
      ischemic stroke). Recent studies, including some meta-analyses, suggest that 5-60% of
      patients with cardiovascular disease who use aspirin show some platelet resistance to the
      drug. However, the available studies include several methodological errors that make
      interpretation and practical application difficult. Thus, the incidence and outcome of
      platelet resistance remain poorly understood, especially in patients with ischemic stroke.
      Moreover, few studies have included patients in ambulatory follow-up

      THERAPY WITH ASPIRIN

      The dose of aspirin to be prescribed in this study will be 300 mg orally or by nasogastric
      tube once a day (assisted therapy), with first dose tomography soon after admission if the
      patient has no indication of thrombolytic therapy. After the acute phase, patients will
      receive aspirin at a dose of 200 mg/day. Aspirin will be administered in a "simple"
      preparation (no buffer, no extended release)

      ANALYSIS OF OUTCOME DURING THE HOSPITAL PHASE

      The outcomes will be assessed daily during hospitalization until the patient is discharged.
      The physician, the patient, and the researchers will not have access to the results of tests
      for platelet function. The number of days of hospitalization will be reviewed, including the
      number of days of hospitalization in the intensive care unit. Deaths will be analyzed, and
      the cause of death will be described in detail in each case. Electrocardiograms will be
      examined by an experienced cardiologist. Echocardiograms will be examined by an experienced
      cardiologist specializing in this method. Tomography will be examined by an experienced
      neuroradiologist, and resonance/resonance angiography will be evaluated by another
      experienced neuroradiologist; both will be blinded to the platelet results. Outcomes will be
      judged by a committee containing a neurologist, a hematologist, a neuroradiologist, a
      cardiologist, and an epidemiologist, all of whom will be blinded to the results of platelet
      function

      MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT AFTER HOSPITAL DISCHARGE

      Outcomes will be analyzed through interviews 3, 12, 24, and 36 months after the initial
      neurological event, as well as with monthly telephone interviews. Potential adverse outcomes
      (death, hospitalization, diagnostic tests conducted, request for treatment of any condition,
      or new onset of symptoms) will be assessed in detail by the committee of investigators of
      this study. During this evaluation, the doctor, the patient, and the researchers will not
      have access to the results of the tests for platelet function. The outcomes will be judged by
      a committee comprising a neurologist, a hematologist, a neuroradiologist, a cardiologist, and
      an epidemiologist, all of whom will be blinded to platelet test results Adherence (daily use)
      will be investigated in an active manner at all return visits and through monthly telephone
      contact. This study will include interviews with patients and separate interviews with
      families, in addition to reviews of the package of aspirin. In addition, adherence will be
      assessed by measuring serum thromboxane B2.

        -  Monthly telephone contact with the patient and his or her family will be used to
           determine whether the patient has remained stable or has had any adverse outcome (died,
           needed to seek medical care, or presented new symptoms). In the presence of any such
           outcomes, we will investigate the details (death certificate, report of hospital stay,
           and analysis of diagnostic tests performed). In addition, we will investigate the
           records and medical reports associated with any inquiries or admissions.

        -  The evaluation at three and twelve months will consist of a variety of tests of platelet
           function; in addition, a standardized questionnaire will be administered. Patients who
           do not attend the consultation will be contacted within 30 days. If the patient still
           cannot attend the consultation (e.g., because of difficulty in walking), the researcher
           will go to the patient's home.

      SEVERE BLEEDING

        -  Any fatal bleeding event (all causes will be described)

        -  Life-threatening bleeding: a drop in hemoglobin of at least 50 g/L, hypotension
           requiring inotropes (hemorrhagic shock); symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage; or
           transfusion of at least 4 units of red blood cells

        -  Major bleeding, defined as significantly disabling (with persistent sequelae);
           intraocular bleeding leading to significant loss of vision; or transfusion of 1-3 units
           of red blood cells

      DEFINITION OF HYPERREACTIVITY TO ASPIRIN

        -  For PFA-100 using a cartridge with C-EPI (collagen-epinephrine): occlusion time < 150
           seconds

        -  Chrono-Log Model 700 Whole-Blood: above 0 Ω with 0.75 mM of arachidonic acid

        -  Chrono-Log Model 700 Whole-Blood: with collagen at 1 mg/L and 5 mg/L, according to the
           formula 1 - (Rate of aggregation with 1 mg / Rate of aggregation with 5 mg).
           Hyperreactivity will be defined for values below 0.50

        -  - Chrono-Log Model 700 Whole-Blood: with collagen at 1 mg/L above 10 Ω

        -  Plateletworks: aggregation of more than 60% with arachidonic acid will be considered
           resistant

        -  VerifyNow Aspirin Assay (Accumetrics): ≥ 550 aspirin reaction units (ARUs)

        -  Impact-R (Diamed) > 3.2% platelet aggregates on the surface of the plate after
           incubation with arachidonic acid

      COLLECTION OF BLOOD

      Blood samples will be collected on arrival at the ED (before the first dose of aspirin), on
      the fifth day of hospitalization, after three months, and again after 12 months. Samples will
      be collected between 9 and 12 AM after fasting overnight, except for the sample taken on
      arrival at the ED. The blood will be collected from the antecubital vein, or another vein if
      necessary, into bottles of citrate (3.2%; Vacuette, Greiner Bio-One) or directly into the
      Plateletworks bottle kit. Samples will total approximately 20 ml. The tourniquet will not be
      applied for more than 30 seconds and movement will not be allowed before or during
      collection. In order to prevent platelet activation induced by collection, even with the
      above precautions, the first 5 ml sample will be discarded. The bottles will be filled to the
      top and gently inverted five times to obtain the correct mixture of blood with anticoagulant.
      In the Plateletworks test, assays will conducted within 10 minutes of collection; the
      remaining assays will be conducted within 30 minutes

      AGGREGOMETRY BY MEASURING THE IMPEDANCE OF WHOLE BLOOD USING CHRONOLOG MODEL 700 AND SOFTWARE
      (AGGRO/LINK-8, PA, USA)

      After collecting citrated whole blood, the sample will be processed in under 30 minutes.
      Whole blood will be diluted 1:1 with sterile saline (0.9%) and stimulated with one of several
      reagents (Chrono-Log, 0.5 mM arachidonic acid, 1 g/L collagen, or 5 g/L collagen). The
      maximum impedance will be measured using two electrodes immersed in the sample for 6 minutes
      and expressed as Ω.

      PFA-100 (PLATELET FUNCTION ANALYZE-100, SIEMENS, USA)

      Blood specimens for PFA-100® assays will be tested according to the manufacturer's
      instructions. For all samples, the PFA-100® self-test procedure will be run before analysis.
      Testing will be performed using citrated whole blood with collagen-epinephrine cartridges.
      Whole blood will be aspirated under conditions of high shear stress through a 150-µm aperture
      covered with a membrane impregnated with collagen and epinephrine. The time taken to occlude
      the aperture by a platelet plug will be recorded as the closure time (measured in seconds).

      DETERMINATION OF SERUM THROMBOXANE B2 - ELISA

      After collection, blood will be immediately centrifuged (+4 °C), and the plasma immediately
      frozen in liquid nitrogen (-190 °C) and then transferred to a -80 °C freezer. Serum
      thromboxane B2 will be measured by ELISA in duplicate according to the manufacturer's
      instructions, and expressed as ng/ml.

      PLATELETWORKS (HELENA CORPORATION, USA)

      Briefly, after collection of blood in kits containing arachidonic acid, collagen, ADP and
      EDTA, platelet counts will be made by impedance measurement (Horiba ABX, Montpellier,
      France), in accordance with the standard protocol of Helena Laboratories (Helena Point of
      Care ®, Texas, USA). The percentage of platelet aggregation will be calculated using the
      following formula: % of aggregation = [platelets in EDTA - platelets with agonist]/ platelets
      in EDTA x 100

      VERIFYNOW ASPIRIN, ACCUMETRICS, USA

      The VerifyNow Aspirin point-of-care system (Accumetrics, San Diego, CA, USA) is based on
      turbidimetric optical detection of platelet aggregation in whole blood. Whole blood will be
      transferred into standard cartridges containing a lyophilized preparation of human
      fibrinogen-coated beads and arachidonic acid. As aggregation occurs, the system will convert
      luminosity transmittance results into aspirin reaction units (ARUs).

      IMPACT-R, DIAMED, USA

      Citrated blood (130 μL) will be placed in the test kit (wells) according to the
      manufacturer's protocol, and subjected to shear flow using a rotating cone for 2 minutes
      (1800 s-1). The wells will then be washed and stained with May Grünwald. The adhesion of
      platelets to the surface will be evaluated using an image analysis system connected to the
      Impact-R, and the results will be expressed as the percentage of stained area.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      For all calculations, will be used the software IBM SPSS 21.0 for Windows (SPSS Inc, Chicago,
      IL, USA). The database will be created by SPSS Data Entry Builder 4.0 using the double entry
      input system.

      TIMETABLE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT

      Phase No. of Months Calendar Dates Trial Activities and Estimates

        1. 13 03/2007 - 04/2008 Protocol Development

        2. 2 05/2008 - 06/2008 Procedure Finalization

        3. 5 07/2008 - 12/2008 Protocol Revision

        4. 6 01/2009- 06/2009 Training

        5. 12 07/2009 - 06/2010 Main trial recruitment in emergency room

        6. 36 08/2009 - 06/2013 Follow-up

        7. 3 07/2013 - 10/2013 Analysis and reporting.

      CONFLICT OF INTEREST

      There is no external influence or sponsor for the survey, collection, or analysis of data.
      Similarly, the statistical analysis, preparation and publication of manuscripts will be
      conducted entirely by the researchers themselves, working together with epidemiologists and
      statisticians of the Faculty of Medicine, USP. Companies and institutions that provided the
      kits and equipment for the platelet tests will be described in presentations at conferences
      and in publications
    
  