
    
      An initial telephone screening will indicate eligibility to participate in the study. The
      first study visit ("Screening visit") will further determine eligibility to participate. If
      eligible to fully participate, this study will consist of a structured physical activity
      program for 24 weeks. In addition, taking daily medication to control your blood pressure and
      coming to the clinic for several additional assessment visits to monitor your safety and
      measure study outcomes.

      This physical activity program will include moderate-intensity walking, lower-body
      strengthening, flexibility, and balance training. For the first 12 weeks, of participation
      there will be three (3) physical activity sessions per week at the physical activity center.
      These sessions will be led by investigators study staff. These sessions will be used to begin
      the walking program and to introduce the participant to the strength, stretching, and balance
      parts of the program in a safe manner. This will allow instructors to better tailor the
      program to individual needs and abilities. These sessions will involve 40-60 minutes of
      physical activity instruction. For the final 12 weeks of the intervention, there will be two
      (2) of these sessions per week.

      Participants will also be engage in home-based walking twice per week. This walking can be
      done at home, community-based physical activity centers (YMCA, senior centers, churches,
      etc.), or other appropriate facilities as desired. Participants will be asked to report the
      number of minutes walked each week.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to take one of three medications to continue treating
      blood pressure. These medications are Perindopril, Losartan, and Hydrochlorothiazide. Each
      medication represents a separate type medication commonly used in practice. These medications
      are all standard, FDA-approved medications for the treatment of blood pressure. During the
      time of participating in the study, the use of the normal blood pressure medication will be
      replaced with the medication assigned during the study. The medications will be inserted into
      identical capsules by the study pharmacy so that neither participants nor the investigators
      will know which medication is being used.

      Study staff will monitor blood pressure during the study under the supervision of a
      board-certified cardiologist, and any necessary adjustments to the medication will be
      indicated by the physician. Participants will also be provided with a blood pressure monitor
      to use at home during the study and asked to check blood pressure each day and report any
      abnormal values to study staff. This monitor also automatically records each blood pressure
      reading. Please bring this monitor to each assessment visit so that study staff can download
      the stored blood pressure readings.
    
  