
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the progression-free survival of patients with non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) randomized to carboplatin plus paclitaxel plus cetuximab or carboplatin plus
      paclitaxel plus cixutumumab (IMC-A12) or carboplatin plus paclitaxel plus cetuximab plus
      cixutumumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the response rate, disease control rate (complete response plus partial
      response plus stable disease), and toxicities for each arm.

      II. To evaluate epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) by Immunohistochemistry (IHC),
      mutation, and gene copy number, Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) and
      Insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF-2R) expression (both phosphorylated and
      unphosphorylated states), expression of p-AKT (ie, Protein Kinase B) by IHC, and k-ras
      mutation.

      III. Plasma-based biomarkers will be evaluated for total and free insulin-like growth factor
      1 and 2, IGF-growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) and circulating levels of epidermal
      growth factor (EGF) and Transforming growth factor (TGF) alpha.

      IV. To evaluate overall survival on each of the three arms.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to gender and
      histology (squamous cell vs non-squamous cell). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment
      arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes and paclitaxel IV
      over 3 hours on days 1 and 22 and cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and
      36. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 2 courses. Patients with stable or responding disease
      after 2 courses proceed to maintenance therapy with cetuximab alone on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29,
      and 36. Treatment with cetuximab repeats every 42 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive carboplatin and paclitaxel as in arm I. Patients also receive
      cixutumumab IV over 1 hour on days 1, 15, and 29. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 2
      courses. Patients with stable or responding disease after 2 courses proceed to maintenance
      therapy with cixutumumab alone on days 1, 15, and 29. Treatment with cixutumumab repeats
      every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive carboplatin, paclitaxel, and cetuximab as in arm I. Patients also
      receive cixutumumab as in arm II. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 2 courses. Patients
      with stable or responding disease after 2 courses proceed to maintenance therapy with
      cetuximab as in arm I and cixutumumab as in arm II.

      Tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline for analysis of EGFR expression by IHC,
      mutation, and gene copy number; IGF-1R and IGF-2R expression (both phosphorylated and
      unphosphorylated states); p-AKT expression by IHC; and k-ras mutation. Blood, serum, and
      plasma samples are collected periodically for biomarker analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 200 patients
    
  