
    
      Up to 250 subjects will be consented, screened and have VeraCept placed, with a goal to have
      2240 evaluable cycles at 12 months. It is planned that 225 of the 250 subjects will be within
      the 18-35 year age range, with a total of 2015 evaluable cycles. The remaining 25 subjects
      will be within the 35-40 year age range.

      Follow-up: Physical assessment (office visit) will occur at weeks 6, 13, 26 and 52 after
      placement, with monthly telephone contact. For those subjects who wish to continue study
      device use after 12 months, follow-up office visits will occur every 6 months. Additional
      visits will be conducted if necessary for safety issues.

      Follow-up after early study device removal:

      Subjects requesting VeraCept removal to become pregnant will be followed to pregnancy or
      until the subject changes their mind about trying to get pregnant. All subjects in whom
      VeraCept is removed prior to 12 months, for any reason, will be required to use an
      alternative contraceptive for the first two weeks following removal. Progestin-only pills
      will be provided by the sponsor as a contraceptive option during this time unless the subject
      has a category 4 condition precluding their use.

      Study Population: Pre-menopausal women ages 18 - 40, at risk for pregnancy, who are
      interested in using an intrauterine contraceptive for birth control will be eligible for this
      study. Subjects must provide written informed consent and meet the study subject selection
      criteria without any exclusions as outlined in the Clinical Investigation Plan (CIP).

      Primary Effectiveness Outcome: The primary outcome measure is effectiveness, evaluated as the
      absence of pregnancy by 12 months, failure will be calculated by the Pearl Index.

      Safety and Other Outcome

      Measures: Safety and other outcome measures include:

      Study Device Placement:

        -  Ease of placement

        -  Placement success

      Safety:

        -  Serious Adverse Events

        -  Adverse Events

      Tolerability:

        -  Bleeding and spotting patterns

        -  Discontinuation rate and reasons for discontinuation
    
  