
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is an autoimmune disease characterized by the destruction of
      pancreatic beta (β)-cells, resulting in absolute deficiency of insulin. To date, clinical
      islet transplantation is an accepted modality to treat select patients who exhibit frequent
      hypoglycemic events and severe glycemic liability. The "Edmonton Protocol" became a milestone
      by reporting sustained C-peptide production and high rates of insulin-independence after
      transplant in patients with T1DM. Due to the challenges associated with allo- and
      autoimmunity in islet transplantation, appropriate immunosuppression is necessary to prevent
      acute and/or long-term rejection. Current immunosuppression protocols used in Edmonton and
      many other international sites for islet transplantation consist of a combination of
      induction, anti-inflammatory and maintenance therapy, accounting for higher success rates of
      islet transplantation. In spite of the strengths of the current immunosuppression regimen
      described above, it has failed to enhance single-donor success rates (15%), with the majority
      of patients requiring 2 or more islet transplants to achieve insulin independence. In
      Edmonton, clinical trials are designed to improve islet isolation, engraftment and long-term
      graft survival. The need for life-long, high-dose immunosuppression is associated with
      substantial side effects, and continues to limit application of islet transplantation earlier
      in the course of the disease.

      Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are a small subset of CD4+ T cells that depend on the FOXP3
      transcription factor for their lineage differentiation and function. Tregs have emerged as
      the major contributor to self-tolerance through suppression of activation and effector
      function of other immune cells. Tregs function by preventing the initiation of unwanted
      immune activation and by suppressing ongoing immune responses to limit bystander tissue
      destruction. It has been suggested that infusion of Tregs before extensive graft damage may
      improve long-term graft outcomes. Unlike generalized immunosuppressive regimens, Tregs are
      long-lived and can function in a dominant and antigen-specific manner. Thus, therapeutic
      infusion of Tregs has the potential to induce long-term donor-specific tolerance without
      impeding desired immune responses to pathogens and tumors in transplant patients. In terms of
      diabetes, both animal and human studies demonstrate the central role of Tregs in preserving
      β-cell function. Infusion of Tregs prevents and even reverses diabetes in non-obese diabetic
      (NOD) mice. It has been demonstrated in animal studies that infused Tregs migrate to the
      allograft site shortly after transplantation and can induce stable islet graft survival
      without immunosuppression. Recent human studies report functional defects of Tregs in T1DM,
      which appear to be reversible.

      This clinical trial is collaboration between Dr. Shapiro's Clinical Islet Transplantation
      Program team in Edmonton, Alberta with Drs. Tang and Bluestone's teams at the University of
      California San Francisco (UCSF). Drs. Tang and Bluestone have been instrumental in developing
      PolyTreg technology, providing an opportunity for this exciting collaboration in a clinical
      trial of Treg infusion in islet transplantation. Dr. Tang's team focuses on translating
      knowledge on mechanisms of immune tolerance into novel therapeutics for treating autoimmune
      diabetes and preventing transplant rejection. They have demonstrated the efficacy of Tregs at
      multiple levels to halt tissue destruction in diabetic mouse models by subverting fully
      differentiated effector T-cells. Dr. Bluestone's research over the past 25 years has focused
      on understanding the basic processes that control T-cell activation and immune tolerance in
      autoimmunity and organ transplantation including a special emphasis on Tregs. Dr. Bluestone
      has demonstrated that PolyTreg immunotherapy can be safely administered in adult patients
      with new onset T1DM. Drs. Tang and Bluestone have abundant experience in Treg isolation and
      production and Treg immunotherapy, and bring strong technical and scientific support to this
      project. The investigators expect that this collaboration will integrate the strengths of
      both Treg immunotherapy and the standard treatment for islet transplant. Hence, this trial is
      to investigate the safety and efficacy of Treg infusion incorporated into the current
      protocol for islet transplantation, in the hope of finding more effective alternatives to the
      current immunosuppression regimen in islet transplantation.

      TRIAL DESIGN

      Based on existing pre-clinical and clinical findings, the investigators hypothesize that
      Tregs protect from both auto and allorejection of transplanted islets, thereby improving
      insulin independent durability and C-peptide function over time in adults with T1DM.

      Primary Objective

      To assess the safety and feasibility of intravenous infusion of ex vivo-selected and ex
      vivo-expanded autologous polyTregs in islet transplant patients.

      Primary Outcome Measure/Endpoint

      Adverse events

      Laboratory abnormalities

      Signs of toxicity

      Infusion reactions

      Complications related to infection

      Secondary Objective

      To assess effects on endogenous insulin secretion: Assess the effect of Tregs on b cell
      function in islet transplant patients.

      Secondary Outcome Measure/Endpoint

      C-peptide response during MMTTs

      Insulin use

      HbA1C

      Exploratory Objective

      Surrogate markers of diabetes immune response: Measure the effect of PolyTregs on the
      pathologic autoimmune and allo-immune responses.

      Exploratory Outcome Measure/Endpoint Multicolor flow cytometry (MFC) to assess effect on
      immune profile (pre- infusion, 1, 2, 4 weeks and 3, 6 and 12 months post-infusion)

      Autoantibodies and autoreactive T cell using tetramer/or ELISA spot assay (pre-infusion, and
      3, 6 and 12 months post infusion).

      Persistence and stability of infused PolyTregs in blood using deuterium labelling (Days 1, 7,
      14, 28, 3 months,6 months and 12 months after infusion)

      This trial design will allow determination of the following specific aims:

      To demonstrate the safety of PolyTreg immunotherapy in islet transplantation in Type 1
      diabetic patients.

      To assess the immunological impact of PolyTreg immunotherapy on patients receiving islet
      transplant.

      To assess the efficacy and to establish the optimal dose for PolyTreg immunotherapy.

      The investigators propose that PolyTregs will protect/dampen both auto and allo-rejection,
      thereby improving insulin independent durability and C-peptide function over time. In this
      trial, the investigators propose low level Tac/Sirolimus immunosuppression, the investigators
      hope that less early exposure and long-term exposure to high dose tacrolimus will lead to
      marked improvement in Beta cell function, less renal dysfunction, less opportunistic
      infections, less Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD). The long-term goal is to
      develop and optimize PolyTreg dosing for a subsequent Phase 2 efficacy/safety randomized
      controlled trial (RCT).

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      Study participants will undergo a screening evaluation for this study. This will include the
      screening for standard of care islet transplant. For women of child bearing potential, the
      investigators will ask to confirm they are not pregnant with a blood test. If the patient is
      eligible and has consented to take part, he / she will be assigned into either the control
      group or treatment group at the investigator's discretion. The only difference between the
      two groups will be that the treatment group will receive PolyTregs infusion and the control
      group will not receive PolyTregs infusion. The investigators will collect certain details
      from his / her medical records, including age, sex, ethnicity and medical information. If the
      patient is assigned into the treatment group, a blood sample of 400 mL will be collected for
      PolyTregs manufacturing, which will be infused back to the patient at week 6 after islet
      transplant. The investigators will enrol two participants in the control group at first and
      will proceed with further enrolment for both groups if the procedure appears safe in the
      first two patients.

      For treatment group:

      Study visit 1: Pre-islet transplant

      Before initiation of islet transplant induction therapy, a total of 400 ml whole blood will
      be collected and immediately transported to the UCSF for PolyTregs manufacturing.

      Study visit 2: Islet transplant

      At this visit, participants will undergo islet transplant according to the current standard
      procedures at the University of Alberta Hospital. The only difference will be the use of
      lower doses of Tacrolimus/Sirolimus for immunosuppression.

      Study visit 3: 30 days ± 7 days post-islet transplant

      At visit 2, participants will have standard of care metabolic testing and blood samples taken
      in the Clinical Investigation Unit (CIU) at the University of Alberta Hospital (UAH). These
      tests assess the function of transplanted islets and include an arginine-stimulated c-peptide
      test and an Ensure test. Blood samples will be taken at various time intervals over
      approximately 90 minutes and will test for: HbA1c, c-peptide, insulin and glucose. The
      investigators may also ask to review participants' insulin usage /blood glucose records. In
      addition, a blood sample will be collected for the testing of immune profiles, antibodies and
      T cell function.

      Study visit 4: PolyTreg infusion (6 weeks ± 7 days post-islet transplant)

      The participant will be admitted to UAH at week 6 post-islet transplantation for PolyTregs
      infusion. He / she will stay at the UAH for 24 hours for monitoring after the infusion. A
      blood sample will be collected to assess the persistence and stability of infused PolyTregs
      while the participant stays in the hospital.

      Study visit 5: 1 week ± 2 days post-PolyTregs infusion

      A blood sample will be collected at UAH at Day 7 after PolyTregs infusion to assess the
      persistence and stability of infused PolyTregs and participants' immune profiles.

      Study visit 6: 2 weeks ± 4 days post-PolyTregs infusion

      A blood sample will be collected at UAH at Day 14 after PolyTregs infusion to assess the
      persistence and stability of infused PolyTregs and participants' immune profiles.

      Study visit 7: 4 weeks ± 7 days post-PolyTregs infusion

      A blood sample will be collected at UAH at Day 28 after PolyTregs infusion to assess the
      persistence and stability of infused PolyTregs and participants' immune profiles.

      Study visit 8: 6 weeks ± 7 days post-PolyTregs infusion (12 weeks ± 7 days post-islet
      transplant)

      At this visit, participants will have standard of care metabolic testing and blood samples
      taken in the CIU at the UAH. These tests assess the function of transplanted islets and
      include an arginine-stimulated c-peptide test and an Ensure test. Blood samples will be taken
      at various time intervals over approximately 90 minutes and will test for: HbA1c, c-peptide,
      insulin and glucose. The investigators may also ask to review participants' insulin usage
      /blood glucose records.

      Study visit 9: 12 weeks ± 7 days post-PolyTregs infusion

      A blood sample will be collected at UAH at week 12 after PolyTregs infusion to assess the
      persistence and stability of infused PolyTregs, immune profiles and antibodies and T cell
      function.

      Study visit 10: 26 weeks ± 30 days post-PolyTregs infusion

      A blood sample will be collected at UAH at week 26 after PolyTregs infusion to assess the
      persistence and stability of infused PolyTregs, immune profiles and antibodies and T cell
      function.

      Study visit 11: 52 weeks ± 30 days post-PolyTregs infusion

      A blood sample will be collected at UAH at week 52 after PolyTregs infusion to assess the
      persistence and stability of infused PolyTregs, immune profiles and antibodies and T cell
      function. Participants will also have standard of care metabolic testing and blood samples
      taken in the CIU at UAH. These tests assess the function of transplanted islets and include
      an arginine-stimulated c-peptide test and an Ensure test. Blood samples will be taken at
      various time intervals over approximately 90 minutes and will test for: HbA1c, c-peptide,
      insulin and glucose. The investigators may also ask to review participants' insulin usage
      /blood glucose records.

      Long-term Standard of Care Follow-up

      After study visit 11, participants will be followed by the standard of care schedule for
      islet transplant.

      For control group:

      Study visit 1: Islet transplant

      At this visit, participants will undergo islet transplant according to the current standard
      procedures at the University of Alberta Hospital. The only difference will be the use of
      lower doses of Tacrolimus/ Sirolimus for immunosuppression.

      Study visit 2: 30 days (± 7 days) post-islet transplant

      At visit 2, participants will have standard of care metabolic testing and blood samples taken
      in the Clinical Investigation Unit (CIU) at the University of Alberta Hospital (UAH). These
      tests assess the function of transplanted islets and include an arginine-stimulated c-peptide
      test and an Ensure test. Blood samples will be taken at various time intervals over
      approximately 90 minutes and will test for: HbA1c, c-peptide, insulin and glucose. The
      investigators may also ask to review patient's insulin usage /blood glucose records. In
      addition, a blood sample will be collected for the testing of immune profiles, antibodies and
      T cell function.

      Study visit 3: 7 weeks ± 7 days post-islet transplant

      At visit 3, a blood sample will be collected at UAH to assess participants' immune profiles.

      Study visit 4: 8 weeks ± 7 days post-islet transplant

      At visit 4, a blood sample will be collected at UAH to assess participants' immune profiles.

      Study visit 5: 10 weeks ± 7 days post-islet transplant

      At visit 5, a blood sample will be collected at UAH to assess participants' immune profiles.

      Study visit 6: 12 weeks ± 7 days post-islet transplant

      At this visit, participants will have standard of care metabolic testing and blood samples
      taken in the Clinical Investigation Unit (CIU) at the University of Alberta Hospital (UAH).
      These tests assess the function of transplanted islets and include an arginine-stimulated
      c-peptide test and an Ensure test. Blood samples will be taken at various time intervals over
      approximately 90 minutes and will test for: HbA1c, c-peptide, insulin and glucose. The
      investigators may also ask to review patient's insulin usage /blood glucose records.

      Study visit 7: 18 weeks ± 7 days post-islet transplant

      At visit 7, a blood sample will be collected at UAH to assess participants' immune profiles
      and antibodies and T cell function.

      Study visit 8: 32 weeks ± 30 days post-islet transplant

      At visit 8, a blood sample will be collected at UAH to assess participants' immune profiles
      and antibodies and T cell function.

      Study visit 9: 58 weeks ± 30 days post-islet transplant

      At visit 9, a blood sample will be collected at UAH to assess participants' immune profiles
      and antibodies and T cell function. Study participants will also have standard of care
      metabolic testing and blood samples taken in the CIU at UAH. These tests assess the function
      of transplanted islets and include an arginine-stimulated c-peptide test and an Ensure test.
      Blood samples will be taken at various time intervals over approximately 90 minutes and will
      test for: HbA1c, c-peptide, insulin and glucose. The investigators may also ask to review
      participants' insulin usage /blood glucose records.

      Long-term Standard of Care Follow-up

      After study visit 9, participants will be followed by the standard of care schedule for islet
      transplant.
    
  