
    
      Emerging evidence suggests favorable effects of both vitamin D and marine omega-3 fatty acids
      on glucose homeostasis. Optimal vitamin D intake is essential for insulin secretion and
      action, and omega-3 fatty acids may reduce diabetes risk as a result of favorable effects on
      insulin sensitivity, endothelial function, chronic inflammation, or other metabolic
      abnormalities. Although the metabolic effects of vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids show
      considerable promise for the primary prevention of type 2 diabetes (T2D), there are no
      completed, ongoing, or planned randomized clinical trials of vitamin D or omega-3 supplements
      that include T2D as a primary outcome in a general population.

      We thus propose to utilize an NIH-funded randomized trial (1 U01 CA138962) to test the
      hypothesis that vitamin D and omega-3 supplementation will reduce the risk of T2D. We will
      further assess whether and to what extent vitamin D or omega-3 supplementation will improve
      insulin sensitivity and pancreatic beta-cell function in a subsample of the trial cohort. The
      VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL (VITAL) is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial
      specifically designed to evaluate the benefits and risks of vitamin D3 (2,000 IU/day) and
      marine omega-3 fatty acid (eicosapentaenoic acid [EPA] + docosahexaenoic acid [DHA], 1g/day)
      supplements in the primary prevention of cancer and cardiovascular disease (CVD). The VITAL
      trial will aim to enroll 20,000 men and women (aged ≥50 and ≥55 years, respectively). The
      planned treatment duration is 5 years after a 1.5-year recruitment period. This diabetes
      ancillary study aims to implement an inexpensive and efficient strategy to validate
      self-reported incident T2D cases in the entire trial population and to collect pre- and
      post-intervention measures of glucose, insulin, and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) in a subset of
      participants. Two methods of diabetes case validation are proposed. First, we plan to collect
      detailed information about diagnostic glucose testing and anti-diabetic medication use from
      medical records and/or supplementary questionnaires completed by the participant's physician.
      Second, to complement our diabetes ascertainment process, we will also plan to retrieve
      additional data on diabetes diagnoses and hypoglycemic medications by linking the
      participants with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) database. In addition
      to evaluating whether the study interventions impact the onset of clinical diabetes, we
      propose to collect pre- and post-intervention measures of glucose, insulin, and HbA1c in a
      subset of the participants to reliably assess whether vitamin D or omega-3 supplementation
      alters insulin and glucose homeostasis. We plan to recruit 1,000 participants without prior
      clinical diabetes at the Clinical and Translational Science Center (CTSC) site at Brigham and
      Women's Hospital. A standard 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and HbA1c measurements
      will be performed during the CTSC visits at baseline and at 2-year post-randomization.

      Primary Aims:

        1. To test whether vitamin D3 and/or EPA+DHA supplementation reduces the risk of T2D among
           all initially non-diabetic participants in the VITAL trial.

        2. To test whether vitamin D3 and/or EPA+DHA supplementation improves insulin sensitivity
           and beta-cell function in a subset of 1,000 non-diabetic participants receiving OGTT at
           baseline and 2-year post-randomization.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. To test whether vitamin D3 and/or EPA+DHA supplementation lowers HbA1c, fasting glucose
           and insulin, as well as other surrogate indices of insulin sensitivity and beta-cell
           function as determined by the homeostasis model assessment (HOMA-IR and HOMA-%B,
           respectively) in our substudy.

        2. To test whether vitamin D3 and EPA+DHA supplementation exerts synergistic or additive
           effects on the risk of T2D among all initially non-diabetic participants in the VITAL
           trial.

        3. To test whether vitamin D3 and EPA+DHA supplementation exerts synergistic or additive
           effects on insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function as assessed by OGTT in our
           substudy.

      For the above main effect estimates, we will further explore whether the effect of vitamin D3
      or EPA+DHA supplementation varies by (1) age, (2) sex, (3) baseline intakes of these
      nutrients, (4) baseline levels of 25(OH)D (for vitamin D3), (5) race/skin pigmentation (for
      vitamin D3), (6) geographic region (for vitamin D3), and (7) BMI (for vitamin D3).
    
  