
    
      The first aim is to evaluate the barriers and facilitators for the RE-AIM dimensions as
      related to the new CMS chronic care management code overall and within each of the health
      systems. The qualitative study will be used. Focus group interview will be conducted among
      patients, healthcare professionals and stakeholders. A variety of qualitative techniques will
      be used to collect data using key informant interviews among organization leaders of LaCDRN
      partners to assess the organizational cultures, their social architecture, resources,
      capacity, and communication networks. Face-to-face semi-structured interviews will be used to
      explore these domains, assess barriers, and refine the data collection for the assessing the
      RE-AIM framework. Further, semi-structured interviews will provide data to inform the
      refinement of study outcomes and ensure organizational, cultural, and health-literacy
      appropriateness. Focus groups will be audiotaped with the written consent of each
      participant, and each tape will be transcribed verbatim and transcripts will be reviewed and
      edited by the facilitators for accuracy. Inter-coder reliability will be examined. Interview
      transcripts will be imported into NVivo 10 software (QSR International, Burlington, MA).
      Codes and concepts identified in preliminary review will be refined, extended, and
      cross-referenced. Coded texts will be structured into taxonomies and transformed into a
      matrix format so that responses and concepts can be compared across respondent groups.
      Finally, taxonomies and matrices will be summarized by similarities and contrasts to form
      overarching themes and dimensions. We will use an iterative technique until theoretical
      saturation, the point at which no additional major themes emerge, is reached. Diabetes care
      coordination readiness assessment will be conducted with LaCDRN partner health system's
      medical directors (organizational).

      The second one is the health and economic impacts of the NFFCCM to improve health outcomes:
      glycemic control, CVD risk reduction, medication adherence, patient-reported outcomes (PRO),
      and health care utilization. Data extraction from the REACHnet. De-identified data from EMR
      includes birth year, gender, race, state of residency, zip-codes, medical history, lab
      results and prescriptions. All data comply with the Health Insurance Portability and
      Accountability Act (HIPAA).

      This proposed research is significant because it is the first natural experiment to test an
      ongoing CMS reimbursement policy on diabetes care in Louisiana. The study questions and study
      outcomes will be patient-centered, and will generate urgently needed data on effective,
      practical, and sustainable population-targeted strategies aimed at reducing diabetes-related
      disease burden in Medicare-eligible populations. Further dissemination and scale-up efforts
      will create large return on multiple health systems and non-CMS populations.

      PCORI Proposal COVID-19- Related Enhancement for Existing Research Aims:

      Aim1: Examine facilitators and barriers to uptake, adoption, and implementation of telehealth
      services among Medicare patients with diabetes from health systems', providers' and patients'
      perspectives. With the substantial increase in telehealth encounters starting in early March
      2020, we hypothesize disparities in adoption and implementation of telehealth at health
      system, provider and patient levels. For example, our current project has identified
      significant variations in NFFCCM implementation across three health systems in Louisiana. For
      the enhancement, we intend to examine variations in health systems' implementation of
      Medicare-reimbursable telehealth services, which may not mirror the variations we observed
      for NFFCCM given the dramatically different context of the current pandemic.

      Aim 2: Compare diabetes control and continuity of care between patients with and without
      utilization of telehealth. We hypothesize better diabetes management among Medicare patients
      with telehealth versus without.
    
  