
    
      1. OPTIMIST-A TRIAL SUMMARY RESEARCH QUESTION Does administration of exogenous surfactant
      using a minimally-invasive technique improve outcome in preterm infants 25-28 weeks gestation
      treated with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)?

      BACKGROUND Nasal CPAP is often very effective in preterm infants as the initial means of
      respiratory support, but a sub-group of infants, most with features of respiratory distress
      syndrome, fail on CPAP and require intubation and ventilation in the first 72 hours. When
      compared to those in whom CPAP is successful, infants failing CPAP have a substantially
      longer duration of respiratory support, and a higher risk of adverse outcomes. Decreasing the
      risk of CPAP failure would thus seem advantageous, and may be achievable with minimally
      invasive surfactant therapy (MIST), in which surfactant is administered to a spontaneously
      breathing infant who then remains on CPAP. A technique of MIST (the "Hobart method") using a
      semi-rigid surfactant instillation catheter has been shown to be feasible in preterm infants
      on CPAP, and appears to have the potential to alter respiratory course and outcome. This
      method of MIST now requires evaluation in randomised controlled trials.

      RESEARCH DESIGN Multicentre, randomised, masked, controlled trial.

      RECRUITMENT Entry criteria Inborn preterm infants 25-28 weeks gestation, aged less than 6
      hours, who were not intubated at birth but require CPAP or NIPPV because of respiratory
      distress, with a CPAP pressure of 5-8 cm H2O and FiO2 ≥0.30.

      Exclusion criteria Infants will be excluded if in imminent need of intubation, or if there is
      a congenital anomaly or alternative cause for respiratory distress.

      RANDOMISATION With parental consent, eligible infants will be randomly allocated using a
      web-based randomisation server, with stratification by study centre, to receive exogenous
      surfactant via the Hobart MIST technique, or to continue on CPAP.

      INTERVENTION Infants randomised to surfactant treatment will receive a dose of poractant alfa
      (Curosurf) administered under direct laryngoscopy using a surfactant instillation catheter,
      at a dosage of 200 mg/kg. CPAP will thereafter be reinstituted. Controls will continue on
      CPAP. The intervention will be masked from the clinical team.

      POST-INTERVENTION MANAGEMENT Other than the requirement to adhere to intubation criteria in
      the first week, and in some cases perform a room air trial at 36 weeks corrected gestation,
      management after intervention will be at the discretion of the clinical team. Titration of
      CPAP pressure is encouraged, with a permitted maximum of 8 cm H2O. Nasal IPPV (bi-level CPAP)
      is allowable. Early caffeine therapy is expected.

      Criteria for intubation: Enrolled infants on CPAP will be intubated if FiO2 ≥0.45, or if
      there is unremitting apnoea or persistent acidosis. These criteria apply during the first
      week of life, and to the first episode of intubation only.

      FOLLOWUP: At 2 years corrected age, parents of each infant will complete a brief health
      assessment and a validated child development assessment (PARCA-R, Dev Med Child Neurol
      2004;46:389-97) administered as a web-based questionnaire located on a secure server. The
      infant-specific link to the questionnaire, and reminders where necessary, will be sent
      electronically to the parents by research personnel at each Site, thus maintaining
      confidentiality. No identifying details will be revealed in the completion of the
      questionnaire.

      OUTCOMES Primary outcome: Incidence of composite outcome of death or physiological
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD).

      Secondary outcomes: Incidence of death, major neonatal morbidities (BPD, intraventricular
      haemorrhage, periventricular leukomalacia, retinopathy of prematurity, necrotising
      enterocolitis), pneumothorax and patent ductus arteriosus; need for intubation and surfactant
      therapy; durations of mechanical respiratory support, intubation, CPAP, intubation and CPAP,
      high flow nasal cannula (HFNC), oxygen therapy, intensive care stay and hospitalisation;
      hospitalisation cost; applicability and safety of the MIST procedure; and outcome at 2 years.

      SAMPLE SIZE 606 infants (303 per group), giving 90% power to detect a 33% reduction in death
      or BPD from the anticipated rate of 38% in the control arm, α = 0.05.

      TRIAL PLAN The OPTIMIST trials will commence at RHH Hobart and RWH Melbourne during 2011. All
      Australasian neonatal units, and selected international centres including those in the
      Vermont- Oxford Network, will be invited to join the trials. A full complement of
      participating centres is expected by early 2014. Recruitment will thereafter proceed at full
      rate until completion, which is estimated to take up to 4 years.
    
  