
    
      The clinical part of the project will prove that CAMBRA principles can successfully be
      disseminated into everyday dental practices and that by applying the principles of Caries
      Management by Risk Assessment to subjects in those practices a major reduction in caries can
      be seen in the intervention group in comparison to the control group. At the end of the two
      year clinical part performed in the Practice Based Research Network data will show that the
      positive results of the first CAMBRA study achieved in the university setting at UCSF can
      also be accomplished in a dental practice setting to the benefit of patients. If CAMBRA can
      be successfully disseminated into dental practices dental care costs can significantly be
      reduced.

      The overall study objective is to build a Practice Based Research Network (PBRN) and to
      conduct in this setting a 2-year randomized, controlled, double blind clinical trial to
      provide clinical evidence that scientifically based caries risk assessment, in conjunction
      with aggressive preventive measures and conservative restorations will result in dramatically
      reduced further caries increment. If successful this study performed in a PBRN will provide
      substantial evidence for changing the practice of caries management. The planned study is a
      double blind practice-based clinical study. The California Dental Association Foundation will
      help to select up to 30 participating dentists. Practitioners will perform a Caries
      Management by Risk Assessment (CAMBRA) evaluation and will instruct and provide treatment
      suggestions for the study subjects according to the CAMBRA protocol.

      The hypothesis to be tested is that caries management based on caries-risk status (low,
      moderate or high) will significantly reduce the need for caries restorative treatment over
      two (plus) years compared to usual dental treatment in the practice based setting. The
      primary outcome measure will be caries increment.

      At the end of the two year clinical part performed in the Practice Based Research Network
      data will show that the positive results of the first CAMBRA study achieved in the university
      setting at UCSF can also be accomplished in a dental practice setting to the benefit of
      patients. If CAMBRA can be successfully implemented into dental practices in the future
      dental care costs can significantly be reduced.
    
  