
    
      Objectives: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) affects 4% middle-aged men and 2% women. Symptoms
      of OSA include snore, unrefresh sleep, witnessed apnea, excessive daytime sleepiness and
      hypertension. Untreated OSA patients are associated with three fold risk of fetal and
      non-fetal cardiovascular events than control subjects. However, the prevalence rate and
      impact of OSA in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) was not clear so far. The
      conflicts of studies come from variable period of AMI, heart function at enrollment,
      techniques used to diagnose OSA, time to revascularization, and target endpoint. Therefore,
      this project aimed to achieve the four goals: (1) To determine the prevalence rate of OSA in
      patients with first-time AMI (2) To identify the clinical characteristics and risk factors in
      AMI patients associated with OSA (3) To study the impact of OSA on the prognosis of AMI
      patients after revascularization (4) To identify the clinical and molecular factors
      attributing to AMI in OSA patients Study design: Longitudinal, observational study
      Participants: AMI patients who were first-time, Killip I-II, post primary percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) were eligible for this study. Exclusion criteria included: refuse
      to participate, require mechanical ventilation, active neurologic event, chronic pulmonary
      disease, active infection, need sedatives or narcotics within 3 days of sleep study, and
      participate in other study at the same time.

      Protocol: Eligible patients were screened with polysomnography (PSG) within 5th to 7th days
      after onset of AMI. Patients who had AHI more than 15/hr were considered as suffering from
      OSA. Patients were followed up for five years. The primary endpoint was mortality rate and
      cardiac events. The secondary endpoint was left ventricular function and variables related to
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) and metabolic syndrome. The acute phase of AMI was defined as
      within 14 days of the onset of AMI and the chronic phase was defined as > 14 days of onset.

      Statistic: The baseline demographics of patients with or without OSA were compared to
      determine the factors associated with OSA in AMI patients. The impact of OSA on AMI in acute
      and chronic phase was determined by comparing the mortality rate, incidences of cardiac
      events, left ventricular function, CVD risk factors, and metabolic profiles between AMI
      patients with and without OSA. Factors attributing to AMI in OSA patients were determined by
      comparing the clinical data and mRNA expression of angiogenesis and other related genes in
      OSA patients with the acute phase of AMI and patients without major CVD.

      Clinical implication: Because the prevalence rate of OSA in patients of first-time AMI but no
      significant heart failure was extremely high, early PSG screening and identifying factors
      associated with OSA will allow for early diagnosis and intervention. Understanding
      interaction between OSA and AMI will help prevent the morbidity and mortality in AMI
      patients. Also, it allows for prediction of cardiovascular outcomes and early management in
      OSA patients.
    
  