
    
      The overarching goal of this proposal is to enhance the existing information technology
      infrastructure in Central Indiana to improve the nation's capacity to conduct comparative
      effectiveness research (CER). Consistent with the instructions in RFA-HS-10-005, the
      investigators propose to apply these new capacities to a novel CER project evaluating
      treatment for Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease has been identified as a first
      quartile CER priority. This proposal represents collaboration between the Medical Informatics
      Program at the Regenstrief Institute, Inc (a world leader in health information technology)
      and two Indiana University research programs: the Center for Aging Research and the Division
      of Clinical Pharmacology. These programs have an established track record in research
      relevant to under-served populations. Thus, this proposal combines considerable investigator,
      environment, and research strengths to continue to build a novel CER infrastructure in
      support of the nation's evidentiary CER priorities.

      Throughout this proposal, the investigators use the AHRQ definition of CER: the conduct and
      synthesis of research comparing the benefits and harms of different interventions and
      strategies to prevent, diagnose, treat and monitor health conditions in real world settings."
      The investigators also refer to a clinical trial of medication treatment for behavioral
      symptoms of Alzheimer's disease as the specific CER proposed to demonstrate the potential of
      our new infrastructure. However, the investigators stress that the enhancements proposed to
      existing infrastructure would support a broad portfolio of CER across an array of priority
      conditions. The investigators are also proposing enhancements in our privacy and
      confidentiality technology that would allow researchers from across the country to access
      de-identified data in support of CER. In summary, the investigators are proposing to add new
      CER knowledge on Alzheimer' disease and thereby field test new information technology
      capacities important to a wide range of CER projects while also increasing our capacity to
      provide data and opportunities for nationwide CER.

      The derivation of meaningful and actionable evidence from CER ultimately depends on capturing
      relevant, comprehensive and accurate data about treatment decisions, patients' clinical
      status, their care processes and environment, and the health outcomes they experience and
      value. Such data must be tracked longitudinally in order to determine temporal relationships,
      cause-effect paradigms, and the efficacy of specific clinical interventions in the context of
      other conditions, interventions, and goals of care. At Indiana University and the Regenstrief
      Institute, the investigators have four decades of experience and a well-documented,
      world-class clinical informatics and research infrastructure for capturing, storing, querying
      and analyzing treatment patterns and patients' clinical outcomes.

      The maturation of this health information technology is now embodied within the Indiana
      Network for Patient Care (INPC), a fully-operational regional health information exchange.
      The investigators are well positioned to expand and leverage this infrastructure in support
      of local and national multi-site clinical trials in comparative effectiveness. The specific
      aims of this proposal are to:

      1.0 PROSPECT STUDY: Enhance our existing information technology infrastructure to:

        1. provide de-identified access to the INPC database for CER work

        2. capture, store, and track a broader array of health care outcomes important to patients
           and their caregivers (e.g. behavioral symptoms due to dementia);

        3. support providers' and caregivers' and researchers' increasing need to work in teams by
           providing new tools for communication and co-management (e.g. collaborative care and
           research)

      2.0 COMET-AD STUDY: Conduct comparative effectiveness clinical trial of medication treatment
      for behavioral symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in a group of real-world memory care clinics
      with enhanced access to the Indiana Network for Patient Care.
    
  