
    
      The human eye contains a crystalline lens that focuses light onto the retina. A clouding of
      the lens is known as a cataract. Cataracts progressively decrease visual acuity and contrast
      sensitivity. Cataracts are the leading cause of blindness worldwide. The current standard of
      practice for treating cataracts is cataract extraction using phacoemulsification, an
      ultrasound technology to liquefy and aspirate the lens material, and the implantation of an
      intraocular lens (IOL) to clearly refocus light onto the retina. Cataract surgery is one of
      the most commonly performed surgical procedures. Although rare, complications of cataract
      surgery are significant given the number of people who have surgery each year and more
      serious complications may have a significant impact on the vision and quality of life of
      patients.

      Endophthalmitis is an intraocular inflammation involving both the anterior and posterior
      segments of the eye attributable to bacterial or fungal pathogens. Postoperative
      endophthalmitis is one of the most devastating complications of cataract surgery and despite
      aggressive treatment, only approximately half of patients achieve better than 20/40 vision
      and many patients remain no light perception (NLP). The majority of causative organisms are
      from the patient's skin and conjunctival flora, making preoperative reduction in conjunctival
      flora a key component of endophthalmitis prophylaxis. The Endophthalmitis Vitrectomy Study
      (EVS) revealed that 70% of infections are due to coagulase-negative Staphylococcus, 9.9% due
      to Staphylococcus aureus, 2.2% from Enterococcus, and 5.9% from Gram-negative bacteria. A
      recent systematic review evidenced a postoperative endophthalmitis rate of 0.265% from 2000
      to 2003, compared with 0.087% in the previous decade. There are numerous theories to the
      increase in incidence, including a move to topical anaesthesia and change in wound
      construction techniques. It is difficult for prospective studies to be detect differences in
      the rate of endophthalmitis as the incidence is low. Currently, only topical povidone-iodine
      and intracameral antibiotics (cefuroxime, vancomycin, and moxifloxacin) have been shown to
      decrease the rate of endophthalmitis.

      Prior to cataract surgery while in the preoperative area, patients receive a number of eye
      drops, frequently including antibiotics, corticosteroids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs (NSAIDs), anaesthetics and mydriatics/cycloplegics. Many surgical centres, including
      the Regional Eye Institute at the St. Joseph's Centre for Ambulatory Care have a
      pharmacy-prepared combination of the above medications in a viscous gel, such that the
      medications remain on the ocular surface for a prolonged period of time thus enhancing
      efficacy.

      Topical lidocaine gel is an anaesthetic that is used prior to cataract surgery in many
      institutions.Studies demonstrating that the antiseptic effect of topical povidone-iodine may
      be inhibited by topical lidocaine gel have been published. Boden et al. performed a basic
      science study inoculating culture media with bacteria and then exposing them to topical
      lidocaine gel, topical povidone-iodine or topical povidone-iodine after lidocaine gel. Their
      results revealed that the antiseptic effect of povidone-iodine was inhibited by previous
      treatment with lidocaine gel. Moreover, a retrospective observational case series found that
      2 of 7 cases of postoperative endophthalmitis occurred after topical lidocaine gel use. Most
      recently, Doshi et al. in the laboratory setting confirmed the inhibitory effect of lidocaine
      gel prior to povidone-iodine and also revealed that if povidone-iodine was applied prior to
      lidocaine gel, the iodine was able to act as an antiseptic as usual.

      The previous studies reveal that there may be an inhibition of the antiseptic effect of
      povidone-iodine when topical lidocaine gel is applied first in the laboratory setting. This
      has not been shown clinically.
    
  