
    
      EEG recording: In this procedure, the participant's brain function will be recorded while
      listening to auditory tones or viewing simple visual stimuli. Participants will respond with
      a button press to specific tones or images. Participants will have all tasks clearly
      described to them and will practice each task prior to beginning the experiments. While
      performing these tasks, the brain's electrical activity (commonly referred to as "brain
      waves") will be recording using electroencephalography (EEG). Participant's will wear a cap
      that contains several electrodes (small, metal discs that are able to pick up electrical
      activity). A small amount of gel will be applied to the scalp underneath each electrode.
      These electrodes simply rest on the surface of the scalp and above and below the left eye. It
      takes approximately 15 minutes to place and prepare the electrodes. The entire recording
      session will last approximately 90 minutes (including setup). Before having EEG recorded it
      is important to wash the hair and scalp and not use conditioners or products in the hair as
      these may interfere with the electrical signal. The gel used is simply washed out of the hair
      with running water.

      During the auditory task, participants will listen to a series of tones while watching a
      silent movie. Participants do not need to pay attention to the tones. During the visual task,
      participants will view a series of images on a computer screen that consist of a checkerboard
      pattern. Periodically, they will be asked to respond with a button press if one of the images
      is different than the others.

      Interviews: There will be interviews conducted by trained staff that ask questions about
      participants' demographics (age, gender, education). A clinical interview will be given to
      all participants to determine if participants have either schizophrenia, a history of a
      traumatic brain injury, or have no psychiatric illness. All participants will be asked
      questions about how they are feeling. In addition, participants will answer questions about
      their family and friends and how they have been getting along with people in their lives.

      Behavioral testing: Participants will have measures of cognition assessed using various
      computer-based tasks and pen-and-pencil questionnaires. These tests assess aspects of
      cognition including memory, attention, language, and motor skills. Participants will also be
      asked to view a series of pictures of faces and identify the emotion depicted on the face.
      Finally, participants will be asked to view a series of short videos consisting of a person
      telling a personal story. Participants will continuously rate how they think that person in
      the video is feeling (happy, sad, angry, etc.) while telling their story.

      Additional Information: It may sometimes be necessary to contact a participant's physician to
      inquire about their medical history or diagnosis. Permission will be sought from
      participant's in order for contact to be made with their physician.
    
  