
    
      The secondary objective is to characterize the biological and behavioral components that
      might influence VL discordance between blood and semen.

      Background: In most cases the semen VL reflects the blood VL. However some seropositive
      people with an undetectable blood VL have a detectable semen VL and thus might be at risk of
      HIV transmission in case of unprotected sexual behaviors. Most of the previously published
      studies were made on rather small numbers of HIV+ heterosexual men, were cross-sectional and
      did not address factors that might be associated with discordant VL between blood and semen.
      Few studies have been performed among seropositive MSM who are one of the most at-risk
      populations for HIV.

      Issue: The working hypothesis is that virus present into reservoirs and risky sexual
      behaviors might influence discordance in VL between blood and semen in MSM. Our hypothesis is
      that this rate might be higher among MSM than among the general population due to the
      existence of biological and specific factors that could lead to HIV local replication. The
      main reasons to address this question in MSM are i) no or very few data available in this
      population; ii) the possibility to measure in this population the impact of life style
      determinants on semen VL (high number of sexual partners; risky sexual behaviors, multi-drugs
      consumption…); and iii) a strong expectation from this community to have new prevention
      strategies and clear information about the HIV transmission risk.

      Outcomes: Quantitative data analysis will allow us to evaluate the proportion of people
      having a detectable semen VL, its variation according to time. Socio-behavioral data analysis
      will allow us to describe the sexual behaviors that might influence discordance of the VL
      between blood and semen in HIV+ MSM. These results will provide information on the HIV
      residual risk of transmission in treated MSM and to better target people who might be at risk
      for HIV transmission in case of unprotected sexual behaviors. Describing the socio-behavioral
      characteristics of these people will help to define adaptated interventions in order to
      improve HIV prevention in MSM
    
  