
    
      Background and Purpose of Research:

      Current Kenya National Antiretroviral(ARV) Guidelines recommend that after failing an
      NNRTI-based first line regimen, patients should move to a ritonavir-boosted protease
      inhibitor (PI/r) + 2 nucleoside reverse transcript inhibitors second line regimen. Several
      randomised trials support this sequencing, even without drug resistance testing results to
      guide the choice of second-line NRTIs. The Kenya National ARV Guidelines have recommended
      PI/r-based second line regimens for over a decade and essentially all second-line patients in
      Kenya are currently on PI/r-based regimens with approximately 75% of these patients currently
      virally suppressed.

      The pill burden, long-term toxicities, tolerability challenges, drug-drug interactions and
      higher cost of PI/r containing regimens are considerable disadvantages of the current
      second-line regimens in Kenya and much of sub-Saharan Africa. In contexts with high
      Tuberculosis (TB) prevalence, the impact of potential drug-drug interactions is considerable,
      requiring either super boosting of the PI with ritonavir which is toxic and poorly tolerated
      and only found to result in adequate drug levels for LPV/r but not for ATV/r or DRV/r or, use
      of rifabutin which is not co-formulated with other anti-mycobacterial agents and leads to a
      high pill burden affecting adherence. The supply of rifabutin has been unreliable in Kenya.

      No study has evaluated a switch strategy from PI/r to DTG for virally suppressed treatment
      experienced patients who have failed a prior first line regimen consisting of a NNRTI +
      NRTIs. If such a strategy is found to be non-inferior to the current standard of care it
      would have major implications for the current regimens distribution in Kenya and similar
      settings, allowing a transition of almost 75% of current second-line patients from PI/r-based
      to DTG-based second line with lower cost, improved tolerability, decreased risk of toxicity,
      reduced risk of drug-drug interactions, and lower pill burden.

      Summary of Previous Studies

      A recent study has shown that a second-line regimen of dolutegravir (DTG) + 2 NRTIs is
      superior to LPV/r + 2 NRTIs after failing a first line regimen of NNRTI + 2 NRTIs in the
      presence of a fully active NRTI in the second line (Aboud 2019). The study excluded patients
      who did not have a fully active NRTI for second line, so the results can only be directly
      applied to scenarios where one can reliably predict activity of the NRTIs after first-line
      failure or where DRT results are available.

      The Kenya National ARV Guidelines also recommend that patients on an alternative first line
      regimen, either NNRTI based or PI/r based, with virologic suppression should be switched to
      DTG/TDF/3TC. The evidence for this strategy comes from two studies showing that switch of
      virally suppressed patients to DTG-based first line regimens was associated with non inferior
      viral suppression, improved patient satisfaction and improved lipid profiles

      In the NEAT022 study, investigators enrolled older individuals or those with high
      cardiovascular disease risk with the goal of analysing efficacy and impact of a change from a
      boosted PI to dolutegravir. Participants had suppressed HIV RNA while taking a boosted PI and
      two NRTIs, with no documented NRTI resistance mutations or previous virologic failure. All
      participants were over the age of 50 or had Framingham estimated 10-year risk of
      cardiovascular events greater than 10%. 415 individuals were randomised to continue two
      NRTI's plus a boosted PI or switch to dolutegravir while maintaining the same NRTIs. After 48
      weeks, 97.5% of individuals in the boosted PI arm maintained virologic suppression compared
      to 94.5% in the dolutegravir switch arm (a non-statistically significant difference).
      Notably, lipid parameters and cardiovascular risk improved significantly in the switch arm.

      Hypothesis Switch of virologically suppressed, INSTI-naïve HIV-1 positive adults (≥ 18 years
      old) on PI/r-based second line ARV regimens is non-inferior to continuing the PI/r-based
      regimen, as determined by risk of developing virological failure by 48 weeks.

      Primary Objective To evaluate the non-inferiority of switching to a DTG containing regimen
      relative to maintaining a PI/r containing second-line regimen in virologically suppressed,
      INSTI-naive HIV-1 positive adults (≥ 18 years old) as determined by having HIV-1 RNA ≥ 50
      copies/ml at week 48.

      Secondary Objectives To assess the impact of switching to DTG on development of virological
      failure at week 24 To assess the impact of switching to DTG on maintenance of virological
      suppression at weeks 24 and 48 To assess the impact of switching to DTG on change in CD4
      count at weeks 24 and 48 To assess the impact of switching to DTG on change in cardiovascular
      risk as determined by change in lipid values (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides and
      TC:HDL ratio) at weeks 24 and 48 and change in fasting blood glucose at weeks 24 and 48 To
      investigate the impact of switching to DTG on change in anthropometric measurements (weight,
      body-mass index, waist-hip ratio, waist circumference) To investigate the impact of switching
      to DTG on safety and tolerability To investigate the impact of switching to DTG on patient
      satisfaction, as determined by the HIV Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire To investigate if
      outcomes differ based on the PI/r used To investigate if outcomes differ based on the NRTI
      used (TDF, ABC, or AZT) To investigate if outcomes differ for patients who switch NRTIs for
      clinical reasons during the study relative to patients who do not switch NRTIs during the
      study To investigate if outcomes differ based on if the NRTIs were changed from first-line to
      second-line To describe the genotypic resistance patterns for participants meeting
      protocol-defined virological failure

      Study Design This is an open-label, randomized, non-inferiority, multicenter trial over 48
      weeks, describing the efficacy and safety of switching from a second-line ARV regimen
      containing a ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor plus 2 NRTIs to DTG plus 2 NRTIs in
      patients having achieved virological suppression for at least 12 weeks and with no prior
      INSTI exposure. Participants will be randomized at baseline to remain on their pre-enrollment
      PI/r or switch to DTG. Participants will continue the NRTIs from their pre-enrollment regimen
      in both arms, however changes to the NRTIs are allowed for clinical indications. Changes
      within the PI/r class (e.g. from LPV/r to ATV/r) are only allowed if required due to national
      supply-chain shortages.

      Research Procedures Study visits will take place at screening, baseline, and weeks 4, 12, 24,
      36, and 48 (with a 4-week extension as required for confirming HIV-1 RNA levels within the
      FDA snapshot window).

      HIV-1 RNA viral load will be performed at screening and weeks 4, 12, 24 and 48. If HIV-1 RNA
      is ≥ 50 copies/ml then a repeat test will be performed at least two weeks after the
      detectable result to confirm virological failure. A repeat HIV-1 RNA result of ≥ 50 copies/ml
      is confirmed protocol-defined virological failure (PDVF) and genotypic resistance testing
      will be performed.

      Other routine study investigations will include CD4, complete blood count, serum Creatinine,
      Alanine aminotransferase, Aspartate aminotransferase, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL,
      triglycerides, HBsAg, serum glucose, patient satisfaction questionnaires (HIVTSQ), and urine
      pregnancy test in women of child-bearing potential.

      A participant is free to withdraw from the study at any time. In addition, the investigators
      may decide, for reasons of medical prudence, to stop study medications. These participants
      will be followed to 48 weeks.

      If any participants experience PDVF (two consecutive HIV-1 RNA levels of 50 copies/ml or more
      taken at least 14 days apart), the study PI/co-PI must be informed immediately (within 24
      hours of the site becoming aware) for management recommendations, which will include
      genotypic drug resistance testing. Participants will be asked to attend all study visits.

      Study medication may also be discontinued in the following instances:

      If the participant withdraws their consent If the participant requires a substitution of the
      PI/r or DTG due to drug-drug interactions or toxicity. Changes to the NRTIs are allowed if
      clinically indicated, and changes within the PI/r class (e.g. from LPV/r to ATV/r) are
      allowed if it is required because of national supply chain limitations. Dose adjustments
      required to manage drug-drug interactions are allowed, following the product monograph for
      the drug If the investigators consider in the interest of the subject (i.e. intercurrent
      illness, unacceptable toxicity) that it is best for them to stop study medication The subject
      fails to comply with the protocol requirements, including poor adherence, or fails to
      cooperate with investigators

      A female subject receiving DTG who becomes pregnant during the study must immediately have
      their DTG withdrawn to eliminate further exposure to the embryo / foetus. Exceptions may be
      discussed with Ethics and ViiV in situations where the benefits of continuing the pregnant
      woman on DTG outweigh the potential risks.

      Source and Dose of the Products

      Participants will be randomized to continue their pre-enrollment PI/r or switch from PI/r to
      DTG while continuing the NRTIs from the pre-enrollment regimen. Changes to the NRTIs are
      allowed throughout the study period only for clinical indications. Changes within the PI/r
      class are allowed (e.g. from LPV/r to ATV/r) if required by limitations in the national
      supply chain.

      ARVs will be provided to all participants through the Kenya national ARV supply change
      mechanism, which uses generic fixed-dose combinations when available. For participants who
      are randomized to switch from PI/r+ABC/3TC to DTG+ABC/3TC, ViiV will provide the
      single-tablet fixed-dose combination of DTG/ABC/3TC in the commercial form of Triumeq®.

      Participants who are randomized to take DTG will take a 50 mg tablet once daily, either as a
      single tablet in combination with a separate fixed-dose combination tablet of NRTIs or as
      part of a fixed-dose combination of DTG 50 mg and the NRTIs, as available through the
      national supply change or by ViiV (in the case of DTG/ABC/3TC).

      Participants will be dispensed a 4 week supply of ARVs at baseline, an 8 week supply at week
      4, and a 12 week supply at weeks 12, 24 and 36.

      Number and Type of Participants

      The anticipated sample size is 766 participants (383 per study arm). The sample size
      calculation is based on the primary endpoint of HIV-1 RNA ≥ 50 copies/ml at week 48 using the
      FDA snapshot method for the Intent-to-Treat Exposed (ITT-E) population. The sample size
      calculation assumes that the true difference in efficacy between treatment arms is zero and
      that overall virological failure rate is 3% at week 48. A total of 766 participants (383
      participants per study arm) is required to provide at least 90% power to demonstrate
      non-inferiority for the DTG arm, compared to the control arm, with a one-sided significance
      level of 2.5% and non-inferiority margin of 4%.

      Participants will be selected if they meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria and are on
      PI/r-based second line with 2 NRTIs for at least 24 weeks and no prior INSTI exposure, with a
      viral load of < 50 copies/ml for at least 12 weeks, and aged 18 years or above.

      Study Location:

      All study sites are in Kenya and include: Kenyatta National Hospital, Thika Level 5 Hospital,
      Kiambu Level 5Hospital, and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital.
    
  