
    
      An experimental study design and an intent-to-treat analysis will be used to determine the
      effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telemedicine-based collaborative care relative to
      practice-based collaborative care. The research setting will be six Community Health Centers
      located in medically underserved areas of Arkansas which serve rural, low income and minority
      populations. Potentially eligible patients will be identified through screening by Community
      Health Centers clinic staff or primary care provider referrals. Patients eligible for the
      study will be consented and randomized to receive either telemedicine-based or practice-based
      collaborative care, and followed for 18 months to assess processes and outcomes. On-site
      clinical staff will screen patients for depression over an 18 month period and refer all
      patients with clinically significant depression (PHQ9≥10) to the study.

      Two types of health care professionals will be involved in the practice-based collaborative
      care model: 1) primary care providers (MD and RNP); and 2) a depression care manager (LPN or
      Social Worker). The on-site care managers will provide care management activities by phone or
      face-to-face.

      Five types of health care professionals will be involved in the telemedicine-based
      collaborative care model: 1) primary care providers (MD and RNP); 2) a depression nurse care
      manager (RN); 3) clinical pharmacist (PharmD); 4) tele-psychologist (PhD); and 5) a
      tele-psychiatrist (MD). The primary care providers will be located at the Community Health
      Centers. The off-site depression care team will be located at the clinics of the University
      of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Department of Psychiatry. The on-site primary care
      providers will prescribe medications and schedule all appointments. The off-site nurse care
      manager will conduct all care management activities by telephone. The off-site clinical
      pharmacist will conduct medication histories and provide medication management by telephone.
      The off-site tele-psychologist will conduct evidence-based psychotherapy (cognitive
      behavioral therapy) via interactive video. The off-site tele-psychiatrist will conduct
      interactive-video consultations, train and supervise the depression care team, and conduct
      provider education.
    
  