
    
      1. Background:

           In recent years, the incidence of infection caused by multi-drug resistant (MDR)
           pathogen keeps increasing. The increase of MDR bacterial is a serious challenge for
           empirical therapy. Common empirical antibiotic may not cover MDR pathogen and is
           inappropriate for patients with infection caused by MDR pathogens, which finally
           increases mortality. A number of studies have demonstrated MDR pathogens are related to
           excess mortality, longer hospital stays and more treatment cost. Compared to infection
           caused by non-MDR pathogens, infection caused by MDR pathogens possesses higher
           mortality by 10% to 15%, longer ICU stays by 6 -10 days, and less appropriate empirical
           antibiotics by 50%. In addition, studies have shown that the treatment of infection
           caused by MDR pathogens is more expensive by $10,000-$50,000 than that by sensitive
           pathogens. Monitoring of MDR pathogens may find epidemiological trends, discover new MDR
           bacteria, evaluate risk factors and assess the effectiveness of interventions. Data of
           MDR pathogens has been available in Europe and the United States, however, is absent in
           China. By now, the features of bacterial resistance in different regions, hospitals, or
           in certain patients with exposure to antibiotics, still keep uncertainty.

           The current study is to enroll continuous MDR isolates and clinical data of the patients
           from which the pathogens were isolated. The data may clarify the distribution and
           characteristics of MDR pathogens in China, as well as clinical outcome of infection
           caused by MDR pathogens, which is essential for management and treatment of infection
           caused by MDR pathogens.

        2. Study center: 10

        3. Strains MDR gram-negative bacilli isolated from lower respiratory tract, pleural
           effusion or blood will be reported to clinician. Confirmation that the isolate is 'real'
           pathogen of a certain infection, not colonization or pollution, is needed. Microbiologic
           data will be collected, such as result of susceptibility test.

           Inclusion criteria:

             1. Gram-negative bacillus.

             2. Resistant to more than 3 kinds of antibacterial agents.

           Exclusion criteria:

             1. Repetitive organism isolated from the same center in one patient.

             2. Judged as colonization or pollution by clinician.

             3. Enrolled into other trial, and the data is not available for the current study.

        4. Microbiologic investigators collect data:

             1. General data, strain name, source department.

             2. Result of susceptibility test.

        5. Clinical data:

           The current trial is observational. Clinicians, rather than investigators, will decide
           the therapy. Clinical investigators confirm the MDR organism is not pollution or
           colonization by both definitions of nosocomial infection and result of semi-quantitative
           culture.

           For those eligible strains, corresponding clinical data will be collected.

             1. Demographic data. Name, gender, age and date of admission.

             2. Symptoms and signs, especially those related to infection.

             3. Laboratory result, such as blood and urine routine, biochemistry.

             4. Medical complication, especially those that influence immunity, such as diabetes,
                hepatic cirrhosis, malnutrition, malignancy, HIV infection or transplantation.

             5. Previous medical therapy, especially late usage of antibiotic, steroids or other
                immunosuppressive agents.

             6. Management of infection, including regimen and duration of antibiotic therapy,
                prognosis, treatment and total cost.

             7. Outcome of treatment, including efficacy at the end of antibiotic therapy and
                30-day, ICU stay time, total hospital stay, and cost of antibiotic and totaltherapy
                cost.

        6. Sample size:

           Continuous MDR gram-negative bacilli and clinical data: 1500 cases. Continuous Non-MDR
           gram-negative bacilli and clinical data: 1500 cases.

        7. Endpoint:

             1. Mortality and therapy cost of MDR or non-MDR infection.

             2. Success rate of different antibiotics regimen for treatment of MDR infection.
                (Classified as 3rd and 4th cephalosporin,β-lactam and β-lactamase inhibitor
                compounds, carbapenems and others, monotherapy or combined therapy)

             3. Risk factors of infection caused by MDR pathogens.

             4. Resistant profile of MDR bacilli responsible for infection.

             5. Therapy cost of MDR or non-MDR infection.

        8. Statistical analysis:

      Statistical analysis is conducted by t-test for continuous variables and chi-square test for
      categorical variables. Multivariate regression analysis, Logistic regression model is used to
      clarify the independent risk factors of infection and death. All p values are retained until
      after the decimal point two, and statistical significance was set at p <0.05.
    
  