
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer worldwide and the third most
      frequent cause of cancer-related mortality. To date, surgical resection and liver
      transplantation are considered the main curative treatment options for HCC (El-Serag et al.
      2006). However, the majority (~75%) of patients present with advanced tumor stage and poor
      liver function, rendering the patient ineligible for surgical interventions. Until the
      multikinase inhibitor sorafenib (Nexavar) was approved for the treatment of HCC in patients
      with unresectable disease (disease that can't be removed by surgery), there were no standard
      systemic therapies, as classical cell killing drugs (administered singularly or in
      combination) had not led to reproducible response rates or survival benefit. Despite this,
      response rates to sorafenib are low with overall benefits modest, and moreover the toxicity
      profile of the drug limits treatment for many patients. There is still a critical need for
      additional effective drugs to treat advanced HCC.

      PD-0332991 is an orally available, selective inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6
      (CDK4/6), a key regulator of cell growth. Pre-clinical data with PD-0332991 demonstrated
      potent target-specificity. PD-0332991 demonstrated significant inhibition of tumor cell
      growth in hepatoma cell lines, as well as animal and xenograft model systems, and was more
      effective than the currently approved drug, sorafenib in these systems. Initial clinical
      trials have demonstrated and acceptable toxicity profile for the drug. Thus, PD-0332991
      represents an ideal candidate for the treatment of patients with advanced HCC.

      This trial is an open-label non-randomized single-institution study for subjects with
      inoperable, recurrent/refractory, advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Subjects must have
      failed or be intolerant of standard first line therapy, sorafenib (Nexavar®). Eligible
      subjects will receive 125 mg PD-0332991 capsules orally once daily, administered on days 1-21
      of a 28-day cycle, in repeated cycles. The primary objective of the study is to assess the
      time to disease progression (TTP). Secondary objectives include assessment of safety and
      tolerability, and determination of overall survival (OS) and response rate (RR).

      Subjects will be permitted to receive protocol directed therapy until disease progression as
      determined by modified RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) guidelines or
      clinical progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or death. Tumor response
      assessment will be performed by the Investigator and will consist of evaluation by CT or MRI
      every 8 weeks. Subjects who discontinue therapy will still be followed for safety on Day 28
      (± 3 days), Day 56 (± 3 days) and every 3 months thereafter from the last administration of
      protocol-directed therapy or until death.

      Subjects will be continuously assessed for evidence of acute and cumulative toxicity. Vital
      signs, physical examinations, performance status, laboratory safety tests will be obtained
      and assessed prior to drug administration at regular intervals throughout the study. Toxicity
      will be evaluated every 2 weeks during the first 3 cycles and thereafter monthly (once per
      cycle) by the Investigator according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 4.0.
    
  