
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish a model longitudinal research cohort of adult patients for the study of
      chronic pancreatitis (CP) and its complications.

      II. To estimate the risk of progression from suspected to definite CP, and the risk of
      new-onset diabetes or exocrine insufficiency in definite CP, and study how the risks are
      influenced by patient characteristics and conditions.

      III. To test the predictive capability of candidate biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of
      CP.

      IV. To develop a framework for conducting biomarker, genetic, and mechanistic studies using
      clinical information and the biorepository developed as part of the longitudinal research
      cohort.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. In patients with suspected and definite CP, to study:

      Ia. The risk of pancreatic cancer. (Clinical) Ib. The natural history of pain and its
      predictors (demographic, environmental, clinical, and morphological). (Clinical) Ic.
      Quantitative changes in quality of life and disability and their predictors (demographic,
      environmental, clinical, and morphological). (Clinical) Id. Composite and quantitative
      measures of morphological progression of CP. (Clinical) Ie. Frequency of single or composite
      patient-centered outcomes over time and their relationship with demographic, environmental,
      clinical and, morphological factors. (Clinical) If. The risk and predictors of metabolic bone
      disease. (Clinical) Ig. Long-term survival. (Clinical) II. To identify and validate a panel
      of biomarkers that discriminate patients with suspected or definite CP from the normal
      population and controls with unexplained upper abdominal pain but no morphological evidence
      of pancreatic disease. (Biomarkers and Mechanism of Disease) III. To identify and validate
      biomarkers that predict future development of important clinical outcomes for patients with
      indeterminate presentations, including progression to definite CP, occurrence of disease
      complications, cumulative disability, and quality of life over time. (Biomarkers and
      Mechanism of Disease) IV. To develop biomarkers that can define specific aspects of CP
      pathophysiology (including inflammation, fibrosis, acinar loss, ischemia and neuropathy) and
      to correlate these with disease stage and mechanisms. (Biomarkers and Mechanism of Disease)
      V. To develop and validate biomarkers suitable as intermediate outcome measures in
      therapeutic trials. (Biomarkers and Mechanism of Disease)

      OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 4 groups.

      GROUP I (NO PANCREATIC DISEASE): Participants undergo collection of blood, urine, saliva, and
      stool samples at baseline.

      GROUP II (CHRONIC UPPER ABDOMINAL PAIN): Patients undergo collection of blood, urine, saliva,
      and stool samples, and intravenous (IV) contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      over 1.5-2 hours and computed tomography (CT) at baseline. Patients also undergo endoscopic
      ultrasound (EUS) or esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) with collection of pancreatic fluid
      samples at baseline and year 2 (in a subset of patients). Patients may also undergo
      collection of blood and urine samples at year 2.

      GROUP III (ACUTE PANCREATITIS, RECURRENT ACUTE PANCREATITIS, OR INDETERMINE CP): Patients
      undergo collection of saliva and stool samples at baseline, and collection of blood and urine
      at baseline and yearly for years 1-4. Patient also undergo contrast-enhanced MRI over 1.5-2
      hours at baseline, and years 1 and 3, and IV contrast-enhanced CT at baseline, and years 2
      and 4. Patients also undergo EUS or EGD with collection of pancreatic fluid samples at
      baseline and year 2 (in a subset of patients).

      GROUP IV (DEFINITE CP): Patients undergo collection of saliva and stool samples at baseline,
      and collection of blood and urine at baseline and yearly for years 1-4. Patients also undergo
      EUS or EGD with collection of pancreatic fluid samples at baseline. Patients also undergo IV
      contrast-enhanced CT and MRI over 1.5-2 hours at baseline and years 1 and 3, and bone mineral
      density scan over 15 minutes at baseline and years 2 and 4.

      Patients in Groups II to IV are followed up yearly for 20 years.
    
  