
    
      Objective:

      Nicotine use is high in people with schizophrenia; however, interventions to aid in smoking
      cessation have not been overwhelmingly successful. Craving, particularly situational craving,
      is one reason people relapse. Craving paradigms in people with schizophrenia need to be
      optimized in order to test new treatments on craving measures in this population. Thus, the
      purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility and effects of virtual reality cues on
      craving intensity for smoking in patients with schizophrenia

      Study population:

      We will enroll 25 smokers with a DSM IV diagnosis of schizophrenia with the goal of obtaining
      a total of 16 completers.

      Design:

      This study uses a comparison-controlled, within-subject design. All subjects will undergo a
      baseline assessment and acclimation period and then participate in an experimental condition
      in which four cues will be presented in separate rooms in the VR program. These include two
      smoking cues and two neutral cues in four different rooms. A follow up session for craving
      and symptom assessments will occur one week after the experimental session.

      Outcome Measures:

      During the Cue trials the Cigarette Craving Visual Analogue Scale (CCVAS), a four-item scale,
      and the Tobacco Craving Questionnaire-Short Form (TCQ-SF)will be administered to measure
      cigarette craving during the virtual reality session. At the end of each of the 4 cues
      (neutral, smoking cue with no interaction, smoking cue with interaction, neutral)
      participants will be asked about craving. The CCVAS will be projected into the VR environment
      and participants will respond via hand controller. To assess mood status, the Mood form will
      also be administered at baseline as well as at the end of each of the 4 cues. Before and
      after the experimental session participants will also be rated on the Brief Psychiatric
      Rating Scale (BPRS), Schedule for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), side effects,
      and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). The Immersion Questionnaire and Imagery Realism
      Presence Questionnaire (PQ) will be given at the conclusion of the experimental session.
      During the experiment participants will be monitored for physiological reactivity (heart
      rate, blood pressure, and skin conductance response) to cues of smoking as well as neutral
      cues measured. Additionally, subjects will be assessed before and after the experimental
      session
    
  