
    
      Cancer is the leading cause of death for Southeast Asian refugee and immigrant women.
      Cambodian, Lao, and Vietnamese (hereafter referred to as SEAR/I) women have
      disproportionately high incidence rates of breast and cervical cancers. Breast cancer
      incidence increased significantly for all Asians from 1988 to 2013, but the largest increase
      was in SEAR/I women (APC=2.5, 95% CI 0.8, 4.2). Over the past two decades, SEAR/I women
      experienced significant increases in breast cancer incidence across age groups compared to
      other Asian and White women. Lao and Cambodian women are 2.5 times and Vietnamese women are
      40% more likely to be diagnosed with cervical cancer than are White women. Despite evidence
      that regular screening through mammography and Pap testing reduces breast and cervical cancer
      mortality, SEAR/I women continue to have strikingly low rates of screening (75.4% for Pap
      tests and 64.1% for mammography), well below the Healthy People 2020 target of 93% and 81.1%,
      respectively. Drawing on successful tailored navigation interventions, the purpose of this
      study is to test the efficacy of a culturally-relevant, tailored navigation intervention
      delivered through bilingual and bicultural Community Health Advisors (CHAs) for
      intergenerational SEAR/I women (mother-daughter dyads). Ethnically matched CHAs will use the
      tested Tailored Intervention Messaging System (TIMS©) to educate and navigate participants
      from the community to health clinic to complete mammography and/or Pap testing.

      Our specific aims are to:

      AIM 1: Test the efficacy of tailored navigation intervention delivered by SEA community
      health advisors (CHA+TN) to increase age-appropriate breast and cervical cancer screening
      completion compared to an information and reminder only control among intergenerational
      SEAR/I dyads.

      H1: The intervention group (CHA+TN) will have significantly higher age-appropriate breast and
      cervical cancer screening rates compared with the control group (information + reminder
      only).

      AIM 2: Examine the underlying mechanisms (both mediating and moderating factors) associated
      with the intervention (CHA+TN) that influence breast and cervical cancer screening
      completion.

      Exploratory AIM 3: Explore in greater detail the influence of intergenerational exchange of
      information between mothers and daughters related to breast and cervical cancer screening.
    
  