
    
      Approximately 5,000 children die from septic shock each year in the United States (US);
      thousands more die worldwide. Most children admitted with sepsis receive initial
      resuscitation in an emergency department (ED), where septic shock remains one of the most
      critical of illnesses treated by ED clinicians. Sepsis is also the most expensive hospital
      condition in the US, and the most common cause of pediatric multiple organ dysfunction
      syndrome (MODS). While all crystalloid fluids help to reverse shock, the most effective and
      safest type of crystalloid fluid resuscitation is unknown.

      Crystalloid fluids can be categorized as non-buffered (most commonly 0.9% normal saline [NS])
      or buffered/balanced fluids (BF). In the US, the most common BF is lactated Ringer's (LR),
      but other example include PlasmaLyte. NS and BF are inexpensive, stable at room temperature,
      and nearly universally available with identical storage volumes and dosing strategies.
      Notably, both are also of proven clinical benefit in septic shock and have extensive clinical
      experience for use in fluid resuscitation of critically ill patients. However, despite data
      suggesting that BF resuscitation may have superior efficacy and safety, NS remains the most
      commonly used fluid largely based on historical precedent.

      To definitively test the comparative effectiveness of NS and BF, a well-powered randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) is necessary. A large pragmatic randomized trial embedded within
      everyday clinical practice provides a cost-efficient and generalizable approach to inform
      clinicians about best comparative effectiveness of common therapies. Data from a prior
      single-center feasibility study demonstrated that a pragmatic randomized clinical trial of NS
      versus BF for children with septic shock presenting to an emergency department is feasible
      and can be successfully carried out by embedding simple study procedures within routine
      clinical practice. This multi-center study that will now test for differential clinical
      effects, as part of a definitive comparative effectiveness trial, of NS versus BF for
      crystalloid resuscitation of pediatric septic shock.

      This multicenter phase trial will include enrollment and study procedures across 30+ US and
      international sites to compare the effectiveness and relative safety of NS versus BF (LR and
      PlasmaLyte) for crystalloid resuscitation of children with septic shock. The primary endpoint
      is major adverse kidney events within 30 days along with other secondary clinical, safety,
      and kidney biomarker endpoints.
    
  