
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is the most common inflammatory arthritis, affecting 0.5-1% of the
      general population world-wide. It is primarily a disease of the joints, but abnormal systemic
      immune responses are evident and cause a variety of extra-articular manifestations .

      Physical inactivity is one of the key mechanisms affecting skeletal muscle mass and body
      composition, leading to progressive muscle loss and abdominal fat gain . Muscle strength and
      endurance are determinants of muscle performance. Relatively little is known about how muscle
      performance relates to RA clinical variables; also muscle performance is not routinely
      assessed in clinical practice among patients with RA. Decreased muscle strength has negative
      outcomes in RA, associating with disease activity, radiological damage and disability
      .Rheumatoid cachexia, including loss of muscle mass and concomitant increase in fat mass with
      normal or increased body weight , is a common feature in patients with RA. Assessment of
      inflammation in RA with markers is important to detect long-term outcome. Parameters of
      hemogram, particularly those including immune system elements, are important in the
      assessment of different diseases and/or signs. Immune system elements involve the
      neutrophils, lymphocytes and platelets that have a role in the control of inflammation, while
      also undergoing changes secondary to inflammation .

      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex autoimmune disease with chronic
      relapsing-remitting course and variable manifestations varying from mild mucocutaneous to
      severe, life-threatening illness .

      It has been speculated that fatigue, a symptom frequently observed in approximately 80% of
      SLE patients , may contribute to a reduction in physical fitness (i.e.,muscle weakness and
      low cardiovascular capacity) which, in turn, leads to an impairment in the performance of
      activities of daily living and in the overall quality of life .

      SLE patients experienced decreased physical function, low dynamic muscle strength capacity,
      and poor quality of life, suggesting that either "residual" fatigue or other factors (e.g.,
      long-term medication or systemic inflammation) may have contributed to the poor
      health-related findings .

      Celikbilek et al. observed that Neutrophil /Lymphocyte Ratio (NLR) and Platelet/Lymphocyte
      Ratio (PLR) in peripheral blood are simple Systemic Inflammatory Response (SIR) markers which
      are evaluated by blood parameters and showed that NLR possesses a diagnostic value in certain
      pathologies characterized by systemic or local inflammatory response. Amaylia et al. found
      that NLR was significantly higher in SLE than normal subjects .
    
  