
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate disease control rate (DCR) at 4 months. II. Evaluate tumor-based biomarkers in
      paired pre and post treatment biopsies (10 in each arm, 30 total) that may correlate with
      treatment or prospectively identify patients likely to respond to treatment with danvatirsen
      (AZD9150) in combination with durvalumab (MEDI4736) (may include PD-L1 expression,
      phosphorylated or total STAT3 expression, tumor genetics, characterization of immune
      infiltrates, or other stratification markers).

      III. Explore the relationship between PD-L1 protein levels in the membrane of circulating
      tumor cells obtained by peripheral blood draws prior to, during, and after treatment with
      clinical endpoints including treatment efficacy and toxicity.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the frequency of dose limiting toxicities. II. Evaluate frequency of objective
      response (as defined as partial response [PR] or complete response [CR] according to Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1 criteria).

      III. Evaluate duration of response (DOR) measured from the time measurement criteria are
      first met for CR or PR, whichever is first recorded, until the first date that recurrent or
      progressive disease (PD) is objectively documented.

      IV. Evaluate best overall response (including CR, PR, stable disease [SD], and PD, according
      to RECIST version 1.1 criteria).

      V. Evaluate progression free survival (PFS) from allocation to the first documentation of PD
      as determined by the investigator or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore the relationship between radiologic metrics (radiomics) prior to, during, and
      after treatment with clinical endpoints including treatment efficacy and toxicity.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive danvatirsen intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 7, 5 and 3 prior to cycle
      1, then on days 1, 8, 15 and 22. Patients also receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 1-3 months, then
      every 2 months thereafter.
    
  