
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The primary objective of this project is to determine which outcome measures derived from
      analysis of SP images are reliable within the healthy population and can distinguish between
      healthy volunteers and those with scoliosis, chest wall deformities, and obesity. Secondary
      objectives include comparing SP outcome measures with clinical and radiographic measures to
      test concurrent validity and to determine if the SP outcome measures correlate with clinical
      and radiographic measures taken over time. The ultimate goal is to develop SP as a
      measurement tool to be employed in clinical research involving the study of scoliosis, rib
      and chest deformities and the truncal distribution of adiposity.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      The population for this study consists of healthy volunteers, persons with scoliosis and/or
      chest wall deformities, and persons with obesity. Men and women of all races, ethnicities,
      and ages greater than two years may participate.

      DESIGN:

      This project will be carried out in three phases. In Phase I, we will analyze images of
      healthy volunteers captured by the SP scoliosis and chest-wall deformity ( scoliosis )
      software to identify the outcome measures that show minimal or no variance. We will also
      examine if healthy volunteers gender, age, height, and BMI contribute to the differences of
      these outcome measures.

      In Phase IIa, images captured from subjects with scoliosis and/or chest wall deformities will
      be processed by scoliosis software to determine the set of meaningful variables (those that
      show significant differences between the two populations). In Phase IIb, images captured of
      healthy volunteers will be processed using obesity software to determine the set of variables
      showing minimal or no variance among the data from healthy volunteers when controlling for
      the effects of potential confounders. Variables that continue to have minimal or no variance
      will be considered meaningful with respect to obesity analysis software. Those variables
      achieved from obesity image analysis will be compared to the set from the healthy volunteers
      to determine which variables show significant differences between the healthy volunteer and
      obese subjects.

      In Phase III, healthy participants, scoliosis/chest wall deformity, and obesity participants
      who are scheduled to return to NIH as part of another NIH protocol will be invited to return
      for yearly re-imaging up to a total of five years in order to analyze changes over time and
      compare them with concurrent radiographic measures.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The purpose of the study is to develop outcome measures for use in future research. These
      outcome measures will be developed from software which analyzes images derived from the
      stereophotogrammetry system.
    
  