
    
      Background: Despite drug-eluting stents (DES), diabetic patients remain at high risk of
      restenosis and poor clinical outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Studies
      have suggested poor glycemic control and insulin resistance may be predictors of poor
      outcomes after PCI. There are conflicting studies as to whether strategies to improve
      glycemic control can improve outcomes after PCI. Thiazolidinediones, such as pioglitazone
      (PIO), may have anti-restenotic benefits, independent of glycemic control.

      Study design: This study was a single centre prospective, randomized, open-label,
      blinded-endpoint (PROBE) parallel design trial. Type 2 diabetic patients, treated with diet
      or oral antidiabetic medication (sulfonylurea vs. metformin or combination; but no
      thiazolidinedione or insulin), who are undergoing elective or urgent PCI with stenting were
      eligible. Fifty type 2 diabetic patients were randomly assigned to either: intensive glycemic
      control: pioglitazone (PIO; 30 mg/d x 6 months) in addition to titration of oral hypoglycemic
      agents (OHA) to get HbA1c<6% (PIO: n=25) vs. conservative glycemic control: titration of OHA
      to get HbA1c<7% (CONTROL: n=25). Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) was performed immediately
      after PCI and repeated at 6 months to determine the effect on instent neointimal plaque
      volume and area. Coronary stenting was carried out in a standard fashion, with routine use of
      a glycoprotein 2b/3a inhibitor during the procedure. From August 2002 until June 2005, DES
      were not permitted in the protocol. After June 2005, we amended the protocol to allow DES, as
      they had become routinely used in diabetic patients in our institution, especially for vessel
      size <3mm and/or lesion length>15mm. DES were used in 7 PIO and 11 CONTROL subjects, and bare
      metal stents (BMS) in the rest. Patients were then followed with clinic visits at 1, 3 and 6
      months. OHA, other than pioglitazone, were adjusted in a stepwise manner in order to attain
      the HbA1c targets. Other concomitant medications, including anti-anginals, lipid-lowering
      therapy, and antihypertensive medication were adjusted according to their clinical need and
      current Canadian guidelines. After 6 months treatment, or before if clinically indicated, all
      subjects were to return for repeat cardiac catheterization, including repeat coronary
      angiography and IVUS of the intervened vessel to assess the serial change in luminal
      dimensions. Fasting blood was collected for plasma glucose, HbA1c, insulin, lipid profile,
      hs-CRP, adiponectin, leptin, matrix metalloproteinase-9, and interleukin-6 at the time of PCI
      and at the follow-up IVUS. If the patient developed recurrent ischemic symptoms before 6
      months, the final IVUS could be performed earlier, if they were found to have
      clinically-significant restenosis (diameter stenosis > 50%). Otherwise, patients were still
      encouraged to have their protocol 6 month IVUS follow-up. 41 patients (n=20 PIO, n=21
      CONTROL) had analyzable pairs of IVUS.

      Study hypothesis: We hypothesized that there would be significantly less instent neointimal
      proliferation on IVUS at 6 months in the group receiving aggressive glycemic control plus the
      thiazolidinedione pioglitazone. We also hypothesized that the reduction in neointimal
      hyperplasia will likely relate to improvements in glycemic control (HbA1c) and insulin
      resistance. Additionally, we wanted to explore the biochemical predictors (glucose
      parameters, lipids, inflammatory markers, adipokines) for neointimal proliferation.
    
  