
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have a PET-CT scan performed. The picture
      produced by this scan will be compared to a standard CT scan to see if any additional tumors
      can be located. If the study doctor thinks that additional tumors are present, a biopsy may
      need to be performed to check the status of the tumors. The type of biopsy will depend on
      where the tumor(s) are located on the body. If a biopsy is performed, you will sign a
      separate consent.

      Screening Tests:

      Women who decide to take part in this study will be asked if they think they might be
      pregnant at the start of the study. Women who are unsure if they may be pregnant or think
      that they may be pregnant must have a negative blood (about 1 teaspoon) pregnancy test.

      PET-CT Scan Procedure:

      Before the PET-CT scan is performed, you will be asked to avoid stressful exercise for 24
      hours. Starting about 12 hours before the scan, you should eat a high protein diet and limit
      the amount of carbohydrates you eat. Starting about 6 hours before the scan, you should not
      eat or drink anything other than water (fast) until after the scan is done. You may continue
      to take prescribed drugs with water during the fasting period.

      On the day of the PET-CT scan, you should wear comfortable clothing, preferably without metal
      buttons and/or zippers. You will be asked to remove any metallic objects you have when you
      arrive at the PET-CT Center.

        -  Blood (a few drops from the fingertip) will be collected to check your blood sugar
           levels.

        -  A radioactive sugar solution, called fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), will be given through a
           needle in a vein of your arm. The injection will last about 5 minutes. Following the FDG
           injection, you will rest for about 1 hour to allow the FDG to move throughout the body.
           You will then be asked to urinate before the scan is performed.

      You will lie flat on your back on the scanner table. The table will move slowly in and out of
      a donut-shaped machine called the PET-CT scanner. This scanner creates a picture that shows
      the FDG in the tumor(s) and organs. The scan takes about 45-60 minutes. You will need to lie
      as still as possible while the scan is being performed.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation on this study will be over after PET-CT scan has been completed.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      As a part of your standard of care, your primary care physician may order additional imaging
      after your completion of this study for follow-up purposes. The study doctor will review
      these images to compare them with the PET-CT images. The study doctors will also review the
      results of any biopsies you may have had as a result of PET-CT findings.

      This is an investigational study. PET-CT and CT scans are FDA approved and commercially
      available. The PET-CT component of this study is investigational because it is being done
      within a certain timeframe (within 30 days after your CT scan) instead of at the timeframe
      your doctor would normally decide.

      Up to 150 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson
      Cancer Center (MDACC).
    
  