
    
      This is a pilot feasibility study of a Cognitive Behavioral Coping Skills (CBCS) Group
      Intervention with a representative sample of patients with Hepatitis C viral (HCV)undergoing
      standard antiviral treatment in a small RCT to examine (1) study feasibility, (2) effect size
      estimates, and (3) whether clinically significant improvements occurred in key outcomes. This
      pilot study will allow the investigators to test the hypotheses that the study procedures are
      feasible and that participation in the CBCS-HCV group is acceptable and useful to
      participants. Furthermore, effect size estimates of key outcome variables will determine
      which outcomes appear to improve as a result of the intervention and should potentially be
      evaluated in a future efficacy study. Several patient-reported outcomes (PROs) are evaluated:
      health-related quality of life (HrQOL), perceived stress, depression, anxiety, anger,
      fatigue, sleep, pain and medication adherence. The investigators will also determine if group
      participation affects viral cure rate. Change scores that have an effect size d> .35 are
      considered potentially clinically significant and reasonable to evaluate in a larger efficacy
      study. Study feasibility elements evaluated included: feasibility of a RCT study design,
      intervention delivery, patient acceptability, therapist protocol fidelity, recruitment,
      enrollment, attendance, retention and data collection.

      The investigators planned to enroll and evaluate the intervention in two waves of study
      participants (Wave 2, Wave 3). When a block of 12 patients is consented for Wave 2,
      participants will be randomized to standard of care (SC; n=6) or the CBCS-HCV group
      intervention (n=6). The same procedure will be used to consent and randomize 12 patients in
      Wave 3 to SC vs CBCS-HCV. Patients randomized to CBCS will participate in 4 weekly CBCS
      sessions prior to starting HCV treatment, and 5 more sessions during HCV treatment, on the
      same day they attend follow-up treatment visits at weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, and 12. Outcome data
      will be collected at baseline (T1), just prior to HCV treatment starting (T2); at week 8 of
      HCV treatment (T3), at end of CBCS intervention/ HCV treatment at week 12 (T4), and 1-month
      post-CBCS intervention/ HCV treatment (T5). The primary outcome is change in total HrQOL
      score. Secondary outcomes are change in other PROs noted above. Additional secondary outcomes
      are group differences in medication adherence and viral cure rate. Elements of study
      feasibility are also evaluated.
    
  