
    
      Given the enduring debilitation and poor quality of life in ME/CFS, this study proposes to
      identify important activity patterns (e.g., push-crash), negative life events and autonomic
      dysfunction that may be associated with non-improvement. This will be accomplished with
      weekly online diaries, objective measures (actigraphy, heart rate monitors) and
      semi-structured phone interviews. Non-improvement is a rarely studied, but commonly reported
      outcome in this illness. For both naturalistic studies and behavioral intervention trials,
      roughly 50% of ME/CFS patients report worsening or unchanged illness. Also, the patient's
      self-management efforts may (paradoxically) produce symptom worsening and contribute to
      illness non-improvement. Non-improvement may also have biological relevance because activity
      limitations and sleep disruption in ME/CFS have both been associated with autonomic
      dysregulation (reduced heart rate variability). This (R01) prospective observational six
      month study of both daily and weekly in vivo assessments would be the first to look at
      non-improvement in relation to ongoing patient activities and autonomic function.

      Specific Aim 1: To assess the relation between non-improvement and prospectively assessed
      activity patterns and life events. Hypothesis 1: Non-improvement will be significantly
      associated with these dimensional variables: (a) illness-exacerbating activity patterns
      (e.g., "push-crash") reported on home web diaries; (b) daily hassles assessed in web diaries;
      and (c) negative life events reported in phone interviews.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess the relation between improvement and prospectively assessed
      activity patterns and life events. Hypothesis 2: Improvement will be significantly associated
      with: (a) illness-moderating activity patterns (e.g., healthy pacing) reported on home web
      diaries; (b) daily uplifts assessed in web diaries; and (c) positive life events assessed in
      phone interviews.

      Specific Aim 3: To assess the relation between activity patterns and symptoms. Hypothesis 3:
      (a) the "push-crash" pattern will predict greater actigraphy variability and symptom
      variability; (b) the "limiting activity" pattern will be associated with very low actigraphy
      counts and high symptom severity; and (c) a healthier "pacing" pattern will be associated
      with moderate variability of actigraphy and symptoms.

      Our secondary aim hypothesizes that autonomic dysregulation (reduced heart rate variability
      [HRV]) will be characteristic of both non-improvers and patients with a limiting activity
      pattern as compared to improvers and those with a healthy pacing pattern. The long-range goal
      is to develop a new self-management protocol that more clearly identifies non-improvement
      activities and how they can be changed. An important aspect of this new self-management
      protocol would be to identify early signals of impending relapse, particularly HRV status,
      via home-use portable devices that could be utilized by patients and their doctors as a
      warning to modify non-improvement activities, e.g., excessive activity or exercise, to
      prevent behavioral collapse into inactivity.
    
  