
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the association of BROCA-homologous recombination (HR) with the clinical
      activity of cediranib maleate (cediranib)/olaparib, as measured by progression-free survival
      (PFS), in women with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer.

      II. To assess the clinical activity of cediranib/olaparib, as measured by objective response,
      in women with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess overall survival (OS), objective response, and clinical benefit (stable disease
      [SD] or response >= 16 weeks) in women with platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer, and PFS, OS,
      and clinical benefit in women with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.

      II. To assess the safety of cediranib/olaparib in women with recurrent platinum-sensitive and
      -resistant ovarian cancer.

      III. To evaluate the association of circulating endothelial cells at baseline and day 3 with
      the clinical activity of cediranib/olaparib, as measured by PFS, in women with
      platinum-sensitive and -resistant ovarian cancer.

      IV. To evaluate changes in BROCA-HR status between archival and pre-treatment biopsy samples.

      V. To evaluate the associate of BROCA-HR with the clinical activity of cediranib/olaparib as
      measured by PFS, in women with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.

      VI. To characterize genomic alteration by whole exome sequencing in women with
      platinum-sensitive and -resistant ovarian cancer.

      VII. To identify biomarker signatures that correlate with the clinical activity of
      cediranib/olaparib in women with recurrent platinum-sensitive and -resistant ovarian cancer,
      including changes in gene expression or acquired mutations in on-treatment tumor biopsies
      that are associated with clinical activity, and changes in gene expression or acquired
      mutations in post-progression biopsies that are associated with clinical resistance.

      VIII. To explore changes in biomarker signatures and candidate angiogenic markers from
      pre-treatment to post-progression in women with platinum-sensitive and -resistant ovarian
      cancer.

      IX. To evaluate the population pharmacokinetics (PK) of the combination of cediranib and
      olaparib (tablets) in platinum-sensitive and platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of a mobile phone application (app) ecediranib-olaparib (eCO)
      to collect patient-generated blood pressure and symptom data based upon study protocol
      recommendations.

      II. Assess patient and health care professional perceived usability and satisfaction of the
      eCO app (for patients) and of a connected web portal (for health care providers).

      III. Assess the number of generated alerts to the study team (via the web portal and email
      "high" alerts) based on pre-determined severity levels.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and cediranib maleate PO once daily
      (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  