
    
      Background The indication to start NUCs remains controversial in non-cirrhotic compensated
      patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Specifically, it has not been clarified whether high
      serum concentration of HBV DNA warrants treatment despite only mild elevation of serum
      alanine aminotransferase (ALT). In order to elucidate this unresolved issue, we've conducted
      a double blind placebo controlled randomized trial to investigate the efficacy of Tenofovir
      Disoproxil Fumarate (TDF) in CHB patients with high viral load but only mildly elevated serum
      ALT.

      This open-label rollover study is an extension of the aforementioned randomized trial. For
      those who are initially randomized to placebo and later receive open-label TDF, there is a
      rare opportunity to study the efficacy of TDF by using the same patient as his/her own
      control. For those already randomized to TDF in the trial, the investigators will be able to
      closely monitor all aspects of therapeutic responses (i.e., biochemical, virological,
      serological, and histological) during a 6-year treatment course in an Asian cohort.

      Regardless of their initial treatment assignment, these enrolled patients offer a unique
      opportunity to further explore the effectiveness of TDF in CHB in that they have paired
      biopsied liver tissue and comprehensive information.

      Objectives:

      The primary endpoint of this study is the evolution of liver fibrosis during the therapeutic
      course. The secondary endpoints are virological response including not only serum viral load
      but also intracellular HBV markers such as viral covalently closed circular (ccc) DNA,
      serological response including HBsAg seroconversion, HBeAg seroconversion, and quantification
      of HBsAg, biochemical response such as AST, ALT, and adverse reactions with particular
      attention to clinical events regarding bone and renal safety.

      Occurrence of drug resistance is also an important end point.

      Methods:

      After enrollment, all patients are interviewed with a structured questionnaire to obtain
      information regarding demographic data, social-economic status, life style, and medical
      history. Physical checkup, hemogram, blood biochemistry, serology of HBV, serum viral load,
      HBV genotype, and abdominal sonography are performed at baseline.

      Enrolled patients are followed up by telephone or interview every 4 weeks and physically
      examined every 12 weeks. At each follow-up visit, patients are instructed to return the
      untaken drugs. A patient is defined as compliant if she or he completes at least 80% of the
      drugs. AST, ALT, HBV DNA, and quantitative HBsAg will be measured every 12 weeks. Serum
      biochemistry (bilirubin, PT, P, K, Cre), urinalysis, alpha-fetoprotein, HBeAg, and anti-HBe
      and abdominal sonography are measured every 24 weeks. Hemogram and anti-HBs will be checked
      annually.

      Percutaneous liver biopsy will be performed at the beginning of this project and after
      completing the 3-year (156 weeks) trial period. Serology of HBV (HBsAg, anti-HBs, HBeAg, and
      anti-HBe) is determined by commercially available immunoassays (ABBOTT GmbH& Co., Wiesbaden,
      Germany). Serum HBV DNA is measured quantitatively by quantitative polymerase chain reaction
      method (Roche COBAS TaqMan Assay). Histopathological specimens obtained by liver biopsy will
      be evaluated independently by two central histopathologists who are unaware of patients'
      clinical information. The final report of liver histology is based on the agreement of these
      two pathologists and if necessary a third pathologist may be invited to settle disagreement.

      Analysis Both Intent-to-treat (ITT) and per-protocol (PP) analyses will be performed to
      assess therapeutic efficacy. All randomized patients are included in the ITT analysis and all
      protocol violators (compliance less than 80%, loss to follow-up, withdrawal from study) will
      be excluded from PP analysis. Quantitative data are summarized as mean ± standard deviation
      (SD) and categorical variables as percentages. Fisher's exact test is used to compare
      proportions of categorical variables. Unpaired and paired student's t-tests are used to
      compare means of continuous variables between groups and within groups respectively.

      The investigators will apply a multiple logistic regression analysis to investigate factors
      associated with therapeutic efficacy. All tests are two-tailed and a p value less than 0.05
      is considered as statistically significant.
    
  