
    
      Eumycetoma is a fungal disease caused by Madurella mycetomatis. The disease is chronic,
      granulomatous and inflammatory. It usually involves subcutaneous tissues and leads to masses
      and sinuses from which fungal grains are discharged. It is most probably introduced post
      trauma e.g. thorn prick. It is associated with major morbidity and can be disabling,
      disfiguring and highly stigmatizing. In advanced cases it may be fatal. Eumycetoma is most
      prevalent in what is known as mycetoma belt.

      Current treatment modalities for eumycetoma are disappointing. The response is characterized
      by low cure rates, high amputation rates, high up drop out from follow up and high recurrence
      rates. The available drugs for the treatment of eumycetoma are expensive, potentially toxic
      and require a long treatment period up to 12 months. By that time the mass is well
      encapsulated and is removed surgically. Despite prolonged medical treatment, the causative
      organisms are commonly found to still be viable and can be cultured from the surgical
      specimen.

      The objectives of this study are to determine the comparative efficacy, safety, and
      tolerability of Fosravuconazole versus itraconazole as first-line treatment for subjects with
      eumycetoma caused by Madurella mycetomatis. The primary end-point will be complete cure after
      12 months treatment as evidenced by clinical assessment showing absence of mycetoma mass with
      closure of sinuses and absent discharge, normal ultrasonic examination of the lesion, or the
      presence of fibrosis only associated with a negative fungal culture from a surgical biopsy
      from the former mycetoma site. The secondary endpoints are the outcome at 3-month's time
      point based on the same criteria as 12 month and/or treatment-related adverse events at the
      3- and 12-month visits. The study will also monitor plasma drug levels of ravuconazole and
      itraconazole that will be included in a logistic model with other clinical and laboratory
      parameters to predict outcome. In addition, immunological studies will be done to describe
      the developing or changing immune responses during treatment. Lastly, all strains collected
      will be cultured and typed and with assessment of antifungal resistance.

      This study is a single-center, comparative, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group,
      active-controlled, clinical superiority trial in subjects with eumycetoma requiring surgery.
      There will be three arms this study: The first arm will have Fosravuconazole 300 mg weekly
      and the second arm will have Fosravuconazole 200 mg weekly. Both arms will be evaluated at 3
      months. At this time-point, one of the study arms will be dropped according to the
      drop-the-loser design, based on efficacy or toxicity. The control arm is the standard
      treatment using itraconazole 400mg daily. Patients will receive treatment for one year. An
      interim analysis is planned after data has been accumulated for sample size of 28 for 3
      months end point.

      This study will be done at the Mycetoma Research Centre, Sudan when ethics and regulatory
      approvals are received. The study plans to recruit 138 subjects by the end of the trial. The
      main inclusion criteria are subjects who provide consent, aged 18 years or more with primary
      moderate eumycetoma (size 2-10 cm) caused by Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) confirmed
      Madurella mycetomatis. Females in the child bearing age will require stringent contraception.
      The main exclusion criteria are eumycetoma > 10 cm, previous treatment, significant
      concomitant illness that preclude evaluation and treatments or conditions treated with drugs
      that are known to interact with the azoles.

      The study is expected to new safer and more efficacious eumycetoma treatment.
    
  