
    
      Voice disorders are the most common communication disorder across the lifespan, affecting
      more than 5 million school-aged children annually in the United States. Vocal fold nodules
      are the most frequent pathology affecting voice in children, with 21% of children negatively
      influenced at any given point in time, resulting in negative quality of life consequences and
      inferior academic performance. The traditional first-line approach to treatment of vocal fold
      nodules is voice therapy by Speech-Language Pathology, although corticosteroids are often
      implemented in conjunction with voice therapy to reduce focal inflammation at the lesion
      site. Operating room procedures are the traditional method to administer corticosteroids to
      the lesion site, although recent advances in office-based laryngeal steroid injections have
      become a widely popular alternative to reduce lesion size. Unfortunately, although in-office
      injections are more favorable to operating room procedures, due to their less invasive
      nature, in-office procedures are still an invasive alternative in the pediatric population.
      Specifically, they involve equipment that may be intimidating to the child and require the
      child to remain very still for prolonged periods of time, which may not be feasible with some
      children. Furthermore, focal vocal fold injections still involve potential adverse effects
      such as vocal fold hematoma. To mediate these concerns, a short course of inhaled
      corticosteroids may be a safe and non-invasive alternative to reducing inflammation and
      lesion size within the larynx. The goal of the present study is to determine the safety and
      feasibility of a short-course of inhaled corticosteroids in addition to standard voice
      therapy for treating vocal fold nodules. The study also aims to examine the effects of
      inhaled corticosteroids on quality of life outcomes and acoustic and aerodynamic outcomes.
    
  