
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the response rate at 6 months following treatment with 131I (iodine I-131) in
      combination with placebo or selumetinib for radioactive iodine-avid (RAIA) recurrent and/or
      metastatic thyroid cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the best overall response following treatment with 131I in combination with
      placebo or selumetinib for RAIA recurrent and/or metastatic thyroid cancer.

      II. To compare the progression-free survival of patients with RAIA recurrent and/or
      metastatic thyroid cancer treated with 131I in combination with placebo or selumetinib.

      III. To compare serum thyroglobulin changes for patients with RAIA recurrent and/or
      metastatic thyroid cancer treated with 131I in combination with placebo or selumetinib.

      IV. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of 131I in combination with placebo or
      selumetinib for patients with RAI-avid recurrent and/or metastatic thyroid cancer.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

      I. To explore the genomic and transcriptomic landscape of RAIA tumors for signatures that
      correlate to therapeutic benefit achieved with 131I in combination with placebo or
      selumetinib.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) starting on week 1, day 1
      and continuing through 2 days after iodine I-131 therapy has been administered. Approximately
      3 weeks after beginning treatment with selumetinib, patients receive iodine I-131 PO.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID starting on week 1, day 1 and continuing through 2
      days after iodine I-131 therapy has been administered. Approximately 3 weeks after beginning
      treatment with placebo, patients receive iodine I-131 PO.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months, every 3
      months for 12 months, and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  