
    
      Neuraxial anesthesia has been associated with delayed brainstem conduction and decreasing
      afferent sensory transmission, thereby modifying reticulo-thalamo-cortical mechanisms
      regulating arousal. The state of entropy measured by EEG-monitors has detected sedative
      effects associated with neuraxial anaesthesia in healthy volunteers, as well as during
      caesarean delivery. Entropy is a measure of the irregularity or disorder of a brains activity
      - sedation leading to a decrease of irregularity or disorder in the EEG.

      The EEG activity in general can be separated into background activity, focal abnormalities,
      and intermittent and paroxysmal activity.8 Background electrical activity measured with the
      EEG by surface electrodes, are characterized by their corresponding frequency wave bands,
      ranging from slow waves (< 1 Hz), Delta (1 - 4 Hz), Theta (4 - 8 Hz), Alpha (8 - 12 Hz), Beta
      (12 - 30 Hz) and Gamma (> 30 Hz). In healthy volunteers, neuraxial anaesthesia was linked to
      increased activity - the so-called state of paradoxical excitation. This pattern is similar
      to the sedative low-dose GABAergic effects known to occur in response to the benzodiazepine
      midazolam. Epileptic potentials as paroxysmal EEG activity are typically seen with seizures,
      but they can be a sign of other changes of brain state as well (e.g. (pre)eclampsia or high
      doses of opioids).

      Preeclampsia constitutes a heterogeneous multisystemic disorder defined by the new onset of
      hypertension and proteinuria after 20 weeks of gestation, affecting 2-8 % of all pregnancies
      world-wide. In this condition the nervous system is commonly affected, being the cause of
      significant morbidity and mortality, when seizures occur resembling an epileptic grand-mal
      convulsion. Significantly, cerebral white matter lesions are described several years after
      eclamptic episodes. Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is also suggested to
      be a core component of eclampsia. In this condition is associated extensive white matter
      changes have been detected, using advanced neuroimaging techniques. EEG changes can be
      detected before clinical signs of PRES are present, and before ischemia leads to irreversible
      brain damage.14 In preeclampsia EEG changes are also common, consisting of slow waves in the
      occipital lobe, as well as spike discharges. These EEG changes have been reported in
      eclampsia and in severe preeclampsia, with some differences between the two conditions. The
      prevention of eclampsia, which can occur pre-, intra-, or postpartum, is thus a critical
      management goal. Current literature only describes the use of EEG entropy - reflecting the
      state of arousal - during neuraxial anaesthesia in parturients. So far no study has assessed
      the quantitative (qEEG) or paroxysmal EEG changes induced by neuraxial anaesthesia in
      parturients undergoing caesarean delivery, and such monitoring has particular relevance in a
      high-risk patient population with preeclampsia.

      Aims

      The aim of this pilot study is to prospectively assess the effect of spinal anaesthesia in
      healthy and preeclamptic parturients on brain activity. Decreased epileptiform activity in
      patients with preeclampsia would suggest that early neuraxial analgesia in labouring
      preeclamptic patients is beneficial, and may protect against neurological complications.
    
  