
    
      Histopathologic data have revealed that up to 70% of ovarian cancers may actually arise from
      the fallopian tube. Thus, opportunistic bilateral salpingectomy is now promoted for women at
      the time of hysterectomy for a benign disease. In turn, the potential surgical risks and
      ovarian cancer prevention of this emerging practice have generated multiple studies, some of
      which reported microscopic fimbriae were left behind adherent to the ovary. Although it is
      thought that there is no direct connection between the ovary and its adjacent fallopian tube,
      the investigators often find remnants of the fimbria adherent to the ovary at the time of
      surgery. If this tubo-ovarian interface is not separate, then practices such as salpingectomy
      and radical fimbriectomy may be incomplete, and the effectiveness of this technique as a
      prophylactic strategy may need reconsideration. In this study, the investigators aim to
      assess the presence of residual fimbrial/tubal tissue on ovarian surfaces following
      salpingectomy and to discuss the efficacy of this procedure on the reduction of epithelial
      ovarian cancer. Patients who undergo salpingo-oophorectomy +/- hysterectomy (laparoscopic or
      laparotomy) for benign indications, early cervical cancer or low-risk endometrial cancer will
      be included. Patients with other pelvic malignancies, previous bilateral salpingectomy or
      bilateral oophorectomy and excessive adhesions will be excluded. Salpingectomy with or
      without hysterectomy, as indicated, will be performed initially. This will be followed by
      bilateral oophorectomy as a second step within the same procedure. The ovaries and tubes
      removed will be sent in separately labelled containers: right tube, left tube, right ovary
      and left ovary. Histological assessment will be performed by gynecological pathologists. The
      fallopian tubes will be sectioned serially and ovaries will also be serially sectioned and
      examined for presence of any remnant tubal tissue.
    
  