
    
      This is a cross-sectional and non-interventional study to investigate mechanisms of disease
      in patients with asthma who have concomitant chronic sinusitis and/or nasal polyps (upper
      airway disease). Approximately 160 participants will be enrolled. Patients who are scheduled
      to undergo inpatient or outpatient endoscopic sinus surgery at the University of California
      San Francisco for clinical management of their upper airway disease will be invited to
      participate. Leftover tissues or mucus from the surgery will be collected and processed for
      research purposes.

      This study consists of three study arms, (1) Full Characterization (AIMS-Full), (2) Surgery
      (AIMS-OR), and (3) Mucus Collection (AIMS-M). Participants will be recruited and enrolled in
      either AIMS-Full or AIMS-OR (based on participant availability). Participants who complete
      the initial characterization study (either AIMS-Full or AIMS-OR), may also go on to
      participate in the AIMS-M arm, which focuses mainly on sample collection. Participants who
      choose not to participate in either characterization arm are able to enroll directly into
      AIMS-M for sample collection only.

      Suitable patients, undergoing endoscopic sinus surgery, will be identified and recruited by
      the study team. Patients will first be asked to participate in the AIMS-Full
      characterization.

      If patients are unable or unwilling to participate in AIMS-Full, they will have the option to
      take part in the AIMS-OR or AIMS-M arms.

      AIMS-OR will consist of the endoscopic sinus surgery with an optional pre-procedure visit
      during which consent and blood specimens will be obtained and questionnaires will be
      administered. If the optional pre-procedure visit is not done, consent will be obtained at
      the surgery visit, and blood will not be collected.

      AIMS-M will consist of up to 5 visits. Patients seen in the UCSF Sinus Center clinic may have
      clearance of sinus mucus as part of routine clinical care; AIMS-M visits will collect these
      mucus samples that would otherwise be discarded. Sinus mucus obtained at the clinic visit may
      be used for research purposes if patients have given consent to participate in the AIMS-M arm
      of the study.

      Participants in all three study arms will complete study-specific questionnaires on asthma
      and allergy history and impairment and provide samples of nasal secretions that are collected
      as part of routine clinical care and would otherwise be discarded. Those participating in
      either characterization arm (AIMS-Full or AIMS-OR) will also provide nasal tissues (part of
      routine surgical procedure); airway epithelial brushings and blood collection (for study
      purposes only). Those participating in AIMS-Full will also participate in the following study
      procedures: medical history and physical exam (including vital signs and body
      anthropometrics), spirometry, methacholine challenge or airway reversibility testing, exhaled
      nitric oxide, questionnaires (asthma, sinusitis, metabolic health), urine collection, and
      sputum induction. A participant's time commitment to the study will vary depending on which
      arm the participant is enrolled.
    
  