
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      6-[18F]fluoro-dihydroxyphenylalanine (18F-DOPA) is a large neutral amino acid that resembles
      natural L-3.4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) biochemically. L-DOPA is a precursor for
      dopamine, epinephrine (adrenaline), and norepinephrine (noradrenaline), collectively known as
      catecholamines. 18F-DOPA enters the biochemical pathway of L-DOPA both in the brain and
      peripherally, and can be imaged with a positron emission tomography / computed tomography
      (PET/CT) scanner. 18F-DOPA can therefore allow imaging of the L-DOPA metabolic pathway with a
      high target-to-background ratio providing valuable information for a number of diseases.

      While 18F-DOPA is an established diagnostic tracer at a number of different institutions
      globally, given the short half-life of 18F (110 minutes) this tracer cannot be imported for
      local use. The Edmonton PET Centre has recently developed a production method for this tracer
      allowing local access. An initial study at the University of Alberta (Pro00055342) has
      demonstrated this tracer to have an acceptable safety profile, an expected biodistribution
      (both physiologic and disease-related), and has established clinical efficacy of the tracer.

      In March, 2020 the University of Alberta Hospital (UAH) installed a new PET/CT scanner (GE
      Discovery MI) with a digital detector system and new iterative image reconstruction
      algorithms that represent a substantial technological improvement compared to the previously
      installed scanner. It is expected that this new system will reduce artifact and will increase
      the sensitivity for the detection of smaller lesions.

      Our initial study demonstrated rapid urinary excretion with intense collection of activity
      within the urinary bladder. While this physiology was expected, it did result in diminished
      image quality in the evaluation of the pelvis in some patients. Improved image reconstruction
      algorithms available on the new GE Discovery MI PET/CT system may improve imaged quality
      related to this problem. Based on our experience with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET/CT
      scans, the administration of intravenous furosemide prior to imaging can also substantially
      improve the image quality in the pelvis. These potential improvements have not yet been
      established with 18F-DOPA.

      A second observation from our initial study was that many participants demonstrated intense
      early activity at the gallbladder fundus. While biliary and gallbladder activity are
      described in the normal biodistribution of 18F-DOPA, the observed distribution suggests that
      the gallbladder fundus activity reflects primary uptake rather than reflux of activity within
      bile into the gallbladder.

      The rationale for this study is to explore the efficacy of these optimization parameters (new
      digital PET/CT camera system and use of intravenous furosemide) in the context of 18F-DOPA
      PET/CT imaging for patients with clinical indications for the scan. Imaging data from this
      study will be compared with data from the prior study (Pro00055342) to determine if the new
      digital detector PET/CT technology and preparatory furosemide administration improves image
      quality for these patients.

      A subgroup will also be scanned dynamically at the abdomen to better assess the pattern of
      gallbladder activity over time. This will include a mixture of clinical indications listed
      within the inclusion criteria. All patients will be screened for a history of previous
      gallbladder disease at the time of the scan by questionnaire. The intention of this sub-study
      is to better determine 18F-DOPA activity patterns associated with the gallbladder and to
      explore if there is a correlation between dopaminergic degeneration in the brain and the
      gallbladder.

      PURPOSE AND STUDY OBJECTIVE:

      Trial Type: Phase III non-randomized, non-blinded prospective cohort clinical trial of
      patients with a clinical indication for 18F-DOPA PET/CT imaging.

      The primary purpose of this study is to assess optimization parameters for 18F-DOPA PET CT
      imaging at UAH including the impact of new digital detector PET/CT technology as well as the
      impact of preparatory intravenous furosemide administration on image quality within the
      pelvis. A secondary purpose of this study is to better delineate the pattern of 18F-DOPA
      activity associated with the gallbladder and to explore if there is a relationship between
      dopaminergic denervation in the gallbladder and the brain.

      Only patient populations for which there are established clinical indications for the use of
      18F-DOPA will be included in this study. Participation in this study will allow access to
      this tracer for patients in Alberta as there is no Health Canada approved similar tracer
      currently available. 18F-DOPA is an established clinical tracer at multiple institutions
      globally and has been approved for clinical use at multiple European centres for many (10+)
      years. Established clinical indications in the literature include:

        1. Pediatric patients (less than 18 years old) with congenital hyperinsulinism. The
           18F-DOPA scan is used to plan required surgical intervention for these patients.

        2. Pediatric patients (less than 18 years old) with neuroblastoma. The 18F-DOPA scan is
           indicated for pre-operative assessment of a mass suspected to be a neuroblastoma,
           staging, re-staging, and assessment of recurrence in this patient group.

        3. Pediatric (less than 18 years old) or Adult patients (18 or older) with known or
           clinically suspected neuroendocrine tumor. These include patients with carcinoid tumor,
           pheochromocytoma, paraganglioma, and medullary thyroid cancer. 18F-DOPA is indicated for
           metabolic assessment of a mass suspected to represent one of these tumor-types, for
           staging of a known tumor, for re-staging, and for assessment of recurrence in this
           patient group.

        4. Adult patients (18 or older) with a clinical suspicion of Parkinson's disease or Lewy
           body dementia. 18F-DOPA is indicated to differentiate benign essential tremor from
           Parkinson's disease in this patient group [22-26]. 18F-DOPA may also be used to
           differentiate Lewy body dementia from other dementia types.

        5. Pediatric (less than 18 years old) or Adult patients (18 or older) with brain tumors
           (primary or metastatic). 18F-DOPA is indicated for biopsy planning, radiation therapy
           planning, and post-therapy assessment to differentiate residual viable tumor from
           post-therapy necrosis in this patient population.

      When requested for patients falling into one of these diagnostic groups, an 18F-DOPA PET/CT
      scan will be performed and interpreted clinically with the results conveyed to the referring
      physician.

      Image optimization (the primary study objective) will be evaluated based on the following:

        -  For patients with abnormal activity, the smallest 3 lesions will be recorded in terms of
           size (mm) and activity (SUVmax). For PET-avid lesions, the size measurement will be
           based on measuring the maximum dimension of the corresponding lesion on the CT scan
           component if possible. If not possible, a size measurement based on the PET images will
           be used. The minimum lesion size and average (3 smallest lesions) will be compared with
           a cohort of scans acquired on the previous non-digital PET/CT scanner (retrospective
           cohort of 50 positive patients, Pro00055342).

        -  The SUVmax, SUVmean, and SUV standard deviation of urinary bladder activity will be
           measured and compared to a retrospective cohort of 50 patients from a previous study
           (Pro00055342)

        -  A subjective score will be applied to the pelvis with respect to image artifact related
           to bladder activity (0 = no artifact, 1 = mild artifact, 2 = severe artifact). This will
           be compared to scoring of the previous study (retrospective cohort of 50 patients,
           Pro00055342) retrospectively.

      Gallbladder activity pattern (the secondary objective) will be evaluated based on the
      following:

        -  SUVmax measurements of the gallbladder fundus, gallbladder neck, common bile duct, right
           and left main intrahepatic ducts, and liver parenchyma (right and left lobes, 3 cm
           diameter VOI) will be measured at 5 minute increments. These will be analyzed in total,
           and subgroups will be compared (32 PD vs. 32 non-PD participants).

        -  All participants will be screened by questionnaire at the time of the scan as to whether
           there is a history of previous gallbladder disease. The positive response rate will be
           compared between three groups: non-PD patients, PD patients with objective evidence of
           dopaminergic denervation (positive FDOPA scan), PD patients without objective evidence
           of dopaminergic denervation (negative FDOPA scan).

      PATIENT POPULATION:

      A total of 800 patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be identified based on referrals
      from physicians who deem the imaging studies potentially useful for clinical care. It is
      anticipated that complete enrollment will take 5 years (approximately 160 scans per year).

      Sample size calculation is based on the following. There will typically be 5 participants
      total scanned per day. Dynamic imaging will be restricted to one patient per scanning day due
      to time constraints related to the scanner, as this requires the participant to lie quietly
      in the PET/CT scanner for up to one hour. Allowing for this restriction, it is estimated that
      the overall participation rate for dynamic scanning will be 10%. Based on a minimum total
      sample size of 64 participants for the secondary objective analysis, a total minimum study
      population of 640 is required. Allowing for some potential buffer for recruitment, a total of
      800 participants is planned.

      The minimum sample size of 64 participants is based on the following estimations: gallbladder
      fundus SUVmax mean 10.9, SUVmax DS 4.6 (measured from cohort of 10 patients from the previous
      study), α = 0.05, and power = 0.80. Two groups of 32 participants (64 total) should allow for
      detection of a minimum 30% difference in SUVmax involving the gallbladder fundus between the
      two groups.
    
  