
    
      The aims of this study are to:

      Aim 1. Evaluate the feasibility of the IMFP protocol in people living with PD. The sub-aims
      are to evaluate: (a) the relevance, acceptability, and perceived impact of the content of the
      MFIP from the perspective of recipients; and (b) the acceptability of the delivery logistics
      (technology, time, duration) of the MFIP from the perspective of individuals with PD.

      Aim 2. Prepare for a full-scale RCT. The sub-aims are to (a) explore the preliminary
      effectiveness of the MFIP, (b) assess the suitability of the trial recruitment strategy based
      on the enrolment, completion and attrition rates, and variation in socio-demographic features
      of participants; (c) evaluate the suitability of potential outcome measures; and (d) use data
      arising from differences in the study outcomes between the MFIP and control arms to inform a
      power calculation for the sample size of a definitive RCT. As this study is a feasibility
      study, there is no primary versus secondary outcomes. The outcomes for this study are
      occupational performance, occupational balance, fatigue impact, quality of life, sleep
      quality and self-efficacy.

      Sample Size Calculation: As a pilot study, a power calculation is not strictly required.
      However, in preparation for the current study, investigators conducted both a sample size
      calculation and consulted previous literature to inform our estimation. To calculate the
      sample size, the type-1 error was set at 5% and the type-2 error was set at 20% for a power
      of 80%. Effect sizes were taken from available studies as follows: for the MFI, the effect
      size of -0.664 and for the COPM the effect size of 0.37. The results indicate that a total
      sample size of 42 participants will be required using the minimum effect size for the COPM.
      Estimating an attrition rate of 20%, a convenience sample of 50 participants (25 in each
      group) will be recruited from across the Halifax Regional Municipality (HRM), Canada.

      This sample size selection aligns with recommendations for pilot studies by other researchers
      who have suggested that a minimum sample size of 24 to 50 is required for pilot feasibility
      studies. In another study by Hertzog (2008), a minimum sample of 10-25 people per group for
      feasibility studies is recommended.

      Recruitment: Individuals for this study will be recruited in several different ways across
      the province of Nova Scotia. Investigators will recruit using 1) web-based advertisements on
      the International Chronic and Complex Conditions Research Group website and KIJIJI, 2)
      posters at the Parkinson's Society Maritime Region office 3) social media (Twitter,
      Facebook), 4) public TV advertising and 5) word of mouth. Individuals who are interested in
      participating in the study will contact the research team.

      Individuals who are interested in participating will be invited to contact the research team
      by email. Potential participants will first undergo an email screening procedure to confirm
      preliminary eligibility criteria. Once eligibility is confirmed they will be sent study
      information and a consent form by email. Final eligibility will be confirmed after completion
      of the FSS and the MMSE during a videoconference call. Consent will be ascertained and
      confirmed verbally prior to any data collection. Participants will be informed that they may
      withdraw from the study at any time and for any reason. The assessor for all screening and
      data collection will be blind to group allocation.

      Data Collection-Aim 1: This aim will be achieved using data collected from only the
      experimental group.

      Registered occupational therapists will deliver the IMFP. Therapists graduate with the
      knowledge and skills to treat people with neurological conditions. All therapists will be
      required to successfully complete an online training session prior to participation. They
      will learn about the MFIP and the current evidence-based guidelines and research about
      working with individuals with PD.

      The therapists will be instructed to report to the study supervisor and the principal
      researcher if there are any safety complications during the sessions.

      Feasibility Questionnaires (experimental group only): Two feasibility questionnaires, based
      on the purposes of the study and the program's intentions, will be administered to
      participants. Questionnaire # 1 will evaluate the relevance, acceptability, and usability of
      each session. Participants will complete these, online, after each weekly session.
      Questionnaire #2 will evaluate the relevance, acceptability, usability, and logistical
      aspects of the whole program. It will be administered once, at the completion of the program.
      The responses on the feasibility questionnaires use a five-point Likert scale (Likert, 1932)
      (0 = 'strongly disagree' to 4 = 'strongly agree). A research assistant, independent from
      other parts of the study, will send the individualized links for each questionnaire to
      participants by email. Data collected on the Feasibility Questionnaires will be cleaned and
      analyzed at the completion of all data collection. This will ensure that this researcher
      remains masked to group allocation during the study data collection.

      Focus Groups: After completion of the program, 15 participants will be recruited to
      participate in one of three focus groups (n=5) using maximum variation sampling based on
      disease duration, fatigue severity, and gender. Participants will provide separate consent
      prior to participating. An experienced, independent research assistant will conduct the focus
      groups via videoconference using a prepared interview guide. Participants will be encouraged
      to discuss the feasibility of the program (relevance, usability, acceptability, and
      logistics), barriers to completion of the program, acceptability of study measures, and any
      perceived impact/changes (improvements/adverse events).

      Data collection - Aim 2: To evaluate the preliminary effectiveness of MFIP in people living
      with PD and the feasibility of potential outcome measures a collection of patient-reported
      outcome measures will be used. The outcomes for this study are occupational performance,
      occupational balance, fatigue impact, quality of life, sleep quality and self-efficacy.
      Effectiveness data will also be used to inform the power calculation for a definitive trial.
      The study outcome measures will be administered at baseline, at post-intervention and at
      three months following completion of the program.

      The principal researcher, who will be masked to group allocation, will be responsible for
      administering all the study outcome measures online using the Opinio Survey Software
      Application while videoconferencing with the researcher.

      Data Analysis: All quantitative data in this study will be analysed using STATA software
      (release 15 for Windows). After data entry, data will be examined for skewness, outliers, and
      systematic missing data. Extreme outliers, defined as greater than ±2SD from the mean will be
      removed from the data if they are less than 5% of all data (Allison, 2001)

      Data from the feasibility questionnaires will be analyzed using descriptive analysis,
      including frequencies and proportions for categorical data (e.g. demographic data), and
      means, and standard deviations for continuous data (e.g. questionnaires).

      Using general linear mixed model analysis, the preliminary effectiveness of the program will
      be determined. This analysis method will account for missing data at the measurement level.
      Also, in this study, we do not expect missing data at the item-level as all the measurements
      are completed with the supervision of the principal researcher. If there are missing data,
      they will be managed using the required steps based on the protocol of each measurement tool.
      If the maximum number of missing items has not been included in the protocol of measurements
      it will be set at 20%. If the scoring algorithm does not provide for missing data, values
      will be imputed using mean substitution.

      Using calculated effect sizes, this study will 1) estimate the preliminary effectiveness and
      the required sample size for future RCTs, and 2) evaluate the sensitivity and responsiveness
      of the study outcome measures. Measurement tools with the highest effect size and the
      smallest significance level are the most sensitive measures to change due to the intervention
      (Corzillius, Fortin, & Stucki, 1999. In regard to the responsiveness of measures, measurement
      tools that have higher levels of variability in participants at baseline, in relation to mean
      change scores, will have a smaller effect and therefore, are less responsive (Husted, Cook,
      Farewell, & Gladman, 2000. Qualitative data obtained from participants in focus group,
      together with the quantitative data will be used to recommend outcome measures for the future
      RCT.

      The efficiency of the recruitment strategies will be examined using data from the number of
      individuals who contact the research team, the number of participants who meet the study
      criteria, the number who withdraw from the study or are lost to follow-up (attrition rates),
      and the variation in sociodemographic characteristics of the participants.

      Focus groups will be audiotaped and transcribed verbatim. Any potentially identifying
      information will be removed prior to analysis. Data will be analyzed using the six-stage
      content analysis framework by Braun and Clarke (2014). Data will be managed using the NVIVO
      qualitative data analysis software (QSR International Pty Ltd., Version 11, 2015). The text
      will be coded without any changes in meaning. Coded material will be categorized semantically
      until themes emerge. Codes and themes will be reviewed and refined until the final
      distinctive themes can be created (Bob-Milliar, 2014).
    
  