
    
      Methylation is a change that occurs to DNA that has an effect on how genes are used in human
      cells. It is very common in leukemias for methylation to happen abnormally. Decitabine is a
      new drug that blocks DNA methylation. At low doses (such as those used in this study),
      decitabine blocks proteins important in abnormal DNA methylation, which may, in turn, allow
      leukemia cells to die and disappear.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to one of 2 groups. Group 1 will receive decitabine about every 4-8
      weeks to see whether this drug is useful in lengthening the duration of remission in patients
      like you. Group 2 will not receive the study drug.

      If you are assigned to Group 1, the drug will be given over about 1 hour through a peripheral
      or central catheter every day for 5 days. A peripheral or central venous catheter is a
      sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a large vein while you are under local
      anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be
      required to sign a separate consent form for this procedure. You will receive the study drug
      for 5 days per study "cycle". Each cycle will be about 4-8 weeks. You must receive your study
      drug at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.

      You may remain on study for up to 12 Cycles. You will be taken off study if the disease gets
      worse, your doctor feels it is in your best interest, or you develop intolerable side
      effects.

      During the study, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests every week
      during the first month and then every 2-4 weeks after that. You will also have a bone marrow
      examination aspirate/biopsy every 3-6 months to make sure that your disease remains in
      remission.

      If you are assigned to Group 2, you will continue under the care of your doctor. This will
      include study visits and having a bone marrow examination aspirate/biopsy every 3-6 months up
      to one year after randomization to make sure that the disease remains in remission.

      Once you are off study, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn and you will have a bone
      marrow biopsy/aspirate.

      This is an investigational study. Decitabine is FDA-approved and is commercially available.
      It is not FDA approved for this usage, and it has been authorized for use in research only.
      Up to 100 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  