
    
      There is a need of validated scale for correct assessment for patients with disorders of
      consciousness (DOC) in Russia. One of the most detailed scales that provides robust results
      in these patients is the Coma Recovery Scale - Revised (CRS-r). The validated Russian version
      of CRS-r will be very helpful in clinical work and scientific research for making correct
      assessment of patients status and its changes over time in Russia and Russian-speaking
      countries.

      The purpose of this study is to validate Russian version of CRS-R and to assess its
      psychometric properties.

      The first step of the study was to perform translation of CRS-r from English into Russian
      according to the validation protocol:

        1. Double direct translation by independent translators;

        2. Combination of two Russian translations;

        3. Reverse translation by native English speaker.

      Final Russian version and back-translated version of the Scale were approved by the original
      author, Dr. J. Giacino. He approved the original validation study protocol as well.

      To validate Russian version of CRS-r and to assess its psychometric properties the
      investigators will perform an observational study on 60 adults with disorders of
      consciousness of different etiology on different period of recovery after coma. It is planned
      to include patients with various states of consciousness (e.g., vegetative state, minimally
      conscious state "minus" and minimally conscious state "plus") in balanced proportions.

      Every patient will be examined by two independent researchers on the same day. The patients
      will be examined twice with a week interval between examinations for evaluation of
      sensitivity of CRS-r. Test-retest reliability will be applied to investigate interrater
      reliability. This method will be applied as well to assess the consistency of patients'
      scores over time. The internal consistency of the test will be investigated by inter-rater
      method. For this item two researchers will conduct patient assessment with CRS-R on the same
      day with a small period of time between the examinations. Content validity of the test will
      be used for assessment of validity of CRS-R. It will be performed with expert evaluation of
      the content of CRS-R by the investigators. Сriterion validity will be examined by assessing
      the correlations of CRS-R with the scales of other questionnaires with proven high
      psychometric properties for consciousness disorders: the Glasgow Coma Scale and Full Outline
      of UnResponsiveness (FOUR) score.
    
  