
    
      This investigation will be a randomized, subject-masked, active-controlled parallel-arm,
      human subjects clinical trial. Of note, the investigators will be using standard-of-care
      local anesthetic under an FDA-approved purpose and do not plan to research a possible change
      of indication or use of these medications as part of this research project. The treatments in
      both groups are currently used at our institution and there is true clinical equipoise at
      this time. The only difference in treatment between subjects who enroll versus those not
      enrolled in this study will be those who enroll will have the decision between which anatomic
      block location determined randomly, as opposed to the physician simply choosing him/herself.

      Enrollment. Consenting adults undergoing breast surgery with a planned single-injection
      regional analgesic will be offered enrollment. Patients undergoing breast surgery with a
      planned perineural catheter regional analgesic will be excluded. Study inclusion will be
      proposed to eligible patients prior to surgery. If a patient desires study participation,
      written, informed consent will be obtained using a current UCSD IRB-approved ICF. Selection
      for inclusion will not be based on gender, race, or socioeconomic status. The study
      population of interest includes men and women of all races and socioeconomic status.

      Preoperative Procedures. Following written, informed consent, the investigators will collect
      baseline anthropomorphic information (e.g., age, sex, height, and weight). All subjects will
      have a peripheral intravenous (IV) catheter inserted, standard noninvasive monitors applied,
      supplemental oxygen administered via a nasal cannula or face mask, and placed in the sitting
      position. Midazolam and fentanyl (IV) will be titrated for patient comfort, while ensuring
      that patients remain responsive to verbal cues. Both possible block locations will be viewed
      with ultrasound. If one or both of the locations is unacceptable for block placement in the
      clinician's opinion, the subject will not be randomized and will not proceed further with the
      study.

      Subjects will then be randomized using a computer-generated list and opaque, sealed envelopes
      to one of two treatment groups: (blocks of 4, stratified for unilateral vs. bilateral
      surgery): (1) serratus plane or (2) paravertebral block. All blocks will be placed by a
      regional anesthesia fellow or resident under the direct supervision and guidance of a
      regional anesthesia attending (or by the attending themselves).

      The area of needle insertion will be cleaned with chlorhexidine gluconate and isopropyl
      alcohol. All blocks will be placed using standard UCSD ultrasound-guided techniques as
      previously described.

      Ropivacaine 0.5% (20 mL for unilateral surgery; 16 mL each side for bilateral surgery) will
      be administered via the needle into the target plane(s). For PVBs without axillary
      involvement, this will be at the T3 and T5 levels. For PVBs with axillary involvement, this
      will be at the T2 and T4 levels. For unilateral PVBs, 10 mL of local anesthetic will be
      injected per level. For bilateral PVBs, 8 mL of local anesthetic will be injected per level.

      Single-injection blocks will be considered successful if, within 30 minutes, the subject
      experiences decreased sensation to cold temperature with an alcohol pad over the approximate
      level of the ipsilateral 4th thoracic dermatome. Misplaced blocks will be replaced
      successfully, or the patient excluded from further study participation. For subjects
      undergoing bilateral surgical procedures, a block using the same protocol will be
      administered on the contralateral side.

      Intraoperatively, all subjects will receive a general anesthetic using inhaled and
      intravenous anesthetic and oxygen. Intravenous fentanyl will be administered for
      cardiovascular responsiveness to noxious stimuli at the discretion of the anesthesia
      provider.

      Postop: Subjects will be discharged with a prescription for oxycodone 5 mg tablets for
      supplementary analgesia and instructed to record the time at which they take their first
      opioid tablet as well as the time at which they believe the block starts to wear off.

      Outcome measurements (end points). Pain scores will be recorded using the NRS. Within the
      recovery room, pain scores, opioid requirements, and antiemetic administration will be
      recorded by nursing staff masked to treatment group. The morning following surgery, all
      subjects will be contacted by phone or in person [if hospitalized] to record lowest, average,
      highest, and current pain scores; sleep disturbances, and nausea using a 0-10 Likert scale (0
      = no nausea; 10 = vomiting). For outpatients, opioid requirements will be recorded while
      inpatients will have opioid requirements extracted from the electronic medical record. In
      addition, the investigators will extract antiemetic use from the electronic record. They will
      collect the times at which subjects felt their block resolve and they consumed their first
      opioid analgesic pills following recovery room discharge.

      Hypothesis 1: Following breast surgery, analgesia will be non-inferior in the recovery room
      with a serratus plane block compared with a paravertebral block as measured with the Numeric
      Rating Scale.

      Hypothesis 2: For breast surgery, opioid consumption will be non-inferior in the operating
      and recovery rooms with a serratus plane block compared with a paravertebral block (primary:
      cumulative intravenous morphine equivalents).

      Primary end point: In order to claim that serratus plane blocks are non-inferior to
      paravertebral blocks, both Hypotheses 1 and 2 must be at least non-inferior.

      Statistical methods. Descriptive statistics will be provided by arm and in aggregate.
      Baseline characteristics of arms will be compared using the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney and
      Fisher's Exact tests. Key characteristics that are significantly different (p<0.05) will be
      included as covariates in the analysis models.

      Primary aim. The investigators will test the noninferiority of the serratus nerve block
      compared to the paravertebral nerve block. The 95% confidence interval (CI) associated with
      the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test will be derived for the group difference (paravertebral minus
      serratus) in median pain scores within the recovery room. If the lower limit of the 95% CI is
      greater than -1.25, the investigators will conclude noninferiority. If there are significant
      differences between the groups in any key characteristics, these characteristics will be
      included as covariates in a linear model. The same noninferiority margin (-1.25) will be
      applied to the 95% CI for the covariate adjusted group difference in mean pain derived from
      the linear model.

      The noninferiority of the serratus nerve block with regard to total opioid consumption within
      the operating and recovery rooms will be tested in the same manner as pain, i.e. comparing
      the limits of a 95% CI associated with the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test to a predefined
      noninferiority margin (in this case 2 mg). Covariate adjusted linear models will again be
      applied in the event that key characteristics are significantly different between the groups.

      Sample size justification. Power for the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney derived noninferiority testing
      is based on 10,000 simulated trials. The investigators simulated pain scores from a discrete
      distribution with median (interquartile range) 3 (2-5). Between the quartiles, the
      probability of each score was assumed constant. The distribution for each group was assumed
      to be the same. The sample size of n=50 per group provides 82% power to detect noninferiority
      in pain with a margin of 1.25. Similarly, opioid consumption was assumed to follow a
      truncated normal distribution with mean 2.5 mg and standard deviation 2 mg, and minimum value
      0 mg. The sample size of n = 50 per group provides at least 95% power to detect
      noninferiority with margin 2 mg. Therefore, the investigators will enroll 50 subjects for
      each of two treatments with primary end point values for a total enrollment of 100 subjects
      with a primary end point. To allow for dropouts, the investigators will request a maximum
      enrollment of 120 subjects. Noninferiority in pain is tested first, and if significant,
      noninferiority in opioid consumption is tested. Under this hierarchical testing framework, no
      adjustment in alpha is necessary to control Type 1 error.
    
  