
    
      The aim of this study is to test the effectiveness of a smartphone based application (APP) on
      improvement of patients' adherence to medications after coronary artery bypass grafting.

      DESIGN AND PROCEDURES The study is a randomized controlled trial, having a plan to recruit
      1000 patients underwent coronary artery bypass grafting in 2015, and randomized to either the
      intervention group or the control group, to test the effectiveness of a smartphone based APP
      focusing on improving patients medication adherence. Patients randomized to the intervention
      group install the APP and are intervened by it. The patients randomized to control group
      receive usual care. The investigators follow up patients in both groups by face to face or
      telephone interview at 3-month and 6-month after randomization. The 6-month effects of the
      intervention are evaluated.

      The APP contains education materials about secondary prevention of coronary artery disease,
      patients can surf and read easily. The APP also collects information on medication
      prescription by doctors, reminds patients at every time of taking medications, and asks for
      feedback at 8 pm everyday. The APP also pushes one patient-specific questionnaire with 10-15
      questions weekly, to collect information about patients' medication adherence and
      self-administration on blood pressure, blood lipid, glucose, physical activity, diet and body
      weight. APP will push series of recommendations right after patients' finishing the
      questionnaire to help them improve secondary prevention.

      The coordinators from participating sites interview patients at the baseline, 3-month and
      6-month after the randomization, for information of medication adherence, major events and
      outcomes after coronary artery bypass grafting and quality of life. The primary outcome
      measure is the Chinese version of the 8-item Morisky medication adherence scale which has
      already been validated in Chinese population.
    
  