
    
      In order to be able to undertake a randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing the efficacy
      of kinematic alignment versus conventional mechanical alignment for total knee replacement a
      robust assessment of the expected standard deviation of the primary outcome measure (Oxford
      Knee Score [OKS]) in both arms of the proposed RCT must be undertaken, hence this pilot
      study.

      To determine whether there are improved postoperative outcomes in the investigative arm using
      the following patient reported outcomes: Knee Implant Performance (PKIP - pre and post
      surgical), Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), Knee Society Score (KSS),
      Knee Noise and Front of Knee Pain Score and Quality of Life score EQ-5D which will be
      completed at baseline(pre-operatively) and post-operatively at 6 weeks (normal clinical
      follow up), 1 year (normal clinical follow up) and 2 years. In addition, x-rays of the knee
      (AP, lateral & skyline) will be taken at the same time. These outcomes are identical to the
      data collected in the previous mechanically aligned study which will be used as the control
      arm.

      Much attention has been given to the alignment of the components in total knee replacement
      (TKR) and this is relatively easy to quantify, particularly in the coronal plane. However,
      due to the development and use of computer navigation and patient-specific instrumentation
      systems that achieve neutral mechanical alignment, the conventional assumption that
      mechanically aligned TKR leads to the best implant survival has been brought into doubt.
      Although mechanically aligned TKR improves function, 20 % of patients remain dissatisfied
      according to reports from Canada, England and Wales. The relationship between in-range and
      varus (turned inward toward the mid line of the body to an abnormal degree) and valgus
      (turned outward) outlier categories of the limb and implant survival of a primary total knee
      replacement is weak at 15 years. Leaving a limb, knee, or tibial component within a natural
      range of varus does not reduce implant survival at 3, 5, 7, and 10 years.

      With the development of individualization of component alignment and the goal of achieving
      pre-arthritic alignment through restoration of the axes of rotation, the kinematic alignment
      technique has shown in case series and one RCT in the USA a substantial benefit in
      postoperative patient pain relief and function.

      For direct comparison between kinematic aligned and mechanically aligned surgical techniques
      for total knee replacement, the investigators will conduct a pilot study prior to a larger
      RCT and recruit a cohort of 15 patients undergoing kinematic aligned TKR. The investigators
      will use the same device as was used in a previous mechanically aligned study undertaken at
      our hospital (REC ref: 12/NE/0293 Attune, DePuy, Warsaw IN, in 35 patients based on the same
      eligibility criteria who will act as controls), which will allow the opportunity to estimate
      the standard deviation in the control arm in preparation for the larger RCT.
    
  