
    
      Over the years, due to the use of new generation therapeutic regimens, as well as the use of
      advanced radiation techniques, the curability of breast cancer reached an overall 10-year
      survival rate of approximately 80%.

      Anthracyclines have a key role in the treatment of breast cancer. Many published studies
      showed a benefit of disease-free survival in patients with positive lymph nodes treated with
      anthracyclines-based regimens. Many anthracyclines and taxanes-based regimens are currently
      used in clinical practice in the treatment of breast cancer. Numerous randomized trials have
      confirmed the benefit of the addition of taxanes to anthracyclines.

      Trastuzumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody with specificity for the
      extracellular domain of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). The use of
      trastuzumab administered sequentially or concurrently with adjuvant chemotherapy compared to
      chemotherapy in patients with HER2 positive was evaluated in several randomized trials. Many
      data concerning the incidence of adverse cardiovascular events acute, subacute and late are
      now available. The cardiac toxicity of anthracyclines may be acute, subacute and chronic. The
      acute toxicity occurs during or shortly after the infusion of the drug with arrhythmias,
      which in some cases leads to heart failure, pericarditis-myocarditis and electrocardiographic
      abnormalities. The acute toxicity is usually reversible in a dose-dependent manner. The acute
      and subacute toxicity are rare (1-4%). Data are available concerning clinically relevant
      cardiac toxicity with a chronic progressive deterioration of ventricular function up to heart
      failure.

      Beside the cumulative dose risk factor, other unfavourable features such as advanced age,
      female sex, and the combination of anthracyclines and trastuzumab should be evaluated. In
      most cases, the late toxicity occurs within the first year following completion of
      chemotherapy but nevertheless the clinical manifestations can occur even after 10-20 years.
      This fact suggests that in women treated in (neo)adjuvant setting is strongly necessary an
      echocardiographic monitoring even after a longer time.

      The aim of the study is to analyze the protective impact on the cardiac damage of beta
      blockers and ACE inhibitors for breast cancer patients treated with anthracyclines-based
      chemotherapy with or without trastuzumab, using myocardial strain imaging monitoring.
    
  