
    
      Shock, defined by inadequate tissue perfusion, is a common problem in critically ill
      patients. Most patients who have shock have hypotension and this is typically treated
      initially with intravenous fluid resuscitation in patients who are fluid responsive. If
      patients remain hypotensive, they are typically treated with vasoactive medications. Four of
      the commonly used FDA approved vasoactive medications are norepinephrine, phenylephrine,
      epinephrine, and vasopressin. Apart from a 2010 trial comparing norepinephrine to dopamine,
      there are no studies to date that have shown one of the four above-mentioned vasoactive
      medications to be superior to another. Accordingly, choice of vasoactive medication is based
      upon individual physician preference, without an outcomes-related evidence base.

      Two of the four above mentioned vasoactive medications (norepinephrine and epinephrine) have
      chronotropic effects (i.e. the tendency to increase heart rate), while the other two
      (phenylephrine and vasopressin) have less of a propensity to chronotropy. The potential
      benefits of the chronotropic effects in patients with shock (increasing cardiac output) are
      offset by the potential detriments (predilection to tachydysrhythmias and myocardial
      ischemia).

      Recent evidence suggests that tachydysrhythmias are associated with worse outcomes in ICU
      patients. One study demonstrated that administration of the beta blocking agent esmolol
      improved hemodynamic outcomes and survival in patients with septic shock. It is not clear if
      a vasoactive drug regimen that utilizes phenylephrine and vasopressin will be associated with
      lower heart rates compared to a regimen that utilizes norepinephrine and epinephrine.

      The investigators hypothesis is that for ICU patients with shock, the use of the vasoactive
      drugs phenylephrine and vasopressin will reduce tachydysrhythmias when compared to
      norepinephrine and epinephrine. To investigate this hypothesis, we are conducting a
      randomized double blind controlled trial comparing phenylephrine and vasopressin vs.
      norepinephrine and epinephrine in ICU patients with shock that is not responsive to IV
      fluids. All patients admitted to the adult intensive care units at the University of Chicago
      will be screened for eligibility.

      Patients will be randomized to receive either phenylephrine (0.3-3.0 mcg/kg/minute), with the
      addition of vasopressin (0.1-0.6 milliunits/kg/minute) if a second vasopressor is required,
      or norepinephrine (0.03 to 0.3 mcg/kg/minute), with the addition of epinephrine (0.03 to 0.3
      mcg/kg/minute) if a second vasopressor is required. These drugs will be mixed and blinded by
      the research pharmacy. Only the research pharmacist will know the identity of the particular
      vasoactive drug. As per current standard practice, the medical team in charge of the patient
      will determine the target blood pressure.

      In either group, if two vasoactive drugs are not adequate to raise the blood pressure to the
      target level, open-label norepinephrine will be added. If three vasoactive drugs are
      inadequate to raise the blood pressure to the target level, open-label epinephrine will be
      added.

      There will be up to a twelve-hour period from initiation of standard, non-study vasoactive
      support during which the patient can be consented and enrolled. This will allow the research
      team to contact the patient and/or family in order to obtain informed consent. Once
      randomized, all patients will be initiated on study drug vasoactive support at 50 percent of
      the maximal infusion rate. The study drug will be titrated to maintain blood pressure and the
      initial non-study drug will be titrated off. The primary team will direct other aspects of
      patient care.

      We plan to examine the following pre-specified sub-groups:

        1. Patients who received corticosteroids during their ICU stay vs. patients who did not
           receive corticosteroids during their ICU stay

        2. Patients with depressed left ventricular ejection fraction (< 40%) vs. patients with
           normal left ventricular ejection fraction

        3. Patients with coronary artery disease vs. patients without known coronary artery disease

        4. Patients with different etiologies of shock (i.e. septic, cardiogenic, hypovolemic)
    
  