
    
      Implantable Defibrillators (ICDs) reduce sudden death and can terminate some VT without
      shocks, but they don't prevent VT; the most appropriate strategy to suppress VT remains
      unknown. Two randomized clinical trials have suggested that catheter ablation can
      significantly reduce the incidence of subsequent VT in patients after an initial episode.
      Neither trial, however, compared catheter ablation to active antiarrhythmic drug therapy.
      Randomized trials of antiarrhythmic drug therapy have demonstrated that therapy with either
      sotalol or amiodarone can reduce recurrent VT. Both antiarrhythmic drug and ablation therapy
      suffer from imperfect efficacy and the potential for significant side-effects. No study has
      compared ablation to drug therapy for first-line treatment. The VANISH study which compared
      ablation to aggressive antiarrhythmic drug therapy for patients who have failed initial drug
      therapy was published in May 2016, and demonstrated that for patients with drug-refractory
      VT, catheter ablation was superior to escalation of antiarrhythmic drug therapy. Benefits
      were seen in the group which had VT despite amiodarone. Event rates were similar between
      amiodarone and sotalol for patients with VT occurring despite sotalol, who were randomized to
      either new initiation of amiodarone or catheter ablation. These results do not address the
      clinical question of the most appropriate first line therapy for suppression of VT in persons
      with prior myocardial infarction, an ICD and VT.

      The trial hypothesis is: catheter ablation will, in comparison to antiarrhythmic drug therapy
      reduce the composite outcome of death at any time, appropriate ICD shock after 14 days,
      ventricular tachycardia storm after 14 days or treated sustained ventricular tachycardia
      below the detection rate of the ICD for patients with prior myocardial infarction and
      sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia.
    
  