
    
      A Phase II Study to evaluate activity and toxicity of Gemcitabine in Combination with
      Pemetrexed long term infusion in the Treatment of pretreated Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
      Patients

      Study Design:

      Multicenter, non randomized, open label phase II study designed to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of Gemcitabine/Pemetrexed combination.

      Study Duration

      Enrollment period: 18 months. Treatment period: maximum for 24 weeks for each patient (12
      cycles lasting 2 weeks).

      Total duration of the study: 24 months.

      Primary objective:

      - objective response rate (ORR: CR+PR+SD)

      Secondary objectives:

        -  safety profile of the drugs combination;

        -  time to progression (TTP) and overall survival (OS)

      Number of Subjects:

      Approximately 38 subjects will be enrolled on study:

      - First stage:12 patients enrolled

      If 1 or 0 responses were observed, the trial had to be terminated:

      - Second stage: an additional of 23 patients were to be enrolled. If 5 or less responses were
      observed in 35 patients, the combination would not be considered worthy of further study,
      while if 6 or more responses were observed, the combination would be considered sufficiently
      active to warrant further testing. Taking into account an invalidity rate of 5%, 38 patients
      will be needed for this step.

      Statistical Methodology:

      A minimax two-stage Simon design will be employed. A 10% response will preclude further
      study, whereas a 30% response rate will indicate that further study would be warranted. Using
      α and β errors of 0.10 and 0.10, respectively, 12 patients will be enrolled in the first
      stage, and if 1 or 0 responses were observed, the trial had to be terminated. Otherwise, an
      additional of 23 patients were to be enrolled, and if 5 or less responses were observed in 35
      patients, the combination would not be considered worthy of further study, while if 6 or more
      responses were observed, the combination would be considered sufficiently active to warrant
      further testing. Taking into account an invalidity rate of 5%, 38 patients will be needed for
      this step.

      The first 6 enrolled patients will be closely controlled for safety and further patients will
      be enrolled only in absence of severe toxicity resulting in discontinuation 1 month after the
      first cycle of the six patients.

      The primary analysis will be performed on the ITT (Intention To Treat) population. PFS and OS
      will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The HR for PFS and OS will be estimated
      according to the Cox model, with its relative 95% confidence.

      A secondary analysis will be performed on the PP (per-protocol) population. The Overall
      Response Rate to study treatment will be reported on the ITT and PP population with 95%
      confidence interval. Results will be tabulated and not evaluable patients will be included as
      additional category.
    
  