
    
      The multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) epidemic in the Irkutsk oblast of Eastern
      Siberia is arguably the most severe in the world. The investigators have found that in the
      Irkutsk TB Dispensary, the referral hospital for the oblast (state), patients with HIV and
      primary MDR-TB (no prior history of TB treatment) suffered poor outcome during the inpatient
      phase of treatment. It was also found that genotypic drug-resistance mutations only partially
      explain the extent of phenotypic resistance that is so widespread in Irkutsk. Suboptimal
      serum anti-TB drug concentrations amplify such phenotypic resistance and work in other
      settings has demonstrated the importance of optimizing pharmacokinetics to improve TB
      outcome. Such foundational work in anti-TB/antiretroviral drug concentrations is lacking for
      drugs used in the treatment of MDR-TB, and absent in the HIV-infected population.
      Furthermore, the investigators have found that HIV infection in Irkutsk was associated with
      the Beijing TB genotype similar to other high burden settings, and that overall mortality was
      more frequent in those with the M. tuberculosis sublineage Beijing MIT17. Thus taken together
      the investigators hypothesize that the high early TB mortality in Irkutsk is due to a
      combination of complex MDR and extensively drug resistant (XDR)-TB that is incompletely
      diagnosed and incompletely treated, poor anti-TB/antiretroviral pharmacokinetics that lead to
      low efficacy and increased circulation of hyper-transmissible and virulent M. tuberculosis
      sublineages.

      For subjects suspected of TB, sputum samples or other leftover sputum/blood specimens will be
      screened by GeneXpert and if positive, cultured for TB and the cultured specimen subjected to
      drug-susceptibility testing by conventional qualitative resistance and minimum inhibitory
      concentration (MIC), sequencing for drug-resistance mutation and spoligotyping for sublineage
      identification. Primary analysis will include standard sensitivity/specificity of each
      drug-mutation compared to conventional qualitative resistance and then median/range MIC
      values among isolates with/without mutation for improved discrimination. Sublineage analysis
      will be by mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit/variable-number tandem repeats
      (MIRU24-VNTR) and correlated with drug-resistance by conventional susceptibility, MIC and the
      sequencing results for drug-resistance mutations. The transmission capacity of sublineages
      will be evaluated by the level of their clustering via the 24-loci MIRU typing.

      For subjects ultimately initiating TB treatment, the pharmacokinetic parameters to be tested
      against the MIC for each TB drug in the patient's regimen include peak (Cmax) and area under
      the concentration-time curve (AUC). Parameters will be compared to the expected ranges for
      each drug and expressed as both a population value and at the individual level (proportion of
      patients below the expected range for each drug). The clinical outcome of TB treatment
      failure will be compared to the proportion of subjects with a baseline (2 week) Cmax/MIC
      below the minimal target (lowest µg/ml concentration/ highest MIC of an isolate still
      considered susceptible) for 2 key drugs in the regimen. It is anticipated that TB treatment
      failure to be more frequent in subjects treated for drug-susceptible TB when Cmax/MIC values
      are lower than target for both rifampin and isoniazid, and in subjects treated for MDR-TB
      when values are below the minimal target for both ofloxacin and kanamycin. A binary logistic
      regression model will be used to determine the possible risk factors to TB treatment failure
      in addition to the pharmacokinetic parameters.

      The investigators aim for drug-resistance and sublineage analysis to be performed on M.
      tuberculosis isolates from 250 subjects, 200 of whom will undergo pharmacokinetic study.

      Between the Irkutsk Dispensary and the Irkutsk AIDS Center, it is estimated that more than
      700 subjects would be eligible. The majority enrolled from the Irkutsk Dispensary will have
      M. tuberculosis positive specimens (anticipated ~175 total enrolled) and complete
      pharmacokinetic analysis. It is expected that fewer subjects (anticipated ~25) of those
      enrolled from the referral Irkutsk AIDS Center will commence TB treatment at Irkutsk
      Dispensary and complete pharmacokinetic analysis. Sample size is restricted by the
      exploratory/observational focus of the R21 funding source, and thus estimated upon subjects
      recruited/enrolled over a 12 month period.

      All microbiologic testing will be performed onsite in the TB laboratory at the Irkutsk
      Dispensary. DNA samples will be further analyzed at the Institute Epidemiology and
      Microbiology/Russian Academy of Medical Sciences in Irkutsk. The subset of subjects positive
      for M. tuberculosis and initiating TB treatment at the Irkutsk Dispensary will have
      pharmacokinetic sampling (for research) for plasma anti-TB drug concentrations at 2 weeks and
      12 weeks from the initiation of anti-TB treatment (see outline below). If applicable,
      antiretroviral concentrations (efavirenz or nevirapine) will also be performed. In addition,
      all subjects will have a structured interview and review of the hospital/clinic chart for the
      following data: demographics (age, sex, country/region of origin), prior TB history including
      prior TB treatment regimens, site of TB disease (pulmonary, central nervous system (CNS),
      lymph node, bone/joint, genitourinary or other), medical comorbidities other than HIV
      (diabetes, chronic kidney disease, liver disease, smoking, alcohol or injection drug use),
      current chest radiograph abnormalities, and baseline laboratory values (CBC, chemistries,
      liver function tests, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and if applicable most recent CD4+
      T cell count and HIV-1 RNA level). For the subset initiating anti-TB treatment, follow-up
      chart review will be performed at the time of subject discharge or death, to determine TB
      treatment outcome.

      Further detail of pharmacokinetic sampling: All subjects initiating anti-TB treatment will
      have venous blood samples drawn for pharmacokinetic study at 2 weeks and 12 weeks after
      initiation. The 2 week time point allows steady state accumulation of anti-TB drug levels,
      and the 12 week mark compares changes in response to treated disease, improved malabsorption
      or weight gain and/or initiation of antiretroviral (anti-HIV) therapy.

      All medication will be directly administered and observed by nursing staff in the fasting
      state per hospital routine. All anti-TB medications are given as a morning dose. For the
      antiretrovirals (as may be assayed in a subset of patients at the 12 week mark), nevirapine
      is dosed q12 hours and for efavirenz as an evening dose, whereby for efavirenz the C2hr level
      (relative to the timing of anti-TB meds) serves as the trough level and the C12hr as the
      peak. This sampling strategy minimizes the patient blood draws, and is similar to prior
      pharmacokinetic studies. A maximum of 10 ml will be obtained in heparinized tubes at each
      draw as up to 6 drugs will be required to be assayed by HPLC. Blood will be immediately
      centrifuged onsite at the Dispensary and plasma stored in sealed screw-cap tubes at -80°C
      with the subject's study identification number and week/time of blood draw. Batched plasma
      specimens will then be shipped to the University of Virginia for high performance liquid
      chromatography (HPLC) testing per established protocols.

      Further detail of sputum specimen collection: A trained study nurse using airborne
      precautions will collect expectorated sputum from enrolled subjects. The sputum will be
      collected in a sealable container labeled with subject's study ID number and securely
      transported on the same day to the Irkutsk Dispensary TB Laboratory for GeneXpert MTB/RIF
      testing as available. As GeneXpert is a validated, WHO-approved test for M. tuberculosis
      screening, these results will be communicated directly to the treating physician by the
      trained study nurse, per standard of care. The remainder of investigations, including MIC
      testing, sequencing for drug-resistance mutation and spoligotyping for sublineage
      identification, will be experimental.
    
  