
    
      Background

      Relapse to drug abuse or addiction is thought to result, in many cases, from exposure to cues
      that elicit drug-related memories. The term memories is used here not in its everyday sense,
      but in a sense that corresponds more closely to emotional associations for example, the
      association between the sight of a crack pipe and a set of responses such as rapid heartbeat
      and desire for cocaine. Studies in rodents and humans show that this type of memory is
      reconsolidated (actively re-stored) each time it is reactivated, and that the reconsolidation
      process can be disrupted by propranolol. Such disruption does not erase the autobiographical
      memory of an event, but instead weakens the link between that memory and an emotional
      response. Human studies are needed to determine whether propranolol disrupts reconsolidation
      of drug-cued memories in addicted individuals; this would present a novel and exciting
      therapeutic possibility for preventing craving and relapse.

      Objective

      To examine whether administration of propranolol interferes with reconsolidation of
      cocaine-related memories and reduces cravings and drug use in substance abusers.

      Study population

      Up to 200 (60 evaluable) individuals maintained on methadone and using cocaine will be
      recruited from local treatment programs. The target enrollment will include 40% women and 60%
      minorities.

      Experimental design and methods

      Participants will be randomized to one of two groups: propranolol (40 mg, oral,
      immediate-release formulation) or placebo. The study will include four laboratory sessions:
      (1) An information-gathering session that includes an interview to obtain information for
      development of a personalized drug script/cue set. (2) A two-hour intervention session in
      which there will be baseline measures, drug administration (propranolol or placebo, double
      blind), and, starting 60 min after drug administration, two script-guided imagery sets.
      Cue-responsivity data will be collected, but the main purpose of the session is
      interventional. This will be the only administration of propranolol during the study. (3, 4)
      Two follow-up test sessions, 1 and 5 weeks after the intervention session; participants
      responses to re-exposure to the personalized drug script/cue set will be measured. In
      addition to attending the four laboratory sessions, participants will make brief visits to
      our outpatient clinic for twice-weekly monitoring of ongoing drug use via urine screens and
      self-report, starting 1 week before the intervention session and ending 5 weeks later.

      Outcome measures

      Outcome measures will include subjective ratings of drug craving, autonomic responses (heart
      rate, blood pressure, galvanic skin response), and cocaine and heroin use (urine drug screens
      and self-reported drug use).
    
  