
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is prevalent worldwide and the leading cause of mortality of
      citizens. Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG)is one of the major revascularization
      procedures for multi-vessel disease nowadays. However vein graft failures (VGF) are known to
      occur frequently following CABG surgery . It is estimated that VGF developed in 25% patients
      in half a year postoperatively, and up to 50% vein grafts would result in occlusion in ten
      years postoperatively. Surgical success depends on the continued patency of grafts, and VGF
      has been associated with worse outcomes in CABG patients. Thus prevention of VGF following
      CABG is an active area of scientific inquiry. External counter pulsation (ECP) is a
      non-invasive method which consists of three sets of pneumatic cuffs attached to each of the
      patient's legs at the calf and lower and upper thigh. The inflation of the cuffs is triggered
      by a computer, and timing of the inflation is based on the R wave of the electrocardiogram.
      The ECP therapist adjusts the inflation and deflation timing to provide optimal blood
      movement per a finger plethysmogram waveform reading. This produces a retrograde flow of
      blood in the aorta resulting in a diastolic augmentation of blood flow and also an increase
      in venous return, which leads to an improved coronary perfusion pressure during diastole.ECP
      has been elucidated that it may release angina symptoms and improve the prognosis of CAD,
      however, it remained unknown that weather EECP can reduce VGF rates following CABG surgery.
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of ECP on heart function of CABG patients and
      VGF rates.

      To address this investigation, patients underwent CABG with at least one vein graft are
      enrolled and randomize them into control or ECP group, the ECP intervention will be carried
      out with a standard protocol which involves 35 one-hour sessions (5 days a week) for
      continuous 7 weeks, and the follow-up will last for 2 years. The primary endpoints are the
      2-year major composite cardiovascular events (MACEs,) and 2-year vein graft patency rate
      determined by coronary CT angiography, secondary endpoints include scoring of angina
      pectoris, heart function by echocardiography, biomarkers of arteriosclerosis and endothelial
      function.
    
  