
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the efficacy and safety of fosaprepitant dimeglumine in patients with
           breakthrough chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) after failing prophylactic
           antiemetic therapy.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate toxicity and serious adverse events associated with this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  To evaluate the ability of patients to tolerate oral intake.

        -  To evaluate the health-related quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To evaluate specific side effects associated with this regimen, including pain sensation
           and/or soreness at the infusion site, headache, dizziness, and somnolence, in these
           patients .

        -  To refine the study design for future phase II and III studies of rescue therapy for
           breakthrough CINV using various secondary endpoints.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive chemotherapy in combination with a pre-defined standard
      5-Hydroxytryptamine-3 (5-HT3) antagonist or corticosteroid regimen with or without a
      benzodiazepine on day 1. If breakthrough nausea or vomiting occurs, patients then receive
      fosaprepitant dimeglumine IV once per standard administration guidelines. Patients with
      treatment response may receive additional doses of oral aprepitant once on days 2 and 3.
      Patients with persistent nausea/vomiting after 2 hours and who desire further treatment may
      receive standard rescue therapy with prochlorperazine, metoclopramide, or haloperidol with or
      without additional lorazepam until relief, at the discretion of the provider.

      Patients complete a diary at baseline, and then at 2, 12, and 24 hours that includes a Visual
      Analogue Scale (VAS) for nausea; VAS for sedation; and questions about emesis and retching
      frequency, headache, dizziness, somnolence, and ability to take food and liquids orally.
      Patients also complete the Functional Living Index-Emesis Quality of Life survey at baseline
      and at 24 hours.
    
  