
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is an infrequent but major and well - recognized complication of
      cardiac surgery (1, 2). Its incidence ranges from 1 to 30% (3). Numerous pre-, intra-, and
      postoperative factors have been associated with the development of AKI after cardiac surgery
      (3-19). Most commonly used definitions are the absolute serum creatinine level, its change
      within one week and/or the need for dialysis in previously undialysed patients (1, 3-5, 9-11,
      19-25). In patients who are older, more obese with Type 2 diabetes and hypertension, there is
      increasing interest in the effects of chronic kidney disease on the cardiovascular system
      (26). Recent studies demonstrated that even minimal increases in serum creatinine are
      associated with a rising risk of mortality, hospital length of stay, and cost (27, 28). The
      Acute Dialysis Quality Initiative Group standardized with their Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss
      of Kidney Function, End-Stage Kidney Disease criteria and their modifications to the Acute
      Kidney Injury Network criteria the definitions of AKI (19, 29, 30). Both criteria need a
      baseline serum creatinine value for estimation (31).

      In a recent published study (32) a cut-off for baseline serum creatinine and its influence on
      mortality after cardiac surgery has been shown. Under the steady-state and stable kidney
      function, SCr is usually produced at a relatively constant rate by the body depending on the
      absolute amount of muscle mass, and is a reliable and cost-effective surrogate marker for
      kidney function (33). SCr is strongly correlated with weight, total body water and
      anthropometrically estimated lean body mass (LBM) (34). Approximately half of LBM is
      comprised of skeletal muscle mass (35). Recent studies suggest that higher muscle mass is
      associated with greater longevity in people with CKD and other chronic disease states (36,
      37). SCr, however, has several limitations, such as variations in concentration related to
      age, sex, muscle mass and is influenced by dietary protein intake. (38) Furthermore AKI
      affects different complex cellular and molecular pathways. Several novel urinary biomarkers
      such as insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7 (IGFBP7), tissue inhibitor of
      metalloproteinases-2 (TIMP-2) and neutral endopeptidase (NEP) are involved in the early phase
      of cell injury and predict both the development and severity of AKI and renal recovery early
      after cardiac surgery (39-43) In this study the investigators want to test if increased bSCr
      is influenced by body composition. Further the investigators want to determine if the
      incidence of AKI is different in patients below or above the estimated cut-off. Therefore the
      investigators want to perform a prospective cohort analysis and will take several other body
      composition and nutrition parameters to test their influence on the predictive power of bSCr.
      Furthermore the investigators want to evaluate several novel biomarkers for AKI on their
      predictive effect in cardiac surgical patients.
    
  