
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity of taladegib administered orally daily concurrently with weekly
      paclitaxel, carboplatin and radiation therapy in patients with localized nuclear
      glioma-associated oncogene homolog (Gli-1) expressing adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or
      gastroesophageal junction. (Phase IB) II. To assess the rate of pathologic complete response
      (pathCR) when taladegib is administered orally daily concurrently with weekly paclitaxel,
      carboplatin, and radiation therapy in patients with localized nuclear Gli-1 expressing
      adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity of biochemoradiation in the phase II study. II. To assess
      additional biomarkers (hedgehog [Hh] related and Hh unrelated) in sequentially procured
      tissues (biopsies and resected specimens).

      III. Assess if taladegib down modulates its target (Gli-1) in the first cohort (where
      taladegib will be administered alone for the first 7 days) of the phase II study.

      IV. Assess relapse-free survival and overall survival.

      OUTLINE:

      PHASE IB: Patients receive taladegib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-38, paclitaxel
      intravenously (IV) over 3 hours on the first radiation day of each week for 5 doses,
      carboplatin IV over 2 hours on the first radiation day of each week for 5 doses, and undergo
      external beam radiation therapy 5 days weekly on 28 consecutive weekdays for 5.5 weeks.

      PHASE II: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 steps.

      STEP I: Patients receive taladegib PO for 7 days, followed by taladegib, paclitaxel,
      carboplatin, and external beam radiation therapy as in Phase IB.

      STEP II: Patients receive taladegib, paclitaxel, carboplatin, and external beam radiation
      therapy as in Phase IB.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months, every 3-6 months
      for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and at years 4 and 5.
    
  