
    
      The primary objective of this trial is to determine whether insulin degludec will provide an
      equally stable and consistent basal glycemic profile with lower glycemic variability as
      determined by Continuous Glucose Monitoring compared to insulin aspart delivered by
      Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion in patients with type 1 diabetes experienced in use
      of insulin pump therapy. Specifically, this study will determine if the percent time in the
      target glycemic range (70 to 180 mg/dl) by Continuous Glucose Monitoring is superior using
      insulin degludec than continuously infused insulin aspart, and if degludec is associated with
      lower glucose variability as assessed by the standard deviation (SD) of the mean daily
      glucose by Continuous Glucose Monitoring. Particular attention will be given to the nocturnal
      glucose profile (from midnight to 6 am) which most closely reflects basal insulin action as
      it is typically the time of day least affected by bolus insulin, food intake or exercise.
      Quality of life questionnaires regarding treatment preference will be used to capture patient
      preference for method of basal insulin delivery.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

      Study hypothesis:

      It is anticipated, based on the low glycemic variability of insulin degludec shown in glucose
      clamp studies and seen in clinical practice, that insulin degludec will provide more stable
      24 hour basal insulin action than insulin aspart by Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion
      (CSII) in patients with type 1 diabetes.

      Primary endpoint:

      Percent time in euglycemia (BG 70 to 180 mg/dl) by Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) during
      the final 14 days of each treatment period during steady state (with basal insulin delivery
      as either one daily injection of insulin degludec or as insulin aspart via CSII).

      Study type:

      This will be a randomized, cross-over, open label, single-center study consisting of a 20
      week period on each of two basal insulin delivery methods, both in combination with insulin
      aspart with boluses taken by insulin pump. Each 20 week period will consist of a 4 week
      insulin optimization period for titration of basal and bolus insulin doses, followed by a 16
      week maintenance period. The final 2 weeks of the maintenance period during each treatment
      arm will be used for endpoint data collection. The treatment sequence will occur in random
      order. The study population will include patients with type 1 diabetes with good baseline
      glycemic control who are experienced in the use of both CSII and CGM; the cross-over design
      allows each subject to serve as his or her own control.
    
  