
    
      CEB-01 is a poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) polymeric drug with a delivery system loaded
      with SN-38, and will be placed in the surgical bed at the time of tumor resection.

      CEB-01 carrying a SN-38 dose between 9 and 36 mg will be administered. CEB-01 will be placed
      on all surfaces that were in contact with and/or were infiltrated by the tumor.

      Confirmatory central reviewing of diagnosis will be performed for all patients, using tumor
      samples obtained during surgery; additionally, patients will also be included according to
      local Pathological Anatomy (PA) diagnosis.

      Patients will be followed-up once every week during the first 8 weeks of the study, and then
      every 2 weeks up to 12 weeks after implantation of CEB-01. Thereafter, follow-up schedule
      will be as per normal practice until study completion.

      Efficacy assessment will be performed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) [Computed
      tomography (CT) scan and Positron Emission Tomography (PET-CT) are also allowed] according to
      RECIST 1.1 criteria. Baseline image determination will be performed at week 12 (±3 days)
      after surgery; if the image analysis is not conclusive due to wound healing in the tumor bed,
      it will be repeated on week 16 (±3 days) post-surgery, and every 12 weeks thereafter.

      A pharmacokinetic assessment of SN-38 will be performed in all patients, and the Cmax, Tmax,
      half-life, and area under the time-drug concentration curve (AUC) of the drug will be
      determined. Blood samples will be collected at baseline and at 8 time points after CEB-01
      implantation.

      Assessment of adverse events, safety, and toxicity will be performed according to the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE - version 5.0) at each patient visit from the
      time of Informed Consent until the end of the study.

      Quality of Life based on EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) 30 will be measured prior
      surgery, at month 1 and month 3.
    
  