
    
      Approximately 50% of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) exhibit disruptive
      behaviors such as tantrums, aggression, and noncompliance that significantly impact social,
      adaptive, and academic functioning. The RUBI program is an evidence-based parent-mediated
      intervention that improves disruptive behavior in children with ASD. Considering schools
      serve as the primary intervention setting for children with ASD, and teachers and school
      staff often struggle to address challenging behavior, there is an opportunity to meaningfully
      improve care by adapting RUBI for delivery in schools. To address these needs, the Discover,
      Design/Build, Test (DDBT) framework,which leverages user-centered design and implementation
      science, will be used to engage 40 end users from 20 elementary schools to inform current
      classroom behavior management practices and redesign needs for the RUBI curriculum to ensure
      that the modified curriculum (RUBI in Educational Settings; RUBIES) is useful and useable for
      school personnel who work with children with ASD. Specific aims include:

      Aim 1: Identify the contextual constraints and end users (teachers, school psychologists,
      behavior technicians, classroom aides) relevant to the management of disruptive behavior in
      the classroom. Through in-class behavioral observations and interviews, Aim 1 will allow us
      to understand the values and priorities of the school context and end users directly involved
      with children with ASD (e.g. resources, work flow, policies).

      Aim 2: Identify targets for RUBI redesign. Using in-depth intervention demonstration of RUBI
      paired with behavioral rehearsal, prospective think-aloud, and structured assessment methods,
      Aim 2 will allow us to determine which RUBI components should be retained, eliminated, or
      modified to address the needs of the context and end-users identified in Aim 1.

      Aim 3: Iteratively adapt RUBI content and procedures based on identified targets for redesign
      and continual user testing to improve the hypothesized mechanisms of redesign (usability) and
      perceptual implementation outcomes (feasibility, acceptability, and appropriateness). Aim 3
      will allow us to determine the extent to which redesigned RUBI, or RUBIES, improves usability
      and implementation outcomes.
    
  