
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the safety and toxicity profile and to determine a safe recommended phase
      2 dose (RP2D) of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) when given in combination with mogamulizumab. (Phase
      I) II. To compare the proportion of patients who achieve a partial or complete response
      lasting at least 6 months (ORR6) of the combination of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) and
      mogamulizumab versus mogamulizumab alone. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase I)

      II. To compare the efficacy of the combination of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) and mogamulizumab
      versus mogamulizumab alone with respect to the following endpoints (Phase II):

      IIa. Overall response rate (ORR); overall response rate lasting at least 4 months (ORR4);
      overall response rate lasting at least 12 months (ORR12).

      IIb. Duration of response (DOR). IIc. Progression-free survival (PFS). IId. Time to next
      treatment (TTNT).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify potential biomarkers that correlate with response to mogamulizumab and
      Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) including (Phase I and II):

      Ia. Expression of CCR4. Ib. Somatic mutations and germline polymorphisms. Ic. Phenotyping of
      lymphoma and immune microenvironment. Id. Functional assay of phagocytosis.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose de-escalation study of magrolimab followed by a phase II
      study. Patients in the phase Ib study receive treatment as in Arm I. Patients in the phase II
      study are randomized to Arm I or Arm II.

      ARM I: Patients receive magrolimab intravenously (IV) over 2-3 hours weekly during cycles
      1-2, then every 2 weeks (Q2W) during cycles 3-12. Patients also receive mogamulizumab IV over
      at least 60 minutes weekly during cycle 1, then Q2W during cycles 2-12. Cycles repeat every
      28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive mogamulizumab IV over at least 60 minutes weekly during cycle 1,
      then Q2W during cycles 2-12. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who have received at least 2 full
      treatment cycles and have progressive disease (PD) or have received at least 6 full treatment
      cycles and have stable disease (SD) may crossover to Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  