
    
      AF affects 1 in 4 people in their lifetime. Although generally thought of as a safe heart
      rhythm disturbance, the risk associated with AF is through the formation of clot (thrombus)
      within the heart which be ejected from the heart when it contracts causing a heart attack or
      perhaps more devastatingly a stroke.

      The mainstay of treatment for AF involves thinning the blood with drugs such as warfarin or
      newer drugs termed novel oral anticoagulants. In addition to this there are 3 main ways of
      treating the underlying rhythm disturbance:

        1. Accept the irregular heart rhythm and simply control the heart rate with heart rate
           limiting drugs such as beta blockers or digoxin in addition to the blood thinning
           medicines.

        2. Restore the normal heart rhythm with with an electrical shock termed a direct current
           cardioversion (DCCV). This is usually a temporary measure, indeed 70% of whom will have
           reverted to AF by 12 months.

        3. Attempt to permanently restore sinus rhythm through an atrial fibrillation ablation
           procedure.

      The investigators study, through use of a relatively novel bedside test will examine the
      effects of each of these management strategies on the thrombotic status of the participant's
      blood.

      Investigators will take blood from in total 500 participants divided between each of the
      above management strategies which has been decided by their parent teams (i.e. study does not
      affect their treatment).

      Investigators will draw blood from the participants on up to 5 separate occasions over a 12
      month period. In the group undergoing a DCCV, blood will be drawn shortly before and after
      the intervention and at 3 and 12 months post intervention. In the group undergoing an AF
      ablation blood will be drawn on 5 occasions - the day before the procedure, 1-2 days post,
      3-4 days post, 3-4 months post and 12 months post. In the group treated with standard medical
      therapy, blood will be drawn at the time of enrolment in the study and at 3 and 12 months
      post enrolment.

      It is the investigators hypothesis that permanent restoration of sinus rhythm through an
      atrial fibrillation ablation procedure will positively affect an individual participant's
      thrombotic status. There has been recent publication of registry data from the United States
      suggesting the long term rate of stroke in the population following an AF ablation approaches
      that of the population who have never suffered AF.

      The investigators believe that the cause of the improvement in stroke rates following
      ablation is an improvement in thrombotic status which we hope to be test for the first time
      in a powered, prospective study.
    
  