
    
      HIV-infected children who are currently on TDF-base once daily regimen will be enrolled into
      this study. PK visit will be performed at least 1 month after changing regimen to once daily
      regimen. Adherence 3 days before PK study will be confirmed using adherence questionnaire.
      100% of adherence is needed for PK study. If there is adherence problem on PK visit, PK study
      will be deferred to at least 3 days. On PK visit, blood drawn will be performed at 0, 2, 4,
      6, 8, 10, 12, 24 hr. after taking ARVs for PK study. Blood drawn for safety evaluation will
      be drawn at any time-point on the PK visit. There is no study drug in this study. All ARVs
      that patient taking will be according to patient's requirement, and physician judgment. ARVs
      dosage will follow the Thai national pediatric guideline. CBC, CD4, viral RNA, viral
      resistance, ALT, cholesterol, and triglyceride results can be from other visits within 4
      weeks window period.

      Statistical considerations Sample size calculations. There are no pharmacokinetic data in
      children. In adults, the mean (SD) AUC following administration of a 300mg Viread tablet in
      fasting state is 2.29 (0.69) microg.hr/mL. In patients taking lopinavir/ritonavir and
      atazanavir/ritonavir, the mean AUC of TDF is increased by 32% and 24% respectively. Efavirenz
      does not change the AUC of TDF. If the weight adjusted dose of TDF in children and
      adolescents achieves the same AUC as in adults and concomitant dosing with a protease
      inhibitor increases the TDF AUC by 30% but concomitant dosing with Efavirenz does not change
      the TDF AUC, then 20 treated with Efavirenz and 20 patients treated on a PI based regimen
      would provide 90% power to detect this difference at the 5% significance level.

      Statistical Analysis.

      Primary endpoints Pharmacokinetic parameters will be calculated based on individual plasma
      concentration vs time data, using noncompartmental methods. Data will be summarized overall
      and by whether the patient is taking a PI or an EFV-based regimen. Formal statistical
      comparisons of parameters will be made using ANOVA techniques or non-parametric equivalents
      as appropriate. Effect sizes and 95% confidence intervals will be given for all comparisons.
    
  