
    
      PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to identify neuroimaging, physiological, and clinical
      predictors of response, remission, and recovery to repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation in youth with treatment resistant major depressive disorder.

      BACKGROUND: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a major public health problem in adolescents.
      Unfortunately, there are no effectively targeted treatment options for this age group.
      Current remedies are limited in their effectiveness in youth with response and remission
      rates no greater than 60 to 30% respectively and treatment effects are not sustained
      throughout the life cycle. Further, ongoing controversies persist regarding the safety of
      antidepressants in youth. Current interventions were developed to solely target the symptoms
      of rather than the underlying neurobiology. Most importantly, there is no way to accurately
      predict an individual patient's response to interventions. Consequently, there is a critical
      need for optimally targeted interventions that directly address the relevant pathophysiology
      of depression.

      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) targeting the left dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) is effective in adults with depression. rTMS is twice as likely to
      result in response (relative risk or RR: 2.35 [95% confidence interval or CI: 1.70-3.25]) and
      remission (RR: 2.24 [95% CI: 1.53-3.27] than a sham procedure Evidence in youth is also
      encouraging, with a 66% response rate in our pilot data (see Summary of Progress). The DLPFC
      plays a critical role in emotional regulation, directly connecting it to depressive
      symptomology. Our lab and others have clearly implicated structural and functional deficits
      in the DLPFC in youth with MDD. What is not known is what biomarkers best predict response,
      remission, and recovery with rTMS in youth with treatment resistant MDD. As response is not
      universal, this is a significant gap in our knowledge. Our basic model is that rTMS increases
      expression of BDNF, up-regulates activity of endocannabinoids, increases glutamate
      concentrations, and increases DLPFC activity - correcting the deficit seen in MDD. These
      biologic changes enhance executive control of mood state (see our pilot data in the Summary
      of Progress). These positive effects may be moderated by comorbidity (i.e., social phobia)
      and genotype (i.e., BDNF). How this model fits with response, remission, and recovery has yet
      to be fully tested and this information has the potential to be directly clinically
      meaningful. The central aim of the project is to evaluate predictors of rTMS response,
      remission, and recovery based on integrated neuroimaging, physiological, and clinical
      measures. While not a clinical trial per se (efficacy is not the primary outcome measure), we
      will use a non-randomized sham lead in to a single active (rTMS) arm study design as a
      framework for biomarker discovery.

      To accomplish this goal, we will pursue the following specific aims: The primary aim is to
      identify baseline neuroimaging, physiological, and clinical predictors of response to 3 weeks
      of rTMS treatment in adolescents with treatment resistant MDD.
    
  