
    
      The management of chronic wounds in the community is a pressing issue for home care
      authorities. The care of leg ulcers represents a considerable expense to the health care
      system. It has been estimated that the care of venous leg ulcers alone consumes 1% of the
      national health care budgets of the UK and France. A one-month prevalence study in the Ottawa
      Carleton region (pop. 750,000) revealed that 126 Community Care Access Centre Clients (CCAC -
      the regional health care authority) received over 1500 home nursing visits. During the course
      of a year this represents more than $600,000 in home nursing visits for this condition in
      just one Ontario region. There is evidence supporting effective wound management but this is
      not necessarily what patients receive. As well, appropriate evidence-based, efficient,
      community-based care must be supported by ready access to specialized facilities. Research
      from other countries suggest that reorganization of services which includes nurse-run clinic
      care near to home, evidence-based protocols, and enhanced linkages with secondary and
      tertiary services may result in improvements in healing rates and reductions in expenditures.
      These international studies provide optimism that with reorganization of care within the
      Canadian context we can deliver community services for improved outcomes. However, only with
      a rigorous evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency can we understand if such changes
      in the Canadian context are beneficial.

      Objective:

      To evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of two models of service delivery: traditional
      single service delivery model (home visiting) compared to nurse-led community clinics.

      Research Questions:

        1. What are the health outcomes (healing, function, plain and quality of life) for two
           models of care (nurse-run neighbourhood clinics vs. home care) for the population with
           leg ulcers?

        2. What are health services utilization and expenditures associated with the two models of
           care?

        3. What is client and provider satisfaction with the nurse-run neighbourhood clinics and
           home nursing care?

        4. What are the barriers and supports to implementing neighbourhood leg ulcer clinics?

      Study Design and Method:

      A randomized health services controlled trial of nurse-run neighbourhood leg ulcer clinics
      (intervention) and home care (current practice) with a cost-effectiveness analysis. A
      repeated measures design will be used to assess healing and ulcer improvement, quality of
      life and patient satisfaction over time.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary outcome measure is the proportion of limbs healed by three months. Secondary
      outcome measures are: time to complete healing, ulcer size, ulcer recurrence, function, pain,
      quality of life, client and provider satisfaction.
    
  