
    
      This study is a multi-center study attempting to identify genetic and other factors that
      influence QT interval response to dofetilide or sotalol. One of the goals of this study is to
      determine whether genetics might identify individuals at low enough genetic risk for QT
      prolongation that outpatient initiation might be feasible. The dofetilide or sotalol use will
      be solely determined by clinical staff independent of the research study based on standard
      clinical care. The research components of this study include only the additional collection
      of blood for genetic analysis, collection of subject data on a CRF and copies of
      electrocardiograms performed as part of routine clinical care. This study will be overseen
      and coordinated at MGH. Other hospitals that may participate include Mayo Clinic, Cleveland
      Clinic, and University of Colorado Hospital; local IRB approval will be sought at each of
      these centers. Data will be collected at each individual hospital by co-investigators/site
      PIs and stored locally according to IRB requirements. Copies of CRFs, ECGs and blood samples
      for genetic analysis will be forwarded to MGH, which will serve as a coordinating and
      analysis center (as well as a recruiting center). Data will be encoded where possible;
      however, due to the impracticality of removing patient identifiers from certain data types,
      such as medication lists and ECGs, some data containing patient information will be
      transported and stored at MGH. Dr. Newton-Cheh will serve as overall study PI.

      The investigators propose to conduct a research study to examine known and explore
      potentially unknown genetic predictors of QT response in patients being admitted for
      dofetilide or sotalol initiation as part of their routine clinical care. Any patient being
      admitted to a participating institution for the purpose of dofetilide or sotalol initiation
      will be eligible. Patients must be able to understand the risks of genetic testing, and be
      willing to undergo a venipuncture for blood collection for genotyping. Exclusion criteria
      include inability to provide informed consent. The investigators have a goal to enroll a
      total of 1000 study participants across all collaborating centers.

      Patients will be identified by investigators based on planned admission for dofetilide or
      sotalol initiation, and following explanation of the study by co-investigator, will be asked
      about study participation and informed consent will be obtained. Investigators will complete
      a data collection form for each patient, which will include contact information, demographic
      information, clinical information, family history and pedigree, and all electrocardiography
      information available (tracings, reports). Patients will then undergo venipuncture, and two
      5mL blood samples (tubes) will be collected for genotyping. Patients will also be consented
      for future re-contact about additional data, information, or samples needed for analysis.
    
  