
    
      Objectives: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is the commonest motor neuron disease with
      incidence of 0.8 person-years in Chinese. Respiratory muscle function has been proposed to be
      a strong predictor of quality of life (QoL) and survival in ALS. Some studies suggest that
      most patients with ALS developed hypoventilation when their vital capacity (FVC) is less than
      50% of predicted value. However, the incidence of hypoventilation and factors associated with
      hypoventilation in ALS patients is not clear. Also, there is still no consensus as to which
      physiologic marker should be used as a trigger for the initiation of non-invasive ventilation
      (NIV) in ALS patients. The conflicts of studies come from variable subgroup of ALS, pulmonary
      function at enrollment, techniques used to diagnose ALS, time to apply NIV, and target
      endpoint. Therefore, this project aimed to study ALS patients who had relatively preserved
      respiratory muscle function and no respiratory failure at clinical to achieve three goals:
      (1) To determine the incidence of hypoventilation in ALS patients (2) To identify the
      clinical characteristics and risk factors associated with hypoventilation in ALS patients (3)
      To determine the effect of early intervention with NIV on the prognosis of ALS patients Study
      design: Randomized, controlled trial Participants: ALS patients whose FVC 40%-80% of predict,
      Pimax <60mmHg, and daytime PaCO2<50mmHg Protocol: Eligible patients with whole-night
      polysomnography (PSG) and transcutaneous CO2 (PtcCO2). Enrolled patients were randomized to
      standard treatment or NIV. The primary endpoint of prognosis was survival. The secondary
      endpoint was changes of PtcCO2 and PaCO2, unexpected admission or clinic visiting, daytime
      function and QoL.

      Statistic: The baseline demographics of patients with or without hypoventilation were
      compared to determine the factors associated with hypoventilation in ALS patients. The impact
      of NIV in ALS patients was determined by comparing the primary and secondary goals between
      standard treatment and NIV group. A two-sided p value of < 0.05 was considered statistically
      significant.

      Clinical implication: Hypoventilation at ALS patients who had relatively preserved
      respiratory muscle function and no respiratory failure at clinical sleep was common, early
      identification through PSG screening and PtcCO2 will allow for the early diagnosis and
      intervention. Understanding the time of applying NIV and the effect on prognosis in ALS will
      allow for the early intervention and prediction of outcomes.
    
  