
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Impairment of coronary vasofunction is believed to be one of the earliest manifestations of
      coronary heart disease (CHD). The impact of risk factors such as elevated cholesterol levels,
      diabetes, hypertension, and smoking on the coronary microcirculation remains largely unknown.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The cross-sectional study will determine whether an impairment of the myocardial perfusion
      reserve provides a marker of coronary heart disease (CHD) by comparing it to other novel
      measures of subclinical vascular disease, and by testing its association with risk factors
      for CHD. The study is ancillary to the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis ("MESA"), which
      is an NHLBI funded, prospective observational study of the characteristics of subclinical
      cardiovascular disease, i.e. disease detected non-invasively before it has produced signs and
      symptoms. In MESA new measures of subclinical disease such as coronary artery calcium and
      impaired brachial artery reactivity are to be examined to investigate their relationships to
      well-established risk factors and clinical events. Myocardial perfusion reserve (MPR)is a
      useful measure of coronary vasofunction that should be included in an evaluation of new
      measures of subclinical disease. An impaired MPR appears to be a specific early indicator of
      the functional impairment of the microcirculation in patients with risk factors for coronary
      artery disease. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be used as an advanced, quantitative
      imaging modality to determine in short (20 minute) exams the myocardial perfusion reserve in
      a group of 400 MESA participants. The study tests the hypothesis that impaired myocardial
      perfusion reserve indicates the presence of subclinical coronary atherosclerosis and coronary
      microvascular disease.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  