
    
      Since May 2019, our research group has developed, implemented, and nationally spread the
      "ARRT registry" with the aim to describe the subpopulations of critically ill patients that
      benefit the most from EBP therapy with oXiris (6). The project is currently ongoing,
      involving more than 50 centers in Italy, with data from more than 65 patients treated with
      oXiris. Differently from other registries, the ARRT registry runs on a web-based platform
      easily accessible from internet-based technologies, including smartphones, that offers a
      user-friendly approach, facilitates data uploading, and enhances research collaboration.
      Furthermore, it adopts a proactive approach, in the sense that it includes several automatic
      calculators and decision support tools that might help clinicians to personalize treatments
      directly at the bedside (e.g. automatic calculation of clinical scoring systems, ideal body
      weight, mechanical ventilation setting, antibiotic adjustment according to renal function,
      etc.). All these tools can provide the clinician with real-time feedbacks. This web-based
      registry provides a clear example of translational medicine and translational research where
      data from clinical practice feed a database for clinical research and, contemporaneously, the
      database research tools improve clinical practice. Finally, this web-based registry allows
      each participating center to instantaneously evaluate its own data and obtain real-time basic
      statistics for each recorded variable (e.g. age at enrollment, main comorbidities, baseline
      serum creatinine, mortality rate, rate of multidrug-resistant bacteria, etc.), thus allowing
      for continuous monitoring of outcomes and local practices.

      Overall, these features may prove particularly useful during treatment of critically ill
      septic patients with multiorgan dysfunction. Recently, the COVID-19 pandemic has been
      characterized by high prevalence of patients with severe multiorgan dysfunction, high
      mortality rate, lack of ICU resources, and the need for ICU discharge in a rapid, but safe,
      manner. The association between acute kidney injury and COVID-19 infection is well
      established. Organ crosstalk and systemic inflammation are the most accredited causes of
      Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) in these patients. Several EBP therapies have been proposed to
      attenuate systemic inflammation and/or support renal function in COVID-19 patients.
      Nevertheless, no data is currently available on application and feasibility of EBP therapies
      in COVID-19 patients or on their outcomes. Notably, the ARRT registry was able to effectively
      capture clinical data on systemic inflammation, organ dysfunction, and outcomes in patients
      treated with oXiris during the COVID-19 pandemic in Italy. In this regard, the implementation
      of a similar registry at the global level might prove effective for supporting clinicians
      involved in the treatment of patients with COVID-19 infection and multiorgan dysfunction
      worldwide.
    
  