
    
      Obesity is one of the major public health problems globally and it increases the risk of many
      obesity-associated diseases. Treatment of obesity requires long-term interventions, but
      nevertheless, it is challenging to provide long-term treatment when resources in real-life
      health care systems are limited. New cost-effective and accessible intervention methods are
      needed.

      The modern treatment of obesity is based on behavioral changes that modify one´s daily
      lifestyle, which, according to recent research, are effective especially in the prevention of
      diabetes. However, little is known about the utilization and effectiveness of online programs
      using novel interactive technologies.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a real-life web-based obesity
      management program (HealthyWeightCoaching, HWC) on weight loss, health, quality of life, and
      factors predicting long term success in treating overweight adult patients.

      Healthy Weight Coaching is a novel 12-month intervention within a real-life clinical setting.
      The program includes a combination of nutrition, physical activity, and cognitive behavioral
      approaches, with a strong basis in acceptance and commitment therapy. The program is
      structured around weekly exercise modules.

      In addition to the automated, interactive program, HWC includes a personal coach allocated to
      each patient. The patients are enrolled through referrals from primary care, occupational
      health, other hospitals, or from private health care units nationwide in Finland. The program
      is free for the patient to use.

      The 12-month intervention is followed by a 5-year monitoring period. Questionnaires on
      health, quality of life, and lifestyle are collected at 0, 3, 6, 9, and 12-month time points.
      Body weight is collected by weekly logs. The recruitment is ongoing as the program is
      currently used in clinical practice.
    
  