
    
      Curcumin is the active ingredient in the spice turmeric. It may interfere with the production
      of cytokines (which cause inflammation), which may help reduce multiple symptoms.

      A placebo is not a drug. It looks like the study drug but is not designed to treat any
      disease or illness. It is designed to be compared with a study drug to learn if the study
      drug has any real effect.

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a
      coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Group 1 will take curcumin. Group 2 will take a placebo. You will
      have an equal chance of being assigned to each group. No matter which group you are in, you
      will be given standard care by your treating doctor.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take curcumin/placebo 2 times every day about 12 hours apart. You will begin taking
      curcumin/placebo when you begin maintenance therapy with lenalidomide.

      You will be given a pamphlet with more information about how to take the curcumin/placebo.

      You must bring the study capsules you have not yet taken to the clinic every study visit.

      Every 4 weeks is called a study cycle.

      Study Visits:

      Before you begin treatment with lenalidomide and curcumin/placebo:

        -  You will be taught how to use the automated symptom assessment telephone program.

        -  You will complete 4 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, and your quality of
           life. In addition, some personal information (such as your name, address, race, and
           smoking history) will be collected. Completing the questionnaires will take about 20
           minutes.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking.

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (performance status).

      Telephone System Calls for Symptom Monitoring:

      A telephone system will call you once a week at a time convenient to you. Using the numeric
      key pad on your telephone, you will rate your symptoms and how they interfere with your daily
      activities. Each phone call will take about 5 minutes to complete. You will be given a
      brochure explaining the steps to complete the symptom questionnaire and a telephone number to
      call if you have questions or problems with the telephone system.

      At the start of Cycle 4 and at the End of Study Visit:

      -You will complete 3 questionnaires about your pain and other symptoms and your quality of
      life. The questionnaires will take about 20 minutes to complete. If for some reason, you are
      unable to complete the questionnaire through the automated symptom assessment telephone
      program, you may be able to complete it with the research staff, either by phone or during a
      routine clinic visit.

      Research staff will talk to you during your regularly scheduled visits for each cycle of
      treatment with lenalidomide. You will be asked about side effects you may be having and drugs
      you are taking.

      Length of Study:

      You will take curcumin/placebo for 6 months. You will remain on the study for about 6-7
      months (depending on how your clinic visits are scheduled). You will be taken off study if
      you have intolerable side effects or the disease gets worse.

      This is an investigational study. Curcumin is not FDA approved. At this time, curcumin is
      only being used in research.

      Up to 70 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  