
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To define the relationship between the status of donor NK-cell receptor and patient
           outcomes after killer immunoglobulin-like receptor-incompatible unrelated donor (URD)
           and umbilical cord blood (UCB) hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in young
           patients with acute myeloid leukemia with monosomy 7, -5/5q-, high FLT3 internal tandem
           duplication allelic ratio (High-FLT3-ITD AR), or refractory or relapsed acute
           myelogenous leukemia.

        -  To correlate the relationships between factors affecting NK receptor status and clinical
           events.

        -  To assess NK-cell development after URD and UCB HCT in patients with poor prognosis AML.

        -  To evaluate NK-cell reconstitution and receptor-acquisition pattern in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Preparative regimen: Patients receive 1 of the following regimens:

             -  Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT): Patients receive busulfan IV every 6
                hours on days -9 to -6, high-dose cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2,
                anti-thymocyte globulin IV once or twice daily over 4 hours on days -3 to -1, and
                methylprednisolone IV on days -3 to -1.

             -  Umbilical cord blood (UCB) transplantation: Conditioning regimen, infusion
                procedures, and post-transplant immunoprophylaxis for patients with an UCB donor
                are according to institutional guidelines and standards.

        -  Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT) or umbilical cord blood (UCB)
           transplant: Patients undergo allogeneic SCT or UCB transplant on day 0.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine or tacrolimus IV
           or orally beginning on day -2 and continuing until day 50, followed by a taper until
           week 24. Patients also receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

      Blood samples will be collected periodically from both patients and donors for studies of
      natural killer cells in support of the study objectives.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually for 3 years.
    
  