
    
      Attention span is one of the most frequently and early impaired cognitive functions during
      aging, especially in neurocognitive disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Decline of
      attention span can lead to a cognitive complaint by the patient or his or her relatives, even
      in the prodromal phase of the disease (DSM V: minor neurocognitive disorder). The current
      challenge is to develop strategies to prevent the cognitive decline in patients with minor
      neurocognitive disorder or major cognitive disorder with slight impairment, and thus to limit
      cognitive decline. However, to date, no strategy has shown clear effectiveness in preventing
      cognitive decline in patients with neurocognitive disorder.

      Interestingly, the integration of perceptual skills are modified in patients with
      neurocognitive disorders, and in particular visuomotor skills (from early stages).
      Measurements of evoked potientials during visual stimulation in patients with minor
      neurocognitive disorder have shown a preservation of sensory responses but a decrease in
      cognitive responses. Based on this observation, a US team had recently tested the
      effectiveness of computer-based visual cognitive exercises performed regularly for 8 weeks in
      patients free of major neurocognitive disorder. They had reported an improvement in
      information processing speed and walking performance. These results suggest that regular
      cognitive stimulation exercises using tablet PC visual exercices could improve attention span
      and in particular the information processing speed in patient with minor or early major
      neurocognitive disorder.

      In particular, Cogilus, a cross-platform tablet PC application (Android, iOS, Microsoft) has
      recently been developed for this purpose. The Cogilus project, is designed for health
      professionals who support patients with neurological syndromes including cognitive or
      attentional dysfunctions. The application is also open to carers and family members, who will
      be able to support the patient in using the application (based on the exercices proposed by
      professionals).

      The finale objective of the Cogilus project is to assess the impact of the regular use of
      Cogilus on patient with minor or early major neurocognitive disorder. Considering the
      specific needs in usability for this population, the first step to devoloppe such technology
      is to assess the usability of the application in patients but also in unformal and
      professional cargivers.
    
  