
    
      Ever since the introduction of Spinal anesthesia in 1898 by the German surgeon August Bier,
      the approach gained wide acceptance by the anesthesia community 1. Since that time, the
      technique has evolved to accommodate a wide variety of surgical procedures, making it one of
      the most common regional anesthesia modalities used. The advancement of the anesthesia field
      has led to the advancement of the technique it self, specially the drugs used in it.

      A wide range of local anesthetics has been introduced after the initial successful
      intrathecal use of cocaine. Starting with amylocaine, and later with the introduction of
      various local anesthetics such as procaine, 2-chloroprocaine, lidocaine, tetracaine,
      mepivacaine, prilocaine, bupivacaine, with ropivacaine and levobupivacaine being introduced
      last. Many of these drugs have fallen out of favour due to various reasons, with Lidocaine,
      procaine, mepivacaine, ropivacaine and bupivacaine still being used in clinical practice 2.

      The choice of the local anesthetic used depends on many factors such as the duration of the
      operation, the type of surgery and the degree of motor blockade desired. With the advancement
      of surgery and the increase in day surgical cases, a need for a fast acting, short in
      duration local anesthetic that allows fast recovery and early discharge has emerged. Of all
      the local anesthetic drugs available, Lidocaine is one of the drugs that fulfills these
      needs.

      Common complications associated with the use of this technique include headache (5%),
      backache (11%), hypotension, bradycardia, nausea and vomiting (20%), urinary retention,
      hypothermia and transient neurological syndrome (TNS). More serious complications include
      total spinal, infection (meningitis/ encephalitis) and epidural hematoma (<1 in 150,000). On
      the other hand, complications related to receiving General Anesthesia for the same procedure
      are similar, with higher chances of nausea and vomiting or airway problems.

      TNS is defined as back pain and/or dysesthesia radiating bilaterally to the legs or buttocks
      after total recovery from spinal anesthesia, manifesting within 24 hours after the surgery
      and typically lasting less than a week. The etiology of TNS is unknown. Possible contributing
      factors to the development of TNS include sciatic nerve stretching causing neural ischemia,
      vasoconstriction of spinal cord arteries, patient positioning, direct needle injury and
      pooling of local anesthetic in the sacral region. The pathophysiology of TNS is unknown, and
      there is no specific lab test to diagnose this complication. Treatment of TNS, includes bed
      rest, administration of nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs and sometimes the addition of an
      opioid is needed 3.

      All local anesthetics have been shown to cause TNS, with lidocaine appearing to have the
      greatest risk. The first reported case of TNS after the single shot administration of 5%
      hyperbaric lidocaine was published by Schneider and colleagues in 1993 4, which was confirmed
      later by several other studies 5-9. The reported incidence of TNS after the administration of
      lidocaine ranges from 10%-40% 10-13. In a more resent study done by F. Salazar et al. the
      incidence of TNS with lidocaine was reported to be 2.5%, much lower than what was previously
      described in the literature 14.

      Furthermore, in an internal audit done at the MGH looking at all spinal anesthesia cases
      performed by Dr. Asenjo in the past two years, TNS incidence was found to be 2.7%, far less
      than what the literature describes, and correlates more with what F. Salazar et al. found in
      their study. We want to clarify this discrepancy in the incidence of TNS with lidocaine since
      this is a very inexpensive agent, with a short to intermediate duration of action and readily
      available world wide. With this purpose we have designed a randomized controlled trial to
      test the hypothesis that the incidence of TNS after spinal anesthesia with lidocaine is much
      lower than what was previously described in the literature. This trial will also look at the
      natural course of the symptoms of TNS.
    
  