
    
      Background: Falls in the elderly are a global health problem as they are associated with
      serious injuries and chronic disability. About 30% of seniors over 65 experience one or more
      falls each year. Any fall can lead to injury, a long period of immobilization, a decline in
      the functional level of the elderly, a negative psychological impact and often the elderly
      can even end up in death. The causes of the falls are multifactorial and are related both to
      the effects of aging on the human body and to environmental factors. Due to the aging of the
      earth's population in the coming years, strategies for preventing falls in the elderly are of
      increasing research interest. Injuries due to falls have a direct impact on the quality of
      life of the elderly and are associated with very high costs for the healthcare system.
      However, few organized fall prevention interventions have been implemented in Greece in
      contrast to other EU countries. The systematic recording of falls, the information and
      education of older people about injury prevention and the participation of older people in
      organized fall coping strategies in Greece are almost non-existent. Group exercise programs
      have proven to be effective in reducing falls. The combination of balance exercises and
      strengthening of the core and lower limbs seems to have a positive effect on the elderly in
      avoiding falls. The OTAGO exercise program has shown that it can effectively reduce the
      number of falls in the elderly by up to 54%. However, its widespread implementation by a
      state body has not yet been possible.

      Aim: The purpose of this study is to record the incidence of falls in older people, to inform
      and educate them on prevention and to study the effect of specialized therapeutic exercise in
      relation to the usual physiotherapeutic care in reducing the number of falls. Senior people
      will be selected from the Elderly Day Care Centers for this purpose.

      Methods / Design: About 150 elderly people over 65 are expected to participate in this study.
      Participants will be recruited from 15 Day Care Centers, which will be divided into two
      groups (intervention and control). All participants will be informed and trained in fall
      prevention through lectures at the Day Care Center, as well as through the distribution of
      appropriate audiovisual material. Subsequently, the participants of the intervention group
      will follow a 6-month OTAGO group exercise program, where seniors will perform exercises
      three times a week. The control group participants will receive a leaftlet with general
      exercise (not falls prevention specific). The history of falls, fear of falling, balance and
      functional ability of participants will be assessed before, during and after the
      intervention, and will be re-examined 6 months after the intervention.

      Expected results: The results of this research will give a first glimpse of the magnitude of
      the problem of falls in older people in Greece, as data will be collected on the number of
      episodes, the factors that cause them, the outcome of falls, etc. The effectiveness of
      targeted exercise programs and in particular of OTAGO in reducing the number of falls and
      improving the balance and functional capacity of older people will also be explored.
    
  