
    
      This is a study of the effects of FMT for the treatment of patients with recurrent
      Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). The investigators plan to enrol approximately 5-10
      patients per year over the next 5 years to a maximum of 50 patients. Patients with recurrent
      CDI referred to the designated Gastrointestinal (GI) or Infectious Diseases (ID) services
      will be screened for inclusion and exclusion by the primary investigator (PI), sub
      investigators and/or designated study personnel.

      Those patients meeting the criteria will be offered FMT and will be the recipient. An
      informed consent will be obtained from both the recipient and the donor prior to proceeding
      with the study protocol. Demographic information as well as details of the medical history
      and results of standard laboratory tests will be collected on the recipients and donors.

      The donor preferably should be < 60 years old to maximize the fecal microbiota. As this does
      involve biological samples there is a theoretical risk of transmission of an infectious
      agent. To minimize this risk, the donors will be selected preferentially from a spouse or
      sexual partner. If this is not possible, then another relative or acquaintance would serve as
      the donor as identified by the recipient. In either case, the donor will be screened for
      potentially transmissible infections. This will include a health screening questionnaire
      adapted from Canadian Blood Services, a clinical examination and laboratory investigations to
      rule out known transmissible infectious diseases. The donor will complete a satisfaction
      survey.

      The submitted stool will be processed in the lab as per the "Stool Prep Protocol". The route
      of administration will be by retention enema via a rectal tube. As the treatment is not an
      emergency the investigators will have the option, if necessary, to store the stool for future
      treatment. If the sample is not used it will be discarded at 90 days and another sample will
      be obtained if still required.

      Prior to the treatment the recipient will also submit a sample of stool. Along with this a
      portion of the donor sample will be stored in at -80 degrees C for future molecular tests to
      determine the diversity of the microbiota. This may be performed at a later date dependent on
      obtaining the necessary funding.

      Recipients will be followed for 6 months post FMT to monitor for success of treatment,
      adverse reactions, recipient satisfaction and a quality of life assessment.

      note: if laboratory testing for Clostridium difficile (CD) changes the new test will replace
      the cytotoxicity test.
    
  