
    
      Research Question:

      Will daily consumption of 240 ml of Hibiscus sabdariffa reduce blood pressure in individuals
      with elevated blood pressure?

      Research Objectives:

      Primary: To conduct a feasibility study investigating the effect of daily consumption of 240
      ml of Hibiscus sabdariffa on blood pressure in individuals with elevated blood pressure

      Secondary: To investigate the effect of daily consumption of 240 ml of Hibiscus sabdariffa on
      low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels

      Secondary: To investigate the effect of daily consumption of 240 ml of Hibiscus sabdariffa on
      sleep quality

      Secondary: To investigate the effect of daily consumption of 240 ml of Hibiscus sabdariffa on
      stress levels

      Trial Design:

      This study is an open-label randomized controlled trial. The intervention arm is going to
      receive a 240 ml serving of hibiscus sabdariffa (sour tea) 1 time a day. The control arm will
      not have a placebo; hence, "open-label".

      Allocation:

      The investigators will use simple randomization in this trial. Each participant will have an
      assigned code number, which will be generated by a computer program, and then these numbers
      will randomly be placed into one of the two study arms by the same computer program. The
      participants will know to which study arm they belong to once the trial is officially
      started.

      Study Setting:

      This study will be conducted in Sulaiman Al-Rajhi Colleges (SRC) in Al-Qassim Region, Kingdom
      of Saudi Arabia

      Interventions:

      Participants will drink hibiscus sabdariffa 1 time a day for 3 months. Hibiscus sabdariffa
      will be given to the participants in the form of boxes filled with small paper bags filled
      with the herb (just like teabags). The participant will immerse the teabag in 240 milliliters
      of cold drinking water (the same volume as in a regular paper cup used for tea) and let it
      settle for 2-3 minutes before drinking it. This will be done 1 time a day for 3 whole months.

      The participant will be given a month's supply on the first day of the trial, and additional
      supply will be given during the follow-up visits. Reminder text messages (SMS) will be sent
      regularly (every 2-3 days) to the participant to remind the participants of drinking the
      hibiscus. Regarding the study outcomes, the participant's blood pressure will be measured
      using a standardized manual sphygmomanometer at the times of measurement. Regarding the blood
      LDL levels, the participant will have a blood sample withdrawn and analyzed for LDL levels at
      the times of measurement. Regarding sleep quality and stress levels, the participant will
      fill out the respective questionnaires at the times of measurement.

      Before initiating the trial, each participant will have the details of the trial, the
      benefits and risks of the intervention, and the possible outcome of the trial explained to
      the participants by one of the study investigators. To insure adherence to the intervention,
      participants in the intervention group will be sent either a text message (SMS) or an e-mail
      reminding the participants to take the hibiscus tea. The option of either SMS or e-mail
      depends upon the participant's preference. Any questions or concerns from the side of the
      participants will be cleared up before initiating the trial and during upcoming follow-up
      visits.

      Multiple randomized controlled trials showed that ingestion of hibiscus tea significantly
      lowered blood pressure in hypertensive patients. Moreover, some studies showed that ingestion
      of hibiscus tea lowered LDL levels in addition to other positive changes in blood lipid
      profiles of patients. The investigators also want to assess if there is an effect of
      ingestion of hibiscus tea on sleep quality and stress levels.

      Sample Size:

      Sample size is based on feasibility trial, to test whether this can be done, not on sample
      size statistics. Also, the target population is pre-hypertensive individuals in a university
      setting (this includes students, teaching staff, administration staff, and workers). Since
      there is a definite effect of hibiscus on blood pressure, the investigators recognized that
      the investigators need a relatively small sample size for the investigators' trial. 40
      subjects (randomized into two arms of 20 subjects each) is the required number of
      participants for the study in order to not comprise the statistical significance and power of
      the results.

      Recruitment:

      The principal investigators will invite subjects to participate in the study via sending
      e-mails to all university individuals. Individuals willing to participate in the trial will
      sign up to participate in the trial using an online registration form. The investigators used
      the definition of elevated blood pressure (pre-hypertension) given by the 2017 American Heart
      Association Guidelines: "Elevated blood pressure (pre-hypertension): Systolic blood pressure
      [SBP] between 120-129 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure [DBP] less than 80 mm Hg." (15) The
      investigators also used the definition of essential hypertension given by the 2017 American
      Heart Association Guidelines: "Hypertension Stage I: Systolic blood pressure [SBP] 130 - 139
      mm Hg OR diastolic blood pressure [DBP] 80 - 89 mm Hg. Hypertension Stage II: Systolic blood
      pressure [SBP] at least 140 mm Hg OR diastolic blood pressure [DBP] at least 90 mm Hg" (15)
      The target population is individuals with elevated or Stage I hypertensive levels of blood
      pressure. This means the investigators will be recruiting individuals with a systolic blood
      pressure of 120 - 139 mm Hg and a diastolic blood pressure of 80 - 89 mm Hg. After being
      recognized as eligible participants via the inclusion / exclusion criteria, these
      participants will be randomized into one of the two study arms.

      Data Collection:

      Blood pressure (the primary outcome) will be measured regularly during the trial;
      specifically, at the start of the trial, at 1 month after the official start, at 2 months
      after the official start, and at 3 months after the official start (at the end of the trial).
      Measurement will be done during curricular activity hours in the university clinic, on
      multiple days of each measurement week (to accommodate for the schedule differences of
      participants). The study investigators will measure each participant's blood pressure using a
      standardized sphygmomanometer.

      Low-density lipoprotein [LDL] (a secondary outcome) will be measured twice during the trial;
      specifically, once at the official start of the trial, and once at 3 months after the
      official start (at the end of the trial). A blood sample will be drawn from the participant
      by the study investigators.

      Sleep quality and stress levels (secondary outcomes) will be measured twice during the trial;
      specifically, once at the official start of the trial, and once at 3 months after the
      official start (at the end of the trial). The participant will fill out a validated
      questionnaire form regarding sleep quality (the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index [PSQI]) and
      another form regarding stress levels (the Depression, Anxiety, & Stress Scales [DASS] AND the
      Perceived Stress Scale [PSS]).

      In addition, during each measurement point, the study investigators will inquire about the
      participants' adherence to the intervention and will ask about any possible adverse effects
      caused by the intervention. Time will be given to clear up any concerns or questions the
      participants may have regarding the trial or its details.

      For follow-up, the participants will visit the study investigators at the official start of
      the trial, at 1 month after the official start, at 2 months after the official start, and at
      3 months after the official start (at the end of the trial).

      Statistical Methods:

      The investigators will analyze the collected data using the IBM SPSS Statistics software. The
      investigators will use the latest version (Version 25).

      The investigators will analyze the difference between the mean blood pressures of the
      intervention group prior to taking the hibiscus tea and the mean blood pressures of the
      intervention group after taking the hibiscus tea (at the end of the trial) using the paired
      t-tests. The investigators will analyze the difference between the mean blood pressures of
      the control group and the mean blood pressures of the intervention group (both before and
      after the intervention) using the unpaired t-tests.

      Similarly, the difference between LDL levels of the control group and LDL levels of the
      intervention group will be analyzed via the unpaired t-tests.

      The differences in sleep quality and stress levels between the control group and the
      intervention group will be analyzed using paired t-tests. The differences in sleep quality
      and stress levels in the intervention group before and after the intervention will be
      analyzed using paired t-tests as well.

      Confidentiality:

      Informed consent will be offered to every participant. The purpose of the study will be
      explained to all the participants and the investigators will ensure strict confidentiality
      and anonymity before proceeding with the study. The participants will be placed individually
      in the university clinic and only the investigators will record the results in order for the
      data collected to be totally confidential.
    
  