
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the utility, acceptability and feasibility of
      incorporating pharmacist Medicines Optimisation Reviews (MORs) into routine HIV outpatient
      care. Medicines reviews are a fundamental role of clinical pharmacists and, although
      availability of complete medication lists has been shown to reduce the number of DDIs per
      patient, evidence of medication reviews reducing medication related problems in PLWH is still
      limited. The British HIV Association (BHIVA) Standards of Care for People Living with HIV
      mandate that "A complete medication review should be undertaken at least annually by the
      specialist team, taking into consideration adherence, any difficulties with medication and
      DDIs". However, in most clinics formal medication reviews are not routinely performed on an
      annual basis, and a full drug history is not routinely documented, due to capacity
      constraints and the lack of an effective and feasible tool for routine medicines reviews in
      PLWH.

      The Medicines Management Optimisation Review (MOR) toolkit was developed by HIV specialist
      pharmacists (including the co-investigator, Heather Leake Date) representing a range of
      clinics across the UK, in collaboration with Merck Sharp and Dohme (MSD). The core objective
      of the toolkit is to enhance patient safety by identifying and reviewing all patients at
      higher risk of polypharmacy or DDIs in the HIV outpatient setting. In the view of the HIV
      Specialist pharmacists that developed the toolkit, it represents the "Gold Standard" in what
      should be performed at outpatient appointments.

      The tools consist of two items. 'My Clinic companion' and 'MOR consultation form'. 'My clinic
      companion' is a patient-orientated questionnaire that promotes self-review of medications and
      adherence and will facilitate the pharmacist consultation. The 'MOR consultation form' is
      designed to aid a structured patient consultation using available information from local
      databases, GP medication histories as well as that obtained directly from the patient. The
      form also identifies key care providers involved in the patient case, including prior consent
      to contact with information if required. It also identifies health care interventions such as
      smoking cessation.

      To date, evidence of the utility, acceptability and cost-benefit of the MOR toolkit is
      missing and with this project we aim to demonstrate that implementation of MORs in a sample
      of UK HIV clinics using the MOR toolkit developed by NHS healthcare professionals supported
      and funded by MSD is effective, feasible and cost-effective. By 2020 it is estimated that
      more than 50% of the UK's HIV population will be over 50 years old, with a corresponding
      increase in co-morbidities, DDIs and MRPs, underlining the potential importance of regular
      medication reviews. This work will have important implications for the commissioning of HIV
      specialist pharmacy services in England (particularly in relation to work across the
      primary/secondary care interface, and the development of Sustainability and Transformation
      Plans), as it will demonstrate whether MORs can be incorporated into routine practice and if
      they are a cost-effective use of pharmacist's time.
    
  