
    
      An observational study was performed in 45 hyperlipidemic(22 females, 23 males) and 45 age
      and sex matched normolipidemic (25 females, 20 males) healthy controls. The participants were
      recruited as a joint collaboration between Periodontology Department of the Faculty of
      Dentistry and the Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases Department of the Faculty of Medicine
      at Ondokuz Mayis University in Samsun, Turkey between january 2013 and august 2014.The study
      protocol was approved by the Local Ethics Committee, and written informed consent was
      obtained from all study participants in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration (revised in
      2000) It has been asserted that elevated serum lipid levels create a pro-inflammatory state,
      which leads to an increase in oxidative state by composing an imbalanced production between
      highly reactive molecular species and antioxidant defences, consequently predisposing one to
      infections. Hyperlipidemia claimed to lead an increase in production of reactive oxygen
      species (ROS) and lipid peroxidation (LPO). On the other hand it has been suggested that
      high-cholesterol diet increases OS and causes oxidative damage in various organs. Also, OS
      related mediators have frequently shown to be associated with chronic periodontitis (CP)
      related inflammatory responses . Excessive ROS derived radical formations reported to have an
      important role in the inflammatory process by leading to damage to proteins, DNA,
      carbohydrates, and lipids.

      Hyperlipidemia was defined as the presence of one or more altered values of the lipid profile
      and the following cut-off values were used according to the laboratory's recommendation:
      TC>200mg/dl; TG>200mg/dl; LDL cholesterol >130 mg/dl; HDL <35mg/dl).

      Periodontal status was determined by evaluating the following clinical parameters: Silness &
      Löe plaque index ; Löe & Silness gingival index ; Probing pocket dept,clinical attachment
      level, bleeding on probing (BOP) measurements were performed on 6 sites per tooth
      (mesio-buccal, mid-buccal, disto-buccal, mesio-lingual, mid-lingual, disto-lingual) using a
      Williams periodontal probe. GCF collection was subsequently performed using those sites that
      fit the criteria for GCF sampling described below.

      All samples were collected between 8-10 am on the day following periodontal status
      assessment. Samples were collected from the deepest 6 sites in the chronic periodontitis
      group. In the gingivitis group samples were collected from the teeth with bleeding on
      probing, whereas teeth without BOP were chosen in the healthy group. GCF samples were
      collected from the similar 6 sites in the gingivitis and periodontally healthy groups in
      order to maintain consistency of sampling. Accordingly, total of 90 GCF samples were taken
      from each of the 6 groups (15 individuals per group x 6 sites).
    
  