
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of non-myeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
           transplantation by demonstrating that the risk of treatment-related mortality during the
           first 6 months is an acceptable rate of less than 40% in patients with relapsed
           hematologic malignancies after prior high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell
           transplantation.

        -  Determine the response rates (disease-specific partial and complete response) in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the 6-month and 12-month probabilities of response in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the distribution of time-to-progression in patients responding to this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the percent donor chimerism in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the risk of acute and chronic graft-vs-host disease in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

        -  Preparative Regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -3
           and busulfan IV over 2 hours every 6 hours (for a total of 8 doses) on days -4 and -3.

        -  Graft vs Host Disease (GVHD) Prophylaxis: Patients who have an HLA-identical donor
           receive oral (or IV if unable to tolerate oral administration) tacrolimus twice daily on
           days -1 to 90 followed by a taper^* until day 150 and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and
           6. Patients with a matched related or matched unrelated donor receive oral (or IV if
           unable to tolerate oral administration) tacrolimus twice daily on days -1 to 180
           followed by a taper^* as tolerated; methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11; oral
           mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days -2 to 60 followed by a taper; and rabbit
           anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-6 hours on days -4 to -1 (for a total of 4 doses).

      NOTE: *Tacrolimus may be tapered on days 60-90 if donor chimerism of CD3+ cells is less than
      50% at day 60 or patient has progressive disease

        -  Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow or
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on days 0 and 1. Patients then receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood
           counts recover.

        -  Donor Lymphocyte Infusion (DLI): After day 180 (or day 210 for patients without an
           HLA-identical donor), patients with stable or progressive disease and no active GVHD may
           receive up to 3 DLIs every 8 weeks.

      Patients are followed within 2-3 months, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months
      for 3 years.
    
  