
    
      Sepsis is a life-threating organ dysfunction resulting from the dysregulated response of the
      host to an infection. It is estimated that 1.5 million people present with sepsis annually in
      Northern America and another 1.5 million people in Europe; 30 to 50% of them die making
      sepsis the leading cause of death. The key-point in the management of sepsis is the early
      resuscitation with broad-spectrum antimicrobials and intravenous fluids, if possible within
      the first hour. The great mortality of sepsis indicates that this goal is not easy to be
      achieved for two main reasons: the first is the delay in recognition of the septic patients
      and the second is the resistance of the implicated pathogen to broad-spectrum antimicrobials.

      In an attempt to improve the failure of physicians for early sepsis recognition, several
      markers have been developed. Some of them rely on clinical signs of the host and others on
      the measurements of circulating biomarkers. Recently, qSOFA (quick SOFA score) has been
      introduced to help the early recognition of sepsis in patients who present with infection
      outside the Intensive care Unit (ICU) i.e. either in the community or during hospitalization
      in the general ward1. However, there are concerns of the sensitivity of qSOFA and many
      introduce the need to measure biomarkers in serum. These biomarkers are usually protein
      molecules that are over-produced in the host as a result of the interaction with an infective
      insult. However, these protein molecules are produced by white blood cells. What is currently
      known is that although most of patients present with a similar phenotype, their
      pathophysiology is diverse. More precisely, although the majority of patients with sepsis
      present with high concentrations of protein molecules like interleukin (IL)-6, C-reactive
      protein (CRP) and procalcitonin (PCT) in their blood, in some patients circulating white
      blood cells remain over-active and in other patients they are significantly anergic, a
      situation often known as sepsis-induced immunoparalysis. Another molecule, called soluble
      urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR), is the shed uPAR receptor on neutrophils
      and is released in the circulation as a result of neutrophil activation; concentrations
      greater than 12 ng/ml can trace with negative predictive value almost 95% the patient at
      great chance of unfavorable outcome. As such, the robust diagnosis of sepsis may rely on a
      combination of clinical assessment, measurement of protein biomarkers and validation of the
      activity of circulating white blood cells.

      One FrameWork 7-funded initiative from seven European countries aims to develop a rapid score
      that can integrate all clinical and laboratory information and provide early diagnosis
      whether a patient has sepsis or not. The vision of this initiative is to build a device that
      is called HemoSpec. With this approach, whole blood coming from patients will be in parallel
      analyzed into three aspects: a) absolute white blood cell counting; b) information on the
      fluidity and activity of the white blood cells using Raman spectroscopy; and c) measurement
      of serum levels of IL-6, CRP, PCT and suPAR. The end result is building a diagnostic
      algorithm where clinical information is also taken into consideration.

      The project was started in November 2013 and the HemoSpec device is anticipated to be ready
      by February 2017. The diagnostic performance of HemoSpec is currently based on preliminary
      data coming from 60 patients (20 controls, 20 with systemic inflammatory response syndrome
      and 20 with sepsis) hospitalized in Jena University Hospital. The current study is aiming to
      validate and improve performance of HemoSpec for the rapid assessment of the critically ill
      patient in a larger phase II diagnostic study.
    
  