
    
      The role of beverages in overall dietary patterns and health is controversial but remains an
      important key target for clinical interventions and public policy. Additionally,
      non-nutritive sweetener intake is controversial. It is difficult to measure intake;
      therefore, it is difficult to determine associations to health outcomes. For this study, the
      investigators plan to study 125 adult participants during 3 visits over 2 weeks. The purpose
      of this study is two-fold: 1) to assess the utility of two food frequency questionnaires (the
      Healthy Beverage Index and the Non-Nutritive Sweetener questionnaire) and 2) to assess the
      capabilities of a non-nutritive sweetener biomarker.

      The first goal of this study is to assess the validity of the Healthy Beverage Index (HBI)
      via the BEVQ-15 questionnaire compared to the HBI via dietary recalls. Additionally, the
      correlations of HBI scores to dietary intake biomarkers will be assessed (urinary specific
      gravity) and associations between HBI scores with weight status and related cardio-metabolic
      health variables will be determined (weight, blood pressure, waist circumference, blood
      lipids, and glucose). The investigators will assess potential confounds to the HBI (health
      literacy, socio-economic status, demographics). The second goal is to assess the correlations
      between the non-nutritive sweetener food frequency questionnaire and the 24-hour dietary
      recalls.

      The investigators predict that 1) HBI scores will not vary significantly between BEVQ-15 and
      dietary recall assessment methods, 2) HBI scores will be significantly correlated to the
      dietary biomarker (negative association between urinary specific gravity and total fluid
      intake), 3) there will be statistically significant relationships between HBI scores and
      health indicators, and 4) non-nutritive sweetener consumption reported in the non-nutritive
      sweetener questionnaire and the 24-hour dietary recalls will be significantly correlated.
    
  