
    
      Shoulder arthroplasty is accepted as the treatment of choice for improved function with
      minimum pain in well-selected patients. A persistent discussion remains as to whether
      replacement of the glenoid (ie, total arthroplasty) should be performed. Possible advantages
      of glenoid replacement include decreased pain compared to hemiarthroplasty with a
      metal-on-bone articulation, increased stability due to the conforming glenoid component, and
      lateralization of the joint center providing improved range of motion and abduction strength.
      Potential complications of glenoid replacement are implant loosening and loss of glenoid bone
      stock.

      If a hemiarthroplasty is performed, glenoid replacement and related complications are
      avoided. In addition, hemiarthroplasty requires less surgical time and is less expensive than
      total shoulder arthroplasty.

      To date, there is no evidence to answer the clinical question on whether or not to replace
      the glenoid component in patients with a degenerative shoulder disease. In this study, both
      the stemmed Epoca humeral component (Epoca Stem) and the Epoca Resurfacing Head (Epoca RH)
      are included. While the stemmed prosthesis was developed both for nonreconstructable
      fractures and omarthroses, the humeral resurfacing head implant was designed specifically for
      use in degenerative diseases of the shoulder joint.

      This randomized multicenter study aims to compare the efficacy of hemi versus total shoulder
      arthroplasty using Epoca RH or Epoca Stem in patients with degenerative joint diseases. The
      primary aim of the present study is to demonstrate that the Constant score assessing shoulder
      function and pain is higher in the patient group treated with total arthroplasty compared to
      the hemiarthroplasty group after 5 years. The secondary aims of the study are to assess
      differences in the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), duration of surgery, rates of
      local and general adverse events and relationship to the device or treatment under
      investigation, survivorship of the implants, and quality of life after 6 months, 1, 3 and 5
      years between the treatment groups.
    
  