
    
      Background: Parenteral nutrition-associated liver disease (PNALD) in the context of home
      parenteral nutrition for non-neoplastic chronic intestinal failure is the main metabolic
      complication of HPN, as reflected by the combined liver and intestine transplantation rate of
      45% in adults. Prior to the onset of severe fibrosis, the main basic histological lesions of
      cholangitis and steatosis evolve in parallel with abnormal liver function tests (LFT), the
      prevalence of which increases with the duration of HPN. An n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid
      lipid supplement, based on soybean oil, has been shown to be a major and independent
      determinant of PNALD at doses greater than 1 g/kg/infusion.

      Study objective: to demonstrate that replacement of the usual lipid emulsion (Intralipid
      20%®) at a dose of 0.5 to 1.0 g/kg/PN infusion (n-6:n-3 ratio = 7) by an equivalent dose of a
      new lipid emulsion, OMEGAVEN 10%®, very rich in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3:n-6
      ratio = 7) induces regression of PNALD via the anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic effects of
      n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids.

      Material and methods: The treated population presents with severe chronic non-neoplastic
      intestinal failure (rare disease), requiring HPN in an accredited centre. The median
      actuarial risk of PNALD is 50% after 5 years of HPN in adults. PNALD will be defined on
      inclusion by 2 out of 5 abnormal LFTs: ALT and AST transaminases, conjugated bilirubin,
      alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase. This multicentre prospective
      randomized double-blind study will include patients with no organ failure other than
      intestinal failure and especially no signs of decompensated cirrhosis on abdominal Doppler
      ultrasound. It will exclude unstable patients especially as a result of recent infection (<6
      weeks). On inclusion, HPN must have been administered for at least 12 weeks and, after
      inclusion in the study, 6 weeks of HPN will be devoted to standardization of inter-centre
      practices. To be eligible for inclusion, patients must have a predictable duration of HPN of
      more than 18 weeks with a degree of dependence ≥ 2 nutritional infusions per week.

      Other causes of liver disease will be excluded (viral, autoimmune, alcohol, hepatotoxic
      drugs, biliary obstruction).

      The study duration per patient will be 22 weeks (6 weeks of standardization of HPN, 12 weeks
      of treatment in one of the two arms and 4 weeks of follow-up). HPN with Intralipid 20%® will
      be continued unchanged in the HPN control arm and Intralipid 20%® will be replaced by an
      equivalent dose (0.5 to 1.0 g/kg/Infusion) of OMEGAVEN 10%® up to a maximum dose of 40 mg per
      infusion due to formulation constraints, in the interventional arm.

      The primary endpoint will be normalization of the 5 LFT parameters at the 12th week of
      treatment (W18). According to published data, the probability of normalization of LFT is less
      than 10% in the control arm and 50% in the treated arm. A total of 32 patients must therefore
      be recruited in each arm to demonstrate a significant difference of normalization of LFT at
      the 12th week of treatment (Chi-square or Fisher test, p<0.05) between the two groups. This
      population could be recruited over a period of 18 months from the population treated in the
      three centres participating in the study: Paris for the Ile-de-France region, Lyon for the
      Rhone-Alpes region and Lille for the Nord-Pas de Calais region, as these three centres follow
      50% of the French adult HPN population, representing 250 patients.

      A monthly safety study will be performed by clinical examination and determination of the
      usual laboratory parameters. Fibrosis evaluated by Fibroscan (in kilopascal) and steatosis
      evaluated by abdominal Doppler ultrasound (in three grades), the relevant laboratory
      parameters reflecting the lipid supplements such as n-3 and n-6 essential fatty acids,
      lipoperoxidation index, explanatory factors of the harmful effect of n-6 polyunsaturated
      fatty acids and the protective effect of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids such as
      proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines and serum markers of hepatic fibrosis, will
      be compared between the two arms at the beginning and at the end of treatment.

      Expected result: This innovative prospective randomized study concerns PNALD which, at the
      stage of cirrhosis in adults, is responsible for the patient's death in more than 22% of
      cases and requires combined liver and small intestine transplantation in 45% of cases. The
      proposed therapeutic intervention, prior to onset of severe PNALD, is based on emerging
      rational hypotheses associated with a highly probable positive clinical expression.
    
  