
    
      Fabry disease is an X-linked lysosomal storage disease caused by a deficiency of the enzyme
      α-galactosidase A. Patients suffering from Fabry's disease may suffer from neuropathic pain,
      since the lysosomal accumulation of lipids can also take place in the small nerve fibers.
      Typically, neuropathic pain occurs in late childhood or adolescence and disappears after
      several years, probably due to the irreversible destruction of the small nerve fibers. The
      pain management of Fabry patients suffering from neuropathic pain is inadequate, as patients
      often do not respond well to conventional pain therapies.

      Aim of this study:

      The aim of this study is to find out how strongly the investigational drug Sativex® (active
      ingredients: tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD)) can influence the pain that
      can be caused by Fabry's disease. For this purpose, the investigational drug is compared with
      a placebo drug. The latter is a drug without an active ingredient. These studies provide us
      with important information on the origin of the pain and at the same time on the mechanism of
      action of Sativex®. This makes it possible to develop new forms of therapy in the future.

      Procedure:

      A total of 22-30 patients are divided into two groups of 11-15 patients each. Both groups
      will undergo the same test program. This will be divided into two phases: In the first phase,
      which will last 8 weeks, one group will receive Sativex® while the other group will receive a
      placebo. In the second phase, which will also last 8 weeks, the group that previously
      received the investigational drug will now receive the placebo and the previous placebo group
      will now receive the investigational drug. The study is double-blind, i.e. neither the
      patient nor the investigator knows who is receiving the investigational drug or the placebo.
      Patients are randomly assigned to the groups. Throughout the treatment, patients maintain
      their usual pain management regimen. (see Study Schedule) For 14 weeks, patients will fill
      out their pain diary daily. Every two weeks a blood sample is taken to determine the levels
      of cannabinoid metabolites. At the beginning, at the end of the first and after the second
      phase, the patient will fill out various questionnaires on neuropathic pain and improvement
      of quality of life. This will be used to assess whether pain relief is achieved.

      Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
    
  