
    
      The traditional treatment course for new cases of many cancers is cytoreductive surgery
      followed by chemotherapy. Unfortunately, despite high initial response rates to treatment,
      the majority of patients recur. The use of ineffective chemotherapy can result in unnecessary
      toxicity and costs, delay of more effective treatment, and the potential for the development
      of cross-resistance to additional drugs. The ability to individualize therapy by providing
      the treating physician with ex vivo response information on a panel of drugs should aid in
      the selection of effective therapy for individual patients, thus resulting in improved
      outcomes.

      ChemoFx速 is a drug response marker that quantifies an individual cancer patient's probable
      tumor response to various chemotherapeutic and biologic agents-providing both sensitivity and
      resistance information. In a retrospective study, it was demonstrated that patients treated
      with a regimen that the ChemoFx速 test said the patients' cells would be sensitive to,
      corresponded to a 3 times longer progression free interval.

      In the PT-206 ChemoFx PRO速 study, patients will be followed through treatment, until the
      patient progresses or a significant change in chemotherapy occurs. This data will be
      collected and analyzed to identify potential patient cohorts for the development of
      hypotheses for future sub-study analysis. Also, tumor pathology slides and excess tumor cells
      (if available) will be used to characterize common polymorphisms in drug metabolizing enzymes
      as well as other molecular markers potentially associated with tumor response.

      The PT-206 ChemoFx PRO速 Study seeks to enroll an estimated 3,000 patients from 150 academic
      and community-based physicians in the U.S. The patients will be treated with drugs and/or
      drug combinations based on the medical judgment of the treating physician. This study is not
      randomized.
    
  