
    
      1. To test the hypothesis that the number, size, location, and severity of myocardial
           perfusion defects and scar distribution dictate the pattern of LV dyssynchrony by tissue
           Doppler echocardiography and speckle tracking. An extensive body of literature exists
           describing the predictors of response to BIV pacing in HF patients. Our group and others
           have established a clear association between the presence of mechanical cardiac
           dyssynchrony and the response to BIV pacing. Also, our group and others have examined
           the effect defects on myocardial perfusion imaging (MIBI) scan on response to BIV
           pacing. What remains unclear is the relationship between the number, size, distribution,
           and severity of these perfusion defects and the pattern of dyssynchrony by echo. It
           seems plausible that the distribution of scar and/or perfusion abnormalities dictates
           the pattern of mechanical delay and the relative timing of contraction of the various
           parts of the LV. Approach: In this first phase of the proposal, we will utilize some of
           the techniques that are available to our group to correlate the patterns of perfusion
           defects with the patterns of mechanical dyssynchrony. For that purpose, patients with
           clinical indications for BIV pacing will undergo nuclear perfusion imaging at rest as
           well as echocardiographic (echo) imaging with tissue Doppler assessment and speckle
           tracking. The site of latest mechanical activation and pattern of mechanical contraction
           will then be compared to the sites of scar and/or perfusion defects on the resting MIBI
           scan. Anticipated Results: The purpose of this first phase of the proposal would be to
           identify if the dyssynchrony pattern is a downstream manifestation of the myocardial
           injury scheme and therefore, if it can be predicted based on the number, size, severity,
           and distribution of the perfusion abnormalities.

        2. To test the hypothesis that LV lead positioning away from dense scars as determined by
           resting nuclear perfusion imaging and close to the site of latest LV mechanical
           activation translates into improved response after BIV pacing. Our group and others have
           demonstrated improved acute hemodynamics and long term response to BIV pacing if the LV
           lead position was concordant with the site of latest mechanical activation of the LV.
           Also, our group and others have shown that an LV pacing lead positioned at the site of a
           scar or in the vicinity of a high scar density area is associated with little
           echocardiographic and clinical response after BIV pacing. To date, standard clinical
           practice continues to consist of placing the LV lead tip in the most lateral and
           posterior position. Maintaining this approach in all cardiomyopathy patients regardless
           of the nature of the myocardial insult or the sites of scaring may not be optimal and
           may account for the lack of response to BIV therapy in a significant number of patients.
           The primary objective of this specific aim is to demonstrate that MIBI/echo-guided LV
           lead placement is superior to standard lead placement and that patients who are
           randomized to the MIBI/echo-guided arm will exhibit greater improvement in the symptoms
           of HF and greater improvement of LV function at the 6-month interval compared to
           patients receiving standard LV lead placement. Approach: Heart failure patients (n=210)
           enrolled in this study will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 fashion to one of two study
           arms:
    
  