
    
      BACKGROUND The current surgical treatment of bone cancer patients requires usage of massive
      endoprosthetic bone implants. The incidence of aseptic loosening is a major cause of
      prosthesis failure in these patients. Exploring ways to reduce such failures would allow
      extending longevity of massive implants in a relatively young population.

      Current published literature stipulates that osteointegration could improve longevity of
      massive implants. Evidence suggests that usage of osteointegrated hydroxyapatite (HA) coated
      collar would reduce the incidence of aseptic loosening around the cemented intramedullary
      stem in distal femoral bone prosthesis.

      Our study aims to compare radiological outcome in 2 groups:

        -  A porous collar for either distal or proximal femoral replacements

        -  A porous collar with hydroxyapatite (HA) for either distal or proximal femoral
           replacements The porous collar will be manufactured by Adler Ortho using additive layer
           manufacturing technology.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES The study will review the use of massive segmental replacements in the
      femur, which have a porous collar with and without HA.

      Primary objectives:

      The primary objective of the study will be to assess radiological outcome by assessing bony
      growth into the collar.

      Secondary objectives The secondary objective will focus on assessing patient reported outcome
      measures (VAS pain score and other PROMS)

      STUDY DESIGN

      Patients will be identified in the outpatient setting as suitable for entry into the trial
      based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria as set out below.

      Patients will be randomised into one of the two groups of the study, due to the nature of
      intervention this will be a single blind study.

      Patients will undergo plain radiographs immediately post-operatively, at 6 months
      post-operatively, 12 months post-operatively and 24 months post-operatively. Standard
      protocol radiographs of the relevant limb will be taken in the antero-posterior (AP) and
      medial-lateral (ML) planes (x2 AP and x2 laterals to cover the prosthesis).

      At 12 months and 24 months post-operatively patients will receive a CT scan (cover whole
      prosthesis, extended CT - knee, pelvis), which will be used to image bone growth within the
      porous collars.

      For plain radiographs a scoring system for extra-cortical bone formation will be made
      according to Coathup et al, 2013. This will be quantified radiologically in four zones
      (medial and lateral aspects on AP radiographs; anterior and posterior aspects on ML
      radiographs). Extracortical bone separated from the implant by a clear radiolucent line is
      not considered in grown and will be scored 0. A score of 1 will represent extracortical bone
      (>5mm think and >1mm long) in contact with the implant surface in any of the four previously
      described zones. The maximum score will be 4, denoting extracortical bone growth in all four
      zones.

      Patients identified and consented in clinic for entry into study. Randomisation prior to
      surgical date. Baseline X-ray and CT done pre-operatively as per current pre-operative
      guidelines.

      Pre-operative bloods and joint aspiration done to definitively rule out infection in revision
      patients Pre-operative VAS pain score on admission

      Joint replacement done - clarify antibiotic prophylaxis with surgeons - induction + extended
      post-operative antibiotic prophylaxis

      Post-operative Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS) to assess physical functioning for all
      patients. TESS repeated at 6, 12 and 24 months to assess progress post-operatively -
      correlating with radiographical findings.

      Surgery related data including theatre time, intra-operative blood loss and intra- and
      post-operative complications will be recorded for all patients.

      Immediate post-operative, 6, 12 and 24 monthly X-rays (x2 AP and x2 laterals to cover the
      prosthesis); 12 and 24 monthly CT (cover whole prosthesis, extended CT - knee, pelvis) X-rays
      and CT reported by scores calculated as previously described.
    
  