
    
      Suicide has risen to the 2nd leading cause of death in Americans aged 10 to 34, and is
      the10th leading cause of death overall. Globally, the World Health Organization estimates one
      person dies of suicide every 40 seconds. Despite its lethality, no recognized acute
      treatments for suicidality exist. Recently, ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor
      agonist, has been shown to rapidly reduce suicidality in small studies in psychiatric
      settings. However, most patients with acute suicidal thoughts are treated initially in
      Emergency Departments (EDs). Delays in treatment have both short and long term impacts on
      recovery as patients spend longer time frames in an actively suicidal state.

      Identifying a rapid and effective treatment for suicidal ideation that can be administered in
      the ED would have a profound impact on the emergent management of patients with suicidal
      thoughts. Ketamine is an FDA approved medication that is commonly used in EDs for multiple
      indications. EDs have the familiarity, facilities and personnel to safely administer IV
      ketamine.

      Ketamine is regularly used in EDs in high doses for procedural sedation in adults and
      children. It is also used in high doses as a sedative for acutely agitated patients. In
      low-doses ketamine is frequently used for its analgesic properties and is considered safe.

      Ketamine has also been safely used in the pre-hospital setting. In a recent joint policy
      statement of the American College of Emergency Physicians recommended the use of low-dose
      ketamine for pain in control with a safety profile comparable to other intravenous analgesia
      such as morphine.

      Use of Ketamine to rapidly reduce suicidality may facilitate a safe and faster transition of
      acutely suicidal patients to outpatient treatment. Such treatment potentially shortens these
      patients' ED and hospital lengths of stay.
    
  