
    
      Sensory processing difficulties have been well documented in children with Autism Spectrum
      Disorder (ASD). In fact, "hyper- or hypo-reactivity to sensory input" has recently been added
      to the diagnostic criteria of this disorder. Hyper-reactivity features are particularly
      disruptive to children's abilities to engage in everyday activities and pose a significant
      problem for patients and their families. In children with high functioning pervasive
      developmental disorder, hyper-sensitivity is associated with symptoms of anxiety and
      depression. For sensory processing difficulties, children with ASD are primarily referred to
      Occupational Therapy (OT) services for treatment. These patients are also often seen by
      mental health professionals to address related disorders such as anxiety, ADHD and behavior
      problems. Currently, there are no evidence based approaches for specifically addressing
      auditory hyper-reactivity in ASD. Exposure and response prevention (E/RP), derived from
      systematic desensitization, is highly effective at reducing avoidance behaviors associated
      with phobias and obsessive and compulsive disorder (OCD). In mental healthcare settings, ER/P
      has been shown to be effective for reducing compulsive behaviors in children with OCD and
      concurrent ASD. E/RP has also been piloted for treating restricted, repetitive behaviors in
      ASD and demonstrates good feasibility. E/RP may also be useful for reducing aversive
      responses to auditory stimuli in children with ASD. Occupational Therapists (OT) are the
      primary service for providing treatment for sensory processing and arousal level modulation
      difficulties in children with ASD. Thus, OTs are potentially well suited to provide an E/RP
      aimed at reducing sensory hyper-reactivity in ASD. This study will investigate the
      feasibility and efficacy of utilizing an E/RP approach for treating auditory hyper-reactivity
      in ASD.
    
  