
    
      Study Design This study will use pre-existing skin samples stored in the Edinburgh
      Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC) / SAHSC BioResource (collected from 2006-2012)
      from patients who have undergone breast cancer surgery.

      The investigators shall firstly identify all samples in the Tissue Bank database that were
      taken from those undergoing breast cancer surgery. Before any patient details are provided
      the investigators will confirm that the patient has initialled the following section of the
      consent form they completed at the time of their surgery;

      "I agree to my name and details being made available to other ECMC researchers who might
      approach me to invite participation in other research projects. These might include studies
      of new treatments or techniques, clinical or genetic studies of the causes of cancer or
      cancer outcomes. I understand that that this permission does not commit me to participate in
      such studies and I will be able to decide whether I wish to be involved once I have reviewed
      any information sheet and consent form."

      Once this has been confirmed, the investigators shall consult the patient's electronic health
      record to ascertain whether anything would exclude them from the study such as death, a new
      diagnosis of cognitive impairment or a psychotic disorder, or receiving current oncological
      treatment.

      As this is an exploratory study the investigators shall contact all of the identified
      patients who meet the inclusion criteria with the aim of recruiting as many as possible. The
      investigators would anticipate a high response rate, as has been the experience with previous
      questionnaire studies involving breast cancer patients.

      The investigators will contact the identified patients via post with a pack containing a
      cover letter from the principal investigator of the original clinical team, an information
      document, a consent form and questionnaires. The information document will include contact
      details of the principal investigator and research team to allow patients to discuss the
      study, ask questions that they have, or ask for assistance from the research team in any
      aspect of completing the documentation. The questionnaires are the only requirement of
      participants to complete for the study and should take less than 30 minutes to do so. The
      questionnaires include the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Score (HADS), the EQ-5D, the Brief
      Pain Inventory (BPI), the Short-form McGill Pain Questionnaire-2 and the Short Leeds
      Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs (S-LANSS) which are all commonly used scoring
      tools for chronic pain. There is no need for a hospital visit, physical examination,or blood
      tests.

      After 4-6 weeks, if no response is received from an individual patient we would send a second
      letter to ensure that the initial pack had been received.

      Once a signed consent form and questionnaires have been returned, a paper Case Report Form
      (CRF) will be created with a unique study number which will be added to the questionnaires as
      the only identifying information. The unique number currently given to the Edinburgh
      Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC) / SAHSC BioResource samples held for the patient
      will also be added to the CRF. In this way, both those carrying out the laboratory work and
      the questionnaire data entry will only be provided with an identifying number and be blinded
      since they have no access to the CRF.

      The Edinburgh Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC) / SAHSC BioResource samples shall be
      serially cut with a microtome to produce 8 micron thick sections with three sections per
      sample created to ensure consistency. The sections shall then be stained with neurofilament
      and anti-protein gene product (anti-PGP) 9.5 and examined under bright field microscopy. An
      image of the section shall be captured and analysed by the same individual using Image J
      software to calculate the IENFD.

      Once all samples have been analysed the CRF would be used to place the IENFD results into two
      groups based upon their questionnaire responses. These two groups would be those with and
      those without CPSP symptoms.

      Statistical analysis of the two group's IEFD results and questionnaire responses will then be
      undertaken with the null hypothesis that the pre-operative IENFD at the site of surgery does
      not predict or correlate with CPSP.

      Study Centres Recruitment of all patients will take place from the Edinburgh Cancer Research
      Centre (ECRC) at the Western General Hospital.

      Timelines and Consent The investigators would expect that reading the cover letter and
      information pack, signing the consent form, and completing the questionnaires will take
      between 20 and 30 minutes. The investigators aim to recruit patients over a 3 - 6 month
      period before moving on to performing IENFD testing over the next 6 - 9 months. A further 3 -
      6 months will be required to analyse and present our results.

      The patients have already consented for their tissue sample to be used in future research.
      Consent will be sought for the patient to complete the questionnaires which are essential to
      the study in order to identify those who have developed CPSP.

      There is no ongoing intervention or follow-up for the patients themselves after they consent
      to inclusion in the study. However, if in completing the questionnaire they become aware of
      suffering from CPSP we provide details of how to be referred to a pain specialist if they
      feel it would be of benefit. To facilitate this we would contact their general practitioner
      with details of how to refer a patient such as via the SCI Gateway Advice Service or Lothian
      Chronic Pain Service Email Advice Service.
    
  