
    
      1: Identification of colorectal cancer in Örebro Region - Effectiveness of Standardised
      Course of Care.

      Introduction: To shorten time to diagnosis of suspected colorectal cancer (CRC) in Sweden,
      CRC was included in the "standardised course of care" (SCC) in 2016. However, not all
      patients with CRC are referred via the SCC, and CRC is also found in patients undergoing a
      routine colonoscopy.

      Objective: To identify CRC cases in the Örebro Region and how they were identified.
      Furthermore, to investigate the reasons for and possible effect of not being included in the
      SCC-CRC for cases found via colonoscopy.

      Methods: Reviewing medical records of patients with CRC referred to the Clinic of Surgery in
      the Örebro Region in 2016-2018 (n=459).

      The information recalled from the journals includes diagnostic pathway of CRC discovery, age,
      gender, Body Mass Index (BMI), Hb-value, date of referral to colonoscopy, date of preformed
      colonoscopy, referral route (SCC-CRC or non-CRC-SCC), reasons for referral (including SCC-CRC
      criteria) and patient symptoms. Furthermore, we will gather data of tumor localization
      (caecum; ascending colon; splenic flexure; transverse colon; hepatic flexure; descending
      colon; sigmoid and rectum), TNM-stage of the tumor, [11] tumor differentiation (high grade or
      low grade tumor), and source of referral (referral by general practitioner or referral by
      hospital physician).

      Age is determined at the time of referral. BMI is defined as the most recent BMI value at
      time of referral within six months prior or six months after referral date. Hb-value will be
      defined as the most recent Hb-value within a month prior of the time of referral. Diagnostic
      interval is defined as the number of days days between the referral and the colonoscopy. When
      the tumor localization is described as in between two locations of the colon (e.g. descendent
      colon and sigmoid colon) the most proximal location is chosen for statistical analysis.
      Patients with two or more synchronous cancers are registered as more than one incident per
      case. When the tumor localization is described as being present in the rectosigmoid
      transition, the sigmoid is used as the tumor localization in the analysis. When patients have
      two or more symptoms and reasons for referral, data are registered as more than one incident
      per case. TNM stage is converted to tumor stage I-IV. [1] When patients have one or more
      synchronic cancer with different TNM stages, the highest cancer stage is chosen for analysis.
      If the TNM stage is not fully known (e.g. information about lymph nodes and metastases are
      missing) the stage is set as no lymph node engagement or metastases, If the original referral
      cannot be found, date and reasons for referral are collected from journal entries.

      2: The Swedish standardized course of care for colorectal cancer - cancer prevalence and
      predictive values of entry criteria.

      Introduction: To shorten waiting times for cancer treatment and to reduce national
      inequalities in cancer care, the standardized course of care (SCC) was implemented in Sweden.
      The SCC for colorectal cancer (CRC-SCC) was implemented in 2016. Since then, about 46.000
      patients have been examined according to a CRC-SCC. However, few studies have been conducted
      to evaluate the CRC-SCC.

      Aim: To identify the prevalence of colorectal cancer (CRC) in patients referred to Örebro
      University Hospital (USÖ) according to a CRC-SCC. We also aimed to investigate the positive
      predicting values (PPVs) and odds ratios (ORs) of different SCC-criteria with respect to CRC.

      Method: Medical record review including all patients examined by colonoscopy as part of a
      CRC-SCC-referral to USÖ between September, 2016 and December 2018 (n=1271).The parameters of
      interest include; patient characteristics such as sex and age, the SCC-criteria for
      reasonable suspicion of cancer. If the patient has an altered bowel function it is registered
      whether the patient has loose stool, constipation, a combination of the two, or not specified
      in the referral. Rectal bleeding is defined as fresh rectal bleeding, excluding melaena.
      Patients who fulfill multiple criteria are registered as more than one incidence case.
      Laboratory values such as fecal occult blood, plasma-hemoglobin, and fecal-calprotectin
      (F-calprotectin) are registered. The most resent value at the time of referral is used. If
      there is no value within a month of the referral, no value was registered. A patient is
      regarded to have a positive fecal occult blood test (FOBT) if at least one out of three tests
      is positive. A f-calprotectin <50mg/kg is considered negative. Findings from the colonoscopy
      such as CRC, polyps, inflammation of the colon, diverticulosis, hemorrhoids, angiodysplasia
      or no finding are registered. All findings with colonoscopy are, if possible, histologically
      verified.

      3: Why do we perform gastroscopy in younger patients?

      Background: Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is the golden standard diagnostic method in
      upper GI pathologies. The current guidelines indicate that patients with alarm symptoms
      and/or dyspeptic patients over 50 years of age should be readily investigated with
      gastroscopy. However, EGD is also frequently performed in the younger population, where it
      often results in absence of pathological findings. In Örebro approximately 4000 EGD are
      completed yearly, approximately 40% of the EGD's are performed in patients >50 years,
      requiring extensive resources.

      Aim: to identify factors in the EGD referrals of patients under 50 years of age without alarm
      symptoms, in order to minimize the number of unnecessary EGD's in this age group.

      Method and material: The study will be conducted as a retrospective database study. We will
      process the EGD referrals and diagnostic findings of young patients (age 18-50 y) performed
      during 2017-2019 at Örebro University Hospital. Statistical analysis will be performed to
      identify which signs and symptoms are associated with a pathological finding during EGD and
      which signs and symptoms are associated with a negative finding. The parameters of interest
      include; patient characteristics such as sex and age will separately analyze the groups
      18-29y, 30-39y, and 40-49 y. Other parameters include: BMI, ethnicity, use of NSAID/ASA, h.
      pylori analysis, eventual treatment for h. pylori, smoking, alcohol consumption,presence of
      GI disease before gastroscopy, previously done gastroscopy, source of referral (primary
      health care or in-hospital patients), if present: fulfillment of Rome IV criteria for
      functional dyspepsia, symptoms such as anemia, fecal occult blood, palpable mass in abdomen,
      weight loss, loss of appetite, dysphagia, vomiting, jaundice, waiting time between referral
      and gastroscopy, as well as the findings under gastroscopy; GERD/oesofagitis, peptic ulcus,
      gastritis, dysplasia/cancer, IBD, celiac disease, hiatal hernia
    
  