
    
      Fourty individuals with identified APC mutation or MUTYH mutation that result in a phenotype
      of multiple colonic adenomas with or without duodenal adenomas will be included in the study.
      Participants will be allocated in a 1:1 ratio to receive either wholistic Turmeric capsules
      (Pukka herbs) or placebo for 6 months.

      Participants will be assessed by a gastroenterologist 4-8 weeks after initiation, and at
      termination/conclusion visit at 6 months.

      Blood, stool and urine samples will be collected at baseline, after 4-8 weeks and at 6 months
      just before final colonoscopy.

      Serum samples will be used for testing complete blood count, liver function test, C-reactive
      protein (CRP) Various cytokines and small molecule measurements. Stool samples will be
      evaluated for microbiome composition.

      Curcumin and curcuminoid levels will be measured in tissue serum, stool and urine will be
      measured in a subsample of patients.

      Colonoscopy will be performed at study entry with removal of all polyps larger than 20mm,
      count and precise size measurement of polyps by a standard forceps, throughout the colon and
      in defined segments. Retained polyps will be counted and measured with an open forceps placed
      near the polyp to determine size. A full video and photos of the procedure will be taken. In
      cases with multiple polyps that cannot be counted or properly evaluated the PI will decide if
      a defined area like the rectum could be evaluated and will define it in terms of distance
      from the anus. In this case the video of the procedure will be evaluated by two separate
      gastroeneterologists blinded to treatment arm.

      Frozen samples from normal mucosa will be taken at study entry. Samples from polyps will be
      taken preferably in cases with multiple polyp in order not to interrupt measurments.

      Upper endoscopy only in patients with known duodenal adenomas will also be performed at study
      entry with as above evaluation. Sample from polyps and normal mucosa will be taken as above.
      A full video and photos of the upper endoscopy will be recorded as well.

      A 2nd colonoscopy +/- gastroscopy will be performed at 6 months when all polyps will be
      counted and pictured by video and photography. Size determination in a similar way as above,
      throughout the colon or in the defined area as was decided at baseline colonoscopy.

      Frozen samples from polyps and normal mucosa will be taken and polypoectomy will be performed
      upon the decision of the endoscopist in both lower and upper endoscopies.

      Frozen tissue specimen will be used for H&E, various proliferation and apoptosis staining
      like KI67.

      Tissue, blood, urine and stool samples will be frozen and sent for analysis.

      Inclusion/screening visit will include:

        1. Intake of patient medical history.

        2. Exact documentation of identified genetic mutation per genetic consultation

        3. Case report form (CRF).

        4. Blood test including complete blood count, liver function test, C-reactive protein (CRP)
           and sera for subsequent cytokine analysis.

        5. Urine and Stool collection .

        6. Basline colonoscopy and/or upper endoscopy as detiled above with tissue collection and
           tattoo of tissue sampled.

      Mid-term visit at 4-8 weeks will include:

        1. Case report form (CRF).

        2. Collection of Blood, urine and stool specimens.

      Termination/conclusion visit will include:

        1. Case report form (CRF).

        2. Collection of blood, urine, stool specimens

        3. Colonoscopy and upper endoscopy as described above with tissue collection of same tissue
           identified by tattoo.
    
  