
    
      Advances in medicine mean that an increasing number of critically ill people, including those
      with severe pneumonia (lung infection), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (also known as
      emphysema or chronic bronchitis) or the "acute respiratory distress syndrome", survive
      admission to the hospital intensive care unit. Survivors report health problems such as
      breathlessness and weakness long after discharge. In a study monitoring over 800 patients
      discharged from an intensive care ward, over half required some form of caregiver assistance
      after 1-year.

      Whilst on intensive care, patients usually require help to breathe from a ventilator machine
      and become immobilised. This leads to weak breathing muscles in three quarters of patients,
      as well as weak and wasted arm and leg muscles. Survivors struggle to regain their previous
      level of daily activity and function, limited by shortness of breath, muscle weakness and
      tiredness. It is recognised that people with chronic lung problems, such as chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease, face similar problems. In this condition, exercise based
      therapy has been shown to improve muscle strength, walking ability, shortness of breath, and
      importantly quality of life.

      Given these experiences, a new trial will evaluate a novel programme of exercise-based
      rehabilitation training in patients discharged from intensive care. The programme will last
      for 8-weeks and will use exercises designed to correct the breathing and limb muscle
      weakness, as well as education to help patients cope more effectively. The programme will
      begin as soon as possible following discharge from hospital and will be conducted on a mostly
      outpatient basis until the course is completed. By speeding the recovery of strength and
      activity, it is anticipated that quality of life will be improved, which this trial will
      attempt to measure.

      The rehabilitation programme will include aerobic cardiovascular, and upper and lower limb
      strengthening exercises, in addition to relevant education sessions.
    
  