
    
      Context: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized with chronic oligo/unovulations,
      hyperandrogenism and insulin resistance. Insulin resistance is mostly attributed to visceral
      adipose tissue. Epicardial adipose tissue thickness (EATT) is in close relation with
      atherosclerotic coronary heart disease and its importance in PCOS is not determined yet.
      Thus, we aimed to clarify EATT in patients with PCOS and compare with healthy matched
      controls. In addition we searched plasma adiponectin levels to clarify its relationship with
      EATT in patients with PCOS.

      Settings: EATT was determined by echocardiography. Insulin resistance is calculated as
      HOMA-IR and plasma adiponectin levels were determined with ELISA radioimmunoassay at Gülhane
      School of Medicine, Ankara, Turkey.

      Patients: Patients with PCOS and healthy controls who were similar in body mass index (BMI)
      and age (p=0.118, p=0.081, respectively) were enrolled in the study after having their
      written consents.

      Results: Mean EATT and HOMA-IR levels were significantly higher (p=0.001, p=0.001,
      respectively) while plasma adiponectin concentrations were significantly lower (p=0.0032) in
      patients with PCOS than controls. There was no correlation between plasma adiponectin levels
      and EATT in subjects (p=0.824). EATT levels were in positive correlation with HOMA-IR, plasma
      triglyceride concentrations and body mass index (BMI) (p=0.022, p=0.027, p=0.022,
      respectively). HOMA-IR, triglyceride levels, HDL-Cholesterol, LH/FSH ratio were most powerful
      determinants of EATT in logistic regression modeling (p=0.016, p=0.021, p=0.049, p=0.039,
      respectively).

      Conclusion: EATT is increased in patients with PCOS in concordance with HOMA-IR level and
      these findings may reflect the increased risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in
      this particular patient group.
    
  