
    
      Introduction Malnutrition in children is highly prevalent in West Nile Region. According to a
      recent analysis of data available from the health management information system (HMIS) and
      official registers, the health outcomes of children suffering from malnutrition and treated
      at health center (HC) level in Arua Region are not reaching the international standards (75%
      cured rate as for the international SPHERE standards). This despite the availability of clear
      national guidelines for treatment, thus suggesting possible deficiencies in the quality of
      care provided. Lack of supportive supervision may be one of the reason explaining substandard
      outcomes.

      Methods This is a cluster randomised controlled trail (RCT) with health centers (HC) as unit
      of randomisation. The six largest HC in Arua district will be randomised in two groups,
      intervention (quality improvement group) and control. The intervention will aim at improving
      the quality of care provided at HC level, and as a consequence, the health outcomes of
      children. The main intervention will consist of enhances nutritional supervision (high
      frequency supervision, specific to nutritional services), while the control will be standard
      care (no intervention). Complementary intervention will include training and networking
      activities for HC staff. Outcomes of the study will include: health outcomes (recovered, non
      recovered, defaulters, transferred, died); process outcomes (satisfaction and knowledge of
      staff); cost outcomes (cost for the health system and for the families) and equity outcomes
      (access to care and health outcomes by wealth quintile).

      Relevance of the study The study will inform, with a robust design, about the efficacy and
      cost-efficacy of a quality improvement intervention for ameliorating the health of children
      suffering from malnutrition in Uganda.

      Currently no other study with RCT design explored the efficacy of supportive supervision as a
      quality improvement intervention. This study will therefore fill an important knowledge gap.
    
  