
    
      Patient self-management is a fundamental component in arthritis care that is often neglected.
      Physical activity is an essential part of self-management, however, less than half of people
      with arthritis are active. There are several factors that are associated with low physical
      activity participation such as motivation, doubts about the effectiveness of prescribed
      exercises, and lack of health professional advice on ways to progress physical activity. The
      variety of risk factors highlights the need for a multifaceted approach that provides support
      in terms of knowledge, skill development and timely advice from health professionals, as well
      as motivational support to stay active.

      Our primary objective is to assess the efficacy of a physical activity counselling model,
      involving the use of a Fitbit Flex (wireless physical activity tracker) paired with a FitViz
      application (app), a group education session, and telephone counselling by a physiotherapist,
      to improve physical activity participation in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and
      systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Our secondary objective is to assess the effect of the
      intervention on reducing patients' sedentary time, and improving fatigue, mood, pain, and
      self-efficacy in arthritis management. We will carry out three aims: 1) To develop the FitViz
      app to pair with Fitbit to enhance user experience, 2) To conduct a pilot test for the
      Fitbit/FitViz intervention, 3) To evaluate the effect of the physical activity coaching model
      in patients with RA and SLE. In this proof-of-concept randomized controlled trial (RCT), the
      investigators hypothesize that compared to a control group (i.e. the Delayed Intervention
      group), participants in the Immediate Intervention Group will 1) increase moderate/vigorous
      physical activity (MVPA), 2) reduce sedentary time, 3) improve in fatigue, mood, and pain
      levels, and 4) improve in their self-efficacy in disease management.

      The investigators will use a mixed-methods approach, involving a RCT and in-depth interviews.
      The proof-of-concept study will employ a stepped wedge RCT design, whereby the intervention
      will be sequentially rolled out to participants over a number of time periods. The order in
      which individuals receive the intervention will be determined at random. The strength of this
      design is that it can properly address the efficacy question, while avoiding the dilemma of
      withholding the intervention to some participants, as in a parallel group design.
    
  