
    
      Medical monitoring systems have become an important area of research and development due to
      the possibility of allowing improved quality of life and care while reducing overall medical
      costs.

      Significance of the study:

      The study is significant because it will allow researchers to understand the efficacy of the
      autonomous sensor system used with actual residents of a geriatric care center. This study is
      one of the first attempts to monitor movements of geriatric residents as they go about their
      activities of daily living. This type of system has the potential to improve the quality of
      life and safety of geriatric patients.

      Goals:

      The development of autonomous patient monitoring technologies that will eventually improve
      the quality of life and safety of patients in geriatric care facilities and other
      environments.

      Determine the performance and usability of the wearable sensor system in a geriatric care
      facility with actual residents going about their daily lives.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Determine performance of motion data collect ion system for monitoring geriatric
           residents as they go about their daily life in a geriatric center

        2. Determine tolerability of wearing sensors by geriatric residents

        3. Understand how medical staff interacts with monitored residents and the sensor devices

        4. Determine if the sensor system's algorithms can identify falls

      Objectives:

        1. Analyze the motion data generated by the system to determine system performance. The
           list of performance metrics will include: (a) system up-time, (b) continuity of data
           collection (c) sensor device failure rate, (d) sensor device battery life (e)
           simultaneous collection of data when multiple monitored residents are in the same
           localized area.

        2. Assess the tolerability of wearing the devices over the course of a day using a survey
           administered to residents.

        3. Assess the usability of the sensor system using a survey administered to care givers.

        4. Compare events flagged as falls by system algorithms with the fall log produced by
           Garrison staff, cross-verified against personal fall logs, to determine the ability of
           the system to detect falls.
    
  