
    
      Background and Importance: Lifelong antiretroviral treatment (ART) is recommended for all
      people living with HIV (PLWH) primarily with integrase strand inhibitor (INSTI)-based
      regimens. While weight gain following ART initiation was previously considered "return to
      health", recent studies have raised concerns of weight gain and increasing obesity in PLWH,
      most notably with INSTIs and possibly with tenofovir alafenamide (TAF), a preferred
      nucleoside backbone agent. The weight gain may be progressive and may increase cardiovascular
      risk. A critical unanswered question is whether weight gain and metabolic effects are
      permanent or reversible. This data is crucial to optimize ART therapy and health of PLWH.

      Goal/Research Aims: No therapeutic alternatives are substantiated for ART-associated weight
      gain. Doravirine/lamivudine/tenofovir DF (DOR/3TC/TDF) is an attractive option to explore as
      it does not include an INSTI or TAF, is a well tolerated once daily single tablet, minimal
      drug interactions and has not been associated with significant weight gain to date. The
      investigators hypothesize that switching from an INSTI regimen to DOR/3TC/TDF will slow or
      reverse weight gain while maintaining viral suppression. Before embarking on a large
      randomized controlled study (RCT), the investigators propose this pilot study to determine
      the feasibility and acceptability and to obtain estimate measures of weight change to inform
      its design and sample size.

      Methods: Open-label, exploratory pilot switch study. Patients who are virally suppressed on
      an INSTI regimen for >1 year, without ART resistance, and have experienced significant weight
      gain will be approached to switch to DOR/3TC/TDF for 48 weeks. Weight, adherence, viral load,
      CD4, and other relevant labs will be measured every 3 months. A DXA body scan and body image
      questionnaires will be completed at baseline and 12 months. The anticipated sample size is 25
      with an aim to recruit 50% male, 50% female.

      The primary objective is to determine what proportion of clinic patients meet eligibility
      criteria, agree to participate, and complete the study. The secondary objective is to
      estimate the distribution of various weight-related outcomes while on DOR/3TC/TDF compared to
      previous INSTI regimens. Exploratory outcomes will address metabolic changes and body image
      impact.
    
  