
    
      Following an overnight (10 hour) fast, two catheters will be placed into the lower arm (one
      in each arm). One arm will be used for infusion of 6,6-[2H2] glucose tracer and the other
      will be used for blood sampling under resting and exercise conditions. Following an initial
      blood sample collection to determine background enrichments, a primed, continuous infusion of
      6,6-[2H2] glucose will begin (prime, 82.2 µmol∙kg-1; continuous rate, 0.78 µmol∙kg-1∙min-1,
      Figure 1). The 6,6-[2H2] glucose will be infused for 100 min under resting fasted conditions
      to ensure isotopic steady-state is achieved prior to initiating exercise. Volunteers will
      consume either an isocaloric KE+CHO (KE: 573 mg KE/kg body mass, CHO: 110 g) or CHO drink
      prior to and during 90-min of metabolically-matched (~60 ± 5 % of VO2peak), steady-state load
      carriage (~30% body mass) exercise. Drinks will be enriched with U-13C-glucose (Cambridge
      Isotope Laboratory, Andover, MA, USA) to increase the isotopic enrichment well above natural
      levels and optimize the measurement of exogenous carbohydrate oxidation. During exercise
      V̇O2, V̇CO2, and HR will be measured at approximately 0, 20, 45, 60, 75, and 85 min.

      After the 90-min steady-state treadmill exercise, participants will complete a TTE
      performance test. For volunteer safety TTE performance tests will be conducted without the
      additional weight from the load carriage exercise. Volunteers will be given time to stretch
      and warm-up on the treadmill before the TTE performance test beings. Volunteers will then run
      on the treadmill at a fixed speed and grade that elicits 85% of their VO2peak. The TTE
      performance test will be determined as the time of volitional exhaustion. Following
      completion of the test, a self-selected cool-down will occur. Volunteers will complete a
      minimum of two practice exercise sessions to ensure they are familiar with the performance
      test.

      The following day volunteers will return to the laboratory after an overnight fast. After
      consuming the study drink (KE+CHO or CHO) participants will complete a self-paced 4-mile load
      carriage (~30% body mass) time trial on a treadmill to assess aerobic performance. Time trial
      performance will be assessed as the total amount of time taken to complete 4 miles. The
      treadmill will be set at a constant 1% grade for the entire test. Following a warm-up period,
      volunteers will blindly modulate treadmill speed in order to complete the distance as quickly
      as possible. The only feedback given will be distance covered at half mile increments. At
      half mile increments volunteers' rate of perceived exertion will be determined using the Borg
      Scale. Heart rate will be monitored throughout the time trial. Heart rate will be recorded at
      half mile increments. No motivation will be provided during the time trial. Participants may
      consume water ad libitum during the time trial. Following completion of the test, a
      self-selected cool-down will occur. Volunteers will complete a minimum of two practice
      exercise sessions to ensure they are familiar with the performance test.
    
  