
    
      Urinary incontinence refers to the involuntary loss of urine in sufficient amounts to be
      considered a social or health problem. It is under-reported and under-treated as patients are
      often ashamed and embarrassed to discuss their condition and clinicians may also fail to ask
      patients about incontinence. This is a multi-center, open-label study including dose
      conversion and dose determination to evaluate the safety of OROS® oxybutynin chloride at a
      clinically acceptable dose. There are three study periods: Run-in, Dose
      Conversion/Determination, and Maintenance. During the 1-week Run-in Period, baseline
      incontinence, urinary frequency, and health related quality-of-life data are collected.
      During the Dose Conversion/Determination Period, any previous urge urinary incontinence
      medications are discontinued and each patient is started on OROS® oxybutynin chloride. The
      dose is titrated to a clinically acceptable dose in 5-mg increments at 7 ± 3 day intervals to
      a possible maximum dose of 30 mg/day. The clinically acceptable dose is defined as either the
      minimum effective dose (i.e., the dose at which the patient has no incontinent episodes for
      the last 2 days of the dosing interval) or the dose providing the best balance between
      symptomatic improvement and side effects. Patients taking immediate-release oxybutynin at
      enrollment started dose titration on OROS® oxybutynin chloride at a dose equal to their
      immediate-release oxybutynin dose; all others started at 5 mg per day OROS® (oxybutynin
      chloride). After the clinically acceptable dose is established, the patient continues for an
      additional week at that dose to confirm that it is appropriate. Then the patient enters the
      12-week Maintenance Period that evaluates whether the urge urinary incontinence reduction
      that is achieved by the beginning of maintenance has persisted. The primary outcome of the
      study is an evaluation of the safety of OROS® oxybutynin chloride. Safety assessments include
      the incidence of adverse events, physical examination and medical history, clinical
      laboratory tests, urinalysis, electrocardiograms (ECGs), vital signs, and the Physician's
      Anticholinergic Effects Assessment (P-ACEA), an assessment completed by the physician if
      severe or intolerable anticholinergic effects occur.

      OROS® oxybutynin chloride (5 mg and 10 mg systems): One to five systems taken orally per day
      (5 mg per day to a maximum of 30 mg per day) as a single morning dose. The duration of the
      Maintenance Period of the study is 12 weeks.
    
  