
    
      The potential of cryotherapy application in vitro data indicated that using freezing
      treatment on VFFs + TGF-β1 (myofibroblast) modulated ECM turnover toward antifibrosis and
      normalization, attenuated myofibroblast differentiation, reduced cell migration, and weakened
      the contractile activity. On both VFFs ± TGF-β1, freezing treatment raised LP regeneration
      (HAS1, decorin).

      The findings indicate that cryotherapy may play a protective role in scar formation and
      contribute to lamina regeneration.

      Furthermore the need of this study was developed from the lack in the quantitative knowledge
      and information in the published studies about the effect of cryotherapy on hypertrophic
      scar.

      This study will be designed to provide a guideline about the effect of effect of cryotherapy
      on hypertrophic scar height, thickness and discoloration, and to assist in planning an ideal
      treatment regimen for reducing hypertrophic scar.

      Delimitations:

      This study will be delimited in the following aspects:

        1. Subjects:

           Sixty patients suffering from hypertrophic scar will be randomly divided into two equal
           groups each one has 30 patients.

        2. Equipment and tools:

      2.1. Measurement equipment: Vancouver scar scale. MAPS (Matching Assessment of Scars and
      Photographs). 2.2. Therapeutic equipment: Gymna Cryoflow ICE-CT. Temperature resistant
      polymide tape (48 wide).

      Hypothesis:

      It will be hypothesized that:

      Cryotherapy may not have an effect on hypertrophic scar.

      Basic Assumptions:

      It will be assumed that:

        -  All patients will receive the same kinds of medication and the same nursing care.

        -  All subjects are free from any chronic disease.

        -  All subjects will continue in the study.

        -  All patients will follow the instructions during the treatment
    
  