
    
      The study will follow a randomized, crossover design. Participants and the investigator will
      be blinded for the control treatments but not for the walk treatment. Participants will
      complete 3 meal tests; tests are separated by about 1 week. An initial screening visit will
      be scheduled for the online survey respondents that meet the inclusion criteria and are
      willing to consider participation. At this visit, written consent will be secured followed by
      further screening for the exclusion criteria and the collection of demographic and health
      history data and anthropometric measures. A fasting blood sample will be collected for
      glucose analysis. Participants will be scheduled for experimental testing and provided with
      instructions and calendars. Participants will be given at least one week's notice if they do
      not qualify for the trial based on fasting glucose concentrations.

      On the day prior to each experimental day, the participants will consume 2 bagels (54 g
      carbohydrate/bagel), and on the night prior to each visit, participants will consume a
      standard dinner of their choice. (The bagels will be provided to participants and the
      standardized dinner will be documented. The bagels and standardized dinner meal will
      facilitate controlled 'glycogen loading' prior to testing.) No other food will be consumed
      after this dinner meal, and participants will fast overnight until they arrive at the
      research center the next morning (e.g., no food or beverage with the exception of water).
      Fasting blood (1 tablespoon) will be collected and the test meal (bagel+juice) will be
      consumed. Postprandial blood samples will be collected for 4 hours (see below). The subjects
      will not be allowed to consume any food or beverage (with the exception of water) through the
      duration the visit. A snack will be provided to participants once the testing is over.

      Glucose: 0,15,30,60,120, 180, 240 Insulin: 0, 30, 120, 180, 240 Oxidative Stress Markers: 0,
      180, 240

      The blood insulin level will be determined in venous blood by RIA. Capillary blood glucose
      will be determined with a glucometer. Oxidative stress, e.g., total antioxidant capacity,
      IL-6, and TBARS will be assessed using microplate analyses kits.
    
  