
    
      The melasma is a common hipermelanosis, acquired, symmetrical, with irregular occurring in
      areas such as photo-exposed face, forehead and temples, can affect the eyelids and tion. The
      facial regions most affected are: zigomatic (82.4%), parotid (64.7%), front (64.7%), mandible
      (35.3%) and nasal (35.3%). The injuries of melasma is variable increase of epidermal melanin
      and inflammatory infiltrate of mild to moderate intensity. Treatment with compounds such as
      hydroquinone and derivatives, tretinoin, corticosteroids moderate or combination of them all
      have shown good results, diminishing the training, reducing the stability and promoting the
      destruction of melanocytes. The primary objective of this study is evaluating the clinical
      activity of the association (tretinoin + arbutin + triamcinolone) manufactured by Glenmark
      Laboratory, and as the comparator drug product Triluma ® (hydroquinone + fluocinolone +
      tretinoin), in the treatment of epidermal melasma through parameters of clinical course of
      the disease (improves) and its security.

      Patients who are included in the study will be randomly and automatically receive one of the
      treatments (New association or Triluma ®), which should use for 12 weeks. The products should
      be applied in the regions affected once a day, during night.

      The evaluation of clinical improvement, as well as security, will be held on periodic visits,
      as described below, which will be held the record and supply of medicines to patients.

      In each visit, beyond the clinical examination of photographs and large, it filled the Area
      and Severity Scale (Melasma Area and Severity Index - MASI), which quantifies the melasma and
      will be the main tool of control of clinical improvement.

      At the end of the study, data will be compared, showing no inferiority or inferiority of
      clinical drug testing in relation to the comparator.
    
  