
    
      Coartem® is the combination of artemether and lumefantrine used for the treatment of
      uncomplicated falciparum malaria 1. This oral combination seems to be well-tolerated and is
      useful for treatment of multi-drug resistant Plasmodium falciparum. This unique anti-malarial
      agent combines the fast, but short-acting artemether with a less potent, but longer-acting
      lumefantrine. Original studies with the combination demonstrated safety and efficacy in
      adults and children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria. 2,3 Additional studies showed
      superiority with respect to parasite clearance time versus halofantrine,4 chloroquine5, and
      mefloquine6. Coartem® also demonstrated a faster reduction in parasite burden after 24-hours
      versus halofantrine4, chloroquine5 (in adults), chloroquine (in children) 7, and mefloquine6.
      Various other studies have shown artemether-lumefantrine to have a superior 28-day cure rate,
      as well as time to fever resolution compared to other antimalarial agents.1 Both components
      of Coartem® were discovered in China. Artemether was isolated from sweet wormwood, Atemisia
      annua, which has been used in traditional Chinese medicine for over 2000 years 1.
      Lumefantrine is a synthetic compound, which has structural and physiochemical
      characteristics; and a mode of action similar to other antimalarials, including quinine,
      mefloquine, and halofantrine 8. In vitro, the two antimalarial agents show synergistic
      activity against P.falciparum. Based on both in vitro and in vivo studies, a 1:6 ratio of
      artemether to lumefantrine has been described as optimal. Thus, the tablets are manufactured
      as 20mg artemether and 120mg lumefantrine. 8 Currently there are two recommended dosing
      regimen for adults and children above 35 kg; or 12 years of age or older. In partially immune
      patients, a 4-dose regimen is recommended. Four tablets as a single dose should be taken at
      time of diagnosis and then again at 8, 24, and 48 hours post-initial dose. A different
      regimen is recommended for either non-immune patients or patients in areas where multi-drug
      resistance to falciparum malaria is a problem. This is a 3-day regimen consisting of 4
      tablets as a single dose given at the time of diagnosis, 8 hours later and then twice daily
      for the following two days. 1

      Antimalarial Activity and Mechanism of Action: 1, 8 The antimalarial activity of artemether
      and that of its active metabolite, dihydroartemisinin (DHA) have been extensively studied in
      vitro. These are very potent antimalarial compounds. The IC50 of artemether ranges from 0.1
      to 20 nmol/L and the IC50 for DHA ranges from 0.1 to 15 nmol/L. In vitro studies have shown
      artemether to be 2 to 3 times less active than its metabolite, DHA.

      The exact mechanisms of action of artemether and lumefantrine are unknown, but both agents
      appear to act on the parasite's organelles. Artemether's action depends on its endoperoxide
      bridge, which interacts with heme iron to cause free radical damage to the malaria parasite.
      Lumefantrine most likely interferes with heme polymerization, which is a critical detoxifying
      pathway for the malaria parasite. Both agents may have secondary actions that include
      inhibition of parasite nucleic acid and protein synthesis; however, these actions have not
      been well-described.

      The varied pharmacokinetic profiles of the two antimalarial agents appear to create a
      synergistic effect. Artemether works rapidly to decrease the parasite load and improve
      patients' clinical symptoms. Lumefantrine is long-acting and appears to prevent recrudescence
      (reappearance of the disease after inadequate or failed drug therapy). The different actions
      of the two agents may also reduce the emergence of resistance. Artemether and DHA have been
      shown to decrease parasite burden by about 104 per asexual life cycle in about 2 days. Thus,
      the 3-day course of the combination therapy can potentially decrease the parasite burden by
      about 108.

      Drug Interactions Pharmacokinetic and electrocardiographic interactions between
      artemether-lumefantrine and the mefloquine were studied in 42 healthy volunteers. Like
      artemether-lumefantrine, mefloquine is a substrate for CYP 3A4; however, it is also a
      potential CYP 3A4 inhibitor. Pharmacokinetic parameters for artemether, DHA, and mefloquine
      were unchanged; however, lumefantrine concentrations decreased by 30-40% when given with
      mefloquine. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known. Co-administration of
      the antimalarial agents resulted in no increased adverse effects. 13

      An additional study evaluated the effects of concomitant administration with ketoconazole, a
      potent CYP 3A4 inhibitor, and artemether-lumefantrine. The study was carried out in 16
      healthy volunteers who received single doses of artemether-lumefantrine either alone or in
      combination with multiple doses of ketoconazole. Artemether, DHA, and lumefantrine
      pharmacokinetics were altered by ketoconazole. AUC and Cmax increased for all three compounds
      and terminal half-life increased for artemether and DHA. None of the changes in PK parameters
      were greater than those changes observed in healthy volunteers taking artemether-lumefantrine
      with a high fat meal (i.e. a 16-fold increase in AUC). There was no increase in observed side
      effects or electrocardiographic changes. Dosage adjustments do not appear to be necessary
      with concomitant ketoconazole administration.14

      A study of 42 healthy Caucasian volunteers was conducted to investigate pharmacokinetic or
      electrocardiographic effects of concomitant administration of IV quinine and
      artemether-lumefantrine. QTc prolongation was not associated with artemether-lumefantrine
      administration alone; however transient increases in QTc interval were noted in the
      combination groups. PK variables for lumefantrine and quinine were unchanged, but artemether
      and DHA plasma concentrations decreased with concomitant quinine administration. The exact
      mechanism for this decrease could not be explained for the results of this study.15

      Artemether is metabolized via CYP 3A4 to dihydroartemisinin (although both compounds have
      antimalarial activity, dihydroartemisinin has greater potency). Induction of CYP 3A4 would
      increase dihydroartemisinin but decrease artemether.

      Study objectives General objective To evaluate the pharmacokinetic interaction between
      Coartem® and commonly co-prescribed inducers of 3A4 i.e. nevirapine, efavirenz and rifampicin
      in HIV positive patients.

      Specific objectives

        1. To compare the steady state pharmacokinetics of Coartem® in HIV-infected patients prior
           to commencement of nevirapine and at nevirapine steady state

        2. To compare the steady state pharmacokinetics of Coartem® in HIV-infected patients prior
           to commencement of efavirenz and at efavirenz steady state

        3. To compare the steady state pharmacokinetics of Coartem® in Ugandan patients at
           rifampicin steady state and without rifampicin therapy
    
  