
    
      To date, there has been limited research examining effects of specialized employment support
      programs (such as Stanford's Neurodiversity at Work) for adults with ASD. Results from this
      study will have substantial positive impact on the field because they will significantly
      elevate the investigators' understanding of the factors involved in successful employment and
      QoL outcomes in individuals with ASD. Furthermore, understanding the trajectories of
      psychiatric symptoms, employment outcomes and QoL will facilitate the development of
      educational tools, training materials and intervention tools to help in improving overall
      outcomes of individuals with ASD.

      The study has four specific aims that the investigators hope will contribute towards the
      advancement and proliferation of programs, such as Stanford's Neurodiversity at Work (NaW)
      aimed to support individuals with ASD, both in in the workplace and beyond.

      The investigators' first aim is to compare job retention rates resulting from NaW starting
      before onboarding and NaW starting 6 months after onboarding (NaW-DS) for adults with ASD, as
      well as compare duration of sustained employment for NaW and NaW-DS (NaW-delayed start).

      The second aim is to compare the change in QoL between NaW and NaW-DS for adults with ASD at
      month 15 past onboarding. The investigators predict that NaW will result in a higher QoL, as
      measured by the World Health Organization Quality of Life assessment (WHOQOL-100), in adults
      with ASD, compared to NaW-DS. The investigators also have an exploratory aim of determining
      costs of employee turnover achieved from the NaW and NaW-DS, as well as comparing rates of
      job offers between specialized internship programs (IP) and specialized pre-employment
      training programs (PT).

      Additionally, behavioral assessments will be administered to participants throughout the
      duration of the study as additional exploratory measures.

      Results from this study will provide an evidence base for the understanding of trajectories
      of psychiatric symptoms, employment outcomes and QoL will facilitate the development of
      education tools, training materials and intervention tools to help improving overall outcomes
      of individuals with ASD.
    
  