
    
      At the first phase, an observational study aims to investigate the physical and psychological
      status of patients after hospital discharge.

      At the second phase, a feasibility pilot study with a single-blinded randomized clinical
      trial design with volunteer patients admitted to hospital and recruited at the time of
      discharge by COVID-19 will evaluate a physiotherapy programme. There will be an intervention
      group (asynchronous telerehabilitation at home) and a control group (home rehabilitation by
      means of an explanatory leaflet). The intervention will be carried out for 12 weeks with a
      follow-up at 3 and 6 months.

      Intervention:

      The physical rehabilitation programme will be designed with three levels of intensity of
      aerobic, strength and respiratory exercises, and a list of recommendations for
      self-management of the sequelae of the COVID-19.

      The intervention will last for a total of 12 weeks at home (three days a week for 45-60
      minutes a day) with a biweekly phone check-up.

      All patients will be provided with the same physical rehabilitation and educational
      programme, with each allocation group differing in the format of the prescription.

      Experimental group

      A programme with exercise videos and health recommendations will be prescribed through a
      telerehabilitation platform to improve fatigue and fitness resulting from COVID-19. The
      application will be installed on patients' mobile phones and its use will be explained to
      them so that they can carry out the programme from their homes.

      Control group The control group will receive a paper booklet with clear pictures and
      descriptions of the exercise and educative programme to improve fatigue and fitness.

      Assessment:

      Fatigue will be assessed with the fatigue severity scale (FSS). Functional capacity will be
      measured through operation: with the Post-COVID Functional Status Scale (PCFS), the strength
      with the 30" sit-to-stand (STST), the 30" arm curl test (ACT), and through aerobic capacity
      with de six minutes walking test (6MWT).

      Psychosocial factors will be measured with the general self-efficacy scale (GSES), the
      depression and anxiety scale (DASS-21), the behavioral regulation questionnaire in sport
      (BRSQ) and the multidimensional scale of perceived social support (MSPSS).

      Quality of life will be measured with the quality of life scale (SF-12).

      Adherence and engagement be measured by diary recording and satisfaction with a brief
      interview.

      Outcome measures:

      Fatigue, functional status post-COVID-19, strength, aerobic capacity, anxiety and depression,
      behavior in sport, perceived social support and quality of life will be evaluated before
      intervention, after intervention (12 weeks) at 3 and 6 months for follow-up.

      Adherence and satisfaction will be evaluated after intervention (12 weeks) and during
      intervention (each 15 days).
    
  