
    
      Chemotherapy is increasingly used in the management of various cancers. There are reports in
      the literature of chemotherapy-induced cognitive impairments ranging from deficits in memory
      and attention to slowed information-processing and deficiencies in executive function,
      including planning and problem-solving. These deficits have been shown to affect work-place
      productivity and social role-functioning which present significant public health risks in an
      era of increased chemotherapy usage. However, previous studies investigating cognitive
      deficits after chemotherapy have mainly used neurocognitive assessments, which are limited in
      their utility for clinical diagnosis due to their likelihood for practice effects and low
      sensitivity for detecting subtle cognitive changes that may be functionally relevant to the
      patient.

      Resting-state functional connectivity magnetic resonance imaging (fcMRI) is a sensitive test
      that measures resting-state neural network connectivity, reflecting the integrity between
      functionally-related brain regions. fcMRI has been used to delineate cortical neural networks
      involved in a variety of cognitive domains, including memory, and attention. The
      investigators believe that fcMRI will be more sensitive than neurocognitive tests alone for
      investigating chemotherapy-induced cognitive changes. The goal of this novel study is to use
      fcMRI to investigate cognitive changes after chemotherapy in an attempt to understand the
      currently unknown neurobiological mechanisms associated with this phenomenon.

      This prospective study will investigate the presence of cognitive deficits after chemotherapy
      in cancer patients by assessing changes in three fcMRI-defined neural networks involved in
      cognition. The three networks include (1) Dorsal Frontal Attention network (2) "Default"
      network and (3) Cognition "Core" control network. Sixteen cancer patients scheduled for
      chemotherapy will undergo fcMRI of the brain and neurocognitive testing within two weeks
      before and after chemotherapy. Comparisons between time-points will establish the effect of
      chemotherapy on cognition.

      Results obtained from this study in cancer patients will provide insight into the mechanisms
      underlying the development of chemotherapy-induced cognitive deficits. Knowledge of the
      development of chemotherapy-induced cognitive deficits will enhance positive outcomes by
      allowing practitioners and patients to be better informed of the potential cognitive
      consequences to anticipate. With patients equipped with such information before starting
      cancer treatment, they will be better able to manage their affairs and daily activities in
      such a way that allows them to maintain productive living through their course of cancer and
      its treatment.
    
  