
    
      Treatments for ALD have limited success when drinking continues. Cessation of alcohol
      consumption or a significant reduction in alcohol intake improves histology and survival of
      patients with any stage of ALD. While alcohol abstinence may not be sufficient to provide a
      total recovery of ALD, patients with uncomplicated ALD have a 5-year survival of almost 90%
      if they stop drinking. Consequently, abstinence is the most important therapeutic
      intervention for patients with ALD. When combined with psychosocial treatments, currently
      approved medications can improve outcomes for some AD individuals; however, these treatments
      are unsuccessful for many others. One of the limiting factors that must be taken into
      consideration when using currently approved medications such as disulfiram or naltrexone is
      liver function. Given their hepatic metabolism, disulfiram or naltrexone both increase the
      risk of hepatotoxicity in AD individuals. Therefore, a pharmacotherapy that is effective for
      AD, that is safe for the liver and able to recover alcohol-related liver damage thereby
      improving liver function, would be an ideal medication. However as of now, no drug has been
      found to provide all of these benefits to AD individuals. It is proposed therefore to test
      metadoxine (MTDX) that it is hypothesized is significantly beneficial for the treatment of
      alcoholism and ALD. Metadoxine is currently approved in Europe for acute and chronic alcohol
      intoxication but has never been tested in the US. Furthermore, MTDX is used in Europe to
      treat ALD. Preliminary evidence shows that MTDX reduces alcohol consumption in AD
      individuals. If the role of MTDX in reducing alcohol consumption and improve liver function
      is confirmed by a rigorous study design, then MTDX might represent a truly innovative
      pharmacotherapy for AD, given the potential to be used for AD individuals with ALD. However
      until this proposal, MTDX has never been investigated as a treatment for AD able to reduce
      both alcohol consumption and improve alcohol-related liver damage via a double-blind
      placebo-controlled study. This project therefore proposes to conduct a 12-week (followed by a
      3-month follow-up), double-blind, placebo-controlled, between-subject randomized clinical
      trial with MTDX (500mg t.i.d.) in AD individuals.
    
  