
    
      Background: Hemodialysis (HD) patients are rarely included in clinical trials, thus
      medication efficacy and safety data specific to this population is lacking. Toxicity from
      medications inadequately removed by dialysis is also a risk for them. HD patients take an
      average of 19 pills daily, with 70% potentially inappropriate.

      This polypharmacy increases their risk of adverse events, drug-drug interactions,
      non-adherence, cognitive impairment, impaired balance and falls, morbidity, hospitalization
      and mortality. Using provincial databases, the investigators identified 9 medication classes
      with uncertain indications and/or safety in HD patients: Alpha-1 Blockers, Anticonvulsants,
      Benzodiazepines & Z-medications, Loop Diuretics, Prokinetic Agents, Proton Pump Inhibitors,
      Quinine, Urate Lowering Agents and Statins. The investigators developed and validated tools
      for deprescribing, safety monitoring and patient education for each of these medications. The
      next step will be to perform an implementation study evaluating these deprescribing tools at
      multiple HD units across Canada.

      The investigators hypothesize that implementation of these deprescribing tools will decrease
      polypharmacy and improve safety and patient satisfaction in these HD units. Specific Aims are
      to determine:

        1. Effectiveness of the deprescribing algorithms for decreasing polypharmacy (i.e. % of
           successful deprescribing of at least 1 of the medication classes at 6 month post
           implementation)

        2. Safety of the deprescribing algorithms using monitoring tools developed for each
           medication

        3. The impact of the deprescribing tools on patient satisfaction

      Methods: In this quasi-experimental interventional cohort study, the nephrology healthcare
      team will assess medications for all patients as per usual practice in their respective HD
      units, using the deprescribing algorithms to assist in clinical decision making and patient
      education tools to explain rationale to patients. Participating patients will be followed for
      6 months for outcomes.

      The primary outcome will be proportion of individuals successfully deprescribed at least one
      of the 9 target medications.

      Additional outcomes include:

        -  Adverse events associated with deprescribing and medication class specific safety
           outcomes (e.g. for furosemide, the investigators will be tracking blood pressure,
           potassium, intradialytic weight gain and heart failure admissions)

        -  Proportion of identified candidates who began a deprescribing trial

        -  Proportion of deprescribing trials declined by medical team and patient, respectively

        -  Patient satisfaction (using a patient survey)

        -  Average number of medications per patient before/after implementation

        -  Average medication cost savings per patient

      Expected Results/Impact on Health Research: This study will determine the efficacy of the
      deprescribing algorithms on reducing polypharmacy in HD patients. It will also provide
      insights on knowledge translation, as investigators aim to educate providers and patients on
      the harms of polypharmacy and influence prescribing patterns in HD units nationally. This
      study will encourage other institutions to incorporate similar tools into their practice and
      encourage comprehensive and team based re-assessment of patient's medications.
    
  