
    
      Details Focal cartilage defects in the knee - A randomized controlled trial comparing
      Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation with arthroscopic debridement Clinical Compare the effect
      of Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation (ACI) with arthroscopic debridement (AD) in patients
      with symptomatic full thickness knee cartilage injuries larger than 2cm2.

      Focal cartilage injuries in the knee might have devastating effect both in the short term and
      in the long term. Various surgical treatment options are available; with ACI established as a
      recognized treatment method for larger lesions. Meta-analysis and systematic reviews have
      required well-designed, long-term, multicenter studies to evaluate clinical outcomes of ACI
      with the use of a "no treatment" group as a control group.

      H0: There is no difference in KOOS QoL after ACI or AD from baseline to 24 months after
      surgery.

      H1: There is a difference in KOOS QoL after ACI or AD from baseline to 24 months after
      surgery.

      Questionnaires: KOOS, Tegner score, Lysholm score, EQ-5D, VAS (Visual analogue scale).

      Physical examination: range of motion and hop test. Radiology: x-ray and MRI of the knee.
      Primary aim: KOOS quality of life (QoL) subscore. Prospective, single-blinded parallel-group
      bicenter study with 2 treatment arms.

      Approx. 36 months inclusion and 24 months follow up. In total 5 years. 24 months. All will be
      invited to participate in late controls after 5 and 10 years.

      2 Norwegian hospitals: Akershus University Hospital and Oslo University Hospital - Ullevål.

      82 patients Inclusion: age 18-50 years old, single symptomatic cartilage defect on femoral
      condyle or trochlea, defect size larger than 2 cm2, defect ICRS (International Cartilage
      Repair Society) grade 3-4, ligamentous stable knee, range of motion 5-105°, Lysholm score <
      75 and informed consent.

      Exclusion: Osteoarthritis, rheumatoid or other systemic arthritis, malalignment > 5° measured
      on x-rays, BMI > 30, comorbidities that may influence surgery or rehabilitation, pregnancy,
      inability to complete questionnaires or rehabilitation, serious alcohol or drug abuse,
      previous cartilage surgery to the chondral defect except OCD (osteochondritis
      dissecans)surgery.

      2 treatment groups with 41 patients in each group. 3 months (± 2 weeks), 6 months (± 4
      weeks), 12 months (± 6 weeks) and 24 months (± 8 weeks). All will be invited to participate
      in late controls after 5 and 10 years.

      If any unforeseen complication outside normal clinical practice occurs, the sponsor
      representative will be contacted as soon as possible with a parallel message to the local
      coordinators at the involved hospitals. During each follow up, there will be a case report
      form (CRF) regarding complications and safety.

      A 5 mL venous blood sample will be drawn on the day of operation. The blood sample will be
      centrifuged before serum is pipetted in a sterile tube. The serum will be analyzed at Oslo
      University Hospital - Rikshospitalet on the cartilage biomarker microRNA-140 (miR-140).

      During the open chondrocyte implantation the excess cartilage debrided from the rim of the
      lesion will be sent for similar microRNA-140 (miR-140) analysis. (applicable for the 41
      patients in the ACI arm only) If normal distribution, aims will be analyzed using linear
      mixed models (LMM), and the primary aim will be performed as a post hoc test for the LMM,
      similar to performing a two-sample t-test. If no normal distribution, analysis will be
      performed using Mann-Whitney U-test.

      Detecting a difference of 10 in primary aim with 80% power using a standard deviation of 15.
      A p < 0,05 is statistically significant. This gives 37 patients in each group, adding 10%
      drop out meaning 41 patients in each group and 82 in total.

      No interim analysis will be done. Monitor at Akershus University Hospital. Inclusion of 82
      patients. The end of this study is 24 months after the last included patient. Inability to
      include 82 patients in 3 years. May prolong the inclusion period, or add other including
      hospitals in the study.
    
  