
    
      Various investigators have shown that type 2 diabetes is associated with out-of-hospital
      cardiac arrest and mortality due sudden cardiac arrest [1,2]. In comparison to non-diabetic
      patients, those with T2DM possess greater risk of cardiovascular morbidity and deaths, and
      are considerably influenced by cardiovascular disease [3]. To assess the potential benefit of
      T2DM prevention and treatment, as well as the future burden of T2DM-associated diseases can
      help in better understanding of the T2DM and the risk of chronic cardiovascular
      manifestations is warranted [4]. Herein, we would like to start a clinical registry for all
      patients who attend this clinical service to collect import clinical data about this
      population. This registry will serve an important source for scientific information that can
      be used in future to design clinical research studies for better patient care and management.

      The cardio-metabolic clinic has been recently established in the Heart Hospital to provide
      state-of-the-art care for patients with T2DM and established heart disease, e.g. ischemic
      heart disease, heart failure, etc. the health information of all patients attending the
      cardio-metabolic Clinic for the care of their disease who provide their consent for the use
      of their health information in the registry will be added to the registry.

      A data base for this registry will be created in Cerner which will be password protected.
      Clinical information about patients attending the cardiometabolic clinic in the Heart
      Hospital will be collected. Data will include demographics (age, gender, and nationality),
      vital signs (Pulse rate, blood pressure), waist circumference , Weight, Canadian
      Cardiovascular Society (CCS) Class, New York Heart Association ( NYHA) class, history of
      hospitalization for chest pain, shortness of death, Stent thrombosis, syncope or Dizzy
      spells, Stroke, Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA), Polyurea, urinary tract infection, Activity
      Level, Foot exam, Peripheral pulses, Mono-filament exam, Ankle Brachial Index test, Cardiac
      Rehabilitation, Diabetes monitoring at home, Insulin Pump, Revascularization Needed,
      angiogram and presentation (Presenting Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS), ST-Elevation Myocardial
      Infarction (STEMI), Upstream antiplatelets, Culprit artery, Non-ST-Elevation Myocardial
      Infarction (NSTEMI), Stent-No1, Unstable angina, Known Diabetes, Stent-No2, Newly diagnosed
      DM, Stent-No3, Hypertension, Total No of Stent, Tobacco use, Type of Stent, Thrombectomy,
      Troponin highest level, EUROScore, Reopro, Coronary angiogram, Thrombosis in Myocardial
      Infarction (TIMI) flow, Dissection, Perforation, Syntax Score Coronary Artery Disease
      (SYNTAXSCORE), Left Main Coronary Artery (LM), Loss of side branch, Access type, Left
      Anteriour Descending Artery (LAD), D1, Seal Device, D2, Left Circumflex (LCx), First Obtuse
      Marginal (OM1), Second Obtuse marginal (OM2), Right CoronaryArtery (RCA), Patent Ductus
      Arteriosus (PDA), Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI), PCI-LAD, PCI-D1, PCI-D2, PCI-LCx,
      PCI-OM1, PCI-OM2, PCI-RCA, PCI-PDA, Drug Eluted Stent (DES), Bare Metal Stent (BMS), BMS,
      Total number of stents, Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery (CABG), Trp post PCI-24, Creatinine-48
      post PCI, Stent thrombosis), laboratory findings, history of diabetes (type 1 and 2),
      Gastroparesis, Erectile dysfunction, Metabolic Syndrome, chronic kidney disease, Chronic
      Liver Disease, Gestational DM, Diabetic ketoacidosis, hypoglycemia, Hyperosmolar
      Hyperglycemic Syndrome, Depression, Hypertension, Peripheral Arterial disease, Peripheral
      Arterial Disease (PAD)- Acute limb ischemia, PAD-Claudication, PAD Critical Limb Ischemia,
      PAD-Cellulitis, PAD-Lower Limb osteomyelitis, Hemorrhage, Intracranial Hemorrhage, Stroke,
      Hemorrhagic, Ischemic, Carotid Endarterectomy, carotid Endarterectomy (CEA)-Left, CEA-Right,
      Carotid stenting, Amputation, Above knee Amputation, Amputation foot, Amputation of Toe, PAD
      Bypass, PAD intervention, medications.

      Study population:

      Inclusion criteria: patients with T2DM and established heart disease, such as ischemic heart
      disease, heart failure, etc. will be included in the study after obtaining the informed
      consent.

      Exclusion criteria: Subjects who do not have T2DM and existing heart disease will be excluded
      from the registry.

      The treating physicians will enter the list of patients attended his clinic to Power Trial.
      The study investigators will update the list of the patients attended the cardio-metabolic
      clinic on daily basis and the registry will transfer the information from the Cerner to the
      registry database. The clinical service has been start from September 15, 2017, and each
      patient who attended the clinic will be added to the registry.

      This registry is prospectively collecting the information from Cerner Clinical Viewer. For
      future research the investigators who wish to utilize the registry data for their research
      will have to seek Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval for their research proposal.

      Informed Consent Informed consent will be obtained from each patient who will attend the
      cardiometabolic clinic to allow us to capture his clinical information into the registry
      database.

      Subject Withdrawal/ Withdrawal of Consent If the subjects withdraw his consent, the
      information about his future follow-up visits in the clinic will not be added to the
      registry. However, previous data added to the registry will continue to be available.
    
  