
    
      Ulnar diaphyseal, or "nightstick", fractures are uncommon, but fraught with complications
      (Pollock et al., 1983; Grace & Witmer, 1980, Atkin et al., 1995) and may prevent return to
      work (Atkin et al., 1995). 3 systematic reviews have concluded that there is insufficient
      evidence to guide treatment of isolated ulnar shaft fractures (Handoll & Pearce, 2000; Mackay
      et al., 2000; Bhandari & Schemitsch, 2004) and there has been no comparison between operative
      and non-operative management. Therefore, there is true clinical equipoise regarding optimal
      treatment of these injuries.

      The aim of this study is to determine if open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) is more
      efficacious than closed reduction and below-elbow casting for 6 weeks in restoring function
      of the forearm and wrist.

      We hypothesize that in skeletally mature patients with isolated ulnar shaft fractures, ORIF
      will improve functional outcomes compared to non-operative treatment with below-elbow cast at
      1-year follow-up.

      The primary objective is to compare Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) scores
      at 1-year post-injury. Secondary outcome measures include SF-36, range of motion, pain, grip
      strength, return to work and time to union.

      The study design is a multi-centre, open-label parallel randomized clinical trial. 100
      skeletally mature patients with closed, extra-articular isolated ulnar diaphyseal fractures
      will be randomized to one of the two treatment arms. Polytrauma patients or those with
      pre-existing bone pathology will be excluded. Post-treatment follow-up evaluation will occur
      at 2, 6 and 12 weeks and at 6 and 12 months. Interim analysis will be completed by an
      independent Data Safety and Monitoring Committee to ensure patient safety.

      Radiologic displacement, angulation and time to union will be evaluated by two independent,
      blinded observers. Time to fracture union will be defined as bridging callus across the
      fracture line on 2 views.

      The sample size was calculated as 50 patients per group. Independent samples t-test will be
      used to compare the DASH and SF-36 scores and return to work. An ANOVA will be used for the
      DASH, SF-36 and range of motion comparison at each follow-up.

      There is true clinical equipoise regarding optimal treatment for isolated ulnar diaphyseal
      fractures, therefore, the results of this trial will provide robust evidence for clinical
      decision-making in the treatment of these injuries by orthopaedic surgeons.
    
  