
    
      A large percentage of people with dementia (including Alzheimer's disease) suffer from
      psychological distress characterized by severe symptoms of anxiety, depression or insomnia.
      This psychological distress can disrupt their daily functioning and deteriorate their quality
      of life. The presence of anxiety, depression or insomnia can also accelerate cognitive
      decline in people with AD. Moreover, the psychological distress experienced by people with AD
      can have significant repercussions on their relatives. Effectively, up to 75 % of caregivers
      say they suffer from psychological distress due to the burden associated with their new role.
      The optimal treatment must therefore target the psychological distress experienced by people
      having AD and by their caregivers.

      Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the psychological treatment of choice to treat anxiety,
      depression and insomnia in older people without cognitive impairment. However, few data are
      available to draw the same conclusions for people with dementia. In fact, only about ten
      studies on the subject have been published and many of them have poor methodological quality.
      The main methodological limitations identified in these studies are: 1) the lack of cognitive
      behavioral strategies treating simultaneously anxiety, depression and insomnia, three of the
      main symptoms of psychological distress; 2) the absence of active control groups and; 3) the
      absence of follow-ups exceeding 6 months. The current study will fill all these gaps by
      testing a new CBT named Programme de Bien-Être Psychologique (PEP) especially designed to
      improve the quality of life of people with AD and their caregivers.

      The CBT will include 8 weekly group sessions of 120 minutes each. The first hour will be
      carried out in two simultaneous groups led each of them by a psychologist: a group of AD
      participants and a group of caregivers. The second half of the session will combine all the
      participants in one group and will be led by both psychologists. Each session will focus on
      the implementation of pleasant activities aimed at reducing psychological distress and
      improve the quality of life. Indeed, the loss of pleasant activities has been shown to be a
      leading cause of psychological distress (i.e., depression, anxiety, etc.) in people with
      cognitive impairment. Moreover, the content of the sessions will be adapted to the
      characteristics of people with AD. In particular, emotions management strategies (e.g.
      abdominal breathing) will be simplified to ensure proper understanding.

      The CBT group will be compared to a non-directive support group. This active control group
      was developed in a similar format as the CBT group (in terms of the number of sessions,
      duration, etc.).

      Objectives: The first objective is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of the Programme de
      Bien-Être Psychologique (PEP). It is expected that the PEP will have significantly more
      effect on psychological distress, level of functioning and participants' quality of life
      between pre and post intervention than the non-directive support group. It also hypothesized
      that participants assigned to the PEP intervention will be significantly more likely to
      maintain their progress at 6 and 12-month follow-ups.

      The second objective is to test if the PEP intervention can slow down cognitive decline in
      participants with AD. It is expected that the intervention will be significantly more
      effective in slowing cognitive decline between pre-test and follow-ups compared to the
      non-directive support group.

      The last objective is to survey the participants' opinion after the treatment to deepen the
      quantitative results.

      Recruitment: 30 dyads of French-speaking participants will be recruited in Montreal from the
      cognition clinic of the IUGM, in the CRIUGM participants' database and among a number of
      community organizations working with seniors and caregivers. In addition, ads will be
      published in newsletters sent by local community organizations to their membership base, as
      well as ads placed in newspapers or magazines destined to the elderly population. Dyads
      wishing to participate will have to contact the research coordinator or will be contacted if
      consent has been given. In both cases, a phone interview will determine the eligibility of
      the dyads to participate in the study.

      Eligible dyads will be then invited to complete the pretest. It will begin with a physician's
      assessment to confirm the diagnosis of AD and assess its severity with the Clinical Dementia
      Rating (CDR). In addition, the physician will assess the level of self-criticism of the
      person with AD to ensure that he/she is aware of his/her memory losses (see inclusion
      criteria). After, questionnaires assessing psychological health and quality of life will be
      administered to participants with AD and their caregivers (on an individual basis) by two
      students in psychology. A second assessment session will be taken in charge by a doctoral
      student in neuropsychology who will evaluate the cognitive status of people with AD using
      different neuropsychological tests.

      After the two assessment sessions, eligible participants will be randomly assigned to either
      the PEP intervention (i.e. experimental group) or the non-directive support group (i.e.
      control group). They will be matched by gender, age, level of self-criticism, clinical
      dementia rating (CDR) scores, and intensity of psychological distress (K10).

      With the exception of the physician's assessment, psychological and neuropsychological
      questionnaires will be administered again at post-intervention (T2) and at 6 (T3) and 12
      months (T4) follow-ups. Moreover, booster sessions will be scheduled 6 and 12 months after
      the intervention. Finally, all dyads will be contacted monthly by phone during the year
      following the intervention. These follow-ups will be done to help reduce the attrition rate
      and to maintain therapeutic gains. All participants will be enrolled in the study for a
      period of 15 months.

      The intervention: The CBT intervention (i.e., PEP group) is a modified version of one
      previously developed by Grenier and Ouellet for participants having mild cognitive impairment
      (MCI).This intervention has been manualized. Basically, the intervention will include
      behavioral activation, cognitive restructuring, and stress/anger management strategies (e.g.
      abdominal breathing, progressive muscle relaxation). In addition, knowledge about memory
      management and sleep disorders will be provided. The components of CBT will be adapted to
      people with AD by including easy instructions, repetition of information during and between
      sessions, visual support, practice during sessions and a comprehensive summary of each
      session.

      The non-directive support group: This intervention will provide time and space to discuss the
      impact of AD. The objective will be to help participants feel less alone and better
      understood and to address the implications of AD in their daily life. The animators will
      facilitate the exchange of opinions and encourage discussions through questions or
      suggestions without teaching CBT strategies.
    
  