
    
      Background: Conventional grief support interventions for parents whose children are suffering
      from a chronic life-threatening illness often begin only after the child's death. Despite
      robust evidence which shows that pre-loss interventions that enhance death preparedness can
      alleviate psychological distress and prevent adverse grief outcomes among family caregivers
      of dying patients, there is no known program designed specifically to address the
      psycho-emotional-spiritual needs of parents facing child loss. And while the National
      Strategy for Palliative Care in Singapore aims to promote holistic end-of- life care services
      to patients and their caregivers, vast inadequacy continues to exist in the support provided
      to parents caring for a dying child in the local context.

      Objective and Methods: A novel therapist-facilitated, online intervention is conceived to
      fill this critical service gap. Adopting an evidence-based approach, the research team has
      developed a strength-focused and meaning-oriented Narrative e-Writing Intervention (NeW-I)
      for parents anticipating the death of their child due to a chronic life-threatening
      condition. The design of NeW-I is informed by an existing body of research (i.e.
      international systematic review and local qualitative inquiry) that critically examines the
      lived experience of bereaved parents of children with life- limiting illnesses. NeW-I will be
      implemented in Singapore in collaboration with KK Women and Child's Hospital and Club Rainbow
      Singapore. A pilot Randomized Control Trial (RCT) with a built-in accessibility and
      feasibility study will examine the efficacy of the NeW-I therapeutic protocol for enhancing
      quality of life, spiritual wellbeing, hope and perceived social support, as well as reducing
      depressive symptoms, caregiver burden and anticipatory grief among a purposive sample of 66
      participants.

      Significance: NeW-I aspires to enhance quality of life, spiritual well-being, hope and sense
      of social support, as well as alleviating depressive symptoms, caregiving burden, and adverse
      grief outcomes among Singaporean parents facing the terminal illness and eventual death of
      their sick child. The findings generated will form the foundation of a full-scale RCT for
      advancing holistic paediatric palliative care and parental bereavement support locally and
      around the world.
    
  