
    
      The number of people living with and beyond cancer is ever increasing and now more than ever
      there is a need to facilitate the appropriate rehabilitation of these patients. Exercise
      interventions and increased physical activity have been well documented in their ability to
      improve multiple aspects of health in cancer survivors; including quality of life, fatigue as
      well as all-cause and cancer-specific mortality. Whilst the main outcome from this study will
      be its feasibility, the novel aspect is the analysis of biological markers in the blood.
      Although there is much evidence on the benefits of exercise for colo-rectal cancer survivors,
      the biological mechanisms underlying its effects in this population are still elusive.
      Therefore this intervention was designed to investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of
      a home-based walking and strengthening programme on physiological, biochemical and
      psychological outcomes in colo-rectal cancer survivors.

      Participants are first approached by their surgeon/oncologist and assessed for their
      eligibility. If they are deemed eligible they are then referred to the researcher in the
      waiting room to be given more information about the study. If interested, they receive the
      participant information sheet and consent forms to take home for a period of at least 24
      hours, after which the researcher calls to confirm their interest. Visit 1 is then scheduled
      in order for the participant to sign the consent forms and receive the 'ActiGraph'
      accelerometer which they wear for 7 consecutive days in order to measure their baseline
      physical activity levels. With permission, the patients GP will be advised by letter that the
      patient is commencing the study.

      After the seven days the participant attends the Northern Ireland Clinical Research Facility
      at the Belfast City Hospital for the first assessment session. The outcome measures assessed
      include analysis on feasibility, quality of life, fatigue, biological markers, anthropometry,
      strength, cardiovascular endurance and physical activity levels. The intervention group then
      receive the behaviour change counselling session along with the exercise booklet, diary and
      pedometer. Weekly phone calls are made to intervention participants for 12 weeks to monitor
      their progress. The control group receives usual care without weekly phone calls. On week 11
      both groups are posted their accelerometer to record activity levels and then attend the City
      Hospital to repeat all assessments. Both groups are not contacted again until week 23 when
      they are posted the accelerometer for the final time and their follow-up assessments are
      complete. It is at this assessment session that the control group receive the behaviour
      change session and intervention materials.

      After each assessment day, blood samples are transported via a specifically designed fridge,
      to the Ulster University campus to be stored at -80 degrees Celsius for future analysis. All
      other study information such as questionnaires and collected data are stored as per
      University protocol in storage containers in a designated locked room on campus.
    
  