
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the 2-year disease-free survival rate in patients treated with these regimens.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the tolerability of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the objective response rate, postoperative complication rate, and transfusing
           rate in patients having metastasis surgery,

        -  Determine the pharmacogenetics of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter phase III study. Patients are
      stratified according to prior chemotherapy (perioperative vs postoperative), prior treatment
      (surgery only vs radiotherapy with or without surgery), and Blumgart score (0-1 vs 2-3 vs
      4-5). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (FOLFOX 4): Patients receive FOLFOX 4 combination chemotherapy comprising
           oxaliplatin 85mg/m² IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, fluorouracil IV
           bolus /15min and fluorouracil continuously over 22 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
           every 2 weeks for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II (FOLFOX 7 and FOLFIRI): Patients receive FOLFOX 7 combination chemotherapy
           comprising high-dose oxaliplatin 130mg/m² IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over
           2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats
           every 2 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients then receive FOLFIRI combination chemotherapy comprising irinotecan
           hydrochloride 180mg/m² IV over 30-90 minutes and leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil IV
           bolus /15min on day 1, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 2.
           Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients in both arms who have undergone prior resection of metastatic lesions may undergo
      surgery after 6 courses of chemotherapy or after chemotherapy is completed.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and after courses 4, 8, and 12.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 284 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  