
    
      Adults with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) continue to experience considerable ongoing
      disability in adulthood.

        -  First, impairments in social functioning are a key target for adult services. Few adults
           with ASD have friendships, romantic partners, or even casual acquaintances with whom to
           engage in social activities.

        -  Second, most adults with ASD find independent living challenging, often relying on
           parents who have serious concerns about who will care for their adult children once they
           are unable. Activities of daily living, such as cooking, cleaning, bathing, doing
           laundry, and managing money have been repeatedly shown to be impaired, even among verbal
           and less severely affected adults.

        -  Third, adults with ASD are less able to find and maintain employment. Rates of
           unemployment frequently exceed 50% with estimates of under-employment often higher. Low
           employment rates and a lack of alternative insurance indicate that the Medicaid system
           is the primary funder of services and support for adults with ASD.

      A major methodological obstacle to more informed policies to support the successful
      transition to adulthood is the absence of suitable measures of functional outcomes for adults
      with ASD. Landmark studies of adult outcome have traditionally classified individuals as
      having good, fair, or poor outcomes, a rating which has low reliability and is generally
      insensitive to treatment-related changes. Other studies have utilized adaptive behavior
      scales as functional outcome measures even though they were not designed for that purpose,
      such as the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (VABS). Importantly, functional outcomes are
      related to, but different than, adaptive function, with the former being the key endpoints of
      intervention (e.g., employment, friendships) and adaptive function representing important
      abilities (e.g., communication, ability to follow instructions) that contribute to improved
      outcomes. Further, the VABS and similar measures were originally developed for children to
      confirm disability status in school, and as such they have limited coverage of adult content.
      Therefore, there is an urgent need for sensitive and validated measures of adult functional
      outcomes in ASD.

      The completion of these aims will generate, for the first time, a reliable and valid measure
      of adulthood functioning in ASD that is efficient and broadly applicable across the full
      range of functioning. The availability of such a measure is essential to inform and evaluate
      program development, understand individual-level factors associated with outcomes, and
      ultimately to develop actionable items to improve the transition to adulthood

      The objective of this project is to develop efficient and validated proxy and self-report
      measures of functional outcome for adults with ASD - the Adult Functioning Scale (AFS), and
      establish the validity of the AFS utilizing state-level service utilization data. This study
      will build on a previous study's success in applying methods from PROMIS® to measurement
      development in ASD.

      Aim 1. Develop and refine an item pool for measuring adult functional outcomes in ASD. The
      AFS study will:

        1. Complete drafting of an item pool with expert and stakeholder input (adults with ASD,
           parents, adult service providers);

        2. Assign items to all parts of the conceptual framework to ensure sufficient construct
           coverage across employment, social, and independent living domains; and

        3. Conduct cognitive interviews with 25 caregivers of adults with ASD and 25 self-reporting
           adults with ASD.

      Aim 2. Establish the psychometrics of the AFS and derive caregiver and self-report
      short-forms that are reliable and valid across the severity spectrum in ASD. A national
      sample of proxy reporters (e.g., parents, clinicians, group home staff) for 500 adults with
      ASD representative of the full range of verbal and intellectual functioning and 500
      self-reporting adults with ASD will complete the AFS draft items and a co-calibration battery
      to establish psychometrics, generate short-forms, and ensure applicability across adults with
      ASD.
    
  