
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Data on hypertension among minority populations were lacking prior to the workshop and
      databook publication. Several reasons why the data were lacking include the biological and
      cultural diversity of America's minorities, their wide dispersal across the country, and the
      fact that key data such as death certificate information have sometimes not been recorded.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The objective was accomplished in a two-phase approach as follows: Phase l. In June, 1994 a
      workshop was held in Washington, D.C. on the epidemiology of hypertension in minorities. The
      workshop, entitled "The Epidemiology of Hypertension in Hispanic Americans, Native Americans,
      and Asian/Pacific Islander Americans" included as participants the investigators who had
      relevant datasets and were willing to participate in the effort. The investigators were
      requested to use common definitions of hypertension in their workshop presentations when
      feasible. In addition, in preparation for a databook publication, each study was asked to
      provide summary data, using common definitions and a common format, on the prevalence of
      hypertension in the study population. Data presentations and interpretations at the workshop
      enabled the investigators and consultants to identify further research needs, further
      feasible data analyses utilizing available data, and special target groups for demonstration
      research efforts to enhance the potential success of intervention efforts.

      Phase 2. A database publication (databook) was designed to include a summary of the workshop
      proceedings with the appropriate data and interpretations along with summary data from the
      studies presented in a standard, unified format. The databook, entitled "Hypertension in
      Hispanic Americans, American Indians and Alaska Natives, and Asian and Pacific Islander
      Americans" was published in 1996 and presented the prevalence of hypertension and its
      treatment and control by age, sex, and minority status, along with other information the
      planning committee considered relevant.
    
  