
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to detect patterns of immune abnormalities in the
      colitis associated with Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome (HPS). Additionally we aim to document the
      clinical response to and tolerance of conventional inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) therapy
      for HPS patients with active colitis associated with Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome (HPS). HPS is
      a rare autosomal recessive disorder causing dysfunctional lysosome-related organelle
      formation and trafficking resulting in oculocutaneous albinism and a bleeding diathesis
      secondary to platelet dysfunction. Associated conditions include pulmonary fibrosis, IBD, and
      systemic ceroid deposition. The associated IBD has been reported to occur at a higher
      frequency in the HPS-1 and HPS-4 subtypes compared to the prevalence of IBD in non-HPS
      populations. HPS IBD has clinical features of both ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's
      disease, but histologically resembles Crohn's disease in that granulomas are commonly seen in
      the mucosa of the intestine. The pathogenesis of HPS IBD is not fully understood and little
      data beyond descriptions of the clinical and histologic manifestations have been published.
      Furthermore reports on treatment of the colitis in HPS patients are largely anecdotal, and
      our own experience suggests that many patients may be under-treated.

      HPS patients with active colitis will be enrolled into this prospective treatment study.
      Endpoints for the immunopathogenesis studies will include baseline measurements of and
      changes in immune cell populations, cytokine, and chemokine expression. In the blood and gut
      mucosa. Endpoints for the study of response to treatment will include changes in clinical,
      endoscopic, and histologic scores as well as the rate and severity of adverse events.
      Descriptive summary statistical analysis (n, mean, median, standard deviation, minimum and
      maximum range) and simple correlations of clinical response variables with immune parameters
      will be done.
    
  