
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival of erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) and
      bevacizumab versus that of erlotinib alone for the purpose of deciding if the combination arm
      is worth pursuing in a phase III trial.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the overall survival of erlotinib and bevacizumab versus erlotinib alone.

      II. To investigate the response rate of erlotinib and bevacizumab versus erlotinib alone.

      III. To investigate the progression-free survival in patients with exon deletion 19 or exon
      21 L858R point mutations.

      IV. To investigate the toxicity of erlotinib and bevacizumab versus erlotinib alone using
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate EGFR mutations detected in plasma deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) with those
      detected in tumor DNA.

      II. To estimate the prevalence of EGFR T790M resistance mutations from pretreatment tumor
      biopsies using more sensitive mutation detection methods.

      III. To investigate progression free survival of EGFR mutant NSCLC patients with and without
      concurrent EGFR T790M detected from pre-treatment tumor specimen using allele specific
      quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

      IV. To prospectively evaluate the predictive value of plasma VEGF-A levels on progression
      free survival in patients treated with erlotinib alone or in combination with bevacizumab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21.
      (erlotinib will no longer be supplied and all patients will be removed from study treatment.
      No further follow-up by any study participants as of September 1, 2019)

      ARM B: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride as in Arm A and bevacizumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1. (erlotinib will no longer be supplied and all patients will
      be removed from study treatment. No further follow-up by any study participants as of
      September 1, 2019)

      In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 6 years.
    
  