
    
      Trauma can cause many injuries, some of which are life-threatening and require treatment in
      an intensive care unit (ICU). Despite best available treatment and therapies, people who
      sustain a critical traumatic injury are at greater risk of death or long-term disability.
      From 2010 to 2015, approximately 9% of people admitted to an ICU in Australia and New Zealand
      for treatment of their injuries, did not survive. In Victoria, 6-months post injury,
      approximately 31% of people who were critically injured developed severe disabilities or
      died.

      Following a traumatic injury, a number of complex pathways are activated by the body. These
      pathways can occur over hours or weeks and may lead to damage of cells, tissues or blood
      vessels and may destroy other healthy tissue. The treatment of traumatic injury focuses on
      trying to minimise further damage that can occur after the initial injury.

      Erythropoietin is a glycoprotein hormone essential for erythropoiesis and was first purified
      in 1977. Its human recombinant analogues known as erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs)
      are approved for human therapeutic use. However, erythropoietin is also a pleiotropic
      cytokine with effects beyond just erythropoiesis. Studies in animals have demonstrated the
      potential protective effects of erythropoietin to organs including the brain, kidney, liver
      and heart, and anti-inflammatory properties.

      Previous research suggests the use of the ESA called epoetin alfa, increases the number of
      patients surviving severe trauma and reduces the risk of disability in those who survive.

      The primary aim of the study is to determine the efficacy of epoetin alfa compared to placebo
      in reducing mortality and severe disability at six months in critically ill trauma patients.

      2500 mechanically ventilated ICU patients admitted with a primary trauma diagnosis presenting
      to the ICU will be recruited into the study from participating study centres in Australia,
      New Zealand, Europe, and Saudi Arabia.
    
  