
    
      The study of the efficacy of RAD001 will proceed in two stages after the method of Simon . In
      the first stage 15 patients will be accrued and treated. If 9 or fewer patients show clinical
      benefit the study will be terminated. If 10 or more patients show clinical benefit the study
      will proceed to the second stage, accruing an additional 26 patients. If the second stage is
      complete and a total of 29 or more patients show clinical benefit among the 41 patients
      treated, the treatment CBR for will be considered high enough to warrant further study.
      Conversely, if the evaluation of RAD001 concludes at the first stage, or if 28 or fewer
      patients experience a clinical benefit after completing the second stage, the therapy will
      not be considered for further study.

      Current knowledge about the molecular mechanisms of cancer-related pathways involved in
      cellular signaling, cell cycle regulation and cell death is yielding therapies directed at
      specific components of these pathways, such as the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R),
      the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor
      (VEGF-R) and the insulin-like growth factor receptor (IFG-R). Both small molecule and
      monoclonal antibody therapies directed against these targets are available. Furthermore,
      immunohistochemistry (IHC), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and mutation analysis
      are available for profiling expression of pathway components, raising the possibility of
      individualized prognosis and therapy.

      One receptor in particular, is both a prognostic factor and a therapeutic target in HNSCC.
      Upregulation of EGF-R expression and aberrant activation of kinase cascades downstream of
      this receptor occur early in the process of carcinogenesis and play a major role in malignant
      progression.1 The level of EGF-R expression correlates with recurrence and poor prognosis in
      HNSCC. A well tolerated anti-EGF-R monoclonal antibody, cetuximab, has shown remarkable
      activity against HNSCC, including statistically significant improvement in survival for
      patients with locally advanced disease treated with radiotherapy, leading to its regulatory
      approval for this disease.2 Unfortunately, despite survival advances achieved with EGF-R
      inhibitors, the majority (~60%) of patients with advanced disease are refractory to EGF-R
      directed therapies.3 One anticipated mechanism by which the current regimen may fail in some
      patients is the upregulation of escape pathways downstream of the EGF-R. A pathway of
      particular interest is the PI3/AKT/mTOR axis, within which the mTOR protein may be targeted
      by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor RAD001.

      In order to investigate pathway components that may act as an escape mechanism while
      concurrently targeting a downstream kinase that may enable rescue from resistance to EGF-R
      directed therapies, we propose this prospective, phase II, single-arm, single-agent
      interventional clinical trial of RAD001 for patients with refractory SCCHN. The primary
      outcome is activity of RAD001 while secondary outcomes include safety, toxicity and extensive
      laboratory correlates to be performed on tumor tissues. By carrying out this
      clinic-translational trial of the novel mTOR inhibitor, RAD001, in patients with refractory
      SCCHN, we aim to explore mechanisms of activity of and resistance to inhibitors of the EGF-R
      pathway components while measuring the clinical activity of RAD001.
    
  