
    
      Rationale for the study The relationship between omega-3 essential fatty acid
      supplementation, and specifically fish oil supplementation, and SPM production in humans is
      very poorly understood. Given that the body produces SPM from omega-3 essential fatty acids
      to regulate inflammation and also to repair damaged tissues, it is critical to gain further
      insights on how the body utilizes dietary supplementation of omega-3 fatty acids from fish
      oils for SPM formation. With the availability of a mass spectrometry based platform developed
      by the investigators the scientific community is now in a unique position to better
      understand the biology of fish oil supplementation by monitoring the levels of SPM in plasma.
      This understanding may in turn shed light into the beneficial actions of omega-3
      supplementation. It may also provide new leads for the control of excessive inflammation, as
      found in chronic inflammatory disorders, via dietary supplementation to exploit the body's
      own defense systems.

      Rationale for choice of doses Given that in a study using a different fish oil source and
      formulation the investigators found that 1 g of essential fatty acids gave a mild but
      significant increase in plasma SPM levels (25) the investigators chose the lowest dose in the
      study to be of 1.5g. with the other two doses being within the European Food Safety
      Authority's Tolerable Upper Intake Level for supplements containing both EPA and DHA. Given
      that this limit is of 5 g and previous study with both healthy volunteers and patients
      demonstrated that doses up to 4 g are well tolerated (22-24), the investigators chose the
      remaining 2 doses to be 3.0 g and 4.5 g. In addition, this supplement was awarded a Generally
      Recognized as Safe Status (see appendix 1) in the for a dose of up to 5 g. Similar doses of
      the emulsion from of the fish oil supplement are also being used in an ongoing clinical study
      in the USA (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02719665) measuring different outcomes to those
      being investigated in the present study.

      Aim of research The aim of this research is to investigate whether fish oil supplementation
      increases the peripheral blood levels of SPM and whether fish oil supplementation also
      regulates peripheral white blood cell responses (including neutrophils, monocytes and
      platelets) to inflammatory stimuli.

      Original hypothesis Given that fish oils are rich in omega-3 essential fatty acids that are
      precursors in the biosynthesis of SPM the hypothesis underlying the present study is: Fish
      oil supplementation increase peripheral blood levels of SPM precursors that may be converted
      to bioactive mediators which in turn will regulate white blood cell responses.
    
  