
    
      Impetus is a prospective, multicentre, multinational, open-label, randomised, controlled
      clinical trail in parallel groups.

      For sample size calculation, a the stratified design is accounted for and three equally large
      gestation groups assumed. For the pessary group a combined event rate of at least 8% for the
      primary outcome is assumed and for the comparison of the pessary group with the control group
      an odds ratio of 2.29 is assumed. This odds ratio correspond to the lower bound of a
      one-sided confidence interval for the event rate given in van´t Hooft (ProTwin Trial). To
      reach a power of at least 80%, at least 500 patients will be evaluated, 250 in the pessary
      group and 250 in the control group. To account for a drop out rate of 25%, overall n=672
      pregnant women will be recruited.

      The primary statistical aim is to compare the primary combined outcome "long-term survival
      without neuro-developmental disability at 3 years follow up" with a two-sided
      Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel-Test and a significance level of alpha=0.05. The primary outcome
      refers to a combined event in any of the twin and will be analysed for all pregnancies with
      available primary endpoint. The stratified study design is accounted by this stratified test
      according to the gestation groups.

      The main statistical evaluation will be performed at two time points. (1) The complete data
      set for the secondary endpoints will be available after the last women enrolled in this study
      has delivered her twins, so the analysis of these outcome parameter will be done right after
      this event. (2) The primary outcome will be evaluated 3 years after the last woman enrolled
      in this study has delivered her twins. A descriptive analysis by preterm birth will be
      carried out calculating means and medians for quantitative variables and proportions with 95%
      confidence intervals for categorical variables. In general, statistical comparisons with the
      pessary arm and the control arms or other group comparisons for primary and secondary
      outcomes will be performed with stratified tests as well as comparisons in the gestation
      subgroups. Events will be analysed for each twin and for single children assuming appropriate
      random effect regression models. Further subgroup analyses regarding the cervical length will
      be performed (e.g. Cervical Length (CL) 15 to 25mm and below 15mm). All tests, see also
      examples in the synopsis, will be two-sided using a significance level of alpha=0.05.

      For the primary endpoint a drop out rate of up to 25% is expected due to the long follow-up
      time (3 years) of the study; but no lost data for the secondary endpoints are expected
      because for these parameters the study has a short follow-up time till time to birth only.

      An interim analysis shall be conducted on key safety parameters after birth of 300 twins: the
      following safety endpoints will be assessed by a one-sided test with alpha=1%

        -  on level of the neonates: rate of preterm birth, time to birth, birth weight, death,
           neonatal morbidity, harm of intervention

        -  and on the maternal level: rate of hospitalisation for threatened preterm labour < 32
           weeks, rate of premature rupture of membranes (PRoM) <32 weeks, rate of infection /
           inflammation, rate of physical or psychological intolerance to pessary, rate of SAR/SAE,
           death.

      The trial will be terminated as negative if a disadvantage for the pessary-treatment can be
      found in one of these tests. To guarantee a high safety level the significance level is
      chosen more conservatively than in a Bonferroni correction. All analysis will be carried out
      with SPSS® version 19.0 or later (IBM Company SPSS Inc. Headquarters, Chicago, Illinois. USA)
      and R version 3.2.3 or later (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria).

      Methods against bias:

      All women will be randomly allocated to the cervical pessary group or the control-group in a
      1:1 ratio. The randomisation sequence is computer generated with variable block sizes using a
      web-based e-CRF (Online-Software Castor is a fully GCP compliant system) stratified for
      gestation groups and centers. The allocation code will be disclosed after the patient´s
      initials will be confirmed. The investigators or the trial coordinator will not have access
      to the randomization sequence.

      Exclusion criteria were chosen to ensure an equal risk distribution for pregnancy
      complications and fetal morbidity / mortality rate for both study groups.

      The study is open label since masking the intervention is not possible. All investigators
      should be trained in pessary application and cerclage placement. Quality protocols should be
      submitted according to the Clara-Angela Foundation requirements for pessary placement.
      Outcome assessors will be blinded to the interventions. Group allocations will base on an
      intention to treat basis with a per protocol allocation as sensitivity analysis.

      The study will be registered and the study protocol is available. Outcome measures meet the
      core-outcome set for the evaluation of interventions to prevent PTB published by the
      crown-initiative in 2016.
    
  