
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Health risk appraisals (HRA) are being used increasingly by health centers and worksites to
      inform people of their personal mortality and morbidity risks. However, recent research
      suggests that many HRAs have limited reliability and validity with respect to coronary heart
      disease, the leading cause of death in this country. Self-scored HRAs appear to be
      considerably less accurate in predicting CHD risk than computerized instruments, chiefly
      because people do not always know the physiologic values required by these instruments and
      because they frequently make errors computing their scores.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      During Phase I, a new appraisal named CardioRisk was developed. The Phase I prototype version
      contained eight major self-reported risk factors. CardioRisk predicted the risk of developing
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) in a 12-year period using an equation based on recent
      accelerated failure time models from the Framingham Heart Study. The purpose of Phase II was
      to thoroughly test and refine the prototype instrument. The Phase II analyses were designed
      to assess the psychometric properties of CardioRisk, to evaluate its utility as judged by
      patients, and to determine whether the instrument changed perceptions of personal CVD risk.
      These results were compared to data for other appraisals to determine whether CardioRisk
      outperformed comparable products.

      In the proposed commercial application, CardioRisk would be distributed by health promotion
      organizations to increase awareness of the risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Estimates
      from the American Heart Association put the demand for these products at 180,000 HRAs per
      year. The potential market for this product includes worksites, community health centers,
      managed health care organizations, public health departments, and clinics.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  