
    
      The study was designed as a prospective randomized study, and a total of 100 patients were
      planned to be evaluated. Laparoscopic total extraperitoneal hernia repair will be performed
      by anesthesia with laryngeal mask and treceal intubation. Patients with a lariyngeal mask
      will be named as "group 1", and patients who undergo tracheal intubation will be named as
      "group 2".

      Patients diagnosed with inguinal hernia radiologically and diagnosed with ultrasound will be
      operated. Patients between the ages of 18 and 75 years will be included in the study.
      Patients with relapse will be excluded. All patients will be evaluated for preoperative
      anesthesia and their suitability for laryngeal mask or tracheal intubation will be examined.
      Patients considered unsuitable for anyone will not be included in the study.

      All patients will be explained in two methods before surgery and their patients will be
      randomized. Randomization will be done on the website www.randomizer.org. All patients will
      be entered on the website by numbering and the method chosen by the website will be applied
      according to the order of arrival.

      Patients will be placed in the supine position under operating room conditions and anesthesia
      will be appropriate. After anesthesia, the surgical procedure will begin. The first incision
      time will be accepted as the surgery start time, and the end time of skin suturization will
      be recorded as the end of the surgery.

      VAS scores of the patients at the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th and 12th hours after surgery will be
      learned and recorded by the service nurses. Additional medical needs of patients due to pain
      will be recorded.

      Demographic data and additional diseases of the patients will be recorded. Operation times,
      hospitalization times, wound infections, seroma, scrotal edema and pain scores will be
      recorded. Complications developed during the operation will be recorded. After surgery,
      patients' nausea, vomiting, headache, shoulder pain and pain scores will be compared.
      Patients will be called to the general surgery outpatient clinic in the first week, first
      month, third month, and sixth month after the operation.
    
  