
    
      Acute heart failure syndromes (aHFS) cause almost 1 million hospitalizations annually in the
      United States and are the leading cause of hospitalization in persons aged over 65 years. In
      2003, inpatient management of aHFS cost an estimated $12.7 billion in the United States. In
      2003, 12.5% of the population in Hong Kong were aged over 65, the third highest proportion of
      elderly among all countries, and it is postulated that by 2033, the proportion of the elderly
      in the population will increase to 25%. With the growing elderly population, and the
      increasing prevalence of hypertension and ischemic heart disease (the major causes of heart
      failure), heart failure has become a major health care issue globally. In western countries
      the incidence ranges from 1 to 10 cases/1000/year. Other studies suggest that heart failure
      is a large and growing public health burden throughout Europe.

      Acute exacerbation of heart failure symptoms is a common emergency department (ED)
      presentation and is known as acute decompensated heart failure (adHF). Acute decompensated
      heart failure represents the single greatest cost to the US hospitals funded by Medicaid. In
      Hong Kong (HK), the incidence rate of heart failure was 3-3.8/1000/year rising to
      20/1000/year in women over the age of 85 years in recent years. It has been estimated that 7%
      of all acute medical admissions was due to this condition. In recent years there has been a
      10% annual increase in admissions for patients with adHF. Currently in Hong Kong, the vast
      majority of ED patients with adHF are admitted as inpatients to hospital. In 2005, an audit
      of outcomes in patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema, the most severe
      manifestation of heart failure, presenting to the emergency department at the Prince of Wales
      Hospital showed that nearly 30% of patients die within 30 days, and a further 30% require
      readmission within 30 days. Recent evidence from the USA suggests that ED operated
      observation units are effective in managing low to medium risk adHF patients, reducing length
      of stay (LOS) for these patients without adversely affecting readmission rate, morbidity and
      mortality.

      2 Dimensional echocardiography (2D-echo) is a conventional standard-of-care tool for
      non-invasive hemodynamic assessments in adults. In stable settings, heart failure is often
      characterized and classified according to ejection fraction measured by echocardiography
      which may be considered a pragmatic gold standard. However, the use of 2D-echo requires
      highly trained personnel. Obtaining measurements and calculating fundamental cardiovascular
      parameters such as cardiac output (CO)may take anywhere between 30 to 45 minutes, which is
      impractical for any setting, let alone an acute care setting. Further, such personnel are
      frequently not available in emergency departments. The feasibility of real time haemodynamic
      assessments is therefore limited with 2D-echo. More sophisticated echocardiographic
      techniques have been developed in an attempt to overcome the problems of sensitivity to
      preload and particularly afterload, but have achieved little penetration in critical care.

      In acute critical care settings, the diagnosis of adHF is based on the history and clinical
      signs, sometimes aided by echocardiography, chest radiography and blood markers such as
      B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP). The value of BNP over clinical assessment in patients
      presenting with dyspnoea has been questioned and there is a need for other tools to improve
      diagnosis. Commencement, dosing, and withdrawal of vasopressors, vasodilators, and inotropes
      is still largely based on clinical assessment, sometimes assisted by measurement of
      surrogates of inotropy such as ejection fraction (EF) or aortic ejection velocity, despite
      the well-known shortcomings of these indices in critical care. This is particularly so in
      complex surgical patients where vascular tone and fluid loading status are highly variable
      and changing.

      Heart failure is an abnormality of cardiac structure or function leading to failure of the
      heart to deliver oxygen at a rate commensurate with the requirements of the metabolizing
      tissues, despite normal filling pressures (or only at the expense of increased filling
      pressures). The commonest causes are hypertension or ischemic heart disease. If this
      definition holds, then heart failure should be associated with some measure of reduction in
      inotropy or oxygen delivery. Until recently there was no simple non-invasive, bedside test
      that could aid the assessment of patients with heart failure. Whilst inotropy (or myocardial
      contractility) as a concept is well known to all clinicians, it is seldom thought of as a
      measurable quantity.

      USCOM has been introduced as a non-invasive bedside haemodynamic monitoring tool that
      utilizes continuous-wave Doppler ultrasound. The USCOM has a number of advantages. It
      accuracy, validity and reasonable precision has been confirmed by many studies and in a
      variety of contexts. It is easily portable, takes only several minutes to obtain reliable
      measurements in most cases, and can be conducted by trained physicians or nurses.

      Some studies have shown good agreement between USCOM and echocardiography but others have
      been less convincing. With this in mind, there is still a need for further studies to confirm
      or refute levels of agreement between USCOM and echocardiography.

      The potential utility of USCOM for assessing patients with adHF has recently been suggested.
      Inotropy measurements derived from USCOM are greatly reduced in patients with New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) Class IV and American Heart association (AHA) stage C, acute left
      ventricular failure, when compared with healthy controls. These findings have led to the
      proposal that as USCOM can measure inotropy, then it could be used to assess and to manage
      heart failure. Although inotropy, derived by USCOM, is low in patients with adHF and NYHA
      class IV, nevertheless there is no evidence of a dose-relationship between USCOM-derived
      inotropy and NYHA class, or of a correlation with increasing severity of adHF, with ejection
      fraction.

      Many, if not most, emergency departments throughout the world do not have 2D-echo available
      24 hours a day, if at all. The value of BNP testing to improve outcomes has been questioned
      but even if used, it is frequently not available in many hospitals. As such the assessment
      and diagnosis of heart failure, and the means to monitor the effect of therapy, constitutes a
      major unmet need in clinical practice and especially in emergency departments.

      Aim

      The overall aim of this study is to investigate whether USCOM-derived haemodynamic parameters
      may have diagnostic, risk-stratification, prognostic and therapeutic monitoring potential in
      patients with suspected heart failure. The specific objectives are:

        1. To investigate whether USCOM-derived haemodynamic parameters such as CO, inotropy and
           oxygen delivery (DO2) have a role in the diagnosis of patients with a compensated heart
           failure syndrome (cHFS) or acute decompensated heart failure syndrome (adHFS)

        2. To investigate whether USCOM-derived haemodynamic parameters such as CO, inotropy and
           DO2 correlate with heart failure staging, especially NYHA class and AHA stage.

        3. To investigate whether USCOM-derived haemodynamic parameters such as velocity time
           interval (vti), stroke volume (SV), CO, SV index (SVI), CO index (CI), inotropy and DO2
           correlate with ejection fraction.

        4. To investigate whether USCOM-derived haemodynamic variables may be used as prognostic
           indicators of 30-day, 6-month and 1-year Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE).

        5. To evaluate the agreement between hemodynamic measurements obtained using the Ultrasonic
           Cardiac Output Monitor (USCOM®; USCOM Ltd., Sydney, Australia), and reference standards
           as determined by 2D-echo measurements in groups of haemodynamically stable and unstable
           adult patients.

      Data collection and measurable parameters

        -  Demographics including sex, age, height and weight

        -  Chief complaints, concurrent illnesses and significant past history

        -  Clinical signs including respiration rate, heart rate, systolic blood pressure,
           diastolic blood pressure, oxygen saturation and CGS.

        -  USCOM derived haemodynamic parameters

        -  Full blood examination, urea and electrolytes, arterial or venous blood gases, blood
           glucose, lactate, BNP, ECG and chest x-ray

        -  ED diagnosis, disposition from ED, hospital length of stay, ICU length of stay, hospital
           diagnosis and in-hospital mortality All the above data will be entered into a database
           that is securely stored with access only by the investigators.

      Definition of haemodynamic parameters:

        -  Flow time corrected (FTc) is calculated using Bazett's formula: FTc = FT/√tHR, where tHR
           = the heart beat period in seconds (s). The unit of FTc is ms.

        -  Velocity time integral (vti) is the integral of the flow profile, i.e. the distance the
           blood travels in one beat. The unit of vti is m/s.

        -  Cardiac output (CO) is the volume of blood pumped by the heart in one minute: CO = SV x
           HR. The unit is l/min.

        -  Cardiac index (CI) is equal to CO divided by BSA. The unit is l/min/m2.

        -  Inotropy index refers to (Potential energy + Kinetic energy) divided by body surface
           area. The unit of inotropy is W/m2.

        -  Minute distance (MD) is the distance a blood cell travels in metres per minute (m/min).
           MD = HR x vti, where vti = velocity time integral or stroke distance, which is the
           distance in centimetres (cm) a single reflector travels per cycle, and is defined as the
           area of the flow.

        -  Stroke volume (SV) is the volume of blood ejected from the heart during one systolic
           stroke. SV = vti x πr2,where πr2 = flow cross sectional area. The unit of SV is ml.

        -  Stroke volume index (SVI) is SV divided by BSA and the unit is ml/m2.

        -  Stroke volume variation (SVV) is the percentage change in SV between a group of beats.
           SVV = (SVmax - SVmin x 100) / [(SVmax + SVmin)/2].

        -  Systemic vascular resistance (SVR) is the pressure against which the heart pumps. SVR =
           MAP/CO. The unit is d.s.cm-5.

        -  Systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI) SVRI = SVR x BSA d.s.cm-5m2.

        -  Oxygen delivery (DO2) is calculated by the equation: DO2 = 1.34 x Hb x SpO2/100 x CO,
           where Hb = hemoglobin in grams of hemoglobin per litre of blood (g/l); SpO2 = the
           peripheral oxygen saturation as a percentage (%). The unit of DO2 is ml/min.

        -  Oxygen delivery index (DO2I) is equal to DO2 divided by BSA. The unit of DO2I is
           ml/min/m2.

        -  Inotropy index refers to (Potential energy + Kinetic energy) divided by body surface
           area. The unit of inotropy is W/m2.

      This project will provide essential data on the potential for clinicians without access to
      echocardiography but with access to USCOM, to effectively and safely assess patients with
      cHF, and adHF. Confirming the value of USCOM will enable the earlier diagnosis of heart
      failure and cardiogenic shock, earlier appropriate management, will remove the guesswork and
      uncertainty as whether or not to administer diuretics, intravenous fluid, vasodilators,
      vasoconstrictors, inotropes, chronotropes or blockers. This will open the door for trials
      orientated to optimizing haemodynamics in the cold and acute critical care settings, thus
      permitting optimal use of life-saving therapies, and optimizing survival. Such early
      treatment options should reduce the need for admission to hospital and length of hospital
      stay.
    
  