
    
      Study Rationale Ureteroscopy is a widely performed procedure in urology. Pain is one of the
      commonest complications after ureteroscopy and one of the common reasons for re-admission
      after this procedure. Insertion of a stent post-ureteroscopy can cause pain affecting daily
      activities in 80% of the patients. Pain post ureteroscopy is multi-factorial and currently
      there is no specific method used clinically to treat this. Intraluminal injection of local
      anesthetic solution in the ureter has been extensively studied in the animal model with
      positive results. Intraluminal injection steroids has also been studied previously and
      steroids have also been used in medical expulsive therapy for ureteric stones previously. The
      investigators are proposing the use of high concentration alkalinized long-acting local
      anaesthetic levo-bupivicaine and long-acting steroid dexamethasone for post-ureteroscopy
      pain. It is simple, cheap, safe, easy to perform and widely available.

      Background Intraluminal injection of local anesthetics (LA) in the ureter has been studied
      previously in animal models. Burdgya et al in 1986, USSR examined effects of LA on guinea pig
      ureters . Action potential of ureteric smooth muscle has initial fast component consisting of
      repeated gradually decaying spikes and a subsequent slow component i.e plateau. This action
      potential is accompanied by a brief contraction. Two opposite effects of LA occur on ureteric
      smooth muscle: Low concentrations of procaine, lignocaine and tetracaine (0.1-1 mM) at pH 7.4
      increased duration of slow plateau of the evoked action potentials. At higher concentrations
      lignocaine (5mM) and tetracaine (0.5mM) caused complete inhibition of evoked action
      potentials and phasic contractions. Procaine 5mM predominantly inhibited contractile
      responses. High pH (9) significantly increased while low pH (pH 6) decreased the inhibitory
      action of procaine and lignocaine. Tetracaine had the most potent inhibitory action on ureter
      smooth muscle with the weakest stimulant action while lignocaine had stronger inhibitory
      effect on ureter smooth muscle than procaine. Ross et al in 1972 reported intraluminal
      injection of 2% lignocaine reduced peristaltic activity in 5 out of 15 ureters in their
      patients with no effect in the remaining group.

      Andersson and Ulmsten found that local instillation of 4% lignocaine in their patients caused
      an initial brief stimulation followed by reduced activity. Tsuchida in 197 studied dog
      ureters to report prompt inhibitory effect of 4% lignocaine applied to mucosa invivo with no
      effect when applied to adventitia.

      Struthers in 1976 in his invivo dog studies found both systemic and intraluminal
      administration of lignocaine, procaine and mepivacaine caused only hyperperistalsis and never
      inhibition. Sur et al published a study with intravesical injection of ropivacaine before
      ureteroscopic surgery demonstrated trends toward decreased pain and voiding symptoms.
      Patients received five injections of 2 mL 0.5% ropivacaine around the ureteral orifice or to
      the control cohort, who received five injections of 2 mL of 0.9% normal saline in identical
      locations. A pilot study suggested that PSD597 (intravesical alkalinized lidocaine) is
      effective for treating interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome (IC/PBlS) , providing
      short-term amelioration of symptoms in a substantial proportion of patients, with a strong
      suggestion that repeating the treatment has a potentially cumulative effect. A randomized
      controlled trial comparing injection of non-irritating salt water (placebo), and half an
      injection of pH buffered lidocaine before the stent placement in patients undergoing
      ureteroscopy is currently being conducted. Till date there is no human study assessing the
      efficacy and safety of high concentration alkalinised long-acting LA injection for
      post-ureteroscopy pain based on the results of the animal studies outlined above.

      The anaesthetic drug chosen for this study is levobupivacaine (Chirocaine™ -): it is S-isomer
      of bupivacaine, an amino-amide local anaesthetic widely used in regional anaesthesia, in
      postoperative analgesia and in treatment of acute and chronic pain. This drug produces
      sensory and motor nerve conduction block, acting on sodium channels of the cell membrane -
      sensitive to electric stimulus - but also on potassium and calcium channels. Moreover, it is
      remarkable for a rapid onset time and a long duration. In vitro and in vivo pharmacodynamic
      studies show that levobupivacaine has the same potency as bupivacaine, though the former is
      less likely to cause cardio- and neurotoxicity.

      The effect of steroids on ureteric motility has previously been studied in in-vitro sheep
      models. Glucocorticoids inhibit the release of phospholipase A2 enzyme which catalyses the
      release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and thereby can have a spasmolytic
      action on the ureter by a prostaglandin-inhibitory action. Dexamethasone has shown the most
      potent dose dependant effect on the ureteral motility, it blocks ureteral motility in high
      concentrations within 24 minutes of instillation. Being a long-acting steroid, its duration
      of action in previous studies on nerve blocks and intra-articular injections is demonstrated
      at 12 weeks.

      Study population: 150 patients undergoing ureteroscopy for ureteric stones:

        1. Ureteric stone treatment (including proximal, mid and distal ureteric stones) with or
           without JJ stent insertion OR

        2. Negative ureteroscopy (no stone found)

      Pre and intraop: Obtain informed written consent pre-operatively with a pre-operative pain
      score, and rule out any allergies. Standardised uniform anesthetic regimen in all
      ureteroscopies.Post-ureteroscopy: drain the renal pelvis
    
  