
    
      Subjects performed after and before of two physical training program the following tests:
      lung function test,cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPT), constant-load exercise test in
      cycle ergometer, Constant-load exercise test in elliptical equipament, one repetition maximum
      test(1RM), on alternate days.

        -  Lung function: All patients underwent spirometry with the determination of FEV1 and FVC
           according to American Thoracic Society recommendations. Spirometry was performed using a
           COSMED microQuark PC - based Spirometer ®, (Pavona di Albano - Roma, Itália), which was
           calibrated before each test.

        -  Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPT): Incremental symptom-limited exercise testing was
           performed on a cycle-ergometer(Ergo FIT®, model Ergo 167 Cycle, Pirmasens, Germany)
           using a computer-based ventilatory expired gas analysis system (VO2000, Medgraphics
           Corp., St. Paul, MN). All subjects underwent a CPT to determine the peak work rate and
           the peak oxygen uptake (peak VO2). The subjects' electrocardiographic recordings were
           monitored using a cardiac monitor, SpO2, BP and sensation of dyspnea and fatigue using
           the BE-CR-10. A gas analyzer (VO2000 Medgraphics®, St Paul MN, USA) was used to obtain
           the participants' VO2 at each stage of the test. The ergospirometric values were
           recorded by the mean value measured every three breaths using the Aerograph® program.
           The VO2 was determined choosing the higher and more coherent value in the final 30
           seconds of each stage.

        -  Constant-load exercise test in cycle ergometer and Constant-load exercise test in
           elliptical equipament: The two exercise tests were performed at 70% of the previously
           determined work rate in CPT. During the CSET, VO2 was measured breath-by-breath and
           averaged every three respiration, while SpO2, HR, and the electrocardiogram were
           continuously monitored, and calculated a on-Kinetics of VO2 and HR.

           * Physical training program:

        -  The interval physical training on the elliptical trainer (Kiko's® HM 6022, São Paulo,
           SP, Brazil) totalized 18 sessions that the individuals of both groups had to attend at
           least twice a week. Each session lasted not more than 60 minutes and they were all
           individual meetings. The minimal work rate of the equipment was 40W and the lower
           increment work rate was 10W. The elliptical trainer allowed combined exercise with the
           upper limb, however, in the present study, the exercise was performed with the arms
           fixed, and every participant's HR was monitored using a pulse frequency meter (Polar®
           FS2cTM Kempele, Finland), the pulse oxygen saturation (SpO2) using a pulse oximeter
           (Nonin®, model 8500A, Minneapolis, Mn, USA), the blood pressure (BP) using a mercury
           sphygmomanometer (Oxigel®, São Paulo, SP, Brazil) and the sensation of dyspnea and lower
           limb fatigue using the Modified Borg CR-10 Scale (BE-CR10). The elliptical exercise was
           an interval training and was based on studies that performed interval training exercise
           in cycle ergometer. This was a 30-minute exercise with a rest interval established in
           one minute. The exercise's work rateworkload was the maximal achieved in the CPT, and it
           was not modified until the sessions were finished The individuals who did not reach 40W
           in the CPT performed 30 seconds exercising periods at 40W with 1-minute resting
           interval. The volunteers who achieved workload equal or higher 40W performed 1-minute
           exercising periods at the workload achieved in the CPT with 1-minute resting interval.
           During the exercise on the equipment, the individuals should keep the speed between 40
           and 50 rpm.Vital signs (HR, BP, SpO2) were recorded at the beginning and at the end of
           each session, as well as monitored before, during and after the elliptical exercise.
           During the training, the vital signs were recorded on the first 30 seconds of each
           resting interval.

        -  The aerobic associate resisted physical training consisted of thirty minutes oa aerobic
           training at 60-70% of work rate obtained in CPT and subsequently three sets of fifteen
           repetitions of resistance training in lower limbs on leg press with an intensity of
           40-60% of one repetition maximum test.
    
  