
    
      Golden Biotech are planning a Phase I/II study to determine the maximum tolerable dose (MTD)
      and to evaluate safety/tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and preliminary
      efficacy of antroquinonol in combination with nab-paclitaxel-gemcitabine in first line
      metastatic pancreatic cancer.

      Phase I

      Run-in DDI and dose escalation:

      The dose escalation part of the study will be conducted to characterize the safety of
      antroquinonol in combination with the standard of care (SOC) (nab-paclitaxel + gemcitabine)
      and to identify the MTD of antroquinonol in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer. The
      MTD is the dose level at which <33% (2/6) of patients experience a DLT. Within the dose
      escalation part of the study, a total of 6 patients will be enrolled in a run-in DDI portion
      to assess the effect of antroquinonol (a cytochrome P450 [CYP]3A4/CYP2C8 inhibitor) on the PK
      of paclitaxel (a CYP3A4/CYP2C8 substrate). Patients within this cohort (Cohort 1) will
      receive treatment as follows:

        -  Cycle 0 (28-day cycle): nab-paclitaxel 125 mg/m2 and gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 (as per SOC)
           via intravenous (IV) infusion on Days 1, 8, and 15.

        -  Cycle 1 (28-day cycle): antroquinonol 200 mg administered TID on Days 1 through 28 and
           nab-paclitaxel 125 mg/m2 and gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 via IV infusion on Days 1, 8, and
           15.

      Intense PK sampling to assess the PK of paclitaxel will be conducted in Cycles 0 and 1. The
      primary PK endpoints will include Cmax, AUC0-t, and AUCinf. Available bioanalytical data will
      be assessed in an ongoing manner to assess the effect of antroquinonol on the systemic
      exposure (Cmax and AUCs) of paclitaxel. Data will be reviewed by the Safety Monitoring
      Committee (SMC) prior to enrollment of additional patients into the dose-escalation part of
      the study.

      For Cohort 1, the occurrence of DLTs will be assessed from Day 1 to Day 28 of Cycle 1. If ≤1
      patient experiences a DLT, dosing in the dose escalation part will proceed. If ≥2 patients
      experience a DLT, dosing in the dose escalation part of the study will be discontinued. If ≤1
      patient in Cohort 1 experiences a DLT then dosing in Cohort 2 of the dose escalation part
      will proceed as follows: - All Cycles: antroquinonol 300 mg administered TID on Days 1
      through 28 and nab-paclitaxel 125 mg/m2 and gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 via IV infusion on Days 1,
      8, and 15 (ie, 1 cycle = weekly for 3 weeks, then 1 week off) .

      Three patients will be enrolled initially into Cohort 2, these patients will be assessed for
      DLTs within the first 28-day dosing cycle. This cohort will be expanded to 6 total patients
      if 1 DLT is observed in the first 3 patients within Cohort 2. If ≤1 DLT is observed at the
      300 mg dose then the 300 mg dose will be considered the MFD. If >1 DLT is observed at the 300
      mg group then 200 mg will be considered the MTD and/or the SMC will review the available data
      and determine the MTD/recommended dose (RD).

      Patients enrolled into the dose escalation part of the study (Cohorts 1 and 2) will continue
      to receive treatment with antroquinonol (200 or 300 mg, respectively) in combination with
      nab-paclitaxel + gemcitabine in 28-day cycles at the discretion of the Investigator without a
      maximum duration until unacceptable toxicity or progressive disease (PD).

      The total number of patients to be entered in the dose escalation part of the study will
      depend on the emergence of DLTs at each dose level and the total number of dose levels
      investigated. Up to 12 patients are planned to be treated in the dose-escalation part if no
      patient needs to be replaced for DLT and safety evaluation.

      Phase II

      Cohort expansion:

      During the cohort expansion part of the study, up to an additional 40 patients will be
      enrolled at the MTD or MFD/RD. The dose level in the cohort expansion phase will not exceed
      the MTD, or highest safe dose tested in the dose-escalation phase if MTD is not reached.
      Patients in the cohort expansion will receive treatment as follows:

      - All Cycles: antroquinonol at the MTD or MFD/RD administered TID on Days 1 through 28 and
      nab-paclitaxel 125 mg/m2 and gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 via IV infusion on Days 1, 8, and 15 (ie,
      1 cycle = weekly for 3 weeks, then 1 week off) .

      Patients enrolled into the cohort expansion part of the study will continue to receive
      treatment with antroquinonol at the MTD or MFD/RD in combination with nab-paclitaxel +
      gemcitabine in 28-day cycles at the discretion of the Investigator without a maximum duration
      until unacceptable toxicity or PD.
    
  