
    
      BACKGROUND

      Since the first case of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome - Coronavirus - 2 (SARS-CoV-2)
      infection and its subsequent clinical manifestation (COronaVIrus Disease 19, COVID-19) in the
      city of Wuhan (Hubei, China) in December 2019, contagion abruptly spread to different regions
      of China and, subsequently, to all continents. To date, 1 521 252 cases have been confirmed
      worldwide. With the first case ascertained in Lombardy at the end of February 2020, Italy
      soon became the first European country to face the exponential growth in the number of
      infected people (to date -May 3, 2020-210,717 total cases, currently positive 100,179).The
      disease turned into an actual health emergency due to the rapid spread and the need of
      hospitalization and respiratory function support in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for a
      significant fraction of the patients. However, the clinical presentation of COVID-19 is
      non-specific and extremely heterogeneous. Many patients are asymptomatic or exhibit mild
      symptoms, which include cough, fever, general malaise with myalgias, anosmia and ageusia. The
      most common changes in blood tests include lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and increased
      C-reactive protein and ferritin.

      As emerged by clinical data, the viral infection could be divided into three different
      phases: stage I, asymptomatic incubation period with little or undetectable viral load; stage
      II, mild symptomatic period with considerable and detectable viral load; stage III, severe
      symptomatic period with high viral load.

      The definitive diagnosis requires a positive molecular test with Real Time PCR (RT-PCR)
      method for SARS-CoV-2 on nasopharyngeal swab. However, this technique suffers from
      sub-optimal sensitivity, which may require repetition on bronchoalveolar lavage. The
      execution of chest CT is therefore essential, as it is characterized by high sensitivity and
      can detect highly suggestive findings even in patients with negative RT-PCR.

      Although the majority of infections resolve spontaneously without the need for specific
      therapy, up to 20% of patients can develop severe clinical pictures with pneumonia
      characterized by dyspnea, tachypnea and hypoxemia that requires treatment in a hospital
      setting. Pulmonary involvement is typically bilateral, peripheral and basal in most cases,
      presenting on CT scan with multifocal ground glass opacities and interstitial infiltrations;
      complete resolution usually takes several weeks. Despite active treatment, about 5-10% of
      cases can precipitate, often suddenly, into critical conditions including respiratory
      failure, ARDS and multi-organ dysfunction that require ICU admission and are burdened with
      high mortality.

      Even though the understanding of the pathogenesis of COVID-19 is still incomplete, the
      central role of the immune response in determining the development of severe clinical
      pictures is increasingly being defined. Organ damage could therefore not be induced by the
      direct effect of the infection, but mediated by an uncontrolled immune response resulting in
      the development of a "cytokine storm", as suggested by the high levels of inflammatory
      cytokines (among which interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and interferon γ
      (IFNγ) play a major role) in patients who exhibit severe or fatal disease. To date, no drug
      has been approved with a specific indication for the treatment of COVID-19. The current
      treatment encompasses antiviral agents approved for other viral infections, including
      protease inhibitors (lopinavir and ritonavir), anti-influenza drugs (oseltamivir and arbidol)
      and compassionate use of nucleotide analogues. Several studies are evaluating the possible
      effectiveness of the inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines activity in preventing or
      treating severe COVID-19, through the use of immunomodulators (chloroquine and
      hydroxychloroquine) or monoclonal antibodies such as tocilizumab, which targets the IL-6
      receptor. Despite promising preliminary results, a multitude of patients need an immediate
      treatment while the results of ongoing clinical trials are awaited.

      RATIONALE

      Although most COVID-19 infections resolve spontaneously without the need for specific
      therapy, up to 20% of patients can develop severe clinical pictures with
      interstitial-alveolar pneumonia characterized by dyspnoea, tachypnea and hypoxemia up to an
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), severe respiratory failure and multi-organ
      dysfunction requiring ICU hospitalization and burdened with high mortality.

      To date, the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia is poorly understood, but the
      immune-inflammatory response to infection is progressively emerging as pivotal in the
      development of severe clinical manifestations. An adequate viral load might stimulate the
      immune cells to synthesize pro-inflammatory cytokines as interleukin 1 and 6 (IL-1, IL-6),
      tumor necrosis factor α (TNF α) and attract macrophages, responsible for the secretion of
      several chemokines that could trigger an unregulated "cytokine storm". A few reports of
      histological analysis of lung tissue specimens from COVID-19 patients highlighted nonspecific
      inflammatory changes with the appearance of edema, hyaline membranes and an inflammatory
      infiltrate dominated mainly by lymphocytes. Peripheral blood tests often reveal
      lymphocytopenia and a high neutrophil count are found, especially in case of severe disease,
      with a high value of neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and a relevant increase in
      circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines levels.

      While vaccines and drugs directly targeting the virus are currently being developed and are
      not yet available, preventing the excessive and uncontrolled cytokine release and
      inflammatory response could be the key to avoid the occurrence of severe disease.

      Different clinical trials are exploring this path, evaluating immunomodulators and monoclonal
      antibodies targeting mediators such as interleukin 6(IL-6).

      Although conventionally fractionated (1.8-2 Gy/fraction) and hypofractionated (> 3 Gy
      fraction) radiotherapy, used in the field of neoplastic diseases, provides its therapeutic
      effect also inducing pro-inflammatory molecules, it has widely been documented in the first
      decades of the last century that low-dose radiotherapy (LD-RT) is potentially effective and
      relatively safe in the control of acute and/or chronic inflammatory diseases (e.g. skin
      diseases such as psoriasis, necrotizing abscesses, tendonitis, impingement syndrome).

      Many studies reported the effectiveness of radiation treatment after a single application,
      with a prompt improvement of symptoms, usually occurring within 24 ours and often definitive
      or long-lasting. Low dose radiotherapy exerts its effect on several cells involved in the
      immune response: endothelial cells, polymorphonuclear leukocytes, lymphocytes and
      macrophages. This is true also for pneumonia.

      Endothelial cells play a crucial role in the inflammation process, both for the "homing"
      process of leukocytes, and for the expression of a wide variety of cytokines and growth
      factors. Different studies have shown that a dose of 0.5 Gy induces an over-expression of
      tumor growth factor β (TGF-β), which has immunosuppressive activity and leads to a reduction
      in leukocyte adhesion on endothelial cells.

      The leukocyte "rolling" on the endothelium in the sites where inflammation is present
      represents the initial step of the inflammatory cascade. The effects of LD-RT were analyzed
      in vitro; after radiation doses of 0.3 - 0.6 Gy, there was a 25-40% reduction in adhesion
      compared to control after 24 hours from irradiation.

      Ionizing radiation at doses below 1 Gy are also capable to polarize macrophages towards the
      M2 anti-inflammatory phenotype. Conversely, doses greater than 1 Gy tend to induce
      polarization towards the M1 pro-inflammatory subtype. The use of low doses of radiation seems
      to act on macrophages also reducing their cytotoxic action, reducing the production of nitric
      oxide (NO) through to the inhibitory action on the enzyme cytokine inducible nitric oxide
      synthetase (iNOS) .

      Neutrophils play a central role in lung damage induced by Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
      (MERS) and SARS-CoV, and likewise in COVID-19, as they migrate into the alveoli where they
      release proteinases and trigger the innate response, with consequent development of cell
      damage and clinical presentations like ARDs (30,31). Low-dose radiation therapy is able to
      initiate the apoptotic process of polymorphonuclear granulocytes (neutrophils), thus reducing
      their cytotoxic activity (32). This treatment can therefore exert an anti-inflammatory
      activity through several mechanisms of action, with an optimal and long lasting effect
      demonstrated for a dose of 0.5 Gy (32).

      In the absence of a specific treatment, while ongoing trial are evaluating pharmacological
      approaches and vaccines, innovative approaches could be undertaken to face the emergency and
      allow a satisfactory management of the disease.

      A single fraction radiation treatment delivering low doses to the entire bilateral lung
      parenchyma (whole lung treatment) is a reasonable and conceptually valid option to inhibit
      inflammation and obtain a prompt improve of the symptoms in the short term.

      Unlike most of the drugs analyzed so far in the framework of COVID-19 infection, low dose
      radiotherapy is characterized by a minor risk of side effect (negligible, considering the
      acute phase) and could therefore represent an optimal complementary therapeutic approach due
      to its safety and absence of interaction with pharmacological treatments. Moreover, this
      treatment requires less than one hour including treatment planning and administration.

      TREATMENT DELIVERY

      The patient will undergo radiation treatment on both lungs in a single session. From the
      physical-dosimetric point of view, the treatment plan will be calculated in an isocentric
      manner. The isocenter will be positioned at a depth of 10 cm with respect to an anterior skin
      landmark specifically defined during CT-scan acquisition. The treatment plan will be
      elaborated using a field in field irradiation technique, with 2 beams each one composed by 3
      beamlets: one conformed to the volume resulting by the union of the lungs with a 2 cm margin,
      the other two will be obtained by shielding the spine and alternately one lung each. This set
      up allows to obtain a dose distribution in which the vertebral bodies receive a dose lower
      than 55 cGy with an average lung dose of 70 cGy and maximum lungs dose lower than than 90
      centigray (cGy). The Pinnacle ® treatment planning system (TPS) with Collapsed Convolution
      calculation algorithm will be used. Prescription doses were determined according to data and
      indications currently published and optimized to minimize the dose to the vertebrae.
    
  