
    
      This prospective, randomized, controlled and multi-center study was performed in 6 closed
      intensive care units (ICU) of academic tertiary hospitals. Adult patients with septic shock
      admitted to the hospitals from 2005 to 2008 were assigned to the study eligibility. Eligible
      patients were centrally randomized using sealed envelopes into one of the three groups which
      included lactate, ScvO2, and control groups. The criteria of septic shock included two of
      four criteria for the systemic inflammatory response syndrome and systolic blood pressure
      lower than 90 mmHg or decrease of systolic blood pressure more than 40 mmHg after fluid
      challenge and the clinical signs of tissue hypoperfusion, including oliguria, blood lactate
      concentration of 4 mmol/L or more and consciousness alteration. The patients were excluded if
      they meet any one of follows: an age of less than 18 years, pregnancy, an acute cerebral
      vascular event (Glasgow coma score < 5), acute myocardial infarction or acute coronary
      syndrome, massive pulmonary embolism, status asthmaticus, a primary diagnosed cardiac
      dysrhythmias, contraindication to central venous catheterization, active gastrointestinal
      hemorrhage, massive intraabdominal infective focus without drainage, severe bronchopleural
      fistula, seizure, during chemotherapy or immunosuppressive therapy, or end stage of the
      diseases.

      The protocol was approved by Institutional Ethics Committee. The informed consents were
      obtained from all patients or their legally authorized next of kin. The patients or their
      legal surrogate decision makers were informed of their right to refuse the study procedures
      at any time during the protocols were performed.

      The case report forms (CRF) were sent to each site from the principal investigator with the
      protocols, which were randomly sealed in a serial of envelopes. After patients' enrollment,
      the CRFs were filled by the attending physicians at each site according to the protocol of
      each group. End points were 28-day mortality and in-hospital mortality until 90 days. The
      demographic data, acute physiological and chronic evaluation score (APACHE) II and other data
      from patients' basic condition were recorded at enrollment day. The protocol related data
      were collected at baseline and each hour for 6 hours and then at 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72
      hours. The ICU and hospital length of stay were also noted and patients were followed up to
      day 28 and discharge from hospital for mortality. The protocol implementation and data
      collection stopped when patients or their families wished to withdraw from the program or
      refuse further treatment or a patient's death.
    
  