
    
      Selection of the Subjects:

      The study was limited to the established patients in our clinic who came for NAET treatments
      on a Wednesday. Wednesday was chosen since it was a full working day and more patients will
      be treated on Wednesdays. First patient who arrived in the office was assigned into the
      experimental/treating group, then every odd number was selected as treating group. All even
      numbers were selected as placebo group..

      Inclusion Criteria The primary inclusion criterion was that patients are getting treated for
      NAET on that day. All new patients were excluded. Only existing patients were chosen for this
      study. All the subjects included were required to sign a consent form, which allowed the
      researcher to designate them as subjects for the study.

      Exclusion Criteria The exclusion criteria were: Serious illness, e.g., cancer, chronic
      obstructive pulmonary diseases, kidney diseases, heart diseases, pregnancy, mental diseases,
      and history of anaphylaxis.

      Group Assignments:

      38 females, and 22 males ages ranged between 12-60 years were randomly assigned to 2 groups:

        1. Experimental group: 30 (22 females and 8 males) subjects were assigned to this group.

        2. Control group: 30 (16 females and 14 males) subjects were assigned to this group.

      Experimental Subjects:

      They were advised to wash their hands with soap and water before beginning of NAET
      treatments. They were also asked to wash their hands with plain water (no soap) after
      completing NAET treatment before they left the office.

      Control group:

      They were advised not to wash their hands before or after the NAET treatment. They were
      allowed to go home soon after the treatment.

      Evaluation Methods:

      All subjects were treated for their appropriate scheduled allergens for that day. After the
      NAET, they waited for 20 minutes in the office. Then they were rechecked for the treated
      allergens. All of them had successfully completed their treatments. The experimental group
      was advised to wash their hands with plain water and they were advised to go home. The
      control group was advised to go home without washing their hands with water. They were asked
      to return on the following Wednesday for reexamination. A week after the treatment, they all
      returned for recheck and the resuls were recorded.

      Duration of The Study The study duration was 7 days.

      Results:

      Experimental Group: 28 passed the treatment. 2 failed the treatment. Control Group: 5 passed
      the treatment. 25 failed the treatment. NAET Treatment was successful in 93.3% of the
      experimental group who utilized hand-washing after NAET treatment. NAET Treatment was
      successful 16.6% in the control group who did not wash their hands after NAET treatment.

      Conclusion: The study concluded that hand-washing with plain water after each NAET treatment
      is essential for completing NAET treatments successfully.

      Reprints Request from:

      NAR Foundation 6714-32 Beach Blvd. Buena Park, CA 90621 narfoundation@yahoo.com
    
  