
    
      The purposes of this research were to investigate the effect of age and chronic neck pain on
      cervical proprioception, the change of ultrasonographic (USD) patterns in deep neck muscle
      and superficial neck muscles. The hypotheses of this research included: 1) the alteration of
      neck proprioception is determined predominantly by the changed activation deep neck muscles
      and superficial neck muscles. 2) Age factor contributes to the alteration of cervicocephalic
      sensibility, USD pattern of deep and superficial muscles. 3) Chronic pain contributes to the
      alteration of cervicocephalic sensibility, USD pattern of deep and superficial muscles.

      Neck proprioception is measured by an ultrasound-based coordinate measuring system (CMS 70P,
      Zebris, Germany) by asking the subjects to performed head repositioning to the neutral head
      position or to a target position in three cardinal plane. These repositioning error expressed
      in root mean square errors could represent the craniocervical kinesthetic sensibility. The
      change of muscle thickness (mm) of the superficial (Trapezium, Splenius) and deep
      (semispinalis cervicis and multifidus) dorsal neck muscle is measured by a real-time
      ultrasonographic scanner (HDI 5000, ATL Ultrasound, USA). Image is obtained for each cervical
      level, and the thickness of the muscle is identified manually using a custom-written C++
      computer graphic program. The measurements of pain intensity and pain frequency are modified
      from the symptoms questionnaire to indicate the intensity, location, frequency and duration
      of pain and disability of the subjects. The age and pain effects for each independent
      variables measured in patients with chronic neck pain (pain: intensity, location, frequency,
      and duration, NDI), will be tested with the General Linear Model (GLM; age and pain factors).
      The confounding factors such as gender, range of motion, body height and weight are
      controlled in the regression model.
    
  