
    
      This pilot study aims to assess the feasibility of prazosin as a treatment for CUD in
      individuals with or without comorbid PTSD, and to evaluate if additional research on a larger
      scale is warranted. In particular, the investigators will evaluate their ability to recruit
      and retain individuals with CUD, evaluate their ability to quantify cannabis use and
      associated clinical outcomes, and objectively measure cannabis use in context of a clinical
      trial.

      Although the investigators have ample experience recruiting Veterans and non-Veterans with
      and without PTSD for prazosin clinical trials of similar duration, they have never recruited
      treatment-seeking CUD participants. Treatment studies in cannabis users are known to have
      approximately 30% drop out rate, and thus gaining experience in recruitment and retention is
      critical prior to investment in larger studies.

      Specific Aim 1: Assess the feasibility of recruitment and retention of participants for a
      clinical trial using prazosin as a treatment of CUD.

      The investigators will recruit 20 treatment seeking individuals with CUD (10 with and 10
      without PTSD) for 12-week open label treatment of prazosin. Given their experience conducting
      studies in Veterans and non-Veterans with and without PTSD and/or alcohol use disorder (AUD)
      achieving 61-83% retention at end of treatment, the investigators anticipate that prazosin
      will be well tolerated in the study population. Participants will be asked to provide
      qualitative assessments of treatment acceptability, or reasons for early termination for
      those who drop out of the study before end of treatment, so that these issues can be
      addressed in future study design.

      Specific Aim 2: Assess the feasibility of quantifying cannabis consumption by subjective
      self-report and objective urine and blood testing.

      Quantification of cannabis use is complex and not standard within the field. Due to the
      multiple routes of cannabis self-administration, variable cannabinoid concentration in
      cannabis products, and variable tolerance and pharmacokinetics across cannabis users, the
      investigators seek to gain experience in quantifying cannabis use by self-report and
      objective testing, as these measures will directly affect their outcome assessments expected
      in a subsequent clinical trial design. The investigators will assess amount and frequency of
      cannabis used by self-report (i.e., typical grams consumed per day, number of sessions per
      day of use), tracked with regular semi-quantitative urine tests and validated by quantitative
      blood and urine testing at selected time points. Self-reported cannabis use will be assessed
      by the Quantification of Cannabis Consumption (QCC), a brief questionnaire designed and
      preliminarily tested by the investigators, and the timeline follow back (TLFB). Symptoms of
      CUD and cannabis withdrawal will be assessed with validated self-report measures.
      Semi-quantitative urine tests will provide a relatively inexpensive and rapid means of
      testing cannabis use. These measures will be compared against less frequent and fully
      quantitative urine and blood analysis using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC/MS).
      If self-report and semi-quantitative urine tests are consistent with those from LC/MS, then
      they will be utilized in subsequent clinical trials.

      Exploratory Aims: The investigators will explore if prazosin administration is well tolerated
      and is associated with a reduction of cannabis withdrawal symptom severity and/or cannabis
      use. As there are no effective treatments for CUD, a reduction of cannabis use by at least
      20% from baseline to end of treatment will be considered meaningful enough to warrant future
      study. In comparison, rates for attaining negative urine tests in two recent medication
      trials paired with contingency management or psychotherapy were 22% and 29%, respectively
      (with identical rates in placebo and treatment groups). Adverse events will be monitored and
      compared their frequencies to that experienced in prior studies of prazosin conducted by the
      investigators as an exploratory outcome. Additional exploratory outcomes include the
      comparison of cannabis use throughout the study between those with and without PTSD, and the
      reduction of PTSD-related nightmares in the PTSD group.
    
  