
    
      The Global Early Adolescent Study (GEAS) is the first international study exploring how
      gender norms evolve over time and inform a spectrum of adolescent health outcomes, including
      sexual and mental health, through the adolescent years. The first phase, consisting of
      formative research and the face validity and pilot testing of instruments among early
      adolescents 10-14 years of age across 15 countries, was completed in 2017.

      The present study is for Phase 2 of the Global Early Adolescent Study in Kinshasa, Democratic
      Republic of the Congo (DRC), and covers both the intervention and control groups. The
      longitudinal phase explores how gender norms relate to health across the adolescent years,
      beginning with early adolescence (10-14 years old). The GEAS in Kinshasa has two sets of
      objectives:

        1. To explore how perceptions of gender norms evolve across adolescence, the factors
           influencing these changes, and how perceptions of gender norms predict a spectrum of
           adolescent outcomes, and

        2. Assess the impact of a gender norms transformative intervention developed and
           implemented by Save the Children.

      The intervention, Growing Up GREAT (GUG), and evaluation components are part of a larger
      project, Passages, which is led by the Institute for Reproductive Health (IRH) at Georgetown
      University. The investigator's research partner is the Kinshasa School of Public Health
      (KSPH), which will implement the GEAS study. Through Passages, Johns Hopkins University (JHU)
      receives support primarily from USAID with additional support from the Bill and Melinda Gates
      Foundation as a sub-recipient of IRH. Save the Children is separately a sub-recipient of IRH.
      This funding supports 3 years of longitudinal research with both control and intervention
      groups for impact evaluation in Kinshasa.

      In both an intervention and control group 1,400 young people ages 10-14 will be followed over
      a period of 3 years, participating in a total of 3 surveys. To gauge effectiveness of the
      intervention, the study will assess the following measurable primary and secondary study
      outcomes:
    
  