
    
      Nearly 50% of adults in the United States have high blood pressure, a leading contributor to
      cardiovascular disease. When race is considered, the majority of black adults (55%) have high
      blood pressure, a greater prevalence than other racial/ethnic groups. The elevated rate of
      high blood pressure, a diet-related disease, reflects the sub-optimal diet quality observed
      in blacks. The DASH dietary pattern is an evidence-based strategy to treat high blood
      pressure that has become part of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. DASH promotes a diet
      rich in fruits and vegetables, low-fat dairy, controlled amounts of total fat, cholesterol
      and saturated fat, high fiber and protein content. Data from the National Health and
      Nutrition Examination Survey indicate that approximately 19% of adults with high blood
      pressure were DASH adherent. Those who were adherent tended to be older and non-black with a
      higher education level. Even after intervention, lower DASH adherence scores have been seen
      in blacks versus whites, possibly due to lower baseline consumption of DASH foods in blacks.
      Although dietary improvements from DASH-promoting interventions have been observed, adherence
      has decreased over time, and when translated to less controlled settings. Sufficient
      representation of blacks is important for clinical trials testing DASH given the
      disproportionate prevalence of high blood pressure. This study will examine factors that may
      influence black adults' participation and success in improving dietary quality through the
      following aims:

        1. To identify barriers to and facilitators of recruiting black adults into a digital
           DASH-promoting intervention. A semi-structured interview guide will direct individual
           interviews via phone with black men and women to understand what supports or deters
           participation in a digital health intervention trial for dietary quality improvement.

        2. To determine the barriers and facilitators to improving dietary quality in black adults.

           Participants in the individual interviews (Aim 1) will also identify their motivations,
           concerns and priorities surrounding dietary change. This will inform recruitment efforts
           and our understanding about how to improve dietary quality.

        3. To conduct secondary data analyses to determine the effectiveness, by race and gender
           group, of various recruitment methods from a 12-month randomized controlled trial to
           examine the effects of the intervention on changes in dietary quality and blood pressure
           among men and women with high blood pressure (clinical trails identifier: NCT03875768).
           The intervention asks participants to track their diet daily using a common commercial
           tracking app with an extensive nutrient database via smartphone. Food and nutrient data
           from the app is processed using an application programming interface, compared against
           an algorithm, and generates personalized automated text messages to each participant
           with information on DASH diet adherence and diet tips. Responsive coaching is also
           included for participants that require greater support for dietary change.

      Diverse sample recruitment is essential to producing outcomes that are applicable to diverse
      populations living with hypertension. Examination of barriers and facilitators to consuming a
      quality diet and identification of effective recruitment methods for digital interventions
      may inform how investigators reach black men and women with hypertension to effectively
      improve diet for the treatment of cardiovascular disease.
    
  