
    
      The study is designed to be mono-centric, prospective, double-blind, parallel, uniformly
      randomised, controlled, with a fixed sample.

      The purpose of the study is to determine whether autologous platelet- and extracellular
      vesicle-rich plasma (PVRP) made from peripheral venous blood, promotes healing of tympanic
      membrane perforations, improves hearing and quality of life after surgical procedure called
      tympanoplasty.

      Tympanoplasty is a surgical procedure in which the surgeon refreshes the edges of the
      perforation of the eardrum and thus encourage re-healing of the eardrum. The tympanic
      membrane lies in the air, thus a tissue (muscle fascia, perichondrium, fat or cartilage) has
      to be put underneath the perforation and eardrum remnant. This then serves as a guide for the
      newly formed tympanic cells can outgrow the perforation.

      Patients attending outpatient examinations will be included in the study if they meet the
      inclusion criteria. Included patients will be randomised in two groups.

      Patients from the control group will be treated with a standard surgical treatment -
      tympanoplasty. The surgical procedure for the patients from the treatment group will be the
      same as for the control group, for the exception that PVRP will be added around the tympanic
      membrane remnant. PVRP will be activated inside (endogenous) and outside (exogenous) the
      body.

      Postoperatively patients will be assessed at examinations using an endoscope, otomicroscope,
      Chronic otitis media questionnaire and tests of hearing and balance. Laboratory blood tests
      will determine the presence of possible inflammation and assess the composition of the
      preparation.

      Research hypotheses

        -  Hypothesis 1: In the group of patients treated with platelet-rich plasma and
           extracellular vesicles, the proportion of healed tympanic surfaces in terms of initial
           perforation will be higher than in patients treated without platelet-rich plasma and
           extracellular vesicles.

        -  Hypothesis 2: In the group of patients treated with platelet-rich plasma and
           extracellular vesicles, complete healing of the tympanic membrane will occur to a
           greater extent than in patients treated without platelet-rich plasma and extracellular
           vesicles.

        -  Hypothesis 3: In the group of patients treated with platelet-rich plasma and
           extracellular vesicles, hearing improvement will be greater than in patients treated
           with platelet-rich plasma and extracellular vesicles.

        -  Hypothesis 4: The quality of life of patients with larger perforations assessed with the
           COMQ-12 questionnaire will be lower than in patients treated without platelet-rich
           plasma and extracellular vesicles.

        -  Hypothesis 5: The quality of life assessed by the COMQ-12 questionnaire will be better
           in the group of patients treated with platelet-rich plasma and extracellular vesicles
           than in patients treated without platelet-rich plasma and extracellular vesicles.
    
  