
    
      High blood pressure affects approximately 35% of Black men in the United States. This may be
      due to the fact that Black men frequently have an unusually high number of risk factors for
      high blood pressure, including diabetes, high stress levels, and increased salt intake and
      sensitivity. While high blood pressure can often be controlled through diet, lifestyle
      changes, or medication, it is a chronic asymptomatic medical condition for which individuals
      should remain under the care of a regular medical provider. A predominantly Black barbershop
      may be an optimum and receptive setting for an intervention that focuses on improving the
      detection and treatment of high blood pressure among Black men. In this study, barbers,
      deemed as influential peers, will be trained to continually monitor their customers' blood
      pressure, deliver health messages designed to change risk perception and ideas about
      healthcare utilization, and provide social support for changes in healthcare-seeking behavior
      and blood pressure levels. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a
      barbershop-based intervention at increasing blood pressure awareness and lowering blood
      pressure levels among Black male customers. With over 18,000 Black barbershops in the United
      States, the results from this study may be extremely influential in improving the diagnosis
      and treatment of high blood pressure in Black men.

      This study will enroll Black men who are regular customers at a participating barbershop.
      Each barbershop will be randomly assigned to either a 10-month intervention group or a
      control group. Nurses will train the intervention group barbers to measure blood pressure and
      deliver health messages related to blood pressure control during each customer's visit.
      Before and after the intervention, study researchers will interview barbers and customers
      over an 8-week period to collect information on blood pressure control. A 12-month follow-up
      visit will include assessments of blood pressure levels, customer recognition of elevated
      blood pressure levels, and the number of customers receiving regular medical care.
    
  