
    
      The prevalence of bulimia nervosa (BN) is approximately 1.0-1.5% among women. With
      consistently higher prevalence rates, binge eating disorder (BED) affects up to 3.5% of women
      and 1.5% of men. These eating disorders represent a public health concern due to the high
      comorbidity of BN and BED with other psychiatric disorders and the association with poor
      physical health outcomes.

      Given this public health impact, it is concerning that less than half of BN and BED patients
      seek treatment for their eating disorder. This is especially concerning since a greater
      duration of untreated illness is associated with a poorer prognosis. Individuals' reluctance
      to seek treatment is likely due to factors such as an avoidance of disclosing symptoms to
      family members or clinicians. For example, one study reported that 27% of adolescents with BN
      declined participation because they did not want their families involved. Even for those who
      do wish to engage, treatment is often inaccessible due to the geographic centralization of
      eating disorder specialists and a low ratio of specialists to patients.

      Given the ubiquity of smartphone devices among adults and adolescents, one possible way to
      improve treatment accessibility and privacy is to offer it through a smartphone app. In
      recent development, an evidence-based smartphone app called Recovery Record (RR) has been
      conceived for use by people suffering from eating disorders as an adjunct to clinical
      treatment. This tool allows patients to self-monitor eating behaviours, connect with their
      clinician directly through the app, and provides other therapeutic features (e.g. cues coping
      skill use). Preliminary findings suggest that the app is feasible, with 67% of users
      continuing to log meals at 30 days. As well, RR is currently the most downloaded, most rated,
      and highest rated app of its kind, which suggests it is highly acceptable among users.

      In support of these findings, one study demonstrated that 26% of app users in a clinically
      severe range at baseline demonstrated clinically significant reductions in eating disorder
      symptoms at least 28 days later, which is consistent with other forms of self-help for BN.
      Moreover, 89% of users reported that using Recovery Record helped their condition from
      getting worse and a majority reported improvements to the frequency of disordered behaviours,
      reported urges, and mood.

      App developers have outfitted the app with an adaptive 8-week program that automatically uses
      patient data to tailor treatment for individual users (i.e. an automated pure self-help
      course of treatment). Although pure self-help is efficacious for BN and BED, self-help
      augmented by coaching (from a health care profession) has been associated with even better
      outcomes (with a moderate effect size). Given the support for this smartphone app and this
      potential avenue for providing private and accessible care to Nova Scotians, the aim of this
      study is to assess the efficacy of this adaptive smartphone app program, both coached and
      uncoached, for BN and BED patients.
    
  