
    
      The United States, Appalachia, Eastern Kentucky in particular, is in the midst of a major
      opioid abuse epidemic. This current epidemic is driven by misuse of prescription painkillers,
      i.e. Subutex and Saboxone. As prescription pills become more expensive and harder to acquire,
      addicts are seeking similar, cheaper drugs; such as heroin. From 1998 to 2011, the prevalence
      of opioid abuse and dependence amongst pregnant women has increased by 127%, from 1.7 per
      1000 to 3.9 per 1000. Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS) or neonatal opioid withdrawal
      syndrome is a condition produces gastrointestinal and autonomic neurologic dysfunction.
      Infants with severe withdrawal experience dysregulation of autonomic functions, resulting in
      feeding difficulty, diarrhea, excessive sleepiness, and tremors.Nearly two thirds of all
      babies exposed to opioids during gestation will require admission to a neonatal intensive
      care unit for management of withdrawal symptoms. During a typical year the Neonatal Intensive
      Care Unit (NICU) at Kentucky Children's Hospital admits approximately 100-120 infants
      exhibiting NAS symptoms; these infants have a typical length of stay of 24 days if they
      require pharmacologic treatment.

      The mainstay of treatment for NAS involves opioid replacement therapy with morphine to
      minimize withdrawal symptoms. Once symptoms are well controlled, the infant is said to have
      been "captured." At this point a slow weaning of his morphine dose occurs. The infants'
      clinical status is assessed with the Finnegan Scoring system, which examines symptoms such as
      crying, excessive sleepiness or difficulty sleeping, insomnia, or tremors along with
      objective findings such as temperature and respiratory rate.

      In addition to pharmacotherapy, alternative and complementary medicine techniques are slowly
      entering the NAS treatment algorithm. Treatments such as music therapy infant massage,
      kangaroo care, aromatherapy, and acupressure are now employed in NICUs in addition to
      traditional opioids replacement. However, few studies exist in the literature to evaluate
      their effectiveness.

      Aromatherapy is the practice of using natural essential oils to achieve a desired effect in
      an individual. Scents such as lavender and chamomile have been documented to have a soothing
      calming effect. Studies involving infants shown that lavender not only reduce crying and
      enhance sleep, but also reduce levels of salivary cortisol, a stress hormone. Additionally,
      aromatherapy is currently used as an adjunctive therapy at the University of Kentucky's
      Markey Cancer Center.

      Salivary cortisol is a non-invasive biomarker that has proven useful for monitoring stress in
      neonates. It is a simple and painless method for monitoring the stress hormone cortisol.
      Salivary cortisol has been used successfully in infants as a method to assess infant stress
      associated with prone position versus supine positioning.These studies have shown that
      salivary cortisol levels vary with stressful or soothing stimuli.

      To date, no dangerous or deleterious effects have been described from traditional
      inhalational use of aromatherapy or with salivary cortisol sampling. Studies have shown
      aromatherapy to be an effective adjunctive therapy by proving a calming effect. In our
      patient population it may prove to be a useful complimentary therapy ultimately reducing
      infant stress, hospital length of stay, and burden of opioid use. Additionally, salivary
      cortisol's ease of collection and non-invasive nature make it an ideal biomarker to study.
    
  