
    
      This is a multicenter, single-dose study in children 12 to <17 years of age, 6 to <12 years
      of age, 2 to <6 years of age who are scheduled for elective open inguinal hernia repair.
      Within 21 days of surgery, eligible subjects will be screened and have routine clinical
      laboratory testing and an electrocardiogram performed. Subjects will then undergo an open
      inguinal hernia repair under general anesthesia according to the investigator's standard
      surgical practice on Day 1. Enrollment in this study will start with the oldest age group (12
      to <17 years) and will continue in a step-wise fashion until appropriate doses are
      established for all 3 pediatric age groups. Within each age group, the study will be
      conducted in 3 parts.

      Children in each age group who are randomized to INL-001 will receive approximately less than
      or equal to 2.5 mg/kg of INL-001. Study drug will be administered prior to wound closure. The
      INL-001 matrix will be cut before placement into the surgical site using sterile technique.
      Children randomized to 0.25% bupivacaine HCl infiltrate will receive 2.5 mg/kg according to
      standard practice.

      After completion of the surgical procedure, all subjects will remain in the post-anesthesia
      care unit for at least 3 hours and will be continuously monitored for safety. At the
      discretion of the investigator, subjects may receive rescue medication (opioid or non-opioid)
      upon request for the management of breakthrough pain and may receive an antiemetic for the
      management of nausea or vomiting. After the initial 3 hour period, subjects who are deemed
      stable can be discharged to the hospital ward. Subjects will remain housed in the hospital
      ward for at least 48 hours. Blood samples will be collected from the subset of 8 children in
      each age group after INL-001 is implanted for pharmacokinetic analysis.
    
  