
    
      The developmental psychopathology aims at studying the possible paths that psychiatric
      conditions may take from childhood, through adolescence till early adulthood. This
      developmental perspective has the final goal of allowing prevention and early detection of
      mental illness, which in turn should translate into better prognosis and outcomes.

      Longitudinal research allows a better grasp on the illness etiology as it gives the
      opportunity of directly investigate the possible causal mechanisms and of defining the
      origins of psychopathological condition in adults.

      Many factors of risk interact, across neurodevelopment, in determining the person's
      vulnerability to mental illness. For instance, temperament and psychopathological factors
      were proved to have a role. However, the existing knowledge is still fragmented and should be
      integrated by new knowledge on genetic and environmental factors. Thus, combining
      observations of neurodevelopment, as measured with neuro-imaging techniques at subsequent
      timepoints, with psychopathological and neuropsychological evaluations, as well as with
      detailed information on genetic, environmental and temperamental indexes, is crucial, as no
      similar exhaustive investigations are still available.

      Furthermore, it must be bared in mind that the gene by environment interaction generates
      complex epigenetic effects on neurodevelopment, which should be monitored through a longer
      time lapse.

      This topic has been studying this topic for years, by research groups with sites in Friuli
      Venezia Giulia and Bosisio Parini (Lecco, Lombardia), by mean of cross-sectional and
      longitudinal studies, involving samples of children and adolescents at risk of
      psychopathology and referred because of behavioral and/or emotional difficulties, experienced
      in the past or still ongoing. Also, the research involved a cohort of Twins recruited from
      the normal population and whose data would allow more fine tuned analyses of the bene by
      environment interaction.

      In those first phases of study, instruments assessing the psychopathological risk were
      adapted to the Italian population and the associated cognitive marker were identified.

      Also, some analysis investigated the effect of the environment on the psychopathological
      risk. Moreover, the influence of genetic factors is under now study, mainly focussing on
      epigenetic factors.

      The research that is presented here is the followup of the previous investigations. In the
      previous year (2019) 33 participants underwent the follow up from the sample of children at
      psychopathological risk and who were chidden/adolescents at the time of the baseline
      evaluation.

      During the current year the Twins cohort will be followed up. Half or more of the
      participants tested ad the baseline are expected to participate, which correspond to about 30
      couples (60 participants). The subjects will undergo i) a magnetic resonance, including
      structural MRI, DTI, resting state fMRI, fMRI (during the fMRI sequences a concurrent task,
      tapping attention and emotional processes, is presented); ii) a psychopathological
      evaluation; iii) a self-rating evaluation, filling questionnaires measuring temperaments and
      assessing the possible presence of behavioral problems; iv) a neurocognitive evaluation; v) a
      drawing of biological-genetic sample (saliva).
    
  