
    
      The proposed study will evaluate the (cost-)effectiveness of an internet-based cognitive
      intervention program in achieving personal work-related rehabilitation goals in
      occupationally active cancer survivors confronted with cognitive problems. Secondary outcomes
      will be among others subjective cognitive function, work function and quality of life.

      It is hypothesized that:

        -  both cancer survivors who undergo the basic or extensive cognitive rehabilitation
           program will achieve better their pre-set rehabilitation goals, both at baseline till
           treatment endpoint (T1) and follow-up (T2), compared to cancer survivors in the waitlist
           control group.

        -  cancer survivors with baseline cognitive deficits (measured with neuropsychological
           tests) will achieve better their pre-set rehabilitation goals after the extended
           cognitive rehabilitation program than after the basic cognitive rehabilitation program.

      A three-armed randomized controlled trial with two intervention groups (i.e., an extensive
      and a basic cognitive rehabilitation program) and one waitlist control group will be
      conducted.

      The cognitive rehabilitation program will be delivered online; either as a self-help
      intervention or as an online therapist-guided intervention. The therapists will be cognitive
      trainers who have undergone additional training in issues related to cancer-related cognitive
      decline.

      Participants will be followed for six months in total, including three measurements time
      points (at baseline (T0), at three months (treatment endpoint; T1) and at 6 months follow-up
      (three months after completion of treatment; T2).

      Cancer patients will be identified through the tumour registry, in case of the Netherlands
      Cancer Institute, or through the Netherlands Cancer Registry (IKNL), in all other centers.
      Patients will be recruited via their treating physician using an information letter of the
      study, including a response card. If patients are interested in participation, a member of
      the study team will call the patient to provide them with further information and to screen
      for eligibility.

      Sample size calculation: This longitudinal study design will allow for testing of the main
      effect of the intervention (exposure to a cognitive rehabilitation programme) over time, with
      the GAS score as the primary outcome measure. With a sample size of 65, and alpha =0.05, the
      study will allow for an attrition rate of approximately 20% and have 80% power to detect an
      effect size of f=0.2 (equivalent to Cohens d =0.4) for the main effect of the intervention
      between both the basic- and extended cognitive rehabilitation treatment group and the
      waitlist control group. To perform subgroup analysis, as indicated by our second aim, sample
      size should be inflated fourfold. Therefore, we strive for a sample size of 261, with 87
      patients in each group.

      The intervention arms differ with respect to therapy guidance and intensity of the cognitive
      rehabilitation part. Both programs involve psychoeducation, cognitive behavioural therapy and
      fatigue management. In both intervention arms, participants will receive access to a secured
      personal webpage where all content relevant to the treatment sessions can be obtained.

      Prior to randomization, a face-to-face appointment with a therapist will be convened to
      discuss the results of the neuropsychological tests, to evaluate the self-perceived
      (cognitive) complaints and to define three primary work-related intervention goals.

      Upon receipt of all baseline information and one face-to-face session with a cognitive
      therapist (involving feedback on baseline neuropsychological tests and personalized treatment
      goal setting) , patients will be randomly allocated to the basic arm (N=87), the extensive
      arm (N = 87) or the waitlist control group (N = 87), using the computerized randomization
      programme ALEA. Stratified randomization will be applied for cognitive impairment on tests
      (yes/no). Minimization will be applied with respect to cognitive impairment status to
      equalize group sizes. Blinding of participants and professionals is not possible for this
      type of intervention. Blinding for assessment is not applicable since measurements are
      computer-based.

      Study procedures: All eligible patients will be asked to complete an online
      neuropsychological assessment and patient-reported outcomes regarding cognition, work-related
      functioning and overall health-related quality of life at baseline (T0). As noted previously,
      results of baseline information and subsequently intervention goals will be discussed with
      patients prior to randomisation. Upon completion of the intervention (T1) and at three months
      post-intervention (T2), primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed through online
      questionnaire and through a call with the cognitive therapist in case of goal attainment.
      Participants in the waitlist control group will be given the choice to undergo the online
      rehabilitation programme after T2. Finally, non-response will be measured by assessing the
      proportion of patients who participated in comparison with all eligible patients.

      Intervention effectiveness will be measured in terms of work-related goal attainment and
      secondary outcome measures. Furthermore, secondary analysis will be performed to explore
      mediating and moderating processes.

      Cost-effectiveness: An economic evaluation will be conducted alongside the randomized
      controlled trial to evaluate costs and patient outcomes of implementing the online cognitive
      rehabilitation programme. From a societal perspective, a cost-utility analysis (CUA) will be
      conducted, whereby all costs and consequences are taken into account irrespective of who pays
      or benefits from them. Furthermore, in order to sustain cost-effectiveness from an employer's
      point of view, we will conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) to compare the difference
      in costs versus the difference in effects over the two intervention groups and the waitlist
      control group. The cost-effectiveness of the two interventions will be evaluated by
      incremental treatment costs for improving goal attainment by a clinically relevant degree.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Means and SDs will be presented for continuous normally distributed
      variables and median and regions for non-normally distributed variables.

      Baseline characteristics: Analyses will first be performed to evaluate the comparability of
      the control and the intervention groups (basic and expanded cognitive rehabilitation) at
      baseline in terms of sociodemographic and clinical characteristics. ANOVA tests or
      appropriate non-parametric statistics will be used, depending on the level of measurement.
      If, despite the stratified randomization procedures, the groups are found not to be
      comparable on one or more background variables, those variables will be employed as
      covariates in subsequent analyses.

      GAS will be used as the primary study endpoint, evaluating between-group differences over
      time in GAS-scores. The GAS scores will be calculated according to published scoring
      algorithms. To evaluate the intra-individual difference in the trajectory of change over time
      for the primary outcome, we will use a growth curve modeling approach with random intercept
      and slope. This approach takes into account the within and between person variability, and
      deals adequately with missing data. Both linear and quadratic effect of time will be modeled
      to determine if an initial improvement or deterioration in the outcome was followed by a
      deceleration of this change over time. Appropriateness of the final model (with or without
      quadratic effect) will be determined based on model fit statistics: the Bayesian information
      criterion (BIC; Schwarz, 1978) and the Akaike information criterion (AIC; Akaike, 1998). In
      all analyses the control group will be the reference group. Furthermore, moderation analysis
      will be conducted to determine whether the interventions have a differential effect among the
      subgroups classified as cognitive impaired yes or no (measured by ACS) at baseline. The same
      approach will be used for secondary outcome measures.

      All analyses will be done on an ´intention to treat´ basis. Differences in mean change scores
      over time between the intervention groups and the control group will be accompanied by effect
      sizes.
    
  