
    
      Lymph node metastasis is one the most important prognostic-factors in head and neck
      cancer(HNC). Radical neck dissection (RND) has been the standard surgical method for HNC with
      neck lymph nodes metastasis in past decades. This operation includes removal of the
      sternocleidomastoid muscle (SCM), internal jugular vein (IJV) all cervical lymph nodes on one
      side and spinal accessory nerve (SAN), leading to significant ipsilateral shoulder syndrome
      caused by SAN dysfunction and impact quality of life. Despite most clinics prefer to use the
      nerve-sparing selective neck dissection (SND) for patient with N0 or N1 nodal disease today,
      shoulder disability and pain were still reported from 31% to 40% after this procedure.
      However, most previous studies evaluated the shoulder disability only by functional
      evaluation, range of motion, and questionnaire. The short and long term adverse effect to
      soft tissue around shoulder girdle after SND has not been reported. The investigators
      suppose: 1. SND may cause damage to the soft tissue around shoulder girdle. 2. The soft
      tissue injury may be related with the order of severity of wing scapula and duration after
      SND. The aims of this study are: 1. To assess the functional disabilities of shoulder and
      upper extremity in different time period after SND. 2. To evaluate the soft tissue lesion of
      shoulder with soft tissue ultrasonography to prove our hypothesis. This study is a two years,
      prospective, cross-section study. The investigators will enroll 80 HNC post SND within
      3months, >3- 6months,> 6months -1 year, more than 1 year as four different groups, 20 patient
      in each group. Evaluate the soft tissue of shoulder girdle with musculoskeletal
      ultrasonography and elastography, compare the finding in each group and the range of motion
      of their shoulder, the severity of wing scapula, visual pain analog scale and the score of
      The Disability of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire. Statistical analysis will
      perform by SPSS software (SPSS V 20. International Business Machines. USA).
    
  