
    
      Work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSD) are "a set of peri-articular conditions that
      can affect various structures of the upper limbs, lower limbs and back: tendons, muscles,
      joints, nerves and the vascular system"(1). WMSD are a major public health problem both in
      France and internationally. Indeed, these disorders represent 85% of occupational diseases in
      France (2). Our research project focuses on WMSD-S representing 32% and 23% of these
      disorders in France (3) and Europe (4), respectively. These shoulder disorders lead to a
      decrease in the quality of life of workers (2) but also have direct (e.g. 50K € for shoulder
      tendinitis [ST]) and indirect (e.g. between 100K and 350K € for ST) costs (5).

      To prevent WMSD-S, current recommendations encourage regular assessments and interventions at
      the workers workstation (e.g. biomechanical constraints, ergonomics, etc.) (6,7), their
      organisation (e. g. "job rotation"...) (8) and psycho-social factors (e. g. stress...) (9)
      related to work. WMSD-S), which account for 32% and 23% of these disorders in France and
      Europe, respectively. In order to prevent WMSD-S, the assessment and rehabilitation of
      workers' physical and functional capacities (PFC) (e.g. joint amplitude) may complement
      current interventions (e.g. ergonomics) in a novel manner.

      It is believed that the assessment of PFC in workers suffering from WMSD-S is essential to
      better understand the origin of these disorders, and therefore to optimise their care (10) .
      To our knowledge, no clinical studies have analysed the interest of a protocol for the
      assessment of WMSD-S in caregivers. From this observation, the first part of this project
      would consist of a cohort study assessing the PFC of caregivers with WMSD-S, compared to
      those of healthy subjects matched in age and gender. This study would improve the
      understanding of the worker's physical and functional impairments; a fundamental aspect for
      the individualised person-focused interventions (i.e. rehabilitation), in addition to those
      carried out at the workstation level (i.e. ergonomics).
    
  