
    
      Extremely preterm birth near the limit of viability, defined broadly as birth between 20 and
      26 weeks' gestation, accounts for substantial infant morbidity and mortality as well as both
      parental and provider distress. Prenatal counseling for families anticipating extremely
      preterm delivery remains ethically and practically challenging for both Maternal Fetal
      Medicine (MFM) specialists and neonatologists. Physicians must quickly establish a trusting
      relationship with families and convey complex medical information. They must sensitively
      elicit family preferences and values regarding life and death, carefully explain management
      options and potential outcomes such as long-term disability, and arrive at a mutually
      agreeable plan for delivery and resuscitation. However, prenatal counseling may be disjointed
      or even contradictory. It has been shown that suboptimal counseling is partially explained by
      differences in training, practice and perspectives between the specialties, as well as in
      framing and unconscious biases, time constraints and poor communication. Physicians also
      often emphasize cognitive information versus parental values when counseling. Preferred
      language and counseling approaches are largely unknown. This can lead to poor family
      understanding, inadequate shared decision making, decreased satisfaction and increased
      anxiety.

      There is a need to determine best approaches using language and terminology preferred by
      families, not physicians. There is also a need to develop new methods to educate MFM and
      Neonatology providers to improve antenatal counseling. Simulation and enactments are
      effective in teaching patient-physician communication, ethical dilemmas in medicine, and
      prenatal counseling. This mixed-methods behavioral intervention study will first determine
      preferred language and approaches by families, then redefine current training for prenatal
      counseling at extreme prematurity by developing and implementing two novel, interdisciplinary
      simulation-based educational programs for MFM and Neonatology, focusing on eliciting values
      and building partnerships through advanced communication and relational skills, to improve
      counseling practices and outcomes.

      The overall hypothesis is that family-focused counseling at extreme prematurity by providers
      trained in using language and approaches preferred by families will more effectively address
      parents' values and preferences central to decision making and improve counseling practices
      and outcomes. In this mixed-methods study, the investigators will enroll ~130 families and
      their counseling providers from MFM and Neonatology and compare family-focused counseling
      outcomes after educational interventions to baseline. Investigators will collaborate with
      Family Faculty advisors from study design through publication to incorporate the parental
      perspective.

      Aim 1a: To determine, via semi-structured interviews of up to 30 families, preferred
      language, terminology and approach, including maternal/paternal differences, during family
      counseling for impending extremely preterm delivery, following standard counseling. Aim 1b:
      To establish baseline understanding, perceptions, decision making, and anxiety of 50 families
      and their counseling providers measured via survey, including the Controlled Preferences
      Scale-Pediatrics, Decisional Conflict Scale, and State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI).
      Secondary hypothesis: maternal/paternal preferences for language, involvement and decision
      making differ.

      Aim 2a: To develop a novel, joint-specialty simulation-based workshop for MFMs and
      neonatologists through Boston Children Hospital's (BCH) established Simulation Pediatric
      Program and Institute for Professionalism and Ethical Practice (IPEP). Aim 2b: To create an
      innovative, multi-media online training module for MFMs and neonatologists through BCH
      Simulation Pediatric/IPEP and Open PediatricsTM, a free and globally accessible web-based
      teaching platform to enable widespread dissemination. Both products will use preferred
      language and approaches from a national survey by investigators (in progress) and Aim 1,
      while emphasizing interdisciplinary communication, ethical and relational skills, addressing
      biases, and focusing on family values and preferences central to decision making.

      Aim 3: To evaluate whether developed educational interventions improve counseling practices
      and outcomes on repeat surveys of 50 families and trained counseling providers using
      comparative statistical analyses. Primary hypothesis: counseling by trained providers will
      improve parental 1) understanding, 2) perceptions, 3) decision making, and 4) anxiety, by
      improving communication and more effectively addressing parents' values and preferences
      central to decision making. Secondary hypotheses: 1) the online module will be as effective
      as the workshop; 2) trained providers will report increased comfort and decreased anxiety
      when counseling.

      Given the weight of decisions resulting from family counseling for impending extremely
      preterm delivery, joint-specialty interventions using preferred language and approach to
      optimize counseling are urgently needed. These innovative educational interventions present a
      feasible and effective approach that can be widely disseminated to improve interdisciplinary
      family-focused counseling for anticipated extremely preterm deliveries and counseling
      outcomes, representing a direct and immediate clinical impact.
    
  