
    
      According to the World Health Organization, sepsis remains a leading cause of death in
      infants and children in developed and developing countries.Some prognostic scoring systems
      with performance status, clinical symptoms, and biochemical parameters help to guide accurate
      prediction of the prognosis, such as the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation
      (APACHE), yet are considered too complex for general clinical use. Therefore, the prediction
      of clinical events with laboratory parameters, including complete blood cell count (CBC), has
      become an increased focus of research.

      Accumulating evidence indicates that the CBC is an effective predictor of prognosis and
      mortality in many disease states, including hematological disease, neoplasms, and diseases of
      the circulatory system severe infections. Therefore, nonspecific changes in the CBC in
      critically ill patients could be considered a key prognostic factor in the evaluation of
      survival prediction in these patients .

      According , it is possible that the CBC could be used as a predictor of survival in severe
      infections patients. The complete blood count (CBC) , a five-cell automated differential
      count and a reflex manual differential count (when required by protocol) and is one of the
      most frequently ordered admission laboratory tests.

      In practice, it is a routine ingredient of all hospital admission orders - a complete blood
      count is done for our medical , surgical admissions and the same is true at most institutions
      . it is known that the white blood cell count do predict disease severity and mortality risk.
      For example, elevated WBC counts predict a worse prognosis in patients with severe infections
      in pediatric intensive care unit ,Further, this test provides direct management guidance in
      common circumstances, e.g., infection.

      The CBC describes the number and morphology of over 40 different cells. Disagreement exists
      regarding the clinical significance of many of these observations. And only a few components
      of the manual differential, e.g., nucleated red blood cells and lymphocytes, have been
      quantitatively evaluated to determine their prognostic significance. But these two
      observations have not been examined to determine their independent contributions to mortality
      predictions when taken in conjunction with their accompanying CBC observations. .
    
  