
    
      The overall aim is to determine the feasibility of a specific PA intervention, combining
      technology and professional input, in the cancer survivor population.

      Study Design: A single arm feasibility trial of a PA intervention using technology and
      behavioural change theories as tools to achieve increased PA. Participants in the study will
      receive 12 weeks of the intervention. Outcomes will be measured at baseline, 12 weeks and 24
      weeks (+/- 2 weeks) post baseline.

      Patient recruitment: Participants will be recruited from those attending the St. James'
      Hospital oncology and haematology services. Study personnel will provide further information
      to these patients and assess them for eligibility. Informed consent will be gained from each
      participant.

      Sample size: Proposed sample size is 60 (based on Sim and Lewis, 2012 recommendations) and
      allowing for 20% drop-out.

      Intervention: This study will use the commercially available 'Fitbit' wearable technology
      with its paired smartphone application. PA goals will be prescribed by a qualified, chartered
      physiotherapist using the American Cancer Society (ACS) guidelines (Doyle et al 2006).
      Participants will use the Fitbit and its paired application for 12 weeks. The Fitbit device
      is a tool for motivation and monitoring of PA behaviours in this intervention.

      This study will also use evidence-based psychological behavioural change theory. Behavioural
      change techniques include 'self-monitoring of behaviour', 'goal-setting', 'feedback on
      behaviour' and 'information about health consequences'.

      Procedures: This study includes time-points at baseline, 12 weeks (Intervention end) and 24
      weeks post baseline (+/- 2 weeks (Follow-up).

      Pre-intervention:Consent and PA measurement

        -  Consent: Study personnel meets potential participants at their outpatient appointment.
           The agreement of the patient's consultant to exercise has been obtained before the
           patient information leaflet (PIL) is provided. The researcher explains the study and
           gives the potential participant a consent form and a patient information leaflet and a
           verbal explanation of the study.

        -  Initial PA measurement: Participants who consent are given an Actigraph PA monitor which
           they will be instructed to wear for 7 days to measure their baseline physical activity
           levels. Participants who wish to consider the study can take the PIL home, post it back,
           and receive the Actigraph by post.

      Baseline Session:

      Participants attend

        -  1) An educational session, delivered by the lead researcher, a chartered
           physiotherapist. This is a group information session on PA following cancer treatment.

        -  2) Educational session to introduce the technological component to the participants and
           instruct them in use and upload of Fitbit data to allow monitoring by researcher(s).

        -  3) Measurement of height, weight, BMI and body composition and 6 minute walk test During
           intervention. (week 1-12)

        -  Participants wear Fitbit and upload data for self-monitoring and monitoring by chartered
           physiotherapist researcher.

        -  Participants receive scheduled structured telephone calls, giving them feedback on their
           achievement of goals and reminders about uploading data as follows; 2 calls each week
           till week 4, 1 call a week between week 4 and 8 and 2 calls, 2 weeks apart between week
           8 and week 12.

      After intervention ends (12 weeks):

        -  Measurement of height, weight, BMI and body composition and 6 minute walk test

        -  Participants wear Actigraph x 7 days

           12 weeks after end of intervention:

        -  Measurement of height, weight, BMI and body composition and 6 minute walk test

        -  Participants wear Actigraph x 7 days
    
  