
    
      Atrial arrhythmias are very common and widespread. Recent reports suggest that 9% of patients
      over the age of 65 currently have atrial fibrillation. In individuals of European descent the
      lifetime risk of atrial fibrillation is as high as 26%. Atrial fibrillation carries
      significant risk of complications including: a fivefold increase in risk of stroke, a
      threefold risk of heart failure, a twofold risk of dementia and a twofold risk of mortality.
      As treatment options continue to evolve, the use of catheter ablation procedures are becoming
      increasingly common within the United States. Currently, ablation has a class 1A
      recommendation for patients with symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation refractory or
      intolerant to at least one class I or class III antiarrhythmic medication and a class 2B
      indication before initiation of antiarrhythmic drug therapy. One of the known complications
      of catheter ablation procedures is pain following the procedure. Severe pain has been
      reported in up to 55% of patients undergoing ablation procedures. IV acetaminophen has been
      proven to be effective at controlling pain in post intra-abdominal surgery, however, its use
      is limited due to the cost of this medication. Other studies have suggested that there is no
      clear indication for IV over oral acetaminophen in patients who are able to take oral.
      Empirically the investigators have seen patients complaining of pain after all
      electrophysiology procedures, not limited to just ablation procedures. To the best of the
      knowledge of the investigational team, at this time, no studies have looked at using oral
      pre-procedural acetaminophen to assist with pain control following electrophysiology
      procedures. The investigators are looking to perform a randomized, double blind, placebo
      controlled study to evaluate the use of pre-procedural oral acetaminophen to help control
      post procedural pain.
    
  