
    
      Contraceptive Implants (CIs) were introduced to the commercial market in the early 1980s.
      They are advocated as a safe and effective method of contraception, and are included on the
      WHO's Essential Medicines list.

      CI manufacturers have focused intense efforts on making insertion of CIs easier, but have
      largely left CI removals untouched and at the mercy of the various service providers.
      Different introducers and trocars are available for use with the different CI systems
      available internationally, and a second generation, single-use trocar is supplied with the
      Nexplanon® implant system available in Sweden. This second generation trocar has reduced the
      number of misplaced or deeply inserted CIs, and underlines the benefits of standardizing
      minor surgical procedures through the use of dedicated medical devices.

      The CI removal procedure recommendations have remained essentially unchanged for 40 years,
      relying on scalpels, forceps and general surgical skills from the service provider.
      Currently, no standardized technique for removal of CIs exists, and no dedicated CI removal
      device is found on the commercial market.

      Removal of palpable subdermal implants is generally a simple, minor surgical office
      procedure. However, the procedure for implant removal requires more training and skill than
      the procedure for insertion. There is a risk of slippage of the scalpel blade or a sudden
      movement by the client causing inadvertent deeper penetration, in which case any underlying
      structure could be affected.

      Mean removal times, from time of incision until removal of the rod, are consistently reported
      as less than four minutes, however with ranges from 0.2 - 60 minutes.

      Available research shows that the procedure length of the current CI removal procedure is
      highly variable and reliant on individual operator skills.
    
  