
    
      Null hypothesis: Ulnar nerve decompression with or without supercharged end-to-side (SETS)
      anterior interosseous nerve transfer for McGowan classification stage III cubital tunnel
      syndrome results in similar ulnar intrinsic motor recovery.

      Background Functional motor recovery distal to a peripheral nerve lesion is predicated upon
      time to reinnervation of the motor end plate and the number of regenerate axons that reach
      the target. Supercharged end-to-side (SETS) transfer of the anterior interosseous nerve to
      the motor fascicle of the ulnar nerve at the level of the distal forearm has been proposed as
      an adjunct procedure in severe cubital tunnel syndrome to augment motor recovery of the
      ulnar-innervated intrinsic muscles. The proposed mechanism of action of SETS is twofold: (1)
      "babysitting" the motor end plates until native regenerate axons reach their target, and (2)
      augmented partial recovery through axonal growth through the new pathway.

      Multiple Level IV Therapeutic studies and a systematic review of Level IV Therapeutic studies
      have reported favorable clinical and electrodiagnostic outcomes following SETS for cubital
      tunnel syndrome, with low rates of complications. However, in the absence of controls, it
      remains unclear what proportion of the observed intrinsic motor recovery is attributable to
      the SETS procedure. Koriem et al. recently published a prospective, randomized comparative
      study of ulnar nerve repair with or without SETS for proximal ulnar nerve injuries and
      demonstrated superior intrinsic recovery and claw correction with the SETS procedure.
      Prospective, randomized trials of SETS for severe cubital tunnel syndrome are needed.

      The objective of this study is to compare the results of ulnar nerve decompression with or
      without SETS for severe cubital tunnel syndrome. In this study, severe cubital tunnel
      syndrome is defined as McGowan classification stage III disease (sensory deficits, motor
      deficits, and the presence of intrinsic atrophy).

      Methods Patient Selection A prospective, randomized controlled trial will be conducted at two
      participating institutions: Brigham and Women's Hospital and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
      Center. Inclusion criteria are patients 18 years of age or older indicated for surgical
      treatment of severe cubital tunnel syndrome at one of the two participating institutions.
      Inclusion criteria furthermore includes a preoperative nerve conduction study and
      electromyography documenting ulnar neuropathy at the elbow with present fibrillations and
      positive sharp waves in the FDI or ADM within one year of surgery. Severe cubital tunnel
      syndrome is defined in this study as McGowan classification stage IIB or III disease (sensory
      deficits, motor deficits, and the presence of intrinsic atrophy). Exclusion criteria include
      ulnar nerve transections, traumatic brachial plexus injuries, brachial plexus neuritis (e.g.
      Parsonage-Turner), cervical radiculopathy, primary motor neuropathy (e.g.
      Charcot-Marie-Tooth), prior cubital tunnel surgery, and oncologic etiologies of ulnar nerve
      compression. Exclusion criteria additionally include patients who are not capable of
      decision-making or are unable to understand the study procedures. Non-English speaking
      patients are excluded since our secondary outcome variables may not have been translated and
      validated in other language(s). Comorbid carpal tunnel syndrome, concomitant carpal tunnel
      release, comorbid diabetes mellitus, and internervous connections such as Martin-Gruber
      connections are not criteria for exclusion.

      Randomization Patients included in this study will be randomly assigned to the SETS group or
      the control group with a 1:1 enrollment ratio. A computerized random number generator will be
      used for allocation, which will be concealed by sequentially numbered, sealed, opaque
      envelopes opened after patient consent and enrollment.

      Treatment The control group will undergo cubital tunnel release in situ. In cases of
      preoperative or intraoperative ulnar nerve instability, anterior transposition of the ulnar
      nerve will be performed. A soft dressing will be applied for in situ decompressions. A
      posterior elbow plaster splint will be used for anterior transpositions for 2 weeks. Patients
      will receive formal occupational therapy for scar massage, range of motion, and progressive
      intrinsic strengthening starting at 2 weeks postoperatively for 6 weeks duration.

      The SETS group will undergo the same procedure as described above, with the addition of the
      SETS procedure as previously described.1 Decompression of Guyon's canal during the SETS
      procedure is at the discretion of the treating surgeon. In addition to the aforementioned
      elbow dressing, a neutral wrist splint will be used for 2 weeks. Patients will receive formal
      occupational therapy for scar massage, range of motion, and motor re-education consisting of
      repetitive forearm pronation exercises starting at 2 weeks postoperatively for 6 weeks
      duration.

      Data collection

      Primary outcome variable:

      Subterminal key pinch strength (kg) - continuous Time points: 0, 3 months, 6 months, 12
      months, 18 months

      Secondary outcome variables:

      Patient-Rated Ulnar Nerve Evaluation (PRUNE) score - continuous, non-parametric Disabilities
      of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) score - continuous, non-parametric MRC forearm pronation
      strength in elbow flexion and extension - ordinal, non-parametric Time points: 0, 3 months, 6
      months, 12 months, 18 months

      Explanatory variables:

      Age - continuous, non-parametric Sex - dichotomous Dominant hand - dichotomous BMI -
      continuous, parametric Diabetes mellitus - dichotomous Smoking status - dichotomous Worker's
      Compensation status - dichotomous Duration of symptoms at presentation (months) - continuous,
      non-parametric Preoperative NCS SNAP - continuous, parametric Preoperative NCS CMAP -
      continuous, parametric Guyon's canal decompression - dichotomous

      Statistical analysis An a priori power calculation was performed. Assuming a 1:1 enrollment
      ratio and a mean subterminal key pinch strength of 4 kg (standard deviation 1 kg), a sample
      size of 32 (16 patients in each group) has 80% power to detect a 1 kg difference in
      subterminal key pinch strength between groups.

      Descriptive statistics will be calculated for the study cohorts. The student's t-test will be
      used to compare the primary outcome variable and the Mann-Whitney U test will be used to
      compare the secondary outcome variables between the SETS group and the control group.

      The investigators will use bivariate analysis to screen for factors associated with poorer
      outcome in the SETS group and in the control group. Variables that meet our inclusion
      criteria (p < 0.1) will be included in a multiple regression model to assess for independent
      factors associated with poorer outcomes following the study procedures.
    
  