
    
      Crohn's disease is a recurrent inflammatory disorder. Current treatment strategies aim
      reducing intestinal (and systemic) inflammation based on the use of Immunomodulators (IM) and
      biologics (B). However, some patients, particularly in the pediatric age group do not respond
      with remission to standard therapy and approximately 30% of patients lose response to
      efficient therapy. There is a clear unmet need for new treatment strategies. In addition,
      patients and families have a high degree of reluctance to use IM/B as life-long medication,
      particularly due to potential side effects including cancer, lymphomas, serious infections or
      drug-related immune diseases. This is of particular importance for children/adolescents with
      CD, potentially exposed over many decades to various IM/B. Experimental and epidemiological
      data indicate that the western life style and particularly modern food play a key role in the
      development of CD, probably via alteration of the intestinal barrier function and/or
      enforcing the intestinal dysbiosis. Based on these data and the observation that exclusive
      enteral nutrition is highly efficacious in inducing remission in active CD, nutritional
      therapies are more and more in the focus for the development of new treatment approaches.

      The main objective is to assess if the addition of CDED to ongoing standard medication is
      superior to reduce the rate of relapses over 12 months compared to standard medication alone
      in children/adolescents with unstable CD responding with remission after a 2-months course of
      CDED.

      To achieve this objective, eligible patients with active CD will participate to this study
      for a 13 months period. After a screening period, the patients will have a 2 months run-in
      phase where they will follow the CDED protocol, but continue their maintenance therapy, with
      the exception of corticosteroid that have to be tapered and stopped at the end of the 2
      months.

      Then, the patients responding to CDED during run-in will be randomized at M2 to one of the
      two treatment arms (CDED/Modulen™IBD® or Unrestricted food access) and will have 4 follow-up
      visits (M4, M6, M9 and M12)
    
  