
    
      Primary aim of this study is to evaluate changes in cognitive function in the early
      postoperative phase after minor surgery in patients of older age (≥65 years).

      Background: Postoperative cognitive dysfunction can be a serious complication after surgery
      and is associated with higher mortality.Several studies have demonstrated that major surgery
      and patients of older age are risk factors for the incidence of cognitive decline in the
      postoperative phase. Only a few studies investigated the early postoperative changes in
      cognitive function (< 24 hours) after minor, day case surgeries in older patients (≥65
      years), demonstrating a higher incidence than observed ≥1 week after surgery.

      Aim of the project: This study aimed to investigate changes in cognitive function after minor
      surgery in an elderly patient cohort.

      It is the effort to plan perioperative care that can reduce the incidence of postoperative
      cognitive dysfunction in elderly.

      Hypothesis: The present study support the hypothesis that changes in cognitive function after
      ocular surgery will be greater in the general anesthesia group compared to the sedoanalgesia
      group.

      Methods:

      The study will be conducted as a single center, prospective, observational controlled trial
      at the Medical University of Vienna, Austria.

      This prospective and observational study involves consecutive elderly patients (≥65 years)
      undergoing a minor surgery using general anesthesia or local anesthesia with sedoanalgesia.
      Fifty patients, 65 years and older, scheduled for elective minor ocular surgery and 25
      participants as control group without surgical intervention will be recruited.

      Enrollees will be divided in 3 groups:

      25 patients general anaesthesia (GA), 25 patients sedoanalgesia combined with local
      anaesthesia (SA) and 25 participants as control group(CO) without surgical intervention.

      Anesthesia will be induced in a standardized fashion in both groups (GA,SA). At baseline the
      performance on neurocognitive testing using the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) hast to
      be ≥24, otherwise participants will be excluded.

      The design utilizes prospective serial assessments of cognitive status. The participants will
      be evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively over 3 time-points (preoperatively, 6 and 24
      hours after surgery) using the Neurocognitive Test Battery Vienna (NTBV) for cognitive
      assessment.

      At the same time points blood tests for plasma levels of S 100-B, IL-6, CRP, vitamin B 12,
      vitamin D, homocysteine and folic acid will be taken.

      This project will investigate the correlation between perioperative changes in these serum
      parameters with neurocognitive outcome in the elderly after minor surgery to explore whether
      the concentrations of these parameters can be used as predictors of postoperative cognitive
      dysfunction and to provide reference for postoperative cognitive dysfunction prevention,
      early detection and timely diagnosis and treatment.

      Further purpose of this study is to investigate if there is an association between changes in
      intraoperative cerebral oxygenation, changes in perioperative blood pressure, depth of
      anaesthesia and the presence of cognitive deterioration after surgery.

      It is the effort to plan perioperative care that can reduce the incidence of postoperative
      changes in cognitive function.
    
  