
    
      The assessment of the anatomy of the round window will be executed using the stractured
      measuring software used for imaging of the Bnai Zion medical center (CARESTREAM PACS Ver.
      11.0, CARSTREAM HEALTH INC.) in IAC window (centered at 700 with a total width of 4000) in
      the available zoom by the software (usually 400-800%).

      Measuring the length (mm) and angle will be executed by the software's structured rulers.

      Measuring protocol:

        1. Measured scans: one taken in an orbito-meatal plane

        2. Chosen slices: where both the round window niche and the external ear canal are seen on
           the same slice

        3. Distances measured:

             1. Distance 1: between the anterior edge of the round window niche and the cortex of
                the mastoid, with a minimal distance of 0.5mm to the posterior wall of the external
                ear canal

             2. Distance 2: between the posterior edge of the round window niche and the cortex of
                the mastoid, with a minimal distance of 0.3mm to the anterior edge of the mastoid
                segment of the facial nerve.

             3. Distance 3: the size of the round window niche (from its anterior to posterior
                edges)

             4. Distance 4: between the anterior (most medial) edge of the round window membrane to
                a point at least 0.3mm anterior to the mastoid segment of the facial nerve.

             5. Distance 5: between the posterior (most lateral) edge of the round window membrane
                to a point at least 0.3mm anterior to the mastoid segment of the facial nerve

             6. Distance 6: size of round window membrane (anterior/medial to posterior/lateral)

             7. Distance 7: between the lateral edges of distance 1 and 2 marking the cortical size
                of the "working channel" created between the lines (from the cortex to the round
                window).

        4. Angles measured:

             1. Between distance 1 and 7 - marking the angle of the "working channel" relatively to
                the cortex

             2. Between distance 1, passing in the middle of distance 3 to the middle of distance 6
                - marking the angle of possible insertion from the working channel into the cochlea
    
  