
    
      LCCC 1841 is a multicenter open-label, single-arm, phase 2 study designed to investigate the
      antitumor effects of acalabrutinib in subjects with relapsed primary central nervous system
      lymphoma (PCNSL), and relapsed secondary CNS lymphoma (SCNSL) with no evidence of current
      systemic disease. Subjects with the following histological subtypes of lymphoma will be
      included in the study: diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL, all subtypes); mantle cell
      lymphoma (MCL, all subtypes); plasmablastic lymphoma, and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. Up to
      32 subjects will receive acalabrutinib at the dose of 100 mg approximately every 12 hours. A
      Simon two-stage design will be used to minimize the expected sample size if the regimen has
      low activity. In the first stage, 15 evaluable subjects will be enrolled and treated. If =8
      subjects have an overall response of stable disease or better as determined by the
      International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group Response Assessment Criteria , an
      additional 13 subjects will be enrolled and treated in the second stage of the study for a
      total of 28 evaluable subjects treated on the trial. The study will accrue up to 32 subjects
      to ensure data from 28 evaluable subjects. If <8 subjects have an overall response of stable
      disease or better as determined by the International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group
      Response Assessment Criteria, the study will be closed to accrual and no additional subjects
      will be enrolled. If the study shows a positive effect of acalabrutinib in treating CNS
      lymphomas, acalabrutinib could become the standard relapsed CNS lymphoma regimen, not only
      for PCNSL, but also in certain subtypes of SCNSL. Any complete responses to acalabrutinib
      treatment will be clinically notable as spontaneous remissions do not occur.

      In a previous study, ibrutinib showed a CR rate of 45% and an ORR of 68% ; in another study
      ], ibrutinib showed a CR rate of 17% and an ORR of 55%. Thus, in order to recommend further
      investigation of acalabrutinib as a regimen for primary CNS lymphoma, acalabrutinib treatment
      must show an overall response rate (ORR) of at least 70%, which would demonstrate that it is
      not inferior to previously approved regimens.
    
  