
    
      Early detection of functional decline among home dwelling older adults and immediate onset of
      rehabilitation, can improve function, and reduce or delay need for home-based assistance and
      nursing home placement. Towards year 2050 there will be a significant increase in number of
      elderly persons in Norway, with an urgent need for new models for early intervention and
      rehabilitation in order to give service to a larger amount of elderly persons. Reablement is
      a new and promising rehabilitation model which many Norwegian municipalities are implementing
      in order to meet current and future needs for municipal home-based services. However, very
      little research has been conducted regarding the effectiveness of this intervention. This
      study aims at assessing the effectiveness of reablement in terms of daily functioning and
      economic costs compared to standard home-based treatment and care.

      The study will be conducted in the municipality of Voss in Western Norway, a municipality
      with only 14000 inhabitants. It is a double-blinded, block-randomized controlled intervention
      trial, recruiting home-dwelling older adults with an initial functional decline in daily
      activities. The intervention is intensive, multidisciplinary, home-based rehabilitation given
      by home-trainers, under supervision from an occupational therapist or a physiotherapist. The
      control intervention is standard home-based treatment and care.

      Thirty participants will be recruited in each arm of the study. The participants will be
      assessed at baseline, and at 3-, and 9 months follow-up. Primary outcomes will be
      participation, activity, and municipal expenditures. Costs are generated by the working hours
      of the different professions. Hence, there will be a daily registration of the working hours
      different health care professions spend in the private homes of the participants.

      Power calculations based on study with a similar target group using the instrument Canadian
      Occupational Performance Measure, estimate a need for only 21 participants in each group due
      to the longitudinal design. However, in order to account for possibilities of frailer target
      group or a large drop out rate (40 %), a total number of 30 participants in each group will
      be tried recruited. Data analyses will be performed according to intention to treat. The
      working hour data is panel data and will be analyzed accordingly; a random or a mixed effect
      regression model will be employed. Also, descriptive statistics and simpler tests will be
      carried out.
    
  