
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of the combination of ethyl icosapentate (icosapent ethyl) 2 gm
      orally daily plus physical activity (PA) for the reduction of cancer related fatigue (CRF)
      (Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue [FACIT-F] subscale) at the end of
      8 weeks in patients with advanced cancer by comparing the difference between the FACIT-F
      subscale score at baseline and at 57 +/- 5 days, between patients who will receive either
      Icosapent ethyl plus physical activity and placebo plus physical activity.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility, adherence, and satisfaction of using the combined
      intervention for the reduction of cancer related fatigue in advanced cancer.

      II. To explore the effects of the combination of Icosapent ethyl 2 gm orally daily plus
      physical activity on quality of life (QOL)-related variables, mood (HADS - Hospital Anxiety
      and Depression Inventory), quality of life domains (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy -
      General [FACT-G]), cancer related symptoms (Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale - ESAS) in
      these patients.

      III. To explore the effects of combined intervention on serum C - reactive protein and
      intracellular cytokine levels (IL-6, TNF-a, IL-10, IL-1RA) before and after treatment.

      IV. To explore its side effects and tolerability of the combined study interventions in these
      patients.

      V. To explore the effect of multimodal therapy on body composition. VI. To explore the effect
      of the proposed treatment in this study on the overall survival time in patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive ethyl icosapentate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 8 weeks.
      Patients complete resistance exercises 3 days per week and undergo walking program at least 5
      days per week for 8 weeks. After 8 weeks, patients may optionally continue to receive ethyl
      icosapentate, complete resistance exercises, and undergo walking program for 4 weeks.

      GROUP II: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 8 weeks. Patients complete resistance exercises
      3 days per week and undergo walking program at least 5 days per week for 8 weeks. After 8
      weeks, patients may optionally receive ethyl icosapentate, complete resistance exercises, and
      undergo walking program for 4 weeks as in Group I.

      GROUP III: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 8 weeks. Patients meet with an exercise
      specialist during the first week to learn different stretching exercises and complete the
      stretching exercises 3 days per week for 8 weeks. After 8 weeks, patients may optionally
      receive ethyl icosapentate, complete resistance exercises, and undergo walking program for 4
      weeks as in Group I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month.
    
  