
    
      Leptin is an adipocyte-derived hormone that can be thought of as a signal from adipose tissue
      to the rest of the body conveying information about long-term nutritional status. Patients
      with lipodystrophy have leptin deficiency secondary to lack of adipose tissue. The
      combination of leptin deficiency and ectopic lipid deposition in patients with lipodystrophy
      leads to metabolic complications including severe insulin resistance and diabetes,
      hypertriglyceridemia, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, and polycystic ovarian syndrome. Between
      2000 and 2014, the NIDDK IRP conducted an open-label clinical trial of the recombinant human
      leptin analog, metreleptin, in patients with generalized and partial forms of lipodystrophy.
      This study showed that metreleptin ameliorates metabolic and endocrine abnormalities in
      lipodystrophy, including reducing food intake, improving insulin resistance and diabetes,
      reducing ectopic lipid, and normalizing reproduction. Based on these data, metreleptin was
      approved by the FDA in February, 2014, for patients with generalized, but not partial,
      lipodystrophy. Our data have shown, however, that a subgroup of patients with partial
      lipodystrophy do gain medical benefit from metreleptin.

      The purpose of this study is twofold:

        -  To provide access to metreleptin to patients with partial lipodystrophy who have
           previously received and derived benefit from metreleptin through NIH studies (protocols
           02-DK-0022 and 13-DK-0057).

        -  To continue to collect data on the long-term efficacy of metreleptin in ameliorating the
           metabolic complications of partial lipodystrophy.

      Metreleptin will be given at doses of less than or equal to 0.24 mg/kg/day, adjusted based on
      body weight and metabolic control. Patients will be seen approximately once per year at NIH
      for evaluation, and potentially less frequently for those who are medically stable and have
      difficulty traveling to NIH. Laboratory evaluation will be obtained more frequently by the
      patient s home providers as clinically indicated. The primary outcomes of the study are
      improvements in serum triglycerides and hemoglobin A1c levels. Secondary outcomes include
      measures of steatohepatitis and ectopic lipid, body composition, bone mineral density and
      bone mineral metabolism, and pituitary and reproductive function.

      Metreleptin is supplied by Amryt Pharma, Incorporated. Neither the NIH nor Amryt Pharma can
      guarantee that leptin will be available indefinitely and/or after the study ends.
    
  