
    
      -  RNA extraction: We will extract total RNA from cell lysates by using Tri-reagent
           (Molecular Research Center, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio) and an RNA Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden,
           Germany) according to the manufacturer's instruction. RNA obtained from the Mini Kit
           column will be eluted. The quantity and quality of the purified RNA will be evaluated
           using a NanoDrop ND-1000 spectrophotometer will be stored at -80 °C for further
           mutational analyses.

        -  Data acquisition: We will record and follow patients' clinical information, including
           ethnicity, age, gender, smoking status, histological types, lung cancer stage (the TNM
           status), metastatic sites, ECOG score, CT/CXR imaging, chemotherapy or radiation
           treatment at the time of diagnosis of lung cancer and through the entire clinical
           courses. Specific marker such as TTF1, is used to ensure the diagnosis of primary lung
           tumor. Clinicopathologic stage assigns according to the seventh tumor-node-metastasis
           classification. We assess the treatment responses according to the Response Evaluation
           Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) using the unidimension method, and record the best
           response achieved per treatment. Treatment response, progression-free survival, and
           overall survival are recorded prospectively for further analysis.

        -  Statistical analysis: All categorical variables will be analyzed with Pearson's χ² test,
           except where a small size required the use of Fisher's exact test. The progression-free
           survival curve and overall survival will be plotted by the Kaplan-Meier method and
           compared by the log-rank test. Multivariate analysis for overall survival will be
           performed using the Cox's proportional hazards model. Two-sided p-values of less than
           0.05 is considered significant. All analyses will be performed using SPSS software
           (version 16.0 for Windows; SPSS Inc.).
    
  