
    
      The treatment of infants with antiepileptic medications after the resolution of neonatal
      seizures is highly variable and controversial. Infants are commonly treated with
      phenobarbital after their seizures have resolved to prevent recurrence. Data to support this
      practice are lacking but animal models suggest that the neonatal brain is vulnerable to
      repeated seizures. Yet exposure of the developing brain to phenobarbital for prolonged
      periods may have deleterious consequences. We are proposing a multi-center, randomized,
      clinical trial (RCT) to determine if continued treatment with phenobarbital reduces seizure
      recurrence without adversely affecting neurodevelopmental outcome or if infants' outcomes are
      improved if no prophylactic medication is given. We will identify infants with seizures
      beginning in the first week that resolve within 7 days and randomize them to receive
      phenobarbital or placebo daily for four months. Via visits and frequent telephone contacts
      over the first six months, we will determine the rate of seizure recurrence. The primary
      outcome, neurodevelopmental status, will be assessed at 18-22 months using the Bayley Scales
      of Infant Development. Additional subgroup analyses are planned to determine the contribution
      of seizure etiology to outcome and predictive value of initial EEG classification. The trial
      will be conducted at 18 - 20 sites, chosen for their experience and proven track record for
      enrollment and retention in this specific population. The trial will be coordinated by the
      Clinical Trials Coordination Center at the University of Rochester and overseen by a Steering
      Committee composed of experienced trialists representing neonatology and pediatric neurology,
      biostatistics, and clinical trial administration.

      Extrapolation from the results of an RCT of phenobarbital prophylaxis after febrile seizures
      in children suggests that phenobarbital may adversely affect brain development and may be
      ineffective in preventing seizures. Based on this previous RCT that resulted in near
      universal change in practice (the elimination of prolonged use of phenobarbital after simple
      febrile seizures), we anticipate that the data we generate may have a similar impact on
      standard of care for infants with neonatal seizures.
    
  