
    
      Adult patients aged >18<65 years, hypercapnia with PH <7.25, hypoxic index less than 200
      (PaO2/FIO2), bilateral parenchymatous lung infiltration in the chest Xray. All selected
      patients received conventional ventilation with protective lung strategy for 3 days with
      Controlled mechanical ventilation mode (CMV), fraction inspired oxygen (FIO2) of 100%,
      Positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) adjusted to achieve target arterial oxygen saturation
      (SPO2) of >90%. Sedation and pain control done by both midazolam and fentanyl infusion to
      achieve Richmond Agitation- Sedation Scale (RASS) -2. Protective lung strategy applied and
      include, head elevation more than 45-degree, daily assessment for both analgesic and sedative
      dose, early naso-gastric feeding to prevent bacterial translocation and flooding of the blood
      with gram negative septicemia, usage of the minimal PEEP to maintain SPO2 >90%. Qualitative
      sputum culture was taken after 3 days from ventilation. After 3 days from the conventional
      ventilation only 240 patients enrolled in our study. Those who had a Murray score (for
      diagnosis of ARDS) of >3 and CPIS (clinical pulmonary infection score) (for diagnosis of VAP)
      > 6. All patients were randomly allocated in 2 groups 120 patients in each. All patients
      received intravenous antibiotics meropenem 1 gm slowly intravenous every 8 hours for the
      first 8 days then antibiotics was given according to sputum culture and antibiotics
      sensitivity. Group A received high dose (30 mg/kg) methylprednisolone slowly intravenous in
      250 ml normal saline every 8 hours for only 4 days while group B included received 1
      mg/kg/day methylprednisolone divided to three doses given every 8 hours for two weeks. This
      study conducted for 16 days.

      VAP diagnosed in our study by CPIS 6 or more while severity of lung contusion assessed by
      Murray score 3 or more
    
  