
    
      Identification of peri-implant bony lesions by clinical parameters or radiographs alone may
      sufficiently reflect the topographical outline of a peri-implant bony lesion. To date, no
      comparative studies are available that identify the accuracy of clinical parameters or
      radiographs in outlining the extent and the severity of the lesion. If these parameters are
      of sufficient accuracy, surgical procedures to regenerate the lesion may be more predictable
      to plan.

      The study population will be patients undergoing regular implant maintenance care in the
      National Dental Centre Singapore, Periodontics Unit, Department of Restorative Dentistry and
      yielding peri-implantitis (residual probing depths ≥6mm and bleeding on probing, bone loss of
      ≥2mm documented on periapical radiographs).

      In the first part of the study, the variability of the clinical parameters and periapical
      radiographs will be assessed and compared to the actual bony lesions revealed after surgical
      access. This prospective cohort study will encompass 24 subjects. In the second part of the
      study, a randomised controlled clinical trial will be staged exploring the clinical outcomes
      of regenerative therapy of the peri-implant lesions applying 2 different bone substitutes
      with a barrier membrane for the principle of guided bone regeneration (GBR).

      First part of study:

      The null hypothesis is that of no difference in the mesial and distal radiographic readings
      as compared to the measurement obtained by clinical probing of the actual peri-implant
      lesions. The null hypothesis is also that of no difference between probing depth measurements
      and the actual lesions measured under open access.

      Second part of study:

      The null hypothesis is that of no difference in clinical outcomes with the use of a synthetic
      membrane (Guidor®) with a compound of biphasic calcium phosphate, 60 % hydroxyapatite and 40
      % beta-tricalcium phosphate (Guidor easy-graft® CRYSTAL) (test) when compared to the same
      membrane and phase-pure beta-tricalcium phosphate (Guidor easy-graft® CLASSIC ) (control), in
      GBR of peri- implantitis lesions.

      End Points - Efficacy For the subjects, the potential benefits may include improvement in the
      clinical outcomes.

      End Points - Safety The risks involved include complications that may result with all
      surgeries, i.e., risk of infection, swelling, pain and bruising.
    
  