
    
      In 2010, the Joint Commission (JC) issued a Sentinel Event Alert highlighting the need to
      detect suicide risk in all non-behavioral patients in medical settings. Detecting suicide
      risk among medical patients is important because this population is at elevated risk for
      suicidal thoughts and behaviors, and because for many of these patients, a medical visit is
      their only portal into mental health services. Of note, the vast majority of people who die
      by suicide visit a medical setting, such as an inpatient oncology unit, more frequently than
      a psychiatric setting in the months leading up to their death. Thus, the inpatient medical
      setting is an important stakeholder in decreasing suicide-related morbidity and mortality.
      Physicians and nurses working in non-mental health settings require tools to guide them in
      recognizing patients at risk. Nonetheless, there are currently no suicide screening
      instruments designed specifically for assessing suicide risk in an adult inpatient medical
      population.

      In 2012, our study team conducted a Quality Improvement Project (QIP) at the National
      Institutes of Health Clinical Center (NIH CC) which demonstrated that the asQ em (Ask
      Suicide-Screening Questions to Everyone in Medical Settings), a brief instrument piloted to
      detect suicidal thoughts and behaviors among adult medical inpatients, was both feasible to
      administer and acceptable to both patients and staff. Extending this work, the aim of this
      current study is to further develop and psychometrically validate the asQ em among adult
      medical inpatients. While most inpatients will not be at imminent risk for suicide, we
      hypothesize that the asQ em will identify a number of patients who screen positive for
      suicide risk on a longer gold standard instrument, and that they are thus not only at risk
      for suicidal behavior in the future, but are also experiencing significant emotional distress
      and therefore warrant further mental health evaluation and recommendations for follow-up
      treatment.

      This study will be a prospective, cross-sectional multisite study with patients enrolled from
      the NIH CC, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Rhode Island Hospital, and John
      Peter SmithHospital. The total planned sample size will be 810 (180 from WRNMMC, 180 from
      RIH, 200 from JPS, and 250 from NIH CC). We will administer several short measures of suicide
      risk: the 20 asQ em candidate items; a criterion standard Adult Suicidal Ideation
      Questionnaire (ASIQ); two questions which assess for suicidal behavior from a second
      criterion standard, the Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation (BSI); a brief depression screen, the
      Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9); and an exploratory variable questionnaire, to all
      eligible inpatients aged 18 years and older. The ultimate goal of this project is the
      development of a validated risk of suicide screening instrument that can be administered
      rapidly by non-mental health clinicians to medical inpatients and in turn, connecting those
      in need with mental health services. Additionally, we hope to pilot the Suicide Implicit
      Association Test (S-IAT) in a subsample of recruited patients. The S-IAT is a brief computer
      task which measures a person s implicit association between self and either life or death .
      We expect to demonstrate that the S-IAT is feasible to administer in the inpatient medical
      setting thereby providing a potential alternative to self-report questionnaires for assessing
      patients thoughts about death or suicide.

      Future studies will focus on examining the practical implications of nurses administering the
      asQ em as standard of care during the admission process on a medical inpatient unit and
      validating the asQ em in non-English speaking patients, addressing a critical gap in suicide
      prevention research. In addition, examining the long-term clinical impact of screening
      general medical patients for suicide risk with the asQ em and linking those in need with
      mental health services and/or other interventions will be important next steps.
    
  