
    
      As irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) symptoms are often refractory to conventional therapies,
      there has been increasing interest in the role of diet in IBS. Certain foods may exacerbate
      symptoms of IBS. Thus, restricted diets have recently gained attention for the treatment IBS.
      The mechanism by which symptoms are improved is unclear, but these diets may improve symptoms
      by exerting changes on the GI microbiome.

      Aims:

      Primary Objective:

      -Compare the proportion of patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) reporting adequate
      relief on Diet 1 vs Diet 2

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Assess the effects of these diets in patients with diarrhea-predominant IBS on the
           gastrointestinal microbiota and blood based biomarkers.

        -  Compare the efficacy of Diet 1 vs Diet 2 in patients with diarrhea-predominant IBS on
           pre-specified clinical and quality of life endpoints.

      Methods:

      This is a prospective randomized control trial of adults meeting the Rome III criteria for
      irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D). After a 2 week screening period and
      randomization, during which the severity of symptoms will be assessed and eligibility
      determined, patients will be randomized to Diet 1 vs Diet 2 for a period of 4 weeks.

      The primary endpoint will be a comparison of the proportion of patients in each group
      reporting adequate relief of their IBS symptoms. For the secondary clinical outcomes, a
      responder definition incorporating abdominal pain and stool consistency as proposed by the
      FDA will be utilized. Key IBS-D symptoms will be assessed daily and adequate relief of IBS-D
      symptoms will be assessed weekly during the randomization period. We will also determine if a
      difference can be detected with high probability in the relative abundance and variety of
      specific bacterial taxa between the two groups before and after the 4 week dietary
      intervention. In addition, blood samples will be collected before and after randomization to
      measure relevant biomarkers of immune activation.
    
  