
    
      Background: Caregiving can severely limit caregivers' lives. In order to keep their family
      member at home, dementia caregivers often experience physical and psychological strain,
      social isolation, loss of time for self, and inability to obtain and/or afford assistance
      with caregiving tasks. The amount of time spent in providing care for a family member with
      dementia contributes to these problems. Dementia caregivers report spending around 18 hours
      per day in caregiving tasks and 3 hours per day in supervision. The high levels of stress
      involved in caring for a dementia patient and the widespread lack of training in such care
      can lead to a vicious cycle of ever-increasing health care dependency, first for the patient
      and secondly for informal caregivers. Telephone Support Groups have the potential to address
      caregivers' stress, isolation and education about dementia and its management, leading to
      sustainable informal caregiving and lower healthcare use and overall VHA expenditures for the
      veteran patient with dementia.

      Objectives: Study objectives are to 1) examine Telephone Support Groups' effectiveness for
      caregivers, 2) determine whether Telephone Support results in decreases in VHA health care
      use and costs for the veteran, and decreased VHA and/or non-VHA use and costs for the
      caregiver, and 3) examine the intervention's effect on caregivers' time spent providing care.
      The long-term objective is to develop and disseminate the protocol and materials for
      effective Telephone Support Groups that can be used across the VHA system.

      Methods: This randomized clinical trial of 154 caregivers (Black/African American,
      White/Caucasian, rural, urban) compared dementia caregivers participating in Telephone
      Support Groups to caregivers whose family members with dementia were receiving usual care.
      Either the caregiver or the patient had to be a veteran receiving care at the VAMC Memphis.
      In the treatment condition, there were 15 year-long support groups of one trained group
      leader and 5 to 6 caregivers. Each support group met 14 times. The one hour calls were
      semi-structured conference calls with education, coping skills and cognitive restructuring,
      and support components. A Caregiver Notebook with information on each topic provided
      materials for the educational sessions. Topics included knowledge of dementia, safety,
      caregiver health and well being, communication, managing behavioral challenges, and caregiver
      stress and coping. A workshop focusing on the same behavior management and stress topics was
      offered to Usual Care caregivers at the end of their participation.

      Data were collected in caregivers' homes by trained Research Associates at baseline, six and
      twelve months. VHA health care use and data for the veteran were based on the Patient
      Treatment File (PTF) and the Outpatient Clinic File (OPC) and costs data used the Health
      Economics Resource Center (HERC) Average Cost Data Sets.
    
  