
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Estimate the maximum tolerated dose of capecitabine rapidly disintegrating tablets (RDT)
           administered concurrently with radiotherapy in young patients with newly diagnosed,
           nondisseminated intrinsic brain stem glioma or high-grade glioma.

        -  Describe the dose-limiting toxicity in patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Describe the safety profile of this regimen.

        -  Characterize the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine RDT in these patients.

        -  Explore the exposure-response relationship for measures of safety and effectiveness
           using pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic models.

        -  Describe the antitumor activity of this regimen observed in these patients.

        -  Estimate distributions of progression-free survival and survival in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Characterize radiographic changes in tumor, using MRI, perfusion and diffusion MRI, and
           positron emission tomography (PET) scans, in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This a multicenter, dose-escalation study of capecitabine rapidly disintegrating
      tablets (RDT).

      Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for approximately 6 weeks. Beginning
      within 24 hours of starting radiotherapy, patients also receive oral capecitabine RDT twice
      daily on days 1-21. Treatment with capecitabine RDT repeats every 21 days for 3 courses.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of capecitabine RDT until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Beginning in week 12, patients receive capecitabine RDT at a fixed dose twice daily on days
      1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood collection periodically during course 1 for pharmacokinetic
      correlative studies. Patients also undergo MRI, and rapid perfusion/diffusion MRI at baseline
      and periodically during study for radiographic correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  