
    
      1. BACKGROUND:

           Burn injuries are the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in children. They are
           associated with a lot of pain that is difficult to treat and can impede recovery, cause
           high levels of anxiety and alter future pain behaviors, resulting at times in chronic
           pain, paresthesia, or depression. Pain can also decrease participation in treatments
           such as physiotherapy resulting in poor health outcomes. Beyond the immediate pain
           experience, children may develop memories that are accurate, positively or negatively
           estimated (i.e., remembering more or less pain, respectively, as compared to initial
           pain reports). The way that children's memories are framed is important for future pain
           coping and distress at subsequent painful experiences. Moreover, it has been shown that
           pharmacological and non-pharmacological pain management strategies may buffer children
           from developing such biases in pain memories. Procedural pain is still largely managed
           pharmacologically mostly through the use of opioids, benzodiazepines and other
           pharmacological agents which cause a lot of side effects and do not always provide
           sufficient pain reduction. In recent years, the effectiveness of multimodal approaches
           combining medication with non-pharmacological interventions for procedural pain relief
           has been highlighted. Distraction techniques engaging multiple senses may grab the
           child's attention more than the techniques that only engage one sense (e.g, music),
           hence, the increasing interest in more immersive and interactive methods of distraction
           such as VR.

           VR is an active distraction method that allows the user to interact with an immersive
           environment generated by a computer stimulating different senses. A review of studies on
           VR, mostly conducted with adult burn patients, showed a 35 to 50% reduction in
           procedural pain while using VR. However, despite promising results, the use of VR in
           healthcare settings has been limited, mainly due to its high cost. Reviews have
           highlighted the need for more research but mostly for the development of more portable,
           less expensive and more developed VR systems that would promote pain reduction during
           burn procedures especially for children with burn injuries who are considered one of the
           most challenging burn populations. However, there has been a breakthrough in technology
           since 2014 when big scale companies started investing in VR development for commercial
           gaming. Facebook purchased the Oculus Rift® for mass production allowing access to the
           latest technology in VR at a relatively low cost. Oculus Rift® is a VR tool that
           provides a wide field of view, high resolution display, integrated 3D audio and motion
           detection. In addition, its highly immersive properties could help achieve more
           analgesia compared to other VR techniques as a review has shown that the sense of
           presence influences the effectiveness of VR-based analgesia. The sense of presence is a
           subjective psychological state of consciousness of being in the virtual world whereas
           immersiveness refers to the physical environment that could be quantified by measuring
           the field of view or the peripheral vision in the VR goggles. The availability of
           inexpensive yet highly immersive VR googles such as Oculus Rift® could increase the use
           of VR in pain management and burn settings while significantly improving its cost
           effectiveness. A single case study assessed the feasibility of a VR intervention via
           Oculus Rift® in one child of 11 years old with burn injuries during occupational
           therapy. The study showed a reduction in pain intensity and pain unpleasantness
           experienced by the patient, without any side effects. To the knowledge of the
           investigators, no other studies have tested the distraction via Oculus Rift® for
           procedural pain management in children with burn injuries undergoing painful
           physiotherapy treatments.

        2. AIM:

           The aim of this study is to assess the effect of distraction by VR via Oculus Rift® for
           the relief of procedural pain, anxiety and decrease memory of pain in children with burn
           injuries.

           Primary Research Question: In children aged 7 to 18 years, who have suffered burn
           injuries, does VR distraction via Oculus Rift® combined with analgesics provide better
           pain relief during painful procedures including dressing changes and physiotherapy than
           standard pharmacological treatment alone?

           Secondary Research Questions: a) In children aged 7 to 18 years, who have suffered burn
           injuries, does VR distraction via Oculus Rift® combined with analgesics provide better
           anxiety relief during dressing change and physiotherapy than standard pharmacological
           treatment alone? b) Does the use of VR distraction lead to less distressing memories of
           pain than standard pharmacological treatment alone? c) Does the use of VR distraction
           reduce the dose and side effects of analgesics used during burn wound dressing changes
           and physiotherapy in children?

        3. HYPOTHESES

             1. VR distraction via Oculus Rift® combined with analgesics is more effective than
                standard treatment (analgesics alone) to manage procedural pain of children with
                burn injuries.

             2. VR distraction via Oculus Rift® combined with analgesics is more effective than
                standard treatment (analgesics alone) on procedural anxiety of children with burn
                injuries.

             3. VR distraction via Oculus Rift® combined with analgesics will lead to less
                distressing memories of pain than standard treatment (analgesics alone) in children
                with burn injuries

        4. METHODS 4.1 Design. One-group within subject/crossover study design. Given the
           difficulty of ensuring a single or a double-blind condition, and in order to limit the
           interpersonal variability between participants, each child will serve as their own
           control and will receive both standard and experimental treatments during the same
           treatment session through a randomized order.

      4.2 Sample and Setting. Participants will be recruited through convenience sampling upon
      admission to the surgical-trauma burn unit at CHU Ste-Justine, Montreal (Qc), Canada. For a
      statistical power of 80%, an alpha of 0.05, and a significant difference of two points on a 0
      to 10 on the NRS pain scale, the size of the total desired sample is 40 participants who will
      serve as their own controls. The setting of the study is the main referral center for
      pediatric burns in Quebec. It receives nearly 60 admissions during the time of the year when
      there is a higher incidence of burns (April to October) and over all close to 100 admissions
      per year. One third of the total admissions are aged 7 years and older. Given a possible
      census of 33 admissions per year, it appears feasible to recruit around 40 patients over a
      period of two years. This is also the reason behind the choice of the design which would be
      the most feasible given the total population available for recruitment.

      .3 Interventions. A) Standard pharmacological treatment B) Standard treatment in addition to
      Virtual Reality distraction via Oculus Rift

      4.4. Measures. Pain, anxiety and comfort measures will be taken before the treatment
      (physiotherapy or dressing change) session (T1) (for expectancy and baseline state), after
      the first sequence of the session (T2) and after the second sequence of the session (T3).
      Healthcare professionals will be asked to fill an anonymous satisfaction questionnaire 30
      minutes after the end of the session (T4). Memories of pain/anxiety will be assessed at least
      24 hours after each procedure (T5).

      4.5 Study proceedings. Physiotherapy and dressing change sessions typically last between 10
      and 20 minutes. The duration will be divided in two sequences of the same duration (5 to 10
      minutes) where the participant receives the same treatment (range-of-motion exercises for
      physiotherapy or wound cleaning and gauzes application for dressing changes) by the same
      healthcare professional (physiotherapist or nurse). For one sequence, only the standard
      pharmacological treatment will be administered and for the other sequence, patients will
      receive the standard pharmacological treatment in addition to the virtual reality distraction
      via OR. The order of sequences will be randomized.

      4.6 Data analysis plan. Multivariate Analyses and quantitative comparisons will be conducted
      within and between subjects for the dependent variables for repeated measures. The mean
      difference in pain scores of patients at each time-period will be compared using a paired
      t-test. Since the use of rescue medication is a potential indication of a treatment failure,
      the primary analysis will be supplemented by an analysis comparing the proportion of patients
      receiving rescue medication anytime during the procedure. Interpretation of the primary
      analyses will be made with reference to the data regarding rescue medication use. Data
      collected on dichotomous variables will be analyzed using a chi-square test and post-hoc
      analyses if the results are statistically significant.
    
  