
    
      Study Design: This is a randomized, controlled trial assessing the impact of nature sights
      and sounds (NSS) on pain control in oncology outpatients undergoing bone marrow aspirate and
      biopsy (BMBx) in the Weinberg Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins. One hundred twenty patients
      will be assigned to one of three groups: 1) standard care, 2) NSS, 3) Music/Photo. The
      primary outcome will be pain scores during the procedures as measured by the Hopkins Pain
      Rating Instrument (HPRI). Patients in all groups will receive analgesic medications as
      dictated by the personnel performing the procedure and the physicians responsible for their
      clinical care. Patients in the NSS group will have Bedscapes nature scene murals placed at
      the bedside in a location that is visible throughout the procedure. They will also listen to
      a complementary audiotape during the procedure. The music/photo group will listen to city
      sounds during the procedure and view a poster of a city skyline.

      Setting: The study will be conducted in the Weinberg Cancer Pavilion of the Kimmel Cancer
      Center at the Johns Hopkins Hospital.

      Patient Selection: All patients 18 years and older with a diagnosis of cancer undergoing a
      BMBx in the Johns Hopkins Oncology Center will be screened for enrollment in the study.

      Informed Consent: The study design and consent procedure will be explained to all prospective
      patients. If patients are interested in taking part in the study, written informed consent
      will be obtained. The study nurse will administer a mental status exam and assess
      eligibility. Consent and screening must occur within 5 days of the patient's procedure.

      Randomization: Blocked randomization will be used with variable block sizes to ensure roughly
      equal numbers of patients in each study arm.

      Study Interventions: All subjects will have pain managed by the physicians responsible for
      their clinical care as dictated by those physicians. Subjects assigned to NSS will have
      Bedscapes fabric panels depicting a scene of a mountain stream placed by the procedure table
      at a location where it will be visible throughout the procedure. An accompanying audiotape of
      complementary nature sounds will be played on portable tape players through headphones or
      speakers. They will be instructed to listen to the tape and look at the nature scene as
      frequently and for as long as they desire. The standard care group will have pain managed
      according to current oncology center protocols but will not be allowed to use the distraction
      interventions. The Music/Photo group will be played a tape of typical city sounds and will
      have a poster of a city skyline placed by the procedure table. The city skyline poster will
      be similar in size to the Bedscapes mural. The skyline image is a daytime photograph without
      water, trees or other nature elements. The subjects will be asked to listen to the music and
      view the picture during the procedure.

      The HPRI will be used to measure pain. This is a plastic VAS with a sliding marker that moves
      within a grove. The side facing the patient appears like a traditional VAS. It has a 10cm
      line with the anchors "No Pain" and "Worst Pain Imaginable". The opposite side of the
      instrument is a 10 cm scale with markings every 0.5cm that enables the clinician to read and
      record numerical values (see figure in appendix). Scores will be recorded to the nearest
      0.5cm. All patients will have a baseline assessment of pain immediately prior to the
      procedure. Subjects will be interviewed within one hour following the procedure and will be
      asked to quantify their pain during the procedure.Patients will also complete a questionnaire
      following the procedure in which they will score their level of pain control during the
      procedure on a 5-point Likert scale, which was used in the bronchoscopy study .

      Data Collection: Following the procedure patients will complete a set of questionnaires.
      Questions will inquire about attitudes, beliefs and prior use of CAM. Patients in the NSS,
      and Music/Photo groups will be asked whether they found the study intervention to be helpful
      and if so what aspects of the intervention were beneficial. They will be asked to rate their
      satisfaction with several aspects of the procedure including comfort, the nursing care, the
      physician care, and the facility. Psychological distress will be measured with the Brief
      Symptom Index 18 , negative mood states and anxiety will be measured with the Profile of Mood
      States (POMS) . The BSI provides a global symptom severity score that will be used to control
      for subjects' underlying psychological distress, while POMS is well suited to measuring
      changes in mood related to the procedure. We will specifically focus on the Tension-Anxiety,
      Depression-Dejection, Anger-Hostility, and Confusion-Bewilderment subscales. Differences in
      response to pain will be measured with the Pain Catastrophizing Scale . Salivary cortisol
      will be measured before and after the procedure as a neuroendocrine marker of stress. Two
      baseline measurements of cortisol will be taken at least 15 minutes apart prior to the
      procedure. Immediately following the procedure three additional salivary cortisol samples
      will be collected approximately 15 minutes apart. The study nurse will record heart rate,
      blood pressure and respiratory rate before and every 15 minutes during the procedures. The
      high and low systolic blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate will be extracted. The
      study nurse will record the percentage of time the patient used the study intervention during
      the procedure. Patients will also be asked what percentage of the time they used the
      intervention.

      Outcomes: The primary outcomes is to determine if NSS is effective at reducing pain in cancer
      patients undergoing invasive procedures, we will compare mean pain scores during the
      procedure from the HPRI between the NSS group and the standard care group. We will also
      compare the difference between ratings of baseline pain and pain during the procedure in the
      two groups and the rating of pain control during the procedure between the groups. We will
      also determine if NSS reduces pain more than non-nature based distraction therapy we will
      compare pain ratings, and the difference in pain ratings from baseline to that during the
      procedure between the NSS and the music/photo group. Lastly we will determine if NSS reduces
      affective distress in cancer patients undergoing painful procedures we will compare mean
      scores from the POMS between the three groups. Secondary outcomes that pertain to all
      specific aims include vital signs during procedures and salivary cortisol levels. We will
      also assess overall satisfaction with care, ratings of physicians, ratings of nurses, and
      attitudes towards CAM interventions using Likert-type scales.

      Sample Size: The primary outcome is difference in maximal pain level during procedures
      between the NSS group and the Music/Photo group. Power estimates are based on the magnitude
      of effect from the bronchoscopy study and the standard deviation of pain ratings in bone
      marrow biopsies studied by Dr. Grossman. In order to have 80% power to detect a 2-point
      difference in pain rating using the HPRI with an alpha error level of 0.05 we will need 29
      patients in each group (total n=87). We plan to enroll 40 patients in each group (total
      n=120) to compensate for study withdrawal and missing data. We will continue to enroll
      patients until we have met these goals.

      Data Entry and Management: The Biostatistics Core of the CAM center will provide
      recommendations on data entry and analysis. Because this is a small, single center trial of a
      relatively safe intervention there will not be a formal data safety monitoring committee.
      However, Dr. Lechtzin will oversee data integrity.

      Adverse Events Monitoring: This is a minimal risk intervention and we expect very few adverse
      events. During our bronchoscopy study there was only one adverse event; a patient became
      incontinent on the procedure table due to the sound of running water. Adverse events to the
      experimental intervention will be assessed at the interview following the procedure by
      recording all voluntary complaints of subjects and through structured interviews. Attention
      will be directed to clinical adverse experiences associated with the procedure and the
      experimental intervention. In addition, all study participants will be provided a telephone
      number they can contact 24 hours/day, 7 days/week in case of questions, concerns, or adverse
      events. Adverse events will be documented on a standardized case report form. Summary reports
      of adverse events will be generated every three months. Dr. Lechtzin will review these. All
      serious adverse events including death, hospitalization, and premature withdrawal will be
      reported to the principal investigator within 24 hours of their occurrence. The principal
      investigator will report all serious adverse events to the Johns Hopkins IRB. Unexpected
      adverse events will be reported within 10 days.

      Statistical Analysis: Analyses will be based on intention to treat. Analyses will be
      performed comparing patients who used NSS to the standard care group and the Music/Photo
      group. Descriptive analyses will be performed to assess subject characteristics
      (demographics, disease characteristics, education, prior CAM use and attitudes). Procedure
      characteristics will be compared including duration, complications, and medication usage.
      Continuous variables will be represented as mean plus or minus SE, medians and interquartile
      ranges. Bivariate analyses of outcomes will compare pain ratings, POMS subscales, and
      psychological distress between the groups. Chi squared test or Fisher's Exact test will be
      used to compare categorical variables such as age, gender, and race between groups. Unpaired
      t-tests or the Kruskal Wallis test will be used to compare continuous outcomes such as Pain
      Inventory scores. Pain scores will be analyzed as continuous variables and will also be
      categorized into mild (0-2), moderate (3-6) and severe (7-10). Multivariate analyses will be
      performed in order to adjust for possible confounding factors such as amount of narcotic
      analgesics given and amount of local anesthetic used. Ordinal logistic regression models to
      explain pain level by study intervention will be developed to adjust for factors such as age,
      gender, race, procedure type, education level, local anesthetic dose, narcotic dose,
      benzodiazepine dose, and BSI score. Additional factors will be included in the models if they
      are significant in bivariate analyses. Logistic regression models will be developed to
      determine factors associated with favorable response to NSS. Stepwise maximum-likelihood
      ratio estimation with a significance level of 0.2 for removal and 0.1 for inclusion will
      assist in model development. For all analyses significance will be set at p<0.05.
    
  