
    
      Alcohol misuse and smoking constitute two of the three leading preventable causes of death in
      the United States. Reluctance to treat tobacco dependence among those with AUD is misguided
      as recent research suggests smoking cessation treatment can be effective, does not increase
      risk of relapse to alcohol, and may even improve rates of sobriety. There is strong evidence
      for the short-term efficacy for alcohol misuse and smoking of contingency management (CM). It
      is an intensive behavioral therapy that provides incentives (vouchers, money) to individuals
      misusing substances contingent upon objective evidence from drug use. Implementation of CM
      has been limited because of the need to verify abstinence multiple times daily using clinic
      based monitoring. The investigators recently developed a smart-phone application which allows
      a patient to video themselves several times daily while using a small CO monitor and to
      transmit the data to a secure server which has made the use of CM for outpatient smoking
      cessation portable and feasible. This mobile CM (mCM) approach paired with
      cognitive-behavioral counseling and pharmacological smoking cessation aids has been effective
      in reducing smoking.

      Thus, the purpose of this project is to develop a combined alcohol and smoking mCM
      intervention. The intervention will be developed in two successive cohorts of five
      participants, who will provide information on treatment acceptability and feasibility. A
      third cohort of participants (n=45) will participate in a randomized clinical trials to
      further examine feasibility and efficacy. The long term goal is to develop mCM procedures
      that will be used as part of a multi-component intervention to concurrently and effectively
      treat both alcohol misuse and smoking. As part of this project, the investigators will
      develop a multi-component telehealth alcohol and smoking mCM intervention. It will include
      mCM, cognitive-behavioral phone counseling, and standard smoking cessation pharmacotherapy.
      The work proposed in these aims will provide the first step toward implementation of an
      innovative approach that builds upon the power of mHealth technology to reduce the prevalence
      of both alcohol misuse and smoking.
    
  