
    
      Low back and neck pain accounts for the third-highest amount of U.S. healthcare spending,
      estimated at $87.6 billion annually. Moderate quality evidence already exists showing
      acupuncture's effectiveness for low back pain. Other than a few mostly foreign randomized
      controlled trials (RCTs) on acupuncture for neck pain, there are fewer quality studies on
      acupuncture's effectiveness for neck pain than for low back pain. The safety of acupuncture
      is well established. The risk of hematoma or infection due to acupuncture is lower than with
      venipuncture.

      There is a lack of evidence on the cost-effectiveness relationship of this treatment strategy
      in the United States. A PubMed search found only three cost-effectiveness analyses of
      acupuncture for neck pain studies, all done abroad.

      Since Medicare and several large private insurance companies still do not cover acupuncture,
      patient access to this therapy is significantly limited by out-of-pocket cost. A quality
      comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness study on acupuncture for chronic neck pain
      is needed from several perspectives. From the patient perspective, such a study would inform
      patients and providers in decision-making regarding integrating acupuncture in the care plan.
      From a third-party payer perspective, such a study would inform insurance companies whether
      it is cost-effective for them to cover acupuncture for this specific diagnosis. From a
      societal perspective, such a study would inform policy decision-makers whether acupuncture is
      a sound "investment" to better make resource allocation decisions for its citizens.

        1. The primary aim of this trial is to explore the comparative effectiveness of acupuncture
           plus "usual care" vs. usual care alone for reducing chronic neck pain.

        2. The secondary aim of this trial is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of acupuncture for
           this condition from multiple perspectives.

      The primary endpoint will be determined by comparing the mean change score on the neck
      disability index from baseline (month 0) to the treatment completion (month 2.5), and 3.5
      months after completion of the acupuncture treatment (month 6) between groups.
    
  