
    
      Adult participants aged 18 or greater will be recruited from the greater Kingman AZ area
      through social media, radio, newspaper, and a press release. Participants self-selected
      inclusion in the study by calling into a COVID-19 hotline and will be included in the sample
      data following self-report of absence of covid-19 symptoms. Participants will be scheduled
      for testing on the weeks of 09/28/2020 and 10/05/2020. Upon recruitment, participants will be
      asked to complete a demographic and behavioral survey, assessing socioeconomic status,
      interpersonal interactions, personal protective measures, and COVID-19 symptomology in the
      preceding two months. Two months after initial testing, all negative SARS-CoV-2-specific
      antibodies participants will be contacted for repeat testing and surveying.

      SARS-CoV-2-specific antibodies will be tested using a lateral flow immunoassay with the
      VITROS Anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG test (Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc.) under the Emergency Use
      Authorization (EUA) from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The diagnostic sensitivity
      of the immunoassay was 87.5% and specificity was 100%. The positive and negative predictive
      value with a prevalence of 5% in the community was 100% and 99.3% respectively. All data will
      be de-identified and stored in a password protected file only visible to study investigators.
      All positive results were called back to participants by the lead author.

      Data obtained was then used to estimate the population prevalence of SARS-CoV-2-specific
      antibodies in the Kingman, Arizona population. Unweighted and weighted proportions of
      positive tests were calculated to match the 2018 census on sex, race, education, and income.
      Confidence intervals for unweighted data will be estimated using exact binomial models and
      for weighted and adjusted estimates using bootstrap methods. All data was analyzed using
      SPSS.
    
  