
    
      This is a prospective, randomized controlled study that will assess ability of Veinplicity to
      improve successful peripheral vein cannulation at the first stick in enrolled subjects.
      Potential subjects will undergo a peripheral vein assessment by a study clinician, which is
      standard of care prior to peripheral vein cannulation (PVC) for the establishment of
      intravenous (IV) access. Adults who are assessed as having "fair or poor" vein quality will
      be consented, enrolled and randomized into the study. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1
      ratio to either (1) tourniquet alone (control group); or (2) Veinplicity with tourniquet
      (treatment group). The primary endpoint is first-stick success. Clinicians will use an 18-,
      20- or 22-gauge cannula. Clinician and subject satisfaction will be separately assessed using
      surveys on Day 0. Subjects in both groups will be followed for one day (either phone or
      in-hospital visit) after enrollment for safety. Qualified study clinicians must have at least
      one year of experience inserting peripheral IVs and must perform an average of five PVCs per
      week. The primary hypothesis to be tested is: Veinplicity with tourniquet is superior to
      tourniquet alone for successful peripheral vein access at first stick when used to cannulate
      subjects assessed as having a fair or poor level of vein quality. It is expected that this
      study will enroll approximately 246 subjects; 123 per study group. It is expected that up to
      five sites will be involved in this study. A planned interim analysis will be conducted to
      reassess the study planned sample size when approximately 50% of subjects have been enrolled.
      Enrollment will not stop during the interim analysis activities. Safety will be evaluated by
      the collection and analysis of the incidence and severity of all procedure- and/or
      device-related adverse events through the Day 1 phone call/visit.
    
  