
    
      The rapid rise in antibiotic resistance among common bacteria are adversely affecting the
      clinical course and health care costs of community-acquired infections. Because antibiotic
      resistance patterns are strongly correlated with antibiotic use patterns, multiple
      organizations have declared reductions in unnecessary antibiotic use to be critical
      components of efforts to combat antibiotic resistance. Among humans, the vast majority of
      unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions are used to treat acute respiratory tract infections
      (ARIs) that have a viral etiology. In particular, despite the fact that numerous controlled
      trials have demonstrated no benefit of antibiotic therapy for patients with acute bronchitis,
      the majority of patients diagnosed with acute bronchitis continue to receive antibiotic
      therapy across diverse treatment settings. Recently, the National Committee on Quality
      Assurance adopted the proportion of adult visits diagnosed as acute bronchitis when an
      antibiotic was NOT prescribed as a quality measure within the HEDIS data set. Recent results
      from the HEDIS dataset emphasize the continued high rates of antibiotic prescribing for
      patients with acute bronchitis. One key factor driving overuse of antibiotics in the
      management of patients with lower respiratory tract infections-such as acute bronchitis-is
      diagnostic uncertainty and inaccurate risk estimation of underlying pneumonia in such
      patients. Recently, our study team has observed substantial reductions in antibiotic
      prescribing following the incorporation of a diagnostic and treatment algorithm into an acute
      care setting. This acute cough management algorithm incorporates data on vital signs and
      symptoms distinguishing patients with community-acquired pneumonia from other patients with
      acute cough illness, specifically those with acute bronchitis. The acute cough management
      algorithm has become even more valuable in recent years due to the introduction of quality
      measures that emphasize the timely administration of antibiotics for patients with
      community-acquired pneumonia. Thus, strong empirical evidence of the effectiveness of such an
      algorithm could lead to wide adoption of the algorithm and substantial improvements in
      antibiotic prescribing. The investigative team is proposing a unique partnership with
      Geisinger Health System, a large integrated health network, to implement and evaluate the
      algorithm. Utilizing a cluster-randomized trial design across 33 practice sites, we will
      address the following aims: 1) To measure the reduction in antibiotic prescribing resulting
      from incorporation of the algorithm compared to usual care sites utilizing two different
      implementation strategies, one poster-based and one electronic health record-based, 2) To
      measure revisits, delayed hospitalizations and net economic costs associated with algorithm
      implementation, and 3) To evaluate local practice characteristics influencing the level of
      implementation and ultimate performance success at intervention sites. In a final component
      of the study, the investigators will partner with NCQA to disseminate study results through
      the national network of participating plans and stimulate wide spread adoption of the
      algorithm and quality improvement methods.
    
  