
    
      Metabolic syndrome (MetS), an important risk factor for Cardio Vascular Disease (CVD), is
      associated with a 2-fold increase in consequences of CVD and 1.5-fold increase in the total
      mortality . The term MetS refers to a clustering of CVD risk factors including abdominal
      obesity, high blood pressure, high blood glucose, high levels of blood triglycerides, and low
      levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. An inappropriate lifestyle is one of
      the most important risk factors for MetS and CVD . Likely, Workplace and working conditions
      can affect an employee's lifestyle including dietary intake, physical activity, sleep
      pattern, and their hobbies.

      Workplace environment may also affect the occurrence of metabolic syndrome, Air pollution is
      another risk factor that can increase the risk of metabolic disorders. Recent epidemiological
      and experimental studies have reported an association between increased level of air
      pollution with insulin resistance, weight gain, and obesity . Air pollution is higher in some
      industrial work environments, including those of the gas and petrochemical industries. This
      may also increase the risk of MetS and CVD among employees of those workplaces. Few studies
      have assessed the health of employees in industrial workplaces. However, the working
      conditions of industrial workplace can have a significant impact on the lifestyle and health
      of employees.

      The prevalence of metabolic syndrome has recently been suggested to vary greatly depending on
      the subject's business category; high prevalence of metabolic syndrome has been reported
      among the retired, unemployed, bus drivers, university employees, and workers in the
      agricultural industry , oil industry , and health care sector .

      Type of occupation is also important in development of metabolic syndrome. For example, the
      incidence of metabolic syndrome in the white-collar workers are higher than other male
      workers. Those with sedentary or shift work carry a higher risk of metabolic syndrome. The
      incidence of metabolic syndrome is 2.3-fold higher in those working for 10 or more hours per
      day.

      Multiple studies have linked benzene exposure with the abnormality of hematologic parameters,
      such as the reduction in the counts of white blood cell (WBC), red blood cell (RBC),
      neutrophil, and lymphocyte, even at low exposure levels (< 1 ppm). A decreased WBC count has
      been considered as a key clinical sign of benzene-induced hematotoxicity.

      However, studies investigating the relationship between work environment and metabolic
      syndrome in our region are scarce. We therefore, conducted this study to determine the
      relationship between work environment and metabolic syndrome among a petrochemical workers &
      non industrial workers.
    
  