
    
      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: Compare the freehand ultrasound (FUS) and skin-based markers methods with a
      well-established and accurate dynamic biplanar fluoroscopy combined with model-based tracking
      techniques to evaluate scapular kinematics.

      Hypothesis 1: Throughout the arm elevation and weight relief raise, FUS measurements will
      have lower standard error of measurement, greater intra-rater repeatability, and better
      agreement with biplanar fluoroscopy techniques than skin-based method for scapular tilting,
      upward rotation, and external rotation.

      Aim 2: Establish the convergent validity of FUS and skin-based markers method by describing
      the relationship between scapular kinematics and established measures of shoulder pain and
      pathology.

      Hypothesis 2: Individuals with paraplegia diagnosed with more severe shoulder pain and signs
      of shoulder pathology will have reduced scapular posterior tilt, upward rotation, and
      external rotation during arm elevation and weight relief raise tasks compared to those with
      less shoulder pain and pathology.

      Aim 3: Characterize the effect of lesion level on scapular behavior during arm elevation and
      weight relief raise tasks.

      Hypothesis 3: When compared to individuals with low-level paraplegia, individuals with
      high-level paraplegia will have decreased posterior tilt, upward rotation, and external
      rotation during arm elevation and weight relief raise tasks.

      Study Procedure

        -  Human Subjects Ten individuals with paraplegia aged from 18 to 65 years old will be
           recruited for Aim 1, 2, and 3. An additional 30 individuals with paraplegia will be
           recruited for Aim 2 and 3. The participants will be dichotomized between high-level
           group (at T7 and above) and low-level group (below T7).[3] Inclusion Criteria include
           the level of your spinal cord injury is determined as paraplegia more than one year ago.
           Use the manual wheelchair as the primary means of mobility (>80% of mobility). Subjects
           do not have a history of fractures or dislocations in the shoulder from which they have
           not fully recovered and do not have an implant/pacemaker in the torso and dominant arm,
           Subjects with neurologic deficit in the arm will be excluded, as these would impact
           scapular kinematics. Subjects with a history of traumatic injury to the upper limb that
           has not fully recovered and those with syrinx or complex regional pain syndrome
           involving the arms will be excluded as this could also affect our measures but be
           unrelated to dynamic scapular movement. Subjects who have impaired cognition or
           difficulty reading the informed consent will also be excluded. Based on literature and
           our previous experience, we expect at least 50% of the SCI population to have shoulder
           pain. We will determine the prevalence of shoulder pain as subjects are recruited.
           Participants may be recruited through the research registry for the Center of
           Rehabilitation Outcomes Research or Clinical Neuroscience Research Registry at
           Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago.

        -  Methods and Procedures

      General questionnaire Basic demographics including age, gender, height, weight will be
      recorded. We will also record disability type, lesion level, motor scores (using the
      International Standards for Neurological Classification), date of injury, and handedness.

      Motion capture Participants will transfer to a customized chair equipped with an adjustable
      guide bar in the sagittal, coronal, and scapular plane. The chair is designed to ensure
      consistency in arm movement from rest to elevated positions. Height and depth-adjustable pads
      and adjustable straps will provide supports to isolate the scapular kinematics and minimize
      trunk movement. Participants will wear a slim-fit white tank top or remove their shirt to
      allow for placing the markers on the trunk and dominant arm. Marker placement, determined by
      the International Society of Biomechanics,[4] will include the following bony landmarks: C7,
      T8, anterior sternoclavicular (sternum), xyphoid, acromion, lateral epicondyle, medial
      epicondyle, and greater trochanter. These markers allow measurement of trunk and upper arm
      movement during trials. A custom designed orthogonal attachment with markers allows tracking
      of the US probe through space during scanning. A custom-made triangular triad, with three
      reflective markers, will be attached to the flat superior bony surface of the acromion
      process. For each subject, a static capture of all markers will be collected in the standard
      anatomical neutral position to create the reference trial between the triad coordinate system
      and scapular coordinate system determined by the markers placed on the acromial angle, root
      of the scapular spine, and inferior angle. After the static capture, the markers on the
      acromial angle, root of the scapular spine, and inferior angle will be removed. Triad
      attachment will remain on the acromion process during the dynamic trial. Movement of the
      subject and ultrasound probe will be collected using a motion capture system.

      Freehand ultrasound technique One operator will perform all ultrasound scanning. Imaging will
      consist of scanning of the scapula. Ultrasound video files will be collected during the
      trial. Scapular scanning consists of positioning the ultrasound probe along the spine and
      medial border of the scapula. The ultrasound probe will be fully contacted and manually held
      on different points along the scapular spine and medial border during the dynamic trials.
      Ultrasound gel is applied to the skin overlaying the scapula and the probe is oriented to
      maintain visualization of the border of the scapula in the image.

      Dynamic biplanar fluoroscopy and model based tracking technique Study will take place at the
      Northwestern Memorial Hospital (NMH) where equipped a number of Siemens/Philips bi-planar
      fluoroscopic imaging systems, managed by Dr. Ellen Kruk. The equipments include Siemens Artis
      Zee biplane, Siemens Neurostar biplane, Philips Allura FD20 fluoroscopic imaging systems
      located at interventional radiology. 64-sliced Siemens Definition or Sensation computer
      tomography (CT) scanners or Siemens 3T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner will also be
      utilized to obtain the bone models of humerus and scapula.

      Procedures Ten participants will be tested for Aim 1, 2, and 3 in NMH and additional 30
      participants will be tested for Aim 2 and 3 in Biodynamics and Muscle Fiber Laboratories at
      Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. For dynamic trial, each participant will perform arm
      elevation (AE) and weight relief raise (WR) trials in a random order. For AE trial, subjects
      will be in their own chairs. Subjects will elevate the arm from neutral to 150° in the
      sagittal, coronal, and scapular plane (30° anterior to the frontal plane). Subjects will use
      their own wheelchair during data acquisition for the WR trial, which entails lifting and
      holding the buttocks off the seat with an elbow locked position.[5, 6] A metronome at a
      frequency of 0.3 Hz will guide AE and WR trials. Once the subjects are on pace with the
      metronome, the researcher will trigger the ultrasound and motion capture systems
      simultaneously. Subjects will be given a rest period after each trial to prevent fatigue.
      Three dynamic trials will be collected in each task. For testing Aim 1 in NMH, ten out of the
      40 subjects will visit the department of interventional radiology at the NMH for the dual
      fluoroscopy testing and a CT scan. The dual fluoroscopic imaging system may track the
      shoulder joint while the subject performs arm elevation and weight relief push-up trials.

      Arm elevation trials The participants may be in their own chair for performing the arm
      elevation protocols. A guide bar will be placed in the sagittal, coronal, and scapular plane.
      Prior to the start of the protocols, we will ask the participant to wear a slim-fit white
      tank top or remove their shirt to allow for placing the motion sensors on the skin of the
      participants' thorax, scapula, and upper arm. The participants will be asked to keep the
      dominant arm by the side. Bony points of the shoulder will be marked. The ultrasound probe
      will be used to sweep over the surface of the shoulder. The participants may be asked to stay
      in this position while up to three readings (ultrasound scans). The participants will be then
      asked to elevate the arm to a flexed position. Bony landmarks on the shoulder will be marked.
      The ultrasound probe will be used to sweep over the surface of the shoulder while the
      participants have risen and lowered the arm. The participants may also be asked to complete
      similar motions while holding a weight. The participants can stop at any time if they
      experience any pain. The participants will be provided rest periods to prevent fatigue. Video
      cameras or photo cameras may be used to record scapular movement and the experiment setup.
      The soft-tissue and bone surface around the glenohumeral joint and scapula will be monitored
      with ultrasound during movement. These trials will take up to 60 minutes to complete.

      Weight relief push-up trials The participants will be asked to keep both arms straight while
      you push-up in your own chair. The participants may be asked to repeatedly hold the push-up
      position while up to three readings (ultrasound scans). The ultrasound probe will be used to
      sweep over the surface of the shoulder while performing the push-up. The participants can
      stop at any time if they experience any pain. The participants will be provided rest periods
      to prevent fatigue. These trials will take up to 60 minutes to complete.

      The participants will have the optional to examine the scapular movement measured using
      bi-planar fluoroscopy ⎯ a dynamic X-ray imaging device. The participants' shoulder joint
      movement will be recorded during arm elevation and weight relief push-up. Before or after the
      bi-planar fluoroscopic imaging, a research staff will send the subjects to NMH Radiology for
      CT scan or Center for Translational Imaging for MRI scan. The CT/MRI scan will be used to
      construct the scapular and humeral models and provide the position and orientation of the
      bones. If feasible the same visit/day will include dual fluoroscopy performed at NMH.
      Otherwise a second visit will be arranged for the fluoroscopy. A qualified radiology staff
      from Department of Interventional Radiology will perform the dual fluoroscopy. This study
      will compare the in vivo scapular movement between the FUS and biplanar fluoroscopy. Entire
      protocol will last up to three hours. A urine pregnancy test will be done for woman subject
      before the fluoroscopy test.

      Shoulder pain and pathology measures We will evaluate shoulder pain using Wheelchair Users
      Shoulder Pain Index (WUSPI): The WUSPI is a 15-item self-report instrument that measures
      shoulder pain intensity in wheelchair users during various functional activities of daily
      living, such as transfers, wheelchair mobility, dressing, overhead lifting, and sleeping. [7]
      Each item is scored using a 10 cm visual analog scale anchored at the ends with the
      descriptors of "no pain" and "worst pain ever experienced." Individual item scores are summed
      to arrive at a total index score. The WUSPI is valid and reliable - test-retest reliability
      of the total index score was 0.99 and Cronbach's alpha (internal consistency) was 0.98.[8] A
      standardized physical examination has been previously used in our study and consists of
      common clinical test such as palpation over the bicipital groove/biceps tendon, Neer
      impingement test, Hawkin's-Kennedy test, and O'Brien's test for the labrum and
      acromioclavicular joint.[9] For each item, the sign/symptom of pain is scored as either
      absent (0), equivocally present (1), or definitely present (2).[9] Items are summed to create
      a total score.
    
  