
    
      Study Aims

      Several clinical trials are underway to investigate if vitamin D2 or D3 provided at various
      doses (10,000-50,000 IUs/week) can improve the side-effects associated with anti-estrogen
      therapies, specifically aromatase inhibitors (AIs). However, these current trials use
      variable forms of vitamin D and predominantly include women with Stage I-III disease,
      excluding women with metastatic breast cancer. Evaluation of the safety of vitamin D3
      supplementation is crucial since supplementation can lead to hypercalcemia and importantly,
      in vitro studies have shown that vitamin D3 influences the transcription of a gene that
      increases estrogen production.27,28 To assure that vitamin D3 does not abrogate the clinical
      effects of anti-estrogen therapies, the effect of vitamin D3 supplementation on estrogen
      production requires evaluation. Therefore, the overarching goal of this pilot study is to
      evaluate the safety, feasibility and efficacy of vitamin D3 supplementation in women with
      MBC. We will address and test the following aims and hypotheses, respectively:

      Aim 1: To determine if weekly supplementation of 50,000 IUs of vitamin D3 raises serum levels
      of 25(OH)D to >30 mg/dl without adverse effects.

      Hypothesis 1: Women who are compliant with vitamin D3 supplementation, as evidenced by
      normalization (>30 mg/dl) or increases in their serum 25(OH)D levels, will not experience
      significant changes in serum calcium, parathyroid hormone or serum estradiol levels.

      Aim 2: To determine the effect of vitamin D3 supplementation on symptom management.

      Hypothesis 2: Women who achieve serum concentrations of 25 (OH)D ≥30 mg/dl or experience
      significant increases in 25(OH)D will exhibit improvements in pain, fatigue, sleep, mood,
      muscle function and overall quality of life.

      Exploratory Aim: To explore the mechanistic effects of vitamin D3 supplementation on
      inflammatory markers and its potential association with symptom management.

      Summary: Evidence from studies involving early stage breast cancer participants confirms that
      musculoskeletal pain, endocrine related symptoms and mood disturbances are commonly
      associated with breast cancer treatment, particularly hormone deprivation therapies. The high
      prevalence of vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency among breast cancer survivors is well
      accepted and further hypothesized to aggravate treatment-related side effects, particularly
      arthralgias. Women with MBC are excluded from the majority of on-going vitamin D
      supplementation trials for safety and generalizability purposes. However, novel therapies are
      continuing to improve and prolong the lives of these women, resulting in a rapidly expansive
      group of breast cancer survivors. While vitamin D supplementation is prescribed to correct an
      underlying nutrient deficiency in the clinical context of preserving bone health, emerging
      evidence suggests it may have more systemic effects. Thus, vitamin D
      repletion/supplementation has profound potential implications for women with MBC, whose
      primary goal of treatment is to minimize the side-effects of treatment in support of optimal
      quality of life. This study reflects a highly innovative, yet simple therapy that could
      ultimately provide these survivors with a much needed evidence-based supportive care
      strategies.
    
  