
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is the descent of the pelvic organs into or through the vagina.
      It is seen in about 11% of the female population by age 80 years old and is often treated
      with surgery. For patients with pelvic organ prolapse a complaint of de novo stress urinary
      incontinence (SUI), potential, or occult SUI after prolapse surgery is well-documented. This
      new onset of incontinence ranges from 6-60% of the time and therefore, patients who undergo
      surgery for POP are at risk for needing a subsequent procedure if SUI is not identified prior
      to the pelvic reconstruction.

      Pre-operative evaluation for SUI includes a history and physical exam. The physical exam may
      include an empty supine stress test ESST, standing cough stress test (CST), pyridium pad
      test, and urodynamics (UDS). Prior studies have been performed to determine which of these
      tests are best at identifying SUI. One systemic review found that UDS was 92% sensitive in
      identifying SUI. When comparing UDS to the cough stress test and the weighed pyridium pad
      test, the cough stress test was found to be 90% sensitive and the pyridium pad test only 60%
      sensitive. The pyridium pad test was 68% sensitive when a pad test was found to be positive
      by orange color stain noted on the pad.

      The various ways these tests are performed have also been evaluated. For example, there was
      no statistical difference in outcomes of a CST; whether completed supine or standing and
      independent of bladder volume. In regards to the pyridium pad tests, several studies have
      compared a 1 hour to 24 hour pyridium pad test with varying results of efficacy. Furthermore,
      in a study done when comparing pad weight and color, even asymptomatic women had positive
      pyridium pad tests suggesting this test is less specific in identifying SUI. A secondary
      analysis of the looked at how different reduction methods effect the predictability of
      post-operative SUI on UDS. Reduction of pelvic organ prolapse with a speculum was the most
      sensitive in identifying post-operative SUI at 53%. However, there is a paucity of evidence
      as to which pre-operative test is best in identifying SUI in patients with pelvic organ
      prolapse.

      In this prospective study, the aim is to determine which test is most sensitive in
      pre-operatively identifying SUI and occult SUI in patients treated for prolapse. The
      hypothesis states that there is a difference between the sensitivity of UDS, pyridium pad
      test and cough stress tests, with UDS being the most sensitive and the gold standard in
      identifying SUI in patients with pelvic organ prolapse.
    
  