
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      Molecular genetics and genomics are revolutionizing the delivery of medicine in general and
      ophthalmology in particular. New treatment and prevention strategies rely on a detailed
      understanding of the genetics and molecular pathogenesis of vision-threatening disease. In
      addition, in order to determine whether an intervention is therapeutic, we must first have
      some understanding of what the best clinical outcome variables are for measuring a treatment
      effect. Because our ultimate goal is to develop disease-specific protocols for specific
      inherited conditions, establishing this protocol will help us establish an initial critical
      mass of patients and of knowledge to write such protocols; as such, this protocol will be
      hypothesis generating. A secondary aim of this protocol is to provide a mechanism for
      obtaining research samples from subjects that may be used for laboratory investigations; in
      this case, the basic research may be both hypothesis generating and/or hypothesis testing.
      Lastly, the Ophthalmic Genetics Branch, as a leader in the field and a sponsor of a clinical
      training program, should have the ability to serve as a tertiary referral center for the
      nation in the area of undiagnosed genetic eye diseases.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Nine-hundred twenty-five (925) individuals with inherited eye diseases and 325 healthy
      volunteers (the unaffected relatives of affected participants) will be enrolled.

      DESIGN:

      This is a combined evaluation/treatment protocol and a genetic repository study. In general,
      participants will undergo a complete, age-appropriate, baseline examination and provide a
      blood sample. Some participants may undergo more specialized ophthalmic and/or

      systemic testing, if clinically indicated by the investigator. The data and images obtained
      from these tests may be used for determining eligibility into another NEI protocol.
      Additionally, the collection of these data will help meet the primary research objectives of
      this study. In a small number of cases, collection of blood, readily available biospecimens
      and body fluids (e.g., urine, saliva, tear fluid, stool, hair or cheek swab samples),
      conjunctival swab or lacrimal gland biopsy, impression cytology, and/or a punch skin biopsy
      may also be performed for research purposes.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      Given the breadth of ages and disease processes covered under this protocol, we will not
      systematically obtain any single outcome variable beyond visual acuity on research subjects.
      However, detailed, disease-specific findings will be collected through the NEI electronic
      medical record. Findings from systemic testing and from outside exams may be tabulated in a
      separate, secure database in the laboratory of the Principal Investigator (PI).
    
  