
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate tumor pathological complete response rate after neoadjuvant paclitaxel with
           vs without carboplatin followed by cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin hydrochloride in
           women with basal-type subtype primary breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the clinical and pathological overall response rate.

        -  To evaluate safety and toxicity.

        -  To evaluate disease-free survival and overall survival.

        -  To correlate low BRCA1 expression (protein and mRNA), p53 mutation, positive CK5/6,
           positive CK 14, basal-like gene expression profile, and response to carboplatin-based
           treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to clinical stage
      (T2-3 vs T4). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (standard therapy): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly in
           weeks 1-12. Patients then receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and cyclophosphamide IV
           on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment with doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide
           repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (experimental therapy): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and
           carboplatin IV over 15 to 20 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment with paclitaxel and
           carboplatin repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive doxorubicin hydrochloride and
           cyclophosphamide as in arm I.

      All patients will then undergo surgical resection of the tumor.

      Patients undergo biopsy for correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for estrogen receptor
      and progesterone receptor status, and molecular endpoints (CK 5/6, CK14, p53, BRCA, and EGFR)
      by RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, protein expression, and gene expression profiling.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  