
    
      According to The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, Early Childhood Caries ECC is
      defined as the presence of one or more decayed (noncavitated or cavitated lesions), missing
      (due to caries), or filled tooth surfaces in any primary tooth in a child under the age of
      six Early Childhood Caries is a serious oral health problem worldwide with a prevalence of
      61.4% in preschool children in Egypt. Bottle-feeding during night-sleep, unhealthy diet with
      high sugar consumption, lack of parental awareness regarding their children oral health, low
      socioeconomic status and lack of access for dental care were all reported as risk factors for
      ECC .

      ECC might lead to adverse effects on children's physical, psychological and social
      well-being, as the associated dental pain and tooth loss can negatively influence children's
      nutrition, phonetics, socializing and sleeping. Moreover, treating ECC represents a financial
      burden for both the family and health care organizations, as it usually necessitates the aid
      of general anaesthesia . Therefore, more attention and efforts should be made to obtain an
      early assessment of oral health status of infants and children and reach the high-risk groups
      of ECC within populations, in order to reduce the prevalence of ECC and consequently to
      improve the quality of life of these children .

      Paediatricians are the first to contact the infants and their families and infants often have
      frequent and regular visits to them than to the dentists. Therefore the paediatricians have
      to recognize their role in the promotion of children's oral health by several means such as;
      assessing the child's risk of developing dental caries, providing basic screening services
      for early detection of dental problems, parental education, and referral of required
      conditions . This is in accordance to the American Academy of Paediatric Dentistry guidelines
      which recommends the utilization of different preventive strategies for the prevention and
      early detection of ECC and also emphasizes the importance of its initiation in the primary
      health care provider's. .

      Gaining information about the knowledge, practice and attitude of paediatricians regarding
      early childhood caries and infant's oral health will help identifying the points of weakness
      and improving their knowledge which will facilitate the early assessment of the oral health
      status and delivery of preventive oral measures to the infants and children which in turn may
      reduce or even eliminate oral diseases.
    
  