
    
      Primary aldosteronism (PA) is a common form of hypertension caused by excess aldosterone
      secretion: it involves over 11% of the patients referred to specialized hypertension centres
      [1], about one fifth of those with drug-resistant hypertension [2] and about 6% of the
      hypertensive patients seen in general practice [3].

      PA is held to cause cardiovascular disease in excess of the degree of blood pressure
      elevation, which translates into a high rate of cardiovascular events. These ominous
      consequences can be prevented with a timely diagnosis. Once the diagnosis of PA has been
      made, the decision to proceed further with surgical or medical treatment depends on
      identification of the PA subtype. In fact, adrenalectomy, can be necessary in up to two
      thirds of the PA cases [1], and was shown to regress cardiovascular damage and prevent CV
      events at long-term [4]. Therefore, identification of PA followed by subtyping entails
      fundamental steps that can be particularly beneficial in some subgroups of patients as those
      with drug-resistant hypertension, who are at high cardiovascular risk of PA [2].

      Adrenalectomy is indicated only once a lateralized aldosterone excess has been identified by
      adrenal vein sampling (AVS). This is a technically challenging procedure because placing the
      catheter's tip within the tiny and short right adrenal vein is difficult. Samples are,
      therefore, often obtained from at or near the orifice of the vein, which can lead to dilution
      of the adrenal hormones, and thus to non selective studies. Unfortunately, accomplishment
      bilateral selectivity was disappointingly low, particularly if high cutoff values of the
      selectivity index are used, as shown by the largest study ever performed worldwide. To
      overcome this limitation several methods have recently been proposed, including stimulation
      with cosyntropin or metoclopramide [5-10], use of alternative biomarkers, as for example,
      plasma metanephrines or androstenedione that have a step-up between adrenal vein and inferior
      vena cava (IVC) higher than cortisol [11], and the intra-procedural rapid cortisol assay
      (IRCA). The latter can improve the success rate of AVS, particularly at a stage when
      radiologists are gaining experience with the procedure. Accordingly, several centres have
      adopted this practice after its introduction [12] and reported anecdotal successes, but
      logistic problems have prevented widespread use of IRCA in clinical practice [13].

      Recently a kit for the semi-quantitative IRCA has been developed [14], which lends itself to
      routine clinical use owing to its simplicity, ease, and speed of use. Yet, the advantages of
      exploiting an IRCA-based strategy for improving the success rate in achieving selectivity of
      AVS has been proven only in one randomized clinical trial (RCT) carried out in Japan, which
      involved 7 centres, most of which had no or, a limited experience with AVS [14].

      RTCs represent the basis for evidence-based and high-grade class of recommendations in
      practice guidelines. Therefore, we plan to test the hypothesis that the IRCA during AVS could
      improve the rate of bilaterally selective AVS studies over that accomplished by a routine AVS
      protocol even when used at referral centres that routinely perform this diagnostic procedure.

      Methods Consecutive patients with biochemical diagnosis of PA seeking surgical cure of PA
      will be recruited for this study, according to current guidelines [15]. These patients have a
      compelling indication to AVS before being referred or not for adrenalectomy [9]. The only
      exclusion criteria will be: a) refusal of the centre to participate in the study; b) refusal
      of the patient to undergo AVS , c) contraindications to the general anaesthesia that is
      required for laparoscopic adrenalectomy; d) cortisol co-secreting adenoma. The latter
      criterion is necessary because, given the cortisol-derived selectivity index (see below)
      primary endpoint chosen, inclusion of these tumours would introduce an obvious confounding
      bias on results [16].

      Study design The outlay of this prospective randomized two-arm multicentre study, and its
      primary endpoint are summarized below. Randomization will be performed with a specific
      algorithm as provided in a the SPSSS statistical package. The study will last until 220
      patients will be recruited and randomly assigned to either arm considering the possibility of
      a 10% dropout rate. Data collection will be performed by means of a specific form created ad
      hoc for the AVIS Study and modified as required [17]. The assignment to either arm will be
      coded and the data analysis for the primary end-point will be performed by investigators
      blindly to arm assignment.

      In the IRCA arm, the plasma obtained simultaneously from each adrenal vein and the IVC will
      be tested with typical cortisol assay and in case of non selective results catheters will be
      repositioned until selective results will be obtained until a maximum of 3 attempts. In the
      IRCA-sham group only the IVC plasma will be tested and no catheter's repositioning will be
      undertaken.

      The AVS will be performed according to the protocol recently described with bilaterally
      simultaneous sampling but without metoclopramide stimulation [5]. The IRCA will be performed
      using the procedure on-going at each participating centre. This implies using either an
      in-house made, or the commercially available semi-quantitative kit (Trust Medical Support
      Co., Ltd. Fukuoka, Japan).

      All procedures will be according to good clinical practice and to the Declaration of Helsinki
      and the study will started after approval of the Ethics Committee of the University of Padua
      and, if necessary, of the participating centres.

      Primary endpoint Selectivity will be determined on both side by using a value of the
      selectivity index > 2.00 as defined in an Expert Consensus Statement of AVS [9]. The
      definition of the selectivity index (SI) has been already reported [16]; briefly, this is the
      ratio between plasma cortisol concentration in each adrenal vein and in the infrarenal
      inferior vena cava blood. The selectivity index will be determined based on measurement of
      cortisol in the central laboratory of each center. For quality control purposes aliquots of
      plasma will be collected in heparina and EDTA for metanephrine and androstenedione
      measurement in the core lab of the coordinating center.

      Sample size calculation and statistical analysis We have calculated that with 100 patients
      submitted to AVS with a normal procedure (Group A) and 100 patients undergoing AVS with IRCA
      (Group B), the study will have a 82% power of detecting a significant difference of 18% at a
      two-sided 0.05 significance level, assuming that the SI in Group A is 67% and in Group B is
      85 %.

      Discussion Currently randomized clinical trials entail the best methodology to provide
      high-grade class of recommendation and high level of evidence. Therefore, they represent an
      inevitable step for introducing novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies where
      uncertainties still exist as the subtyping of PA by means of adrenal vein sampling.

      In fact, the recent publication of SPARTACUS, a randomized clinical trial in the field of a
      subtyping of PA, has challenged the Endocrine Society Practice guidelines recommendation of
      performing AVS in all patients seeking surgical cure of PA, who are reasonable candidate for
      adrenalectomy in general anaesthesia,according to guidelines. In fact, it showed no outcome
      differences between an AVS- and a computed tomography- based strategy for PA subtyping [18],
      thus adding a good deal of fuel to the controversy on whether to submit or not all PA to AVS
      before referring them for adrenalectomy. Although the study was widely criticized and,
      moreover was not adequately powered, it is altogether evident that in current clinical
      practice the diagnostic performance of AVS is far from optimal worldwide as shown in the AVIS
      Study.

      Hence, efforts aimed at proving the usefulness of novel strategies for improving the rate of
      selective AVS studies entail a much worth effort, which should be undertaken by exploiting
      the RCT methodology. We therefore expect that studies, as the one herein described, being
      adequately powered from the statistical standpoint, can provide a definitive answer to the
      question of the whether IRCA can increase the rate of selectivity of AVS. Specifically, we
      expect to be able to detect a difference of about 18%, e.g. from 67% to 85%, in the rate of
      bilateral selectivity between the arms.

      To date, only one study using a single commercially available kit for semiquantitative IRCA
      has exploited use of a randomized design to prove the usefulness of this strategy for
      improving the success rate of AVS in Japan [14]. Unfortunately, most recruited centres and
      radiologists were not proficient in performing the procedure, which might explain the
      remarkable advantage seen with IRCA. Hence, it remains to be demonstrated if use of the IRCA
      can provide similar advantages in different settings as referral centres endowed with
      radiologists that are proficient in performing AVS. Once verified, or disproved, this
      hypothesis will have an impact on widespread adoption or abandoning of the IRCA in clinical
      practice.

      In summary, testing the usefulness of an IRCA for increasing the success rate of AVS in a
      multi-centre randomized clinical trial as that herein described is expected to fill an
      important gap of information in the field of subtyping of PA. This increased knowledge will
      ultimately improve the diagnostic use of AVS, which remain the key test for referring PA
      patients for adrenalectomy.
    
  