
    
      As of 2013, it was estimated that 4.0 million individuals in the U.S. were living with a TKA,
      representing 4.2% of the population fifty years of age or older (8). As of 2010, there were
      81,489,445 people aged 45 to 64 in the U.S. (4), with a rate of 39.5 total knee
      arthroplasties per year per 10,000 individuals in that age group (3). Therefore,
      approximately 322,000 TKAs were performed in 2010 for those aged 45 to 64. A 2010 study from
      The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found the average cost of home health care
      following TKA to be $3,709 per episode of care per patient (5). This results in nearly $1.2
      billion dollars in U.S. healthcare spending in 2010 for home care following TKA for those
      aged 45 to 64. The reason for the high cost of home health care may be the state regulations
      governing home health care agencies. The Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals states
      that 'skilled home health care,' found under the definition of 'home health agency' in the
      official Louisiana Home Health State Regulations, is to include skilled nursing and at least
      one of the following services: physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy,
      medical social services, or home health aide services (9). These regulations place pressure,
      whether conscious or subconscious, on the home health agency to over utilize skilled nursing
      services for those patients aged 45 to 64 recovering from TKA. Skilled nursing home health
      care services for this particular patient population usually involves managing the patient's
      medications and providing wound care services. A cohort study by Bleijenberg et al published
      in the Journal of the American Geriatric Society in 2017 found that only 10.3% of adults aged
      65 to 69, which is above the age cutoff for this prospective study, had difficulty with
      managing their medications (10). Also, in the author's clinical experience, it is rare for an
      orthopedic surgeon to allow any other clinician to manage post-operative dressing changes
      except those clinicians under the surgeon's direct supervision; though further research in
      this area would be helpful. Furthermore, utilization of TKA, and the home care cost
      associated with recovery from TKA, is on the rise. As of 2009, the number of primary TKAs
      performed annually in the U.S. among all age groups exceeded 620,000 procedures, which is
      more than doubled when compared to the previous decade (7). Smartphones and other
      technologies may provide a solution to the rising costs of home health care following TKA for
      those aged 45 to 64. Over the past decade, the smartphone has become an integral part of most
      people's lives. The latest Pew Research Data from February 2018 shows that 73% of individuals
      aged 50 to 64 own a smartphone (8). Smartphones would allow the patient to have direct
      multimedia access to a prescriptive exercise program designed by a licensed Physical
      Therapist without an in-person home visit, as well as to have communication directly with
      their Physical Therapist through secure in-app messaging or e-mail. The patient would benefit
      by having reduced intrusion in their home environment, convenient access to their Physical
      Therapist and their Physical Therapist's plan of care, and financial savings due to the
      elimination of home health care services following TKA. The Physical Therapist would benefit
      from the ability to quickly interact with the patient to mitigate any adverse events and to
      efficiently assist a greater number of patients compared to traditional home-based physical
      therapy. Third-party payors would benefit from drastically reduced home care costs for those
      recovering from TKA.
    
  