
    
      COVID-19, a recently identified disease, has spread worldwide rapidly and is now a pandemic.
      There is no cure for it yet. Though it causes mild to moderate illness in most people, it can
      cause serious illness and death, particularly in the elderly, those with chronic illness or a
      weakened immune system.

      The ELVIS COVID-19 study is to find out if nasal washout (i.e. irrigation) and gargling with
      salt water (hypertonic saline) helps individuals with COVID-19 get better faster. Preliminary
      data from those with the common cold has found that nasal washouts and gargling with salty
      water may be helpful in reducing the length of the illness. This trial will help us find out
      if the same treatment is helpful in improving COVID-19 symptoms and preventing the spread of
      the disease.

      After self-consenting online, participants will be randomised into one of two study groups.
      The control group will be given standard personal, household hygiene and social distancing
      advice. The intervention group will be taught using online videos how to prepare and perform
      hypertonic saline nasal irrigation and gargling (HSNIG) up to 12 times daily in addition to
      standard advice.

      Participants in both the intervention and control groups will complete an online daily diary
      first thing in the morning, which will be sent to them via an email link. The diaries will be
      completed every day until the participant reports they are well or for a maximum of 14 days
      or participant withdrawal.This study will look for participants across Scotland, who are 18
      years old or older and who are self-isolating with confirmed or suspected COVID-19, with
      symptoms that have developed no more than 48 hours before consent to the study. The study is
      conducted online and everything we ask participants to do will be done at home with items
      they will already have.
    
  