
    
      The intervention modules are experimental. The modules will be completed by subjects online
      using their own computer and internet connection.

      TMW will send email reminders to participants whose participation has lapsed for more than 3
      weeks (no activity in the learning management system (LMS) during that time).

      Phase 1: Pre-Intervention Participant completes a demographics survey on RedCap to determine
      eligibility based on the exclusion criteria listed below. If they are eligible and desire to
      participate, they will complete the informed consent process online prior to beginning the
      intervention.

      Participants will be randomized into either the treatment or control group after providing
      their consent. All participants will be notified via email with detailed instructions on how
      to complete the study measures online and, if treatment group, how to view the modules.

      Survey Session 1: Participant completes the following surveys online: Survey of
      Parent/Provider Expectations and Knowledge (SPEAK), Course Content Survey, and Theories of
      Intelligence (TOI).

      Phase 2: Intervention Participants in the treatment group complete interactive modules. They
      will be asked to complete one module per week, for a total of eight weeks.

      Participants in the control group will have no active study requirements for the eight weeks
      following Survey Session 1.

      Phase 3: Post-Intervention Upon completion of Module 8, participants in the treatment group
      will be invited by email to complete Survey Session 2, which includes the following surveys:
      SPEAK,Theories of Intelligence (TOI) survey, Course Content Knowledge, and the qualitative
      Course Experience survey.

      Participants in the control group will be invited to complete Survey Session 2 exactly eight
      weeks after they complete Survey Session 1, which corresponds to how long the investigators
      anticipate treatment group participants needing to complete the 8 modules. This Survey
      Session will include the same surveys as the treatment group: SPEAK, Theories of Intelligence
      (TOI) survey, Course Content Knowledge, and a qualitative Course Experience survey on their
      most recent professional development.

      All participants in both experimental groups will be invited by email to complete Survey
      Session 3 exactly 12 weeks after the completion of Survey Session 2. Surveys include: SPEAK,
      Course Content Knowledge, and Theories of Intelligence (TOI) survey.

      At the conclusion of the study, participants in the treatment group may be asked to
      participate in a phone interview about their experience with the program, their opinions on
      the curriculum, and how they interact with the children in their care. This interview will be
      conducted with a trained member of the research team. The investigators hope to interview all
      treatment group participants but are limited in human capacity to complete the phone
      interviews for our expected recruitment goals. The investigators will ask as many treatment
      group members to participate in the phone interview but will start with the most engaged
      participants and those who enrolled first.
    
  