
    
      Depression is a common mental disorder that affects nearly half of all older people living in
      nursing homes. Depression can severely impact people's lives, causing them to often feel sad
      and hopeless, as well as affect people's sleep patterns, concentration, and energy levels. In
      addition, nursing homes are often understaffed and very busy, making it difficult for older
      people with depression to receive a proper diagnosis and adequate treatment. Recent studies
      have shown that an increase in pleasurable activities among residents in nursing homes can
      improve symptoms of depression. The purpose of this study is to determine whether symptoms of
      depression can be reduced by increasing opportunities for nursing home residents to engage in
      pleasant events and build better relationships with nursing home staff members.

      Participating nursing homes will be randomly assigned to have their residents receive
      behavioral activity treatment (BE-ACTIV) or treatment as usual for 12 weeks. Potential
      participating nursing home residents will complete two brief tests regarding memory,
      attention, and symptoms of depression. An hour-long interview will then be conducted during
      which eligible participating residents will discuss their symptoms of depression, rate their
      health and level of functioning, and assess the quality of their relationship with a staff
      member. Residents receiving BE-ACTIV will meet with a therapist for weekly 30-minute sessions
      for 10 weeks. During these sessions, residents will discuss their activity participation and
      any pleasant events that they recently experienced. Therapists and nursing home activities
      staff will work together to incorporate more activities of interest into each resident's
      schedule. Residents of nursing homes assigned to receive treatment as usual will be asked to
      rate their mood once a week for 10 weeks. Researchers will observe each resident, regardless
      of treatment group, for 5-minute intervals at various times during the study to assess mood
      and activity levels. All participating residents will undergo a second interview after 10
      weeks to discuss any changes or improvements in mood, symptoms of depression, activity level,
      or their relationship with staff members. All participating residents will be assessed after
      3 months and again after 6 months post-treatment to determine whether the BE-ACTIV program
      was successful in improving symptoms of depression.
    
  