
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Evidence supporting a routine invasive practice paradigm for patients with SIHD is outdated.
      In strategy trials conducted in the 1970s, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) improved
      survival as compared with no CABG in SIHD patients with high-risk anatomic features. The
      relevance of these studies today is speculative because contemporary secondary
      prevention-aspirin, beta-blockers, statins, ACE inhibitors, and lifestyle interventions-were
      used minimally if at all. Subsequent trials have compared percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI) with medical therapy, as PCI has replaced CABG as the dominant method of
      revascularization for SIHD. To date, PCI has not been shown to reduce death or myocardial
      infarction (MI) compared with medical therapy in SIHD patients.

      COURAGE and BARI 2D, the two largest trials comparing coronary revascularization vs. medical
      therapy in SIHD patients, found that among patients selected on the basis of coronary anatomy
      after cardiac catheterization, an initial management strategy of coronary revascularization
      (PCI, PCI or CABG, respectively) did not reduce the primary endpoints of death or MI
      (COURAGE), or death (BARI 2D) compared with OMT alone. These data suggest, but do not prove,
      that routine cardiac catheterization--which often leads to ad hoc PCI through the
      diagnostic-therapeutic cascade--may not be required in SIHD patients. However, most patients
      enrolled in COURAGE and BARI 2D who had ischemia severity documented at baseline had only
      mild or moderate ischemia, leaving open the question of the appropriate role of cardiac
      catheterization and revascularization among higher-risk patients with more severe ischemia.
      Observational data suggest that revascularization of patients with moderate-to-severe
      ischemia is associated with a lower mortality than medical therapy alone, but such data
      cannot establish a cause and effect relationship. In clinical practice only about half such
      patients are referred for cardiac catheterization, indicating equipoise. Furthermore,
      analysis of outcomes for 468 COURAGE patients with moderate-to-severe ischemia at baseline
      did not reveal a benefit from PCI. This issue cannot be resolved using available data because
      all prior SIHD strategy trials enrolled patients after cardiac catheterization, introducing
      undefined selection biases (e.g., highest risk patients not enrolled) and making translation
      of study results problematic for clinicians managing patients who have not yet had cardiac
      catheterization.

      A clinical trial in SIHD patients uniformly at higher risk (which could not have been
      performed before COURAGE and BARI 2D results were available) is needed to inform optimal
      management for such patients.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE, INCLUDING MODIFICATIONS DURING THE TRIAL

      Primary Endpoint

      A composite of CV death, MI, resuscitated cardiac arrest, or hospitalization for unstable
      angina or heart failure was proposed as the primary endpoint in the application that was
      funded by NLHBI, with a secondary endpoint of CV death or MI. Study protocol version 1.0 was
      finalized on January 18, 2012 after review and approval by the protocol review committee
      (DSMB) with the primary endpoint specified as the composite of CV death or MI. Regarding the
      final status of the primary endpoint, the protocol stated:

      "To ensure that the primary analysis is well-powered and useful, a prospective plan to allow
      extending follow-up and/or changing the primary endpoint based on aggregate event rate data
      will be established prior to the first review of unblinded trial data. At a designated time
      during the trial, an analysis will be conducted to estimate the overall aggregate primary
      endpoint event rate and project the final number of observed events. If the estimated
      unconditional power (i.e. based on aggregate event rate data; not by treatment group) is less
      than the originally targeted 90%, then one or more of the following options will be
      considered:

        1. Extend follow-up to allow more events to accrue.

        2. Change the primary endpoint to one that occurs more frequently. The current primary
           endpoint would become a secondary endpoint. The proposed new primary endpoint would be
           the composite of CV death, MI, resuscitated cardiac arrest, or hospitalization for
           unstable angina or heart failure.

        3. Follow the recommendation of an independent advisory panel. An independent advisory
           panel, separate from the DSMB, will be convened for the purpose of reviewing
           unconditional power estimates and making a recommendation to the NHLBI Director. Members
           of this panel will not have access to unblinded data by treatment group or other data
           that may bias their recommendation." All 5 event types were adjudicated throughout the
           trial. Study protocol v2.0 (January 2014) allowed ischemia eligibility by non-imaging
           exercise stress test if more stringent (≥70% stenosis) CCTA criteria were met. The 2016
           protocol addendum describes the NHLBI-approved reduction in sample size and extension of
           recruitment and follow-up due to slower than projected recruitment.

      The pre-specified first analysis for monitoring and projecting the final aggregate number of
      primary endpoint events was conducted in 2015. In 2016, the projected need to increase the
      power by extending follow-up and elevating the 5-component secondary endpoint to become
      primary was discussed at Steering Committee and Investigator meetings and communicated by
      email.

      An Independent Advisory Panel convened by NHLBI met in May 2017, and in June 2017 NHLBI
      approved the Independent Advisory Panel's recommendation to elevate the 5-component secondary
      endpoint to become primary and retain the 2-component composite as a key secondary endpoint.
      The panel also recommended extension of follow-up. This was communicated to the Steering
      Committee and Investigators at August and November 2017 meetings and by email. The last visit
      date was June 30, 2019.

      A statistical plan developed for the Independent Advisory Panel process in 2012 specified
      that a decision about changing the primary endpoint would be targeted to occur before 75% of
      the final number of primary endpoint events had accrued. Although the final number of primary
      endpoint events was unknown during the course of the trial, estimates performed at the time
      of the Advisory Panel meeting suggested that the ratio of accrued endpoint events to final
      endpoint events was below 50%. See Maron DJ et al. Am Heart J. 2018 201:124-135. PMC6005768
      for additional details about modifications to the trial while it was being conducted.

      Analysis of Patients' Health Status as a Key Secondary Endpoint

      A key secondary objective of the ISCHEMIA trial is to compare the quality of life
      outcomes-patients' symptoms, functioning and well-being-between those assigned to an invasive
      strategy as compared with a conservative strategy. In the protocol, angina frequency and
      disease-specific quality of life measured by the Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) Angina
      Frequency and Quality of Life scales, respectively, are described as the tools that will be
      used to make this comparative assessment. Recent work has indicated that it is possible to
      combine the information from the individual domain scores in the SAQ into a new Summary Score
      that captures the information from the SAQ Angina Frequency, Physical Limitation and Quality
      of Life scales into a single overall score. The advantages of using a summary score as the
      primary measure of QOL effects of a therapy are a single primary endpoint comparison rather
      than two or three (eliminating concerns some may have about multiple comparisons) and a more
      intuitive holistic (patient-centric) interpretation of the effectiveness results. With these
      advantages in mind, the ISCHEMIA leadership has agreed that the SAQ Summary Score will be
      designated as the primary way this outcome for this key secondary endpoint of the ISCHEMIA
      trial will be analyzed and interpreted, with the individual SAQ scores being used in a
      secondary, explanatory and descriptive role.

      PARTICIPATING COUNTRIES:

      North America:

      Canada; Mexico; USA

      South America:

      Argentina; Brazil; Peru

      Asia:

      China; India; Japan; Malaysia; Singapore; Taiwan; Thailand; Russian Federation

      Pacifica:

      Australia; New Zealand

      Europe:

      Austria; Belgium; France; Germany; Hungary; Italy; Lithuania; Macedonia; Netherlands; Poland;
      Portugal; Romania; Serbia; Spain; Sweden; Switzerland; UK

      Middle East:

      Egypt; Israel; Saudi Arabia

      Africa:

      South Africa
    
  