
    
      This application proposes a placebo-controlled double-blind trial of modafinil, on a platform
      of contingency management (CM) and individual cognitive-behavioral counseling (CBT once
      weekly individual session), for the treatment of methamphetamine dependence. Modafinil is a
      medication warranting evaluation as a treatment for MA dependence. It has a half-life of
      approximately 15 hours and reaches steady state in 2-4 days (Package insert) and will likely
      require once daily dosing, which reduces problems with medication adherence. Modafinil has
      potent psychiatric and behavioral effects that include brightening mood (Menza et al., 2000;
      Ninan et al., 2004), improving cognition (Turner et al., 2004a, b; 2003), improving impulse
      control (Turner et al., 2003; Turner et al., 2004a), and countering fatigue (Beusterien et
      al., 1999, Stahl et al., 2003). These effects neatly counterbalance effects produced by MA
      withdrawal (Newton et al., 2004) and may have particular value in ameliorating the negative
      reinforcing properties of MA, i.e., when MA is used to immediately relieve depressed mood due
      to recent abstinence (Peck et al., 2005b). CM is a behavioral intervention that effectively
      helps substance abusers to initiate abstinence, particularly from cocaine (Higgins et al.,
      1993; Higgins et al., 2000; Higgins et al., 1991) and from methamphetamine (Roll & Shoptaw,
      in press; Shoptaw et al., 2005). As well, CM has been shown to reduce substance abuse and
      optimize the effects of medications in reducing substance abuse (Carroll, 2004; Shoptaw et
      al., 2002). The objective of this study is to determine whether modafinil reduces
      methamphetamine use and concomitant physical and psychological symptoms more effectively than
      placebo when administered in conjunction with CM and CBT. The purpose of this project is to
      evaluate whether methamphetamine abusers seeking outpatient treatment demonstrate
      significantly significant reductions of methamphetamine when randomly assigned to receive
      modafinil (400mg qd) in combination with CM and weekly CBT compared their peers randomly
      assigned to receive placebo in combination with CM and weekly CBT.

      Research Hypotheses:

        1. Participants receiving active experimental drug (modafinil 400mg) will demonstrate
           statistically significant reductions in methamphetamine use over participants receiving
           placebo. Methamphetamine use outcomes will be measured using urine samples and analyzed
           with the following indices: Treatment Effectiveness Score, the Joint Probability Index,
           self-report of methamphetamine use verified by urine drug screening, and the longest
           uninterrupted period of methamphetamine abstinence. Primary analyses will be conducted
           using modeling approaches (Generalized Estimation Equations, Markov Chain Transition
           Models) depending upon the structure of the dataset. Self-report of methamphetamine use
           will be analyzed using the Addiction Severity Index drug composite scale and Substance
           Use Inventory (SUI).

        2. Participants receiving active experimental drug will remain in treatment for
           significantly longer periods compared to participants receiving placebo. Retention will
           be measured by the number of days in the protocol and analyzed using survival analysis.

           a. Specifically, participants with mild cognitive dysfunction (as measured as <=1 SD
           below the published mean for the MicroCog assessments) receiving modafinil (400mg) will
           demonstrate significantly greater overall retention, and attendance to CBT sessions than
           those participants with cognitive function measured at greater than 1 SD below the mean
           for the MicroCog assessments who are receiving placebo.

        3. Participants receiving active experimental drug (modafinil 400mg) will demonstrate
           statistically significant reductions in reported methamphetamine craving over
           participants receiving placebo. Craving outcomes will be measured using a visual
           analogue scale.

        4. Participants receiving active experimental drug (modafinil 400mg) will demonstrate
           statistically significant reductions in withdrawal symptoms and somatic complaints
           compared to participants receiving placebo. These outcomes will be measured using the
           BSI, the Beck Depression Inventory-II, and the Quality of Well-Being scale.

      Exploratory analyses will also be conducted to identify potential genetic variants associated
      with treatment response to modafinil for MA dependence. Candidate genes implicated by
      previous research as being involved in the pathogenesis of MA dependence and/or the molecular
      mechanism of modafinil (for example, genes for neurotransmitter receptors and transporters,
      including dopamine, norepinephrine, GABA, and glutamate, as well as genes for enzymes
      involved in the metabolism of these neurotransmitter, such as catechol-O-methyltransferase
      and monoamine oxidase A) will be sequenced in order to determine the frequency of known
      single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), as well as potentially identify novel SNPs, in these
      genes among MA dependent participants. Initial analyses will focus on genes involved in the
      dopaminergic pathway, given the importance of dopamine in the neurobiology of MA dependence,
      but additional genes may also be assessed. SNPs associated with response to modafinil will be
      identified in order to generate hypotheses for future pharmacogenomic studies.
    
  