
    
      Part A

      Primary objective is:

        -  To assess safety and tolerability of BC 007 after a single ascending intravenous (i.v.)
           bolus + infusion in healthy, young and elderly subjects.

      Secondary objectives are:

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetic plasma and urine profiles of BC 007 in healthy, young
           and elderly subjects.

      Part B

      Primary objective is:

        -  To assess the neutralizing potency of BC 007 against GPCR autoantibodies alpha -1
           adrenergic receptor, beta-1 adrenergic receptor, beta-2 adrenergic receptor or
           endothelin-A-receptor following ascending i.v. bolus + infusion.

      Secondary objectives are:

        -  To assess safety and tolerability of BC 007 after a single ascending i.v. bolus +
           infusion in GPCR AAB (α(1)-adrenergic receptor AAB, ß(1)-adrenergic receptor AAB,
           ß(2)-adrenergic receptor AAB or endothelin-A-receptor AAB) positive healthy elderly
           subjects.

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetic plasma and urine profiles of BC 007 in GPCR AAB
           (α(1)-adrenergic receptor AAB, ß(1)-adrenergic receptor AAB, ß(2)-adrenergic receptor
           AAB or endothelin-A-receptor AAB) positive healthy elderly subjects.

      Part C

      Primary Objective

        -  To assess the neutralizing potency of BC 007 against GPCR autoantibodies alpha-1
           adrenergic receptor (α(1)-AR AAB), beta-1 adrenergic receptor (ß(1)-AR AAB), beta-2
           adrenergic receptor (ß(2)-AR AAB) or endothelin-A-receptor (ETA AAB) following ascending
           i.v. bolus + infusion.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To assess safety and tolerability of BC 007 after a single ascending i.v. bolus +
           infusion in GPCR AAB (α(1)-AR AAB, ß(1)-AR AAB, ß(2)-AR AAB or ETA AAB) positive healthy
           elderly subjects.

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetic plasma and urine profiles of BC 007 in GPCR AAB
           (α(1)-AR AAB, ß(1)-AR AAB, ß(2)-AR AAB or ETA AAB) positive healthy elderly subjects.

      Explorative Objective

        -  To investigate the pharmacokinetic plasma and urine profiles of BC 007 metabolites in
           GPCR AAB (α(1)-AR AAB, ß(1)-AR AAB, ß(2)-AR AAB or ETA AAB) positive healthy elderly
           subjects
    
  