
    
      There is no accepted standard for the frequency of monitoring endotracheal tube cuff
      pressures (ETCP). Investigator plans on comparing two strategies for monitoring ETCP in
      mechanically ventilated patients. The two strategies will be the currently employed practice
      at Barnes-Jewish Hospital (BJH) which requires ETCP to be assessed immediately after the
      endotracheal tube is placed and after any manipulation of the endotracheal tube to include
      repositioning, manipulation of the cuff volume, or presence of an audible leak. The alternate
      practice will be pre-scheduled as is performed at other hospitals and includes the same
      elements as noted in the current practice but also require monitoring ETCP a minimum of every
      work shift (every 8 hours or three times per day). The ETCP will be assessed using a standard
      manometer. The two practices will be compared by assessing patients assigned to odd and even
      beds in the medical ICU (8400 ICU) with alternate methods. Specifically, patients in odd
      numbered rooms will have ETCP checked per the current Barnes-Jewish practice and those in
      even rooms having the additional checks of ETCP performed immediately following intubation as
      well as every shift and when when assessed required by respiratory therapist. It is important
      to note that the respiratory therapists performing ETCP assessments are simply performing a
      routine 2- 3 minute task (per cuff pressure measurement) while taking care of patients on
      mechanical ventilation.

      Our hypothesis is that increased monitoring frequency of ETCP will not result in a decrease
      in the duration of mechanical ventilation for patients admitted to the medical intensive care
      unit (ICU) of BJH or a reduction in ventilator-associated events.

      Currently there is no accepted gold standard for the frequency of monitoring ETCP. There are
      widely different strategies reported for monitoring ETCP to include continuous monitoring.
      The goal of ETCP monitoring is to maintain the ETCP between 20-30 cmH2O in order to minimize
      cuff leaks and pressure injury to the tracheal mucosa. It is known that 20 to 30% of the time
      the ETCP may deviate above or below this threshold. However, the impact of such deviation on
      clinical outcomes is not well described in the medical literature. The two most common
      methods for assessing ETCP is the use of a manometer and/or setting a minimal leak, with the
      former being the most accepted method. However, the optimal frequency for conducting
      manometric monitoring of ETCP is unknown. One recent study suggests that the act of measuring
      ETCP frequently in order to achieve a desired pressure level results in the removal of air
      from the cuff and can result in under inflation of the cuff. However, a recent animal study
      suggests that the material used to manufacture the endotracheal tube cuff may play a more
      important role in determining the presence or absence of mucosal injury, with polyurethane
      being better than polyvinylchloride. The main problem with these studies is the failure to
      assess clinical outcomes at the bedside with the use of various strategies to maintain an
      appropriate endotracheal tube cuff seal. A recent survey of intensivists in Queensland
      Australia and accompanying systematic literature review made the following conclusions
      regarding ETCP monitoring: "Twenty-eight out of twenty-nine respondents reported routinely
      monitoring tracheal cuff function, primarily employing cuff pressure measurement (26/28).
      Target cuff pressures varied, with 3/26 respondents aiming for 10 to 20 cmH2O, 10/26 for 21
      to 25 cmH2O, and 13/26 for 26 to 30 cmH2O. Fifteen out of twenty-nine reported they had no
      current guideline or protocol for tracheal cuff management and only 16/29 indicated there was
      a dedicated area in the clinical record for reporting cuff intervention. The results
      indicated that many ICUs across Queensland routinely measure tracheal cuff function, with
      most utilising pressure monitoring devices. Consistent with existing literature, the optimum
      cuff pressure remains uncertain. Most, however, considered that this should be a routine part
      of ICU care". Thus, the available literature on ETCP and their relationship to clinical
      outcomes is lacking.
    
  