
    
      There are several studies that suggest higher doses of whole-blood Δ9-THC concentration are
      associated with increased crash risk and crash culpability. However, attempts to define a
      cut-off point for blood Δ9-THC levels have proven to be challenging. Unlike alcohol, for
      which a level can be reasonably measured using a breathalyzer (and confirmed with a blood
      test), detection of a cut-off point for intoxication related to Δ9-THC concentration has
      eluded scientific verification. Recent evidence suggests blood Δ9-THC concentrations of 2-5
      ng/mL are associated with substantial driving impairment, particularly in occasional smokers.
      Others have countered that this level leads to false positives, particularly in heavy
      cannabis users inasmuch as THC may be detectable in their blood specimens for 12-24 hours
      after inhalation. Given that 12 to 24 hours is well beyond the likely period of driving
      impairment, this would appear to be a justifiable objection to a per se cut-off point for a
      Δ9-THC concentration indicative of impairment. Maximal driving impairment is found 20 to 40
      minutes after smoking, and the risk of driving impairment decreases significantly after 2.5
      hours, at least in those who smoke 18 mg Δ9-THC or less, the dose often used experimentally
      to duplicate a single joint. Other studies, however, report residual MVA crash risk when
      cannabis is used within 4 hours prior to driving.

      The roadside examination using the Standardized Field Sobriety Test (SFST) for proof of
      cannabis-related impairment has not been an ideal alternative to blood levels. Originally
      devised to evaluate impairment under the influence of alcohol, the SFST is comprised of three
      examinations administered in a standardized manner by law enforcement officers. The
      'Horizontal Gaze Nystagmus' (HGN), the 'One Leg Stand' (OLS) and the 'Walk and Turn' test
      (WAT) require a person to follow instructions and perform motor activities. During the
      assessments, officers observe and record signs of impairment. In one study, Δ9-THC produced
      impairments on overall SFST performance in only 50 % of the participants. In a separate study
      involving acute administration of cannabis, only 30% of people failed the SFST. This
      discrepancy in rate of failure was thought to be in part due to the participant's cannabis
      use history. The reported frequency of cannabis use varied from once a week to once every 2-6
      months in the study where there was a failure on the SFST by 50% of the participants. The
      other study included more frequent users who smoked cannabis on at least four occasions per
      week.

      Based upon the above, another means is needed to help law enforcement officers discern
      driving under the influence of cannabis. One future possibility is the development of
      performance-based measures of cannabis-related impairments. This will include testing of
      critical tracking, time estimation, balance and visual spatial memory learning. The
      investigators have selected brief measures in order to be practicably administered repeatedly
      over a short time period, as well as tests that have the potential to translate to a
      tablet-based format, should there be benefit in possibly including these in future
      performance-based measures for use in the field by law enforcement officers (e.g., a
      cannabis-focused field sobriety test).
    
  