
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effect of diindolylmethane vs placebo in reducing the prevalence of
           histologically proven high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in patients with
           low-grade cervical cytological abnormalities.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens in reducing the prevalence of cytological
           abnormalities in these patients.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens in changing the clinical appearance of the cervix
           in these patients.

        -  Determine if diindolylmethane offers benefits in relation to human papillomavirus (HPV)
           status, including HPV type, viral load, and integration.

        -  Determine the side effects of supplementation with diindolylmethane.

        -  Determine the effects of this drug on migraine, mastalgia, weight, and premenstrual
           syndrome (PMS).

      OUTLINE: This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral diindolylmethane once daily for 6 months.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for 6 months. Patients undergo cervical
           sampling at baseline and at 6 months for Pap testing by liquid based cytology and human
           papillomavirus (HPV) testing by polymerase chain reaction. Some patients also undergo
           urine and hair sample collection at baseline and at 3 and 6 months. Samples are analyzed
           for estrogen and diindolylmethane metabolites, to monitor patient compliance and
           response to treatment. Some patients have a cervical photograph taken using a colposcope
           at baseline and at 6 months. All patients undergo colposcopy at 6 months.

      Patients complete a questionnaire at baseline (i.e., for reproductive history, diet, smoking,
      and premenstrual symptoms) and at 6 months (i.e., for side effects, compliance, changes in
      smoking, and contraception use). Patients with moderate to severe premenstrual syndrome (PMS)
      also complete PMS questionnaires once monthly during months 1-6 and 4 months following
      completion of study therapy. All patients are instructed to maintain current diet and to keep
      cruciferous vegetables and soy products constant during study course.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 7 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3,000 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  