
    
      A high level of evidence exists to support the placement of implants in type 2 diabetics with
      glucosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels within the normoglycemic range. Less information is
      available for the integration of implants placed in diabetics that cannot achieve good
      glycemic control, who may represent up to 50% of the diabetic patient population. Recent data
      from the medical literature have unveiled the deleterious effect of uncontrolled diabetes
      mellitus (DM) on the bone marrow. The microvascular alterations of DM on skeletal bones lead
      to microangiopathy, reduced blood flow and fatty degeneration in the bone marrow. Nascent
      theories that are founded upon the observation of increased levels of soluble osteoprotegerin
      (OPG) levels in uncontrolled DM implicate disruption of RANKL/OPG signaling as a potential
      pathway for the diabetes- related bone alterations. Nonetheless, no data is currently
      available on the pathophysiology of the alveolar bone in patients with DM.

      It is hypothesized that 1) hyperglycemia results in compromised vascularity in the mandible,
      thus 2) hydrophilic TiZr implant surfaces (Roxolid®) that actively attract fluids and possess
      excellent osteoconductive properties, may enhance peri-implant bone response in not
      well-controlled diabetics (NCD) to levels comparable to well-controlled diabetics (WCD). We
      further hypothesize that the expected decreased RANKL/OPG ratio in NCD versus WCD will not
      recover during post-surgery bone remodeling. To assess our hypotheses, we will recruit n=21
      type II WCD (HbA1c≤7.0%) and n=21 type II NCD (7.5%<HbA1c≤10%) seeking implant placement in
      the mandible. We will collect intra-operative bone specimens at baseline and blood samples to
      assess bone structural alterations (H&E stain), microvascular density (immunohistochemistry),
      bound RANKL/OPG (immunohistochemistry) and serum RANKL/OPG (ELISA). Implant integration and
      success will be assessed at 3, 6, 12 and 36-months.

      Obtained results will give dental researchers new insights into the pathophysiology of the
      alveolar bone in diabetes and will provide information on the safety and efficacy of implant
      placement in type II diabetic patients that cannot control their glycemic status.
      Collectively, this work will pave the way for identifying efficacious implant treatment
      modalities for persons that live with type II diabetes to alleviate the morbidity associated
      with tooth loss in this susceptible population group.
    
  