
    
      Since JNS013 is a combination of tramadol hydrochloride (TRAM) acting as a weak opioid with
      acetaminophen (APAP) inhibiting central COX-3, it is expected to have an intermediate effect
      between narcotic analgesics and NSAIDs (non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs). This is a
      multicenter, open-label, dose response study. The purpose of this study is to find the
      clinical dose range of TRAM in patients with chronic pain due to osteoarthritis (OA) of the
      knee or low back pain (LBP) who cannot attain a sufficient analgesic effect from NSAIDs. The
      investigational product will be orally administered 4 times daily (after each meal and before
      bedtime) at a dose of 25 to 100 mg at least 4-hour intervals. Treatment will be started at an
      initial dose of 100 mg/day, and the dose is titrated by 25 mg every 7 days if the analgesic
      effect is insufficient and there is no problem with the safety. Treatment will be continued
      up to 35 days in total at a dose of 400 mg/day or a dose of which a sufficient analgesic
      effect can be obtained. The primary efficacy endpoint is the change in the intensity of pain
      from the beginning of dose-finding period (baseline) to the final assessment point (Up to Day
      36), by using VAS (Visual Analog Scale). The safety evaluations are adverse events,
      laboratory examinations, blood pressure/pulse rate and body weight. Total study period of
      this study is 49days, Screening period is 7days, Administration period is 35 days and
      Follow-up period is 7 days. The investigational product will be orally administered 4 times
      daily (after each meal and before bedtime) at a dose of 25 to 100 mg at least 4-hour
      intervals. Treatment will be started at an initial dose of 100 mg/day, and the dose is
      titrated by 25 mg every 7 days if the analgesic effect is insufficient and there is no
      problem with the safety. Treatment will be continued up to 35 days in total at a dose of 400
      mg/day or a dose of which a sufficient analgesic effect can be obtained.
    
  