
    
      Scoliosis correction surgery is followed with severe pain. The reported median pain score on
      the first day after surgery is median 7 (IQR 4, 8); with an incidence of persistent
      postoperative pain from 5% to 75%. Most patients undergoing this surgery are young and
      adolescents; they are sensitive to pain and usually require higher dose analgesics and a long
      duration analgesia. The total dose of opioids required for postoperative analgesia is about
      2-4 times higher than that after other surgeries. But even with high dose opioids, the
      analgesic effect remains unsatisfied. Furthermore, high dose opioids may cause side effects
      such as respiratory depression, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, skin itching, and even drug
      tolerance.

      Ketamine is a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (NMDA) with analgesic
      and anti-hyperalgesia effects. It is widely used for anesthesia induction in critically ill
      patients, pediatric anesthesia and postoperative analgesia. The advantages of ketamine
      include mild influence on respiratory and circulatory function, and good analgesic effect.
      Recent guidelines recommends the use of low-dose ketamine infusion for postoperative
      analgesia in patients with moderate to severe pain, in order to reduce the consumption of
      opioids. S-ketamine is the pure dextrorotatory enantiomer of ketamine with stronger analgesic
      effect and lower incidence of adverse reactions.

      Dexmedetomidine is a highly selective α2 receptor agonist with effects of antianxiety,
      sedation and analgesia. When used as a supplement, it improves analgesic effect, and reduces
      opioid consumption and opioid related adverse reactions. In the same time, dexmedetomidine
      activates the endogenous sleep pathway and improves sleep quality by prolonging total sleep
      time, increasing sleep efficiency, and promoting subjective sleep quality.

      It is worthy to note that ketamine can produce adverse reactions such as agitation, delirium
      and anxiety, and increase the incidence of hallucinations and nightmares when the given dose
      is slightly higher; whereas the sedative effect of dexmedetomidine may help to reduce the
      adverse effects of ketamine. We hypothesize that low-dose ketamine and dexmedetomidine in
      combination with opioids may have synergistic effects in postoperative analgesia and reduce
      drug-related adverse reactions.

      This study aims to explore the effect of low-dose of S-ketamine and dexmedetomidine in
      combination with opioids for postoperative patient-controlled intravenous analgesia in
      patients following scoliosis correction surgery.
    
  