
    
      After entering the operating room, the patient received routine general anaesthesia
      monitoring, and anesthesia induction was conducted after three-party verification. Propofol
      (plasma target-controlled concentration: 3.5ug/ mL), midazolam (0.05mg/kg), fentanyl (2ug/kg)
      and rocuronium (0.6mg/kg) were used to induce the drugs.

      After anesthesia induction, visual laryngeal mask airway was placed in the visual group and
      endotracheal intubation was guided under visual conditions. In the non-visual group, after
      judging the position of laryngeal mask by clinical experience, endotracheal intubation was
      inserted blindly. Selection of laryngeal mask airway (LMA) model based on: the ideal body
      weight of the patient, 3 was selected for the body weight of 30-50kg, 4 for the body weight
      of 50-70kg and 5 for the body weight > 70kg. The endotracheal tube intubation time,
      intubation times and intubation success rate of the two groups were recorded.

      During the operation, propofol and fentanyl are used for anesthesia maintenance, and the
      anesthesiologist adjusts the anesthesia depth according to his/her own experience. Ten
      minutes before the end of the operation, endotracheal intubation was removed and the
      laryngeal mask airway was retained. The displacement rate of the laryngeal mask airway, the
      volume of secretion in airway and the incidence of laryngeal spasm were compared between the
      two groups.

      After the surgery, the residual muscle relaxation was antagonized, and the laryngeal mask was
      removed after the patient regained consciousness and reached the extubation criteria. The
      hemodynamic parameters and the severity of cough during laryngeal mask airway removal were
      recorded. The incidence and severity of oropharyngeal pain, oropharyngeal numbness,
      hoarseness, nausea, and vomiting were assessed immediately after the patient woke up and was
      followed up before leaving the recovery room and on the first day after surgery.
    
  