
    
      Background:

      Today there are many different systems to classify co morbidity and complication of radical
      cystectomy and nephrectomy. Regarding complication, there is Clavien Dindo classifications
      System and The National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) while Charlson
      Comorbidity Index (CCI) and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance scale
      classifies comorbidity. At the present time, there is not a system that takes both parameters
      into account, although it is of high clinical relevance to be able to figure out the
      significant and important patient parameters that can influence the outcome of a treatment
      modality. Such a system is in development, from cystectomy patients, in this study's project
      group. This is currently to be validated in two large patient cohorts from respectively
      Herlev Hospital and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, USA. Virtually all
      previous publications on comorbidity or complications after cancer surgery, including the
      aforementioned, is based on data retrospectively collected from medical records. Even
      prospectively maintained database are based predominantly on data from records written in the
      journal prospective, but then transferred retrospectively to the database. The problem is
      that data on comorbidities and complications are not collected with this registration method
      in mind. Especially in the definition of the individual complications this contains a
      significant source of error. In addition, most minor complications that do not require
      re-intervention or re-operation, are probably underreported. Involvement of lesser
      complications after discharge is rarely reported, unless they lead to readmission. This is
      probably one of the causes of an uneven distribution in the reporting of serious
      complications requiring re-operation when comparing surgical case series, while the number of
      minor complications (Clavien 1-2) are highly variable. Even a minor complication which does
      not cause a readmission, can have a major impact on a patient's quality of life and
      experience of the disease. In addition, the small complications are often preventable, if you
      have a knowledge of their cause and context with the intervention. Patients who are to
      undergo cystectomy, are predominantly elderly patients with a large tobacco consumption and
      high comorbidity. At the same time cystectomy is associated with the highest risk of
      complications (75%) in cancer surgery, followed by nephrectomy patients (20%). Kidney cancer,
      and especially bladder cancer has a high- 1- and 5-year survivalrate. The patients will
      likely live for many years with their complications and the potential impact on quality of
      life as a result.

      Since current knowledge and previous publications on comorbidity and/or complications after
      cancer surgery often is build on retrospective collected data, it will be highly relevant to
      examine the extent to which the retrospectively collected data is accurate by comparing with
      prospectively collected data. By conducting this study, it can be assessed which kind of
      gathering gives the correct information on the complications of radical cancer surgery and if
      previous publications should be revalidated?

      Aim of the study The study will examine which differences there are in comorbidity and
      complications collected retrospectively from medical records compared with data collected
      prospectively.

      Hypothesis The prevalence of registered comorbidity and minor complications in patients who
      have undergone radical cystectomy or nephrectomy, will increase if the data collection is
      focused and prospective, compared with retrospectively collected data.

      Design The study will be conducted as a single-blind randomized controlled trial, as this
      form of study eliminates unknown confounders and have a high validity. Patients included in
      the study will be randomized to either control or intervention in the ratio 1:1. There are
      two groups of patients: Patients admitted to radical cystectomy and patients admitted to
      radical nephrectomy, due to cancer.

      Study procedure In the control groups data on comorbidity and complications are collected
      retrospectively from medical records 90 days after the end of treatment, based on clearly
      defined criteria for comorbidity and complications, and severity of these (Clavien
      gradation). In the intervention group the investigator must collect information on
      comorbidity, preoperative, in a systematic review with a questionnaire in cooperation with
      the patient. Details about complications is collected daily at bedside, at rounds, by the
      investigator. Additionally, the patient receives a questionnaire at discharge. This must be
      answered at home. The investigator and the patient will go through the questionnaire at the
      first visit to the ambulatory. A second and identical questionnaire, in a stamped envelope,
      is handed out to the patient. In the last two questionnaires the patient must record contact
      with the family doctor, emergency physician, nurse and other hospital departments.
      Furthermore, any kind of medicine, pain or disability must be described. In the intervention
      group the same defined criteria are used as in the control group. Physicians involved in the
      management of the patient, is blinded to the group to which the patient is randomly assigned
      to, and is thus unaware of whether the patient is in the intervention group or the control
      group. Subsequently for the intervention group a retrospective collection of data from
      medical records is made and compared with the control group. This ensures that the
      randomization has been sufficient.

      Primary endpoints

        -  Prevalence of procedure related complications (Clavien score)

             -  During hospitalization postoperative before discharge

             -  Within the first week after discharge

             -  Within the second week after discharge

        -  Prevalence of preoperative comorbidity

      Secondary Endpoints

        -  Patient comorbidity: Acute myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, arrhythmias, previous
           cardiac surgery, venous diseases, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, abdominal aortic
           aneurysm, claudicatio, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, peptic ulcer, alcohol
           abuse, liver disease, stroke, diabetes mellitus type I and II, connective tissue
           disease, osteoporosis, kidney transplant, kidney failure, leukemia/lymphoma, previous
           malignant disease with & without metastases.

        -  Patient complication: antiemetics, antipyretics, antibiotics, diuretics, VAS (Visual
           Analog Pain Scale) score, newly started or increased help from home care, newly started
           or more visits from the home nurse, newly started physical therapy, blood transfusion

        -  Is there a significant variation in comorbidity collected from questionnaires and
           medical records, respectively.

      Statistics and sample size The number of patients in the study is based on the following
      assumptions: For the cystectomy- and nephrectomy patients with complications retrospectively
      calculated, it is assumed that complications that needs intervention is detected respectively
      about 50% and 20%. This is in accordance with the highest indication in major international
      surveys with retrospective registering. Based on previous experiences, the real number is
      estimated to be respectively minimum 85% and 35%. With an alpha value at 0,05 and a beta
      value at 0,20, this gives a required number of patients at 66 for cystectomy patients and 90
      nephrectomy patients, to be able to demonstrate a significant difference.

      Statistical analyses will be performed with primarily non-parametric test using MedCalc for
      Windows, version 15.8 or later (MedCalc Software, Ostend, Belgium).

      Data management Patients will be enrolled after signing informed consent. Patient data will
      be entered directly into the electronic CRF (Clinical Registration Form) on a secure server
      using REDCap, which is a secure server based system with a security that exceeds the demands
      and guidelines of "Persondataloven" and is recommended by Aarhus University. Data are stored
      according to regulations by the Danish Data Protections Agency.

      Perspectivation If the study concludes that the project groups classification system is based
      on valid data and find out what kind of data collection that provides the most accurate
      picture of the patients relationship between co-morbidities and complications, we will in
      future be able to give patients more individualized treatment. This is desirable both for the
      patient and the therapist. In this way the study classification system will be able to avoid
      the patient living a life with post operative complications and a complicated treatment. This
      will also be able to reduce the use of health care resources, that can then be uses
      elsewhere.

      Ethical considerations The study will be conducted in accordance with the protocol,
      applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki
      as adopted by the 18th World Medical Assembly in Helsinki, Finland in 1064 and subsequent
      versions.

      The patients that by informed consent is included in the study, are exposed neither to
      different surgery or other treatment than they would have been without participation in the
      study. The extra interviews and daily rounds will attempt established in connection with the
      patient's usual attendance and stay at the hospital, to avoid extra visits. There must be
      calculated some extra time spent in connection with participation in the trial. Studies show
      that patients in scientific studies, feel that they receive a better treatment.

      The study is approved in the Data Inspectorate and assessment is ongoing in the Research
      Ethics Committee, where approval is mandatory before starting.

      Project feasibility The study is performed in an internationally acknowledged research
      environment at department of urology, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby. Baseline data are
      collected until approximately May 2017 and follow-up data August 2017. This means that data
      will be available in time to complete the thesis and a paper for publication. The research
      year student will be affiliated to the department. All necessary analysis methods are
      established in the department, and hardware and software will be provided.
    
  