
    
      This study employs a 3-group randomized controlled design to examine the efficacy of
      treatment based on BA using SMS (i.e., text messages) containing reminders to perform
      scheduled activities based on personal values. These activities are determined
      collaboratively by participants and therapists during therapy sessions using principles of
      BA, which incorporates the translation of important life values into the planning of
      rewarding activities that support those values.

      Participants will be randomized 1:2:2 to one of three conditions. The first is a control
      condition in which participants receive a 2-hour session with education on the importance of
      self-confidence and motivation, followed by 8 weeks of daily SMS messages with self-selected
      motivational statements (Motivation group). The second condition uses BA-based implementation
      intentions delivered daily x 8 weeks (Intention group). The third condition (BA-Tech) has a
      total of 8 therapy sessions, 6 in person and 2 by phone, and uses BA-based activity
      scheduling with SMS reminders, plus app-based ecological momentary assessment (EMA) for
      monitoring the relations among activities, contexts, and reward. The first condition will
      control for non-specific motivating effects of attention from a therapist and the novelty or
      "alerting" value of receiving SMS messages. The second condition introduces the idea of
      Behavioral Activation but does not contain activity monitoring or value-based activity
      scheduling.

      Participants in the Motivation and Intention groups will be contacted by phone at 4 weeks to
      offer modifications or replacements for their messages. Participants in the BA-Tech group
      will be able to modify their messages weekly once begun. We will compare groups on change
      over 8 weeks on: (1) emotional status, (2) perceived degree of environmental reward, (3)
      degree of behavioral activation, (4) societal participation, and (5) satisfaction with life.
    
  