
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Investigate the paradigm of response-based therapy for low-risk Hodgkin's lymphoma by
      eliminating involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT) in patients who achieve a complete remission
      (CR) after initial chemotherapy.

      II. Investigate whether 3 courses of doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, prednisone, and
      cyclophosphamide (AV-PC) for the treatment of low-risk Hodgkin's lymphoma is sufficient to
      induce CR in at least 80% of patients.

      III. Investigate whether patients who experience a low-risk relapse after initial treatment
      with chemotherapy alone can be successfully treated with a salvage regimen comprising
      ifosfamide and vinorelbine ditartrate with dexamethasone, etoposide phosphate, cisplatin, and
      cytarabine (IV/DECA) and IFRT.

      IV. Maintain the overall survival for patients with low-risk Hodgkin's lymphoma at or above
      97%.

      V. Determine the prognostic significance of very early response as measured by
      fludeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) or gallium after the first course of
      chemotherapy.

      VI. Evaluate the prognostic significance of elevation of erythrocyte sedimentation rate and
      C-reactive protein at the time of diagnosis in patients with low-risk Hodgkin's lymphoma on
      CR rate and relapse rate after chemotherapy alone.

      VII. Determine the frequency and severity of late effects of therapy, including thyroid
      dysfunction, infertility, cardiotoxicity, and second malignant neoplasms.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      INITIAL CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over
      10-30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-2, vincristine IV on days 1 and
      8, prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-7, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 3-7
      and 9-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients achieving complete remission (CR) proceed to observation. Patients achieving partial
      remission proceed to radiotherapy. Patients who have a low-risk relapse after achieving CR on
      initial chemotherapy proceed to salvage chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy. Patients who
      have stable disease or disease progression go off study.

      SALVAGE CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive ifosfamide IV continuously on days 1-4, vinorelbine
      ditartrate IV over 6-10 minutes on days 1-5, and G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 6 and
      continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses.
      Patients then receive dexamethasone IV over 15 minutes every 12 hours, etoposide phosphate IV
      over 3 hours every 12 hours, and cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on days 1 and 2;
      cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1; and G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 3 and continuing
      until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients then
      proceed to radiotherapy.

      INVOLVED-FIELD RADIOTHERAPY (IFRT): Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy,
      patients undergo IFRT once daily, 5 days a week, for 2.8 weeks. Patients who do not achieve
      CR go off study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.
    
  