
    
      Primary Hypothesis: The strategy of PCI plus intensive medical therapy will be superior to
      intensive medical therapy alone in reducing all cause mortality or nonfatal MI in patients
      with documented myocardial ischemia who meet an AHA task force Class I indication for PCI.

      Secondary Hypotheses: Resource utilization and QOL comparisons and hospitalization for acute
      coronary syndromes will be superior in PCI plus medical therapy compared to medical therapy
      alone.

      Primary Outcomes: All cause mortality, nonfatal MI.

      Interventions: All patients will be treated with intensive medical therapy. In addition half
      of them will receive percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).

      Study Abstract: The COURAGE Trial is a large-scale, multicenter, randomized controlled trial
      comparing medical therapy and PCI plus medical therapy that is powered for "hard" clinical
      endpoints. Patients eligible for inclusion in COURAGE will comprise all but very high-risk
      subjects, and will include those with chronic angina pectoris (Canadian Cardiovascular
      Society [CCS] Class I-III), recent uncomplicated MI, and asymptomatic (or "silent")
      myocardial ischemia. Patients may have single- or multi-vessel coronary artery disease and
      may have had prior bypass graft surgery or PCI. We project cumulative 3-year event rates of
      16.4% and 21%, respectively, which yields an absolute difference of 4.6% or relative
      difference of 22%. With a minimum duration of follow-up of 2 1/2 years, a maximum of 7 years,
      using a two-sided test of significance at the 0.05 level, and assuming a 3% crossover rate
      then 2% then 1% each for 2 years from meds to PCI, and annual loss to follow-up rate of 1%
      these event rates indicate that a sample size of 2,270 will be needed to test the hypothesis
      with 85% power. Fifteen VA, 19 U.S. non-VA, and 16 Canadian sites enrolled in the study. The
      planned study duration was 7 years, with 4 1/2 years of patient intake and 2 1/2 - 7 years of
      follow-up. Study operations began in January 1999 and enrollment began in June 1999. The Data
      and Safety Monitoring Board approved reducing the sample size to 2,270 subjects based on
      increasing the length of randomization and follow-up and updating the definition of MI to
      include biomarker positive (troponin) ACS. Enrollment is complete with 2,287 patients
      enrolled.
    
  