
    
      Prior to the start of treatment, subjects will have a complete history and physical
      examination and blood tests to evaluate their overall health. The doctor will also obtain a
      tissue sample (biopsy) of the tumor taken from the subject's body to evaluate the genes that
      are expressed within the tumor. Doctors from the University of Michigan will do an analysis
      on the tissue to understand the genetic nature of each subject's tumor. If the subject's
      initial surgery or biopsy was done at the University of Michigan, we may already have an
      adequate sample of their cancer that could be used for this research. In that case, we would
      be asking for their permission to use this sample for this study. However, if subjects agree
      to participate in this research study and an adequate sample is not available, they will need
      to undergo another biopsy procedure for us to obtain a sample of your cancer.

      A biopsy of a subject's tumor can be obtained from various sites of their body using a number
      of different methods. We will select a location that will be the easiest and safest place to
      biopsy, and that will provide an adequate sample of tumor tissue. Biopsy sites will generally
      be superficial (for example, lymph nodes, skin nodules, chest wall tumors). The usual method
      of biopsy will be the placement of a large needle into the tumor to obtain a "core" of
      tissue. In some situations, we may ask to have a superficial tumor removed in whole or part
      by a minor surgical procedure. If neither of these methods can be done safely, we may place a
      thin needle into the tumor and aspirate (suck out) some tumor cells for study. All procedures
      will be done with local anesthesia (that is, injection of medication directly into the biopsy
      site to numb the area prior to biopsy) and appropriate care to avoid excessive bleeding or
      subsequent infection. The doctors will explain the specific biopsy location and technique
      that fits each subject's situation to them in detail prior to the procedure. They can decide
      not to go through with the biopsy and withdraw from this research trial at any time.

      Subjects will then be given carboplatin and paclitaxel intravenously (through a vein) over 2
      hours. This will be repeated every three weeks for a total of six to eighteen weeks. Three
      weeks is considered a "cycle" and each subject will receive 1 to 6 cycles depending on how
      their tumor responds and how the treatment is tolerated. Treatment will be stopped if the
      tumor gets worse or if a subject develops unacceptable side-effects.

      Physical examinations, blood tests, and x-rays and/or scans will be done routinely during the
      therapy so the doctor can check the subject's body and your tumor response to treatment.
      Blood samples, consisting of 2-3 teaspoonfuls (10-15 cc) each, will be obtained twice every
      three weeks during the study to evaluate the effect of the treatment on their blood counts,
      blood electrolytes, liver and kidney function.
    
  