
    
      The sample for this investigation was selected in a randomized way in the period between
      December 2007 and November 2008. The individuals were successively entered in the research as
      they were admitted to the ICU, in respect of the criteria of inclusion and exclusion. From
      the total number of admitted patients in the period (n=67), many were excluded because they
      had been tracheostomized (n=25), were dead (n=13) or were transferred out of the hospital
      (n=1). Those that remained intubated (n=28) and went to the spontaneous mode were chosen
      randomly and in alternating fashion were divided into the experimental group (EG) or the
      control group (CG). The EG (n=14; age=82±4 years-old) underwent conventional physiotherapy
      plus inspiratory muscular training with threshold IMT® (Respironics/EUA - 2004), and the CG
      (n=14; age=81±6 years-old) received only conventional physiotherapy with no intervention that
      favored the inspiratory muscle strengthening.

      As inclusion criteria, the individuals of the sample were required to have undergone MV for
      at least 48 hours in a controlled way13, as intubation is diagnostic for acute respiratory
      injury type 1 and has a maximum value of MIP of -20 cmH2O16.

      Exclusion criteria included any type of acute condition (cardiac arrhythmia) or chronic
      condition, such as insufficient congestive heart failure or unstable ischemic cardiac
      disease17, that could compromise weaning or could impede the accomplishment of inspiratory
      muscle training (neuropathy and myopathy). Tracheostomized patients (in the pre-test), those
      with neurological problems (cerebral vascular accident, cerebrospinal trauma or spinal
      medullar trauma), those with morbid obesity or those taking medicine that could cause a
      disorder of attention, as well as cases of auto-extubation, were also excluded.

      The criteria of inclusion and exclusion were evaluated via examination of the patients'
      medical records and physical examination daily and in each session. The daily adherence of
      the patients to the necessary parameters for the study was noted for each patient.
    
  