
    
      This was a prospective, multicenter, non-randomized, single-arm, open-label post market
      surveillance study designed to expand safety information in patients treated with the
      Endeavor® Zotarolimus Eluting Coronary Stent System.

      Since their introduction, Drug Eluting Stents (DES) have markedly decreased stent restenosis
      and the clinical need for repeat revascularization frequently observed with bare metal stents
      (BMS)1-10. However, the widespread use of DES has raised concerns regarding the occurrence of
      late stent thrombosis (> 30 days after stent implantation)12-14. Although the incidence might
      seem low (0.2-0.7%)13,15-18 the high mortality and morbidity associated with stent
      thrombosis, and the soaring number of stents implanted annually, make it a significant
      medical problem.

      The purpose of this trial was to investigate the long-term clinical safety and efficacy of
      the Endeavor drug eluting stent in a large and higher risk patient population, which more
      closely reflects clinical practice today. Both unstable and stable patients with single or
      multivessel disease and complex lesions were eligible for enrollment.

      The selected primary endpoint was stent thrombosis, defined as definite and probable stent
      thrombosis according to the ARC definition, at 3 years. The main secondary endpoints were the
      composite of death or cardiac death combined with large or all non-fatal myocardial
      infarction, which are the typical clinical manifestations of stent thrombosis. These events
      are adjudicated by a clinical events committee.

      1.2 Study Endpoints 1.2.1 Primary Endpoint: The overall stent thrombosis rate defined as
      definite and probable stent thrombosis according to the ARC definition at 3 years 1.2.2
      Secondary Endpoints:

      Main Secondary Endpoints include:

        -  Composite endpoint of total death and number of patients with all non-fatal myocardial
           infarction at 3 years

        -  Composite endpoint of cardiac death and number of patients with all non-fatal myocardial
           infarction at 3 years

        -  Composite endpoint of total death and number of patients with large non-fatal myocardial
           infarction at 3 years

        -  Composite endpoint of cardiac death and number of patients with large non-fatal
           myocardial infarction at 3 years

      Additional secondary endpoints include:

        -  Total Death and subcategories of Death

        -  Large and all Myocardial Infarction (MI)

        -  Stent thrombosis defined as definite, probable and possible

        -  Composite score of clinical outcomes (death, myocardial infarction, stroke and
           revascularization) *

        -  Major Adverse Cardiac and Cerebral Events (MACCE)

        -  Stroke (hemorrhagic in nature while on clopidogrel)

        -  Bleeding complications in general

        -  Target lesion revascularization (TLR)

        -  Target vessel revascularization (TVR)

        -  Non target vessel revascularization (non TVR)

        -  Procedural success

        -  Device success

        -  Lesion success

        -  Endpoints will be calculated at the follow-up time points and for the mean follow-up
           period.

             -  The composite score of clinical outcomes (death, myocardial infarction, stroke and
                revascularization) constructed from a patient population according to the Delphi
                method.
    
  