
    
      Despite the existence of an effective cervical cancer screening in the Czech Republic,
      cervical cancer is the cause of about 800 new cases and 400 deaths every year. One of the
      major problem of the Czech cervical cancer screening is low participation. An effective
      strategy to increase cervical cancer screening attendance is one of the main challenges. The
      offering of self-sampling to the cervical cancer screening non-attenders could increase
      women's participation as was shown in several European countries.

      The trial should determine acceptability of the self-sampling followed by HPV DNA test by
      Czech women and therefore usability of the self-sampling device to increase cervical cancer
      screening attendance among under-screened women. Three different approaches will be tested:
      women will receive a self-sampling device by mail (Arm A); receive a self-sampling device by
      gynecologist (Arm B); receive a self-sampling device by general practitioner (Arm C).
      Comparisons of the screening attendance among the arms will be made. To address also
      potential effects on inequities, the analyses will include comparisons by sociodemographic
      characteristics. Women from the database of commercial vendor will be included to the Arm A
      regardless of whether or not they participate in cervical cancer screening program. Women who
      do not participate in cytology-based cervical cancer screening program for at least three
      years will be included through their gynecologist (Arm B) or general practitioner (Arm C)
      database.

      The second focus of the trial is the evaluation of high-risk human papillomavirus prevalence
      in screening population of Czech women (attenders and non-attenders of cervical cancer
      screening) since there are no relevant data for the Czech Republic. Study participants may
      volunteer for archiving of remaining biological materials for future studies.
    
  