
    
      An ongoing outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan, China. 2019-nCoV has
      caused a cluster of pneumonia cases, and posed continuing epidemic threat to China and even
      global health. Unfortunately, there is currently no specific effective treatment for the
      viral infection and the related serious complications. It is in urgent need to find a new
      specific effective treatment for the 2019-nCoV infection. According to Declaration of
      Helsinki and International Ethical Guidelines for Health-related Research Involving Humans,
      the desperately ill patients with 2019-nCov infection during disease outbreaks have a moral
      right to try unvalidated medical interventions (UMIs) and that it is therefore unethical to
      restrict access to UMIs to the clinical trial context.

      There is a vital link between the intestinal tract and respiratory tract, which was
      exemplified by intestinal complications during respiratory disease and vice versa. Some of
      these patients can develop secondary bacterial infections and antibiotic-associated diarrhea
      (AAD). The recent study on using washed microbiota transplantation (WMT) as rescue therapy in
      critically ill patients with AAD demonstrated the important clinical benefits and safety of
      WMT. Additionally, the recent animal study provided direct evidence supporting that
      antibiotics could decrease gut microbiota and the lung stromal interferon signature and
      facilitate early influenza virus replication in lung epithelia. Importantly, the above
      antibiotics caused negative effects can be reversed by fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT)
      which suggested that FMT might be able to induce a significant improvement in the respiratory
      virus infection. Another evidence is that the microbiota could confer protection against
      certain virus infection such as influenza virus and respiratory syncytial virus by priming
      the immune response to viral evasion. The above results suggested that FMT might be a new
      therapeutic option for the treatment of virus-related pneumonia. The methodology of FMT
      recently was coined as WMT, which is dependent on the automatic facilities and washing
      process in a laboratory room. Patients underwent WMT with the decreased rate of adverse
      events and unchanged clinical efficacy in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. This
      clinical trial aims to evaluate the outcome of WMT combining with standard therapy for
      patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia, especially for those patients with
      dysbiosis-related conditions.
    
  