
    
      The main hypothesis behind the SENSITACT system is that kinesthetic stimulation can terminate
      apneas-bradycardias with minimal patient arousal. The aim is to stimulate mechanoreceptors
      through the skin by kinesthetic stimulation on the lower abdominal zone. This is a region of
      the body that is covered with Pacinian corpuscles, a very sensitive kind of mechanoreceptors,
      which respond to rapid vibrations on the skin (200-300 Hz). Vibro-tactile stimulation of
      these mechano-receptors will trigger a reaction typical of the startle reflex. This reflex
      causes 1) an immediate myotonic reaction and 2) a widespread autonomic response. The former
      should have a direct effect on obstructive respiratory disorders with an increase in chin
      muscle tones within 80 to 100 ms. The latter should act on central respiratory disorders,
      with activation of the sympathetic nervous system. Since both responses are mediated via
      sub-cortical nervous center, it is expected that patient arousal will be limited. Preliminary
      clinical studies on adult patients conducted by LTSI, Sorin CRM and CHU de Grenoble
      (Skin&SAS, HYPNOS, EKINOx), that have used the same PASITHEA stimulation device have
      confirmed activation of the sympathetic nervous system and a significant reduction in the
      duration of apnea or hypopnea events, while no differences were observed on patients' sleep
      architecture.

      The SENSITACT system is able to detect apneas-bradycardias in real-time, so that kinesthetic
      stimulation can be triggered to stop respiratory disorders very early during the event.
      Detection is performed within the SENSITACT controller station that receives data from all
      sensors connected to the Patient Monitor in real-time. As soon as the early signs of an
      apnea-bradycardia are detected, the SENSITACT controller sends a trigger signal to the
      PASITHEA stimulator that immediately activates kinesthetic stimulation.

      Kinesthetic stimulation is stopped when a normal condition (normal cardiac rhythm) is
      detected or when a maximum number of stimulation pulses have been reached.
    
  