
    
      The education material currently available in the Transport Canada website will be enhanced,
      by adding an introduction that describes how seat belts and booster seats work (i.e., these
      devices help redirect crash forces to stronger parts to the body: rib cage and pelvis).

      Objective of the trial: To determine if the enhanced material is better than the current
      Transport Canada information at increasing perceived safety benefit and intention to use
      booster seats.

      Design: Concurrent two-group parallel randomized controlled trial.

      Randomization: Block randomization will be used to assign participants to either intervention
      or control groups. Participants and researchers will be blinded to allocation.

      Participants. 303 mothers and 303 fathers of children 4 to 8 years old will be invited to
      participate, irrespective of whether they use booster seats always, occasionally, or never. A
      sample of 606 participants provides sufficient power to detect a mean difference in perceived
      benefit that separates those parents who consistently restrain their child in booster seats
      from those who do not. Sample size was estimated with the TwoSampleMean function for trials
      that test superiority of interventions (TrialSize package for R). Participants in the trial
      will receive $1/each for the completion of the survey. Based on information from studies with
      similar characteristics, the expected response rate is 40%.

      Setting and Procedures. The trial will be conducted entirely online. Participants will be
      recruited through an online market research firm, Maru/Matchbox, which maintains a nationwide
      panel of 130,000 individuals whose distribution represents the Canadian population.
      Maru/Matchbox will send an email invitation to participate along with a link to the online
      survey. The landing page of the survey will provide description of the study for parents to
      read. The online survey will be set up in such a way that participants won't be able to start
      answering questions, unless they consent by clicking the "I agree" button. Participants, will
      be advised to print and keep a copy of the consent form either as PDF or as hard copy. After
      consenting to participate, the online trial will proceed as follows:

        1. Participants will complete a baseline questionnaire.

        2. The system will randomly assign the participant to either the intervention or the
           control group. Randomization will be stratified by sex, child age, and jurisdiction to
           ensure both groups are equal.

        3. Participants in the intervention group will be presented the enhanced booster seat
           material, while participants in the control group will be presented the current
           Transport Canada booster seat material. Material provided to both groups will be
           stripped of logos (Transport Canada logos and corporate identity), but will be properly
           cited.

        4. Participants will complete post-intervention questionnaire.

        5. Participants in the intervention group will be asked one or two questions to ensure they
           did not misunderstood the information in an unintended way. If a parent answers
           incorrectly, the system will clarify the information immediately after.

        6. Participants in the control group will be given the option to view the enhanced booster
           seat material, in order to give them the opportunity to benefit from the intervention.
    
  