
    
      Studies consistently show suicide and suicidal behaviors are highly related to substance use
      disorders (SUDs). Recent reviews find that the risk of suicide is 10-17 times higher for
      people using multiple drugs, injecting drugs, and for alcohol use disorders. SUDs are also
      related to suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts. Clients admitted for alcohol treatment
      report a much higher rate of lifetime suicide attempts (40-43%) than a nationally
      representative sample of adults (4.6%). Further, prospective data shows that individuals in
      addiction treatment had five times the odds of suicide attempt over five years compared to
      those not in treatment, emphasizing addiction treatment as a key opportunity for instituting
      suicide prevention strategies.

      Based on Stage I guidelines for developing and adapting behavioral interventions and
      information from a Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)
      Treatment Improvement Protocol (TIP50) on suicide and addiction, we developed the Preventing
      Addiction Related Suicide (PARS) program.

      To maximize the chances of implementation, PARS was developed to be a community-friendly
      program with a team of community partners (i.e., administrators, counselors, clients) who
      advised on its scope, duration, and approach. Community leaders reviewed PARS throughout its
      development and pilot testing was conducted in their community treatment settings. Thus, PARS
      is simultaneously based on evidence-based practice and the goals and needs of community
      treatment settings. Importantly, PARS is a selected prevention program and not intervention
      for suicidality per se-it is designed for all clients in addiction treatment as a standard
      part of care. PARS' goal is increased help-seeking by addiction treatment clients as well as
      by clients' friends and family if and when they themselves become suicidal. Reaching out for
      help leads to care that can address and resolve suicidality. PARS is the only published
      selected prevention program for this high-risk population.

      PARS is a psychoeducational program taught as a single three-hour module integrated into a
      standard group therapy-oriented Intensive Outpatient Program (IOP), the most common form of
      community addiction treatment. Pilot testing of PARS in three community agencies demonstrated
      significant post-intervention increases in accurate information about suicide and decreases
      in maladaptive attitudes toward suicide. These changes at post-intervention were maintained
      at 1-month follow-up. Even more compelling, 1-month follow-up assessments demonstrated that
      the likelihood of positive help seeking for suicidality doubled for the month after PARS
      compared to the month before. Clients were significantly more likely to ask suicidal friends
      (from 9% to 22%) and family (9% to 17%) to seek help as well as to seek help themselves (4%
      to 9%).

      Given these promising Stage I results in Stage III settings, we propose a fully-powered Stage
      III effectiveness trial of PARS compared to Treatment-as-Usual (TAU) using a stepped wedge
      design with 900 clients enrolled in 15 community addiction treatment sites. We will collect
      outcome data post-intervention and at 1, 3, and 6 months follow-up. We propose the following
      research aims:

      Aim 1: Compare the effectiveness of IOP integrating PARS to TAU to change beliefs about
      suicide and suicide prevention.

      Hypothesis 1a: Clients who receive PARS will know more accurate information about suicide.

      Hypothesis 1b: Clients who receive PARS will have less maladaptive attitudes about suicide.

      Aim 2: Compare the effectiveness of IOP integrating PARS to TAU to increase help-seeking
      behaviors for clients and for clients' friends or family at risk of suicide.

      Hypothesis 1c: Clients who receive PARS will show greater help-seeking for themselves and
      others

      Aim 3: Evaluate whether changes in beliefs about suicide and suicide prevention-particularly
      regarding warning signs for suicide, including addiction, intoxication, and relapse, as well
      as beliefs that suicide is preventable when action is taken-are possible mechanisms by which
      PARS increases help-seeking behavior.

      Hypothesis 2: The effect of PARS vs. TAU on changes in help-seeking will be mediated by
      improved information and attitudes.

      Exploratory Aim 4: Evaluate possible clinic-level dose effects of PARS administration such
      that participant outcomes improve the longer PARS is implemented within clinics.

      Exploratory Aim 5: Compare the effects of PARS vs. TAU on clients' suicidality and substance
      use in the follow-up period.

      By integrating PARS into IOP group treatment, community treatment agencies are in a unique
      position to act as key players in the national suicide prevention strategy by providing
      suicide prevention information, improving attitudes regarding suicide, and increasing
      help-seeking skills for one of the most high-risk populations for suicide. This proposal is
      innovative in its focus, the development of PARS in community settings, as well as the use of
      a stepped wedge design.
    
  