
    
      We are currently screening women (approximately 535) from whom we expect 400 HIV-negative
      high-risk, non-pregnant NIDU women will be enrolled to participate in a two-arm randomized
      trial of an enhanced HIV risk reduction intervention plus an enhanced vaccine education
      intervention compared to controls. At screening, women complete an assessment, receive HIV
      and HBV pre-test counseling, and are tested for HIV antibody, markers of hepatitis B virus
      (HBV) infection and pregnancy. At the enrollment visit (2 weeks later), eligible and willing
      participants are randomized to receive either the enhanced HIV risk reduction intervention
      plus the enhanced vaccine education intervention or control conditions. Enrolled women
      provide urine for pregnancy testing. Enrolled women found to be susceptible to HBV are
      offered hepatitis B (HB) vaccine at the enrollment visit. Follow-up visits coincide with the
      HB vaccine schedule (1 and 6 months post enrollment) for all women, regardless of whether or
      not they received HB vaccine. Pregnancy testing is conducted at these follow-up visits.
      Participants provide sera for HIV antibody testing at the 6- and 12-months visits. A final
      visit will occur at 12 months post enrollment to assess longer term effects on risk behaviors
      and knowledge and understanding of vaccine concepts. All standardized interviews are
      conducted using Audio Computer Assisted Self-Interview (ACASI) technology.

      The enhanced HIV risk reduction intervention is a series of three, interactive,
      individually-delivered, counseling sessions. The enhanced sessions also include tailored male
      and female condom demonstrations to build skills, and each session concludes with a
      client-initiated sexual risk reduction goal. The follow-up sessions (at 1 and 6 months)
      resume by reviewing goal attainment, exploring the reasons and beliefs associated with
      progress toward that goal. The control group receives the client-centered HIV counseling
      based on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Project RESPECT model. Both the
      control and enhanced risk reduction counseling are delivered at the baseline (time 0) and at
      follow up visits (1 month and 6 months).

      The enhanced vaccine education component will test the two-session model informed consent
      process outlined by Coletti et al but enhanced with simplified illustrated educational
      material delivered through flipcharts, video and individual counseling at baseline and 1 week
      later. The control condition is based on the Coletti two-session informed consent process.
    
  