
    
      This clinical trial aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a family intervention to reduce
      obesity in children. Overweight and obesity, as defined by the World Organization of Health
      (WHO) as abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that can be harmful to health, they are
      considered by this body as one of the most important public health problems of the century
      XXI, which is the fifth leading death risk factor in the world.

      OI has been associated with high co-morbidity in adulthood. The percentile increase in body
      mass index (BMI) in OI increases the incidence of cases of hypertension , dyslipidemia, left
      ventricular hypertrophy, atherosclerosis, metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, sleep
      disorders, as well as psychological effects, such as stigmatization, discrimination,
      depression and emotional trauma. Obesity in childhood also substantially increases the risk
      of being an obese adult. In addition, childhood obesity is an independent risk factor for
      obesity in adulthood. Criteria favorable to therapeutic intervention in cases of obesity are
      based on the demonstration that with a moderate weight loss (5-10%) can achieve a marked
      improvement in the associated comorbidity and quality of life even in severe obesity. The
      prevalence of multiple risk factors increases as the BMI percentile increases, and severe
      obesity is associated with an increased risk of comorbidity and resistance to sustained
      weight loss.

      The discussion about the relevance and form of the approach to childhood obesity is an open
      and current issue. A 2007 Cochrane review established that there may be a benefit to
      behavioral treatment where parents are given responsibility for behavioral change and this is
      done as a family. To start the intervention, professionals with specific training in physical
      activity and nutrition applied in childhood, behavioral intervention techniques and promotion
      of healthy habits in working with families are required.

      Another more recent review focused on evaluating the effectiveness of different interventions
      to treat childhood obesity concludes that although there is not much quality data to
      recommend a treatment program superior to another, the combined lifestyle and behavior
      interventions in Comparison with standard care or self-help can lead to a significant
      reduction in overweight in children and adolescents.

      Another aspect to take into account is the relevance of the early intervention of obesity
      during childhood-adolescence, since it is at this stage that the eating habits and practice
      of physical exercise are consolidated, in addition to where they conform the personality
      characteristics of the individual.

      The family intervention is proposed as one of the areas most likely to be successful in
      treating childhood obesity. There are several clinical trials that evaluate different
      interventions aimed primarily at families and show that they have beneficial effects in the
      promotion of healthy behaviors related to food and exercise in boys and girls, in addition to
      highlighting the importance of a combined dietary, behavioral and physical activity
      component.

      The few studies carried out in the specific field of community nursing have small sample
      sizes and have not shown that the intervention in nursing consultation has been effective as
      far as weight loss is concerned. Another study comparing the effect of medical counseling and
      group therapy in childhood obesity concluded that cognitive behavioral therapy is more
      effective than medical advice and that none of the two treatment improved results compared to
      the untreated group. There are several limitations that could justify this result, among
      others the possible insufficient family involvement that is considered of vital importance.

      4. 1. CONCEPTUAL Hypothesis : The "Active Families" intervention program is more effective
      than the usual practice to reduce the weight of children from 7 to 12 years old with obesity
      at the end of the intervention and at 6 and 12 months after the start of the intervention.

      4.2. OPERATIONAL HYPOTHESIS: The "Active Families" family intervention program decreases an
      average of 0.5 standard deviations plus the BMI of children with childhood obesity than the
      usual practice at the end of the intervention and at 6 and 12 months after the start of the
      intervention.

      4. 3.OBJECTIVES Main objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of a family intervention
      program to reduce weight in children aged 7 to 12 years with childhood obesity compared to
      the usual practice at 6 and 12 months after the intervention.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Evaluate the effectiveness of a family intervention program aimed at children aged 7 to
           12 with childhood obesity to improve the quality of food.

        2. Evaluate the effectiveness of a family intervention program aimed at children aged 7 to
           12 with childhood obesity to increase physical activity.

        3. Evaluate the effectiveness of a family intervention program aimed at children aged 7 to
           12 with childhood obesity to increase the physical activity of the main caregiver.

      Design : Controlled clinical trial with randomized allocation by conglomerates, open,
      multicenter, 12 months follow-up, in primary care consultations. Location or scope: Health
      Centers of the Community of Madrid. Duration: 12 months years. Study population : Children
      diagnosed with obesity attended in primary care consultations of 7 to 12 years of both sexes.

      Sample size: It has been estimated for a difference of 0.5 standard deviations ( clinically
      relevant result ), and a power of 80%. Specifying a total of 170 children, 85 in each group.
      Correcting for a design effect of 1,369, considering an ICC of 0,041 (28) and an average
      cluster size of 10 boys or girls, 233 boys or girls are required. Estimating losses of 20%,
      the final size is 280 children, 140 in each group. Sampling : Randomized allocation by
      conglomerates (nurses). Randomization unit: Primary Health Care Centers. The Health Centers
      will be assigned to the intervention or to the control group through a random sequence
      generated by computer. Analysis Unit: Diada child / caregiver. They will be included by
      consecutive sampling. During the consultation, that child susceptible to being included in
      the study will be informed and offered participation. If you agree to participate, you will
      be asked to complete and sign the informed consent and verify that you meet all the inclusion
      criteria and none of the exclusion criteria. Randomization of health centers will be carried
      out once the eligible dyads have been selected for the study, so that the recruitment by
      professionals is not influenced by the branch of the study to which they have been assigned.

      Data Collection :

      The information will be collected through clinical interview and physical examination and the
      data will be recorded in an electronic data collection notebook specially designed for this
      study. The variables will be collected during 4 visits: at the beginning of the study, at the
      end of the intervention, at 6 and 12 months.

      Losses in participation: Losses and abandonment of follow-up during the study. The cause will
      be collected (voluntary abandonment, displacement, comorbidity, death and cause). If a
      patient does not attend a session, at least two telephone contact attempts will be made.

      Control group . The activities included in the Service for Childhood Obesity Patients of the
      Portfolio of Standardized Primary Care Services of the Community of Madrid will be carried
      out , which establishes a monthly follow-up in the first 6 months and bimonthly from 6 to 12.
      This consultation will be attended by at least the child and the primary caregiver, the
      child's educating agent, and will receive supporting documentation for Exercise and
      strengthen your role.

      * Experimental group : Regular intervention plus intervention active families. This
      intervention, based on the methodology of meaningful learning , it will have two components:
      group education aimed at parents (caregivers) and education aimed at children in the reviews
      in consultation. The group intervention will consist of 6 sessions, which with a biweekly /
      monthly frequency, will be taught as determined in the program monitoring annex, in the 3
      months after the initial assessment.

      In order to normalize and protocolize the activities in both groups (intervention and
      control) a training session will be held prior to the start of the field work

      Analysis Strategy :

      It will be done according to the intention to treat principle.

        1. Review of the data and descriptive analysis of the study variables evaluating the
           normality of the distribution with its corresponding 95% confidence intervals .

        2. Initial comparability of the groups according to the outcome and confusion variables .
           Chi square test for qualitative variables and used the T of Student for quantitative (if
           they conform to a normal distribution) or nonparametric test (if not follow a normal
           distribution).

        3. Principal effectiveness analysis: calculation of the difference in means of the Z Score
           between groups, together with their 95% Confidence Interval.

        4. To assess the effect of the intervention on the Z score of the BMI, a multivariate
           analysis will be carried out using a mixed multilevel model (level 1: child / caregiver
           dyad ; level 2: professional dyad / health center), with the intervention as fixed
           effects factor and professionals or centers as random effects factor (Brown H and
           Prescott R (1999). Applied mixed models in medicine. New York: Wiley.).

      This same analysis will be applied to analyze the impact of the intervention on the rest of
      the quantitative dependent variables contemplated in the secondary objectives of the study.

        1. - Technical Group.

             -  Preparation of the Guide to Attention to Sedentary and Childhood Obesity
                (Educational Materials of Active Families).

             -  Childhood Obesity Care Program (Standardization of the usual service portfolio
                process in which the standardized care plan for childhood obesity is also
                included). Presentation of the same to the professionals assigned to the control
                group through a clinical session of two hours of training.

             -  Design of electronic Data Collection Notebook (CRD) accessible from the AP computer
                HC and a database containing CRD information

             -  Periodic monitoring of the information collected: Evolution of patient acquisition
                and detection of recorded data errors, due to violation of the researcher's manual.
                For this, the contracted computer technicians will design specific SQL statements
                (Programming language).

             -  Data debugging: validation process by searching for repeated records, and
                inconsistent, illogical or out of range values.

             -  Bibliographic update and management of bibliographic references.

        2. - Assistance Group: This group will be formed by nurses and pediatricians of the
           participating centers. There will be two people responsible for implementing the program
           in each center that will facilitate contact with the coordinating group. Perform the
           tasks of the assistance group:

             -  Recruitment of patients and assess the inclusion criteria. Carry out the
                intervention assigned to the patients. Collection and registration of data in the
                CRD.

             -  The professionals of the care group will appear as an attached note in the possible
                publications derived from the study, so that the names of all the participants
                appear in the bibliographic databases. Inclusion in these groups will depend on the
                involvement and activities carried out by each collaborator.
    
  