
    
      Detailed Description: Early rehabilitation protocols have been studied in Achilles tendon
      (AT) rupture patients, but deficits in tendon biomechanical properties have been observed
      several years after the injury. AT rupture patients are unable to return to their previous
      levels of physical activity. They present deleterious adaptations in the plantar flexor
      muscles that lead to functional deficits and deficits in the tendon structural and mechanical
      properties. Deficits in calf muscle endurance and strength remained 7 years after the injury.
      In this regards, eccentric contractions are recommended to recover muscle morphology and
      mechanical properties. This contraction type produces higher force compared to isometric and
      concentric contractions, and increases tendon stiffness. However, there is a lack of studies
      showing the effect of the eccentric training in AT rupture rehabilitation. We want to know if
      an isokinetic eccentric training program will determine the desired adaptations on triceps
      surae muscle-tendon unit's properties in patients subjected to the AT surgical repair. More
      specifically, the aim of this study is verifying the effects of a 12-week eccentric training
      program on triceps surae muscle-tendon unit's properties in subjects that were subjected to
      the AT surgical repair. Our hypothesis is that the eccentric training program will (1)
      increase the ability to produce muscular strength; (2) will produce an increase in
      gastrocnemius and soleus muscles thickness, fascicle length, and pennation angle; (3) will
      increase AT stiffness and Young's modulus; (4) will increase ankle functionality; (5) will
      improve the patient's quality of life. Finally, we expect that the abovementioned changes
      from isokinetic eccentric training will be greater than those from the traditional eccentric
      control group that will be subjected to 12 weeks of plantar flexor training with weights. 30
      subjects will be randomized in two groups: (1) isokinetic eccentric training; and (2)
      traditional eccentric training control group. All participants will be submitted to a
      four-week control period, followed by a 12- week period of training for the plantar flexor
      muscles. Neuromuscular system properties, AT biomechanical properties and functional tests
      will be evaluated. Participants will be evaluated in four moments: at baseline; after 4, 8
      and 12 weeks of rehabilitation. Tendon mechanical (stiffness, stress, strain), material
      (Young's modulus) and morphological (cross sectional area and tendon length) properties;
      muscle architecture (thickness, pennation angle and fascicle length); and functional tests
      (heel rise resistance and height) will be analyzed between groups and periods. Effects and
      interactions will be analyzed with ANOVA two- way (group x period). Clinical effects will be
      analyzed using effect size (Cohen's d) and magnitude-based inferences.
    
  