
    
      This is a prospective, open label, real-world study to evaluate the feasibility of matched
      molecular targeted therapy in patients with refractory gastrointestinal cancer based on tumor
      molecular characteristics as standard treatment failure. This is a non-randomized trial
      designed to test molecular matching strategies based on patient genome information. The
      molecular tumor board (MTB) will recommend treatment, but the treatment decision is up to the
      attending physician. FoundationOne CDx was used for tissue genomic analysis. If possible,
      PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC), tumor mutation load (TMB), and microsatellite instability
      (MSI) status will also be evaluated. Based on this information, MTB, composed of
      multidisciplinary experts, will focus on the selection of customized, best matched drugs or
      combinations to target most of the genomic changes in each patient, also taking into account
      potential drug toxicity. The final treatment will be based on the choice of oncologists, who
      will formulate treatment plan by combining MTB discussion, patient preference, attention to
      complications, consideration of drug toxicity, insurance coverage of off label drugs and
      availability of clinical trials of research drugs, thus reflecting the actual clinical
      practice nowadays in China. The acquisition of drugs follows the actual situation in the real
      world and is not within the scope of this study design.

      The principles of MTB treatment recommendations can be referred to the NCI-MATCH trial:

      Grade 1: FDA / NMPA approval; clear evidence and mechanism; concomitant diagnostic
      relationship between drug and target.

      Grade 2: The drug reaches the clinical end point (objective response rate, PFS or OS); there
      is evidence of target inhibition; there is strong evidence to predict relationship between
      the target and the drug.

      Grade 3: The drug has evidence of clinical activity and target inhibition; there is some
      evidence to predict the relationship between target and drug.

      Grade 4: Pre-clinical evidence of anti-tumor activity and evidence of target inhibition;
      there is hypothesis to predict the relationship between target and drug.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and sign informed consent will be analyzed for tumor
      mutation by FoundationOne CDx detection. Biopsy specimens of metastatic foci can be selected
      for gene detection. If there is no targeted therapy among patients, the archived diagnostic
      tumor samples can also be used for detection. If the patient has received targeted therapy,
      the investigators will try to obtain biopsy samples after treatment. If the sample cannot be
      tested or the test results are not satisfactory, additional slices need to be sent to the
      laboratory. If the repeated test fails, repeat biopsy if the clinical conditions permit, or
      patients should be included in the unmatched treatment group.

      Determining the interventability of gene mutations depends on genomic changes, allele
      frequency, and diagnosis. This study will combine the recommendations of MTB and gene testing
      reports to determine the interventability of mutated genes.

      Interventional mutation: cancers have FDA or NMPA approved therapies, or there are matching
      drugs in clinical trials.

      Non-interventional mutation: there is no FDA or NMPA approved treatment for cancers, and no
      matching drug is available in clinical trials.

      MTB should at least be composed of attending doctors, molecular pathology experts and
      bioinformatics experts. The research center is responsible for the establishment and holding
      of MTB. As management of patients enrolled in this study is essential, the research
      committee, including but not limited to the main investigator of the study and the treated
      medical oncologist, can provide advice as needed between MTB meetings to avoid treatment
      delays. By analyzing the genomic variation of patients, independent MTB recommends molecular
      targeted therapy that can inhibit the mutation directly or through related pathways or be
      included in relevant clinical trials. The independent research committee will use the
      "N-to-1" model of precision medicine to propose a matching therapy consisting of at least one
      drug that targets molecular changes. The investigators expect 50-70% of patients to carry
      intervening variants, and that proportion is rising rapidly as learning more about these
      pathways and drugs. The investigators expect that about 40% of patients with intervening
      variants will be able to receive molecular targeted "matching" therapy.
    
  