
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) affects 50% of older adults. Common comorbidities associated with OA
      include poor sleep, pain, depression, and fatigue. OA patients with insomnia tend to report
      greater pain than those without insomnia. A recent systematic review concluded that sleep
      disturbance is a stronger predictor of chronic pain than vice versa. Standard treatment
      options for insomnia are medication and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I).
      Prescription medication has good short term efficacy but benefits do not persist after
      treatment discontinuation and there are notable side effects. Treatment effects for CBT-I are
      comparable to or exceed those for medications, and have been shown efficacious for persons
      with OA pain. However, CBT-I practitioners are not yet available in many healthcare systems.
      New, effective, and easy-to-use self-management alternatives could greatly help reduce the
      burden of insomnia and potentially decrease pain, depression, and fatigue in individuals with
      OA. We propose to test a novel, easily-used, self-management intervention to improve
      OA-related insomnia, pain, depression and fatigue: open-loop neurofeedback Audio Visual
      Stimulation (AVS). AVS uses preprogrammed light and sound patterns to evoke brainwave
      potentials at pre-set designated frequencies. The AVS intervention consists of 30 minutes of
      light and sound pulsing stimuli that gradually descend from alpha (10 Hz) to delta (2 Hz)
      frequencies. AVS placebo consists of 30 minutes of constant dim light slowly changing in
      color, and a steady monotone at ultra-low frequency (below 1 Hz). This proposed study builds
      upon our successful completion of three pilot studies using AVS. Based on the pilot findings,
      we hypothesize that the use of active AVS at bedtime induces delta brainwaves, but additional
      testing is needed to determine how long AVS should be used to produce significant
      improvements in subjective sleep quality relative to placebo control. In addition, we propose
      to experimentally test the effect of blue light, which is known to suppress melatonin
      production, as a potential confounding variable in the AVS intervention. We propose a trial
      of AVS in 75 community dwelling older adults with chronic comorbid insomnia and OA pain.
      After baseline assessment, participants will be randomized to 3 groups: AVS-1 (red, green &
      blue light) vs. AVS-2 (red & green light only) vs. placebo AVS. Participants will
      self-administer AVS at bedtime nightly for one month. QEEG will be measured at baseline, and
      then at 2, 3 and 4 weeks to evaluate neurological responses to AVS over time. Insomnia
      severity will be similarly assessed to determine the most efficacious AVS treatment duration
      and color array for improving insomnia symptoms. OA-related symptoms (pain, depression, and
      fatigue) and objective sleep outcomes will also be assessed. Data will inform a definitive
      RCT of AVS for insomnia and relative OA symptoms.
    
  