
    
      The product formulations of processed packaged foods frequently require added salt. Salt
      reduction in these foods is a focus of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in an effort to
      reduce diet related disease. Evidence suggests that advocacy does have the potential to
      influence corporate behaviour but few robust data exist to describe the effects of NGO
      actions on food companies' salt reduction efforts.

      A food composition database was used to select eligible food companies in Australia which
      were then classified into three strata based on company ownership, size of company and
      industry sector. Of the 45 food companies, 23 were randomised to the control group, and 22 to
      the intervention. The sample will provide 80% power to detect a difference of 50mg/100g in
      mean sodium levels assuming a mean of 430mg/100g, standard deviation of 300mg/100g and
      intracluster correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.05 using a two-sided T-test with a
      significance level of 0.05.

      The control group will have no specific intervention targeted at them but specific requests
      of the study team will be acted upon within the resources available. The intervention group
      will receive an advocacy program which comprises of commonly used advocacy actions,
      incorporating a theory of change model.

      Data for the study will derive from periodic surveys of the characteristics of included
      companies, annual surveys of the composition of the processed foods they provide and an
      advocacy log recording all elements of the intervention program.

      The study is being conducted by an Australian NGO over two years between December 2013-2015.
      Ethics approval to collect survey questionnaire and interview data from food companies has
      been obtained from the Human Research Ethics Committee at the University of Sydney.

      This study will provide evidence about the potential for an Australian advocacy program to
      influence corporate behaviour and the quality of the processed food supply in Australia.
      Whether the program is effective or not the results, which use a novel experimental approach,
      will have important implications for the future of Australian efforts to reduce the large
      burden of disease caused by poor diet - a positive finding will highlight the need for
      investment in advocacy whilst a negative result will reinforce the importance of other,
      policy-based initiatives for the improvement of the food supply.
    
  