
    
      Intervention description:

      Initially the intervention group will receive education about dementia, BPSD, quality of care
      and use of psychotropic drugs Subsequently, staff in the nursing home will receive training
      in the intervention method: MID. Two or three nurses from each nursing home will receive more
      intensive training in the method to ensure effective implementation of the method in daily
      practice. After this initial period that will last for four weeks, trained research nurses
      will visit each nursing home every fortnight ensuring that the intervention is properly
      implemented and thereby assure adherence to the treatment protocol.

      Description of the intervention Multidisciplinary Intervention model for challenging
      behaviour in Dementia, MID, consists of three stages: a registration-observation stage, a
      staff guiding stage, and an evaluation stage.

        1. Registration-observation stage:

           The nurses use a daily registration sheet for the actual types of behaviour that are
           challenging. This ensures that the behaviour is properly observed on a daily basis.

           The next step in the registration-observation stage is:

             -  Collection of the medical history by the nursing home nurses

             -  Standard physical examination by the nursing home physician

             -  Critical review of medication by the nursing home physician

             -  Pain assessment (clinical), by the nursing home physician

             -  Assessment of the type and degree of dementia by the nursing home physician

             -  Assembly of the patients personal history by the nursing homes nurses After
                completion of the registration-observation stage (lasting 1 day up to 4 weeks) the
                staff guiding stage starts.

        2. Staff guiding stage - guiding meeting The trained nurses from the nursing home set a
           meeting for 1-1,5 hours for the nursing home health workers. The meeting is lead by the
           nursing home nurses and the nursing home physician.

           The meeting follows a structured agenda and is conducted following the principles of
           problem solving in cognitive behavioural therapy taking into account one type of
           challenging behaviour at a time. Results from the registration-observation stage are
           presented at the beginning of the meeting. (A 5-column sheet, based on classical
           cognitive change thoughts records, is used to structure problem solving during the
           meeting: 1.facts, 2.interpretations (thoughts), 3.feelings, 4. solutions/actions and 5.
           evaluation)

        3. Evaluation stage This stage starts just after the guiding meeting and is conducted by
           the nursing home nurses. The nurses continue the same registration of the behaviour on a
           daily basis as in the registration-observation stage for the next 4 weeks.
    
  