
    
      The recommendation of the Pediatric Societies of North America and Europe is that postnatal
      growth of preterm infants matches the in-utero growth rates of fetuses that remain in utero
      until full-term. Despite this long-standing recommendation, approximately 43% to 97% of very
      low birth weight (VLBW, less than 1500 g) infants grow slower than the estimated fetal growth
      velocity. This slow postnatal growth usually results in extra-uterine growth restriction
      (EUGR), defined as having a measured growth parameter (weight, length, or head circumference)
      that is less than 10th percentile of intrauterine growth expectation based on estimated
      postmenstrual age (PMA) in premature neonates at the time of hospital discharge.4 EUGR is
      associated with major morbidities such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), retinopathy of
      prematurity (ROP) and impaired neurodevelopment.

      Although the etiology of EUGR is multifactorial, inadequate nutrition plays a pivotal role.
      There are three critical stages of nutrition support in VLBW infants: (1) acute stage during
      the first 1-3 weeks after birth when infants are on parenteral nutrition, (2) intermediate
      period when infants are slowly advanced to full enteral nutrition (growing care stage), and
      (3) the post-discharge stage. Failure to provide adequate nutrition in the acute stage result
      in cumulative energy and protein deficits that is difficult to reverse in the second stage.
      Inadequate early postnatal nutrition results in excessive weight loss that cannot be
      explained by the physiologic contraction of body water alone. The regain of birth weight may
      need two to three weeks or even longer in preterm infants with excessive postnatal weight
      loss.

      Newborn infants born at term normally lose 5-10% of their body weight in the first week of
      life due to contraction of extracellular water compartment. The proportion of weight loss is
      significantly higher in VLBW infants. Increased insensible water loss is widely considered as
      the main cause for additional weight loss in this population. Nevertheless, studies
      identified low energy intake to be a key driver to excessive weight loss. In fact, an earlier
      study showed that significant postnatal weight loss occurs mainly in infants whose energy
      intake is inadequate. A more recent epidemiologic study demonstrated similar postnatal growth
      trajectories with a minimal crossing of percentiles after the initial weight loss regardless
      of gestational age at birth. The growth trajectories for infants in that study had similar
      slopes and growth rates which indicate that proportion of postnatal weight loss is a lead
      cause for EUGR at discharge. Therefore, we speculate that decreasing the maximum percentage
      of initial weight loss in the acute stage would keep the preterm infant on a higher growth
      trajectory that is enough to reduce the incidence of EUGR.

      Current fat provision regimen for preterm infants include starting parenteral lipid at 12-24
      hours of age with 0.5-1 g/kg per day and advancing by 0.5 g/kg/day until reaching 3 g/kg per
      day. Using early (within one hour of birth) and higher (start at 2 g/kg per day and advance
      to 3g/kg per day once total fluid intake is increased to 80 ml/kg/day) parenteral fat intake
      could reduce the cumulative caloric deficit in the acute stage. Because of high-density
      energy in fat, higher parenteral fat intake will reduce the early energy deficit and enhance
      protein accretion. The first 2-3 weeks of life offer a critical window to limit postnatal
      nutritional and energy deficits. Recent study showed that higher energy and fat intakes
      during the first 2 weeks after birth are associated with a lower incidence of brain lesions
      and dysmaturation at term equivalent age in preterm neonates.

      To date, studies of "early aggressive nutrition" in preterm infants have mainly focused on
      high protein intake to prevent protein catabolism. Nevertheless, provision of high protein
      intake without enough energy is unlikely to significantly reduce the early loss of protein
      and fat mass that had been accreted before birth.
    
  