
    
      This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessing the
      efficacy and safety of Artefill for correction of moderate to severe atrophic acne scars.

      The study is divided into two study periods. In Period I, scars meeting the treatment
      criteria will be individually identified, numbered and mapped using photographs and
      transparent sheets prior to treatment. This mapping will be used to track individual scars
      throughout the trial. Four (4) weeks following a baseline qualification visit, subjects
      randomized to treatment will receive one treatment of Artefill or Control (saline),
      administered by the Treating Investigator. At 72 hours following injections, subjects will be
      followed-up by telephone to confirm the occurrence of any AEs. Subjects will return to the
      clinic at 2 weeks for follow-up evaluation, and then at 4 weeks where subjects may receive
      one optional touch-up treatment. Subjects receiving touch-up treatment will be followed-up by
      telephone at 72 hours to confirm the occurrence of any AEs, and return for clinic visits at 6
      weeks and 8 weeks. All subjects will then return for clinic follow-up at months 3 and 6
      (after last treatment).

      Period II is open label and will begin at month 6. Artefill group subjects will return to the
      clinic for assessments at months 9 and 12 (Track A) and Control group subjects will enter
      Track B, re-establish baseline, and complete additional month 6 visit activities including
      Artefill treatment. Subjects will receive touch up (if required) 4 weeks later, and be
      followed for an additional 12 months.

      Subjects will be required to abstain from other aesthetic treatment to their face during the
      study period and failure to do so will be considered a protocol violation. However, if a
      subject does receive additional aesthetic or non-aesthetic treatments, available information
      on such treatment will be collected and the subject will be continued to be followed per
      protocol. Such subjects will not be excluded from the analysis, but will also be evaluated
      separately.
    
  