
    
      Letrozole is an anticancer hormone that is FDA approved for use in patients with advanced
      breast cancer.

      Before you can be enrolled in this study, you must go through some screening tests to make
      sure you are eligible. The screening tests include a complete medical history and physical
      exam, including measurement of your pulse rate, breathing rate, temperature, height, weight,
      and blood pressure. The physical examination will also include measurement of any visible
      cancer lesions. You will be asked what medications you are taking, including over the counter
      medications, herbal medications, and vitamins. You will have chest x-rays and/or CT or MRI
      scans to measure the size of your tumors. You will have routine blood tests (about 2 and a
      1/2 tablespoons) performed.

      If you qualify for the study, you will take Letrozole once a day by mouth. Letrozole will be
      dispensed in the form of a tablet. Four to eight weeks worth of Letrozole will be prescribed
      to you by your treatment doctor at each visit. You will continue to receive Letrozole as long
      as you are responding to treatment.

      You will be required to come back for check-up at least once every 2 months while on study
      for the first two years. You should contact the study doctor if you feel unwell or feel the
      need to see the doctor before your appointment earlier than your designated appointment.

      At each follow-up visit, you will have a complete physical exam. The chest x-rays and/or CT
      or MRI scans will be repeated every 2 months, and at the time you complete the trial, or at
      any other time if necessary. Blood tests (about 1 tablespoon) will be performed every 2
      months. Information about the medications you are taking, or medical problems you have had
      since your last visit will be collected. At each follow-up visit, you will also be asked to
      complete a one page, paper and pencil check off sheet. You will be asked to identify symptoms
      you may be having and to note the amount of distress each symptom is causing you.

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur and
      your doctor will discuss possible treatment options with you.

      However, as long as you continue to benefit from Letrozole treatment, you will continue on
      this treatment. If you are on letrozole treatment beyond two years, you will be followed up
      at three months interval. At these follow up visits, you will be asked questions about your
      medical history and have a physical exam. You will also have blood (about tablespoon) and
      urine tests, and/or radiological evaluation of the tumor. As long as you continue to benefit
      from letrozole treatment, you will be followed up.

      Your status will be followed for as long as possible even after you are taken off the study
      drug. You will be contacted by phone or asked to come to the clinic for a routine visit. You
      will be contacted every 6 weeks for 1 year after the study and every 12 weeks for the rest of
      your life.

      This is an investigational study. Letrozole is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of
      recurrent low grade or borderline ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. A
      total of up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  