
    
      Childhood apraxia of speech is a developmental speech sound disorder that may lead to
      persisting speech errors, often despite years of treatment. Such impairments may lead to
      social, academic, and vocational limitations. Thus, there is a need to explore alternate
      treatment approaches. This study will explore how to improve speech sound production in
      school-age children with CAS by modifying a standard speech therapy program. Two adaptations
      to speech therapy will be tested in a 2 x 2 randomized group design.

      In Aim 1, a standard treatment schedule of 2 one-hour sessions per week will be compared
      against a treatment sequence beginning with an intensive therapy schedule (10 hrs of
      treatment in one week), which will then transition to a more distributed practice schedule.
      This treatment modification is intended to minimize erred practice between training sessions
      in the early stages of learning, then foster generalization through increased time between
      practice sessions.

      In Aim 2, a standard treatment that includes only verbal feedback to the client during speech
      practice will be compared against a treatment sequence that initially includes real-time
      ultrasound visual feedback of the tongue during speech, which will be faded over the course
      of treatment. Ultrasound visual feedback is designed to train articulatory movements. It may
      enhance children's understanding of the articulatory goals of speech movement patterns by
      comparing executed tongue movements with intended movements. Prior case reports and single
      subject experimental designs have shown that speech sound production may be enhanced by
      including ultrasound visual feedback, although no prior randomized group studies have been
      conducted.

      Beside these modifications, the other aspects of treatment will be held constant. Outcomes
      will be evaluated by tracking changes in percent consonants correct from a large speech
      sample, scored by individuals who are blind to treatment status. The four groups will be
      compared to determine the extent to which speech sound therapy can be enhanced through a
      treatment sequence that begins with intensive practice and/or with ultrasound visual
      feedback.
    
  