
    
      Corsets are widely used in the management of spinal cord injury (SCI) patients. Their use
      provides a certain amount of rigidity to the trunk which may help some patients to maintain
      posture; they also may contribute when used in combination with contention to reduce
      orthostatic hypotension. Last, they may reduce dyspnea and improve respiratory tolerance
      while sitting. Indeed, patients with recent SCI worsen their respiratory function in the
      sitting position secondary to the hypotonia of abdominal muscles which places the diaphragm
      in a lower and less efficient position. The use of a corset rigidifies the abdominal wall and
      therefore improves the diaphragm contraction's efficiency leading to an improvement of vital
      capacity (VC) and a reduction of dyspnea in the sitting position. But although some patients
      continue to use a corset overtime, others discontinue its use. We recently observed that
      corset users presented an improvement of VC with corset use proportional to the improvement
      of VC observed in the supine position while patients who had discontinued its use did not
      exhibit a reduction of VC between the supine and the upright position suggesting that they
      presented a more rigid abdominal wall.

      It is not known whether corset use discontinuation results from the spontaneous improvement
      respiratory function in the upright position or leads to the appearance of abdominal
      spasticity and to the improvement of respiratory function.

      Therefore, we aim to study the effect of the long term corset use on SCI patients'
      respiratory function.

      We will conduct a monocentric prospective open study of 56 SCI patients (SCI level ranging
      from C5 to T8 ASIA A or B) with a recent lesion (<4 months). The evolution of respiratory
      function and dyspnea with and without corset use will be studied over a 2 years period. An
      evaluation of spasticity overtime will also be conducted. After randomization (corset use or
      not) evaluation will be conducted after 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years and will
      include: pulmonary function test with and without corset in the upright position and in the
      supine position, blood gases, dyspnea scores in the different positions and spasticity
      assessment.
    
  