
    
      Research Question. To compare the performances of the experimental and control groups at the
      start of the PEPS program, at the finish 1 month later and at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months follow
      up.

      Hypothesis. Null Hypothesis H0: µ1- µ2 = 0 or μ1=μ2; where μ1= mean of experimental group and
      μ2= mean of control group.

      PEPS-MIT is not more effective than PEPS-bimanual training in Restoration of upper limb
      functioning following stroke.

      Alternative Hypothesis Ha: µ1- µ2> 0 or µ1> µ2 PEPS-MIT is more effective than PEPS-bimanual
      training in Restoration of upper limb functioning following stroke.

      Ethical Considerations. The Bangladesh Health Professions Institute Institutional Review
      Board (IRB) judged the ethical issues and they gave the permission for data collection. All
      data and assessment files were stored in security and files were maintained with patient data
      held anonymously.

      All patients were given information about the trial and they were secured that withdrawing
      from the trial didn't give any consequences for their normal treatment. All eligible patients
      wish to participate and they all signed informed consent forms.

      Study design. The study is a double blind randomized clinical trial with baseline assessment,
      post-treatment assessment and three-month, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months follow-up, two
      group comparison design.

      Sample Size. The study sample was all the CRP rehabilitation center patients who meet the
      inclusion criteria within the study time frame (10.08.18 to 25.12.18). Total 140 patients
      meet the criteria, and all are allocated to the study. Through simple random techniques
      patients were allocated into control group and experimental group according to a 1:1 ratio.
      Thus, after randomization 70 patient were allocated into control group and 70 were allocated
      into experimental group. Sealed envelope was used for randomization that was carried out by
      the director of the Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation unit of Occupational Therapy
      Department. Patients are blinded for the therapy group.

      Interventions. The fundamental PEPS-method (Please see PEPS training programme full
      description, URL link- https://www.crp-bangladesh.org/standard-treatment-program) was applied
      in both the control and experimental group.

      The control group mainly performed the exercise tasks bimanually, as in as usual' therapy
      sessions (PEPS-bimanual), whereas the experimental group performed the exercise tasks with
      forced use of the most affected hand (wearing a specially designed mitten at the non-paretic
      hand; PEPS-MIT).

      Treatment sessions. Two hours in 5 days per week; Total 4 weeks. Assessments. Trained
      assessors who were blinded for the intervention had assessed the functioning of the upper
      limb before the start of the treatment, at the end and at follow-up after 3, 6, 9 and 12
      months.

      Therapists. Therapists were only facilitator of the peer lead training sessions. Six
      qualified therapists were randomly (through sealed envelope) allocated to either the
      experimental or the control group. Therapists of both groups have got a 7 days training in
      the core PEPS program. Both groups of therapists were forbidden to share their training
      knowledge with each other as part of study protocol. Therapists are unaware which group is
      the control and which is the experimental group: they were blinded for the intervention.

      Quality assurance. Pilot trial: Investigators conducted a pilot trial (20 days with 4
      patients) before conducting the study for checking feasibility of the program and outcome
      measures.

      Each session therapist asked the patients for experiencing adverse events, and registered
      these.

      Monitoring the process of training and data registration regarding the home-exercising was
      done during three days each week by the first and third author.

      The statistics department of Jahangirnagor University (JU) and MRS program, BHPI, CRP helps
      in site monitoring and auditing, and in controlling the accuracy and completeness of the
      data, in data validation and registry procedure. All data were checked by Statistics
      department of JU and rechecked by MRS program, BHPI, CRP.

      Investigators have made a log-book with descriptions of each variable and the normal range of
      scores per test, and the codes to indicate the individual patients to keep the patient data
      anonymously.

      All data were put into SPSS files and checked. Missing data. There are no missing data in
      initial assessments.For missing data in follow-up assessments (no show of patients, or
      because of passing away of patients) will be used the 'intention-to-treat' analysis.

      Statistical analysis: 1. Independent t tests and Chi- Square (χ2) tests will be used to
      compare the control and experimental group on sociodemographic and disease variables. Changes
      in test scores within each group were evaluated with paired t tests, and between groups with
      independent t-test. Repeated measure ANOVA (factorial ANOVA) model will be used to see
      whether group differences existed or not and how group scores changes over time and
      interaction between Group*Time.
    
  