
    
      Cholangiocarcinomas are rare tumors with an extremely poor prognosis. The best therapeutic
      option (i.e. resection) can only be done in 20% of cases. Combinations of
      gemcitabine/platinum compounds were identified as the new standard first-line therapy

      For patients with hepatic-only disease, therapy intensification using Intra-Arterial (IA)
      chemotherapy could be an attractive option since:

        -  Vascularisation of hepatic tumors is almost exclusively provided by the hepatic artery.

        -  Gemcitabine and oxaliplatin have a high rate of hepatic extraction during the first
           passage, thus allowing the drugs to reach high intra-tumoral concentrations with low
           systemic toxicity.

        -  The plasma concentration of gemcitabine after IA injection is 1/7th of that observed
           following Intra-Venous (IV) injection. No grade 3-4 toxicity has been observed in doses
           <1400mg/m².

        -  Phase I and I/II studies have shown dose-limiting toxicity between 150-175mg/m² for IA
           oxaliplatin every 3 weeks.

        -  We reported (Ghiringhelli, Chemotherapy 2013) in 12 patients with progressive
           intra-hepatic cholangiocarcinoma after IV gemcitabine/oxaliplatin, a partial response in
           8 cases (stability in 3 cases) after IA gemcitabine/oxaliplatin. Among them, two were
           resected (R0) and three were treated by stereotactic radiation therapy).

      Hepatic IA chemotherapy has rarely been used for the treatment of intra-hepatic
      cholangiocarcinoma (IHC), essentially in case-reports from Asia and in a few case-series that
      have mainly used IA monotherapy. The implantation of a hepatic arterial catheter has now been
      mastered by interventional radiologists and makes it possible to increase the intra-tumoral
      concentration of the drugs and probably to limit their systemic toxicity.

      Very recently, we have reported that this combination in progressive IHC following systemic
      gemcitabine/oxaliplatin has led to partial responses and allowed certain patients to benefit
      from curative treatment.

      This suggests that the intra-arterial approach increases the efficacy of these 2 drugs. For
      locally-advanced IHC, such a loco-regional approach is worth exploring in this poor-prognosis
      tumor, especially since so far 1) there is insufficient evidence to recommend a second-line
      chemotherapy schedule in this tumor and 2) targeted therapies have demonstrated no survival
      benefit over systemic chemotherapy alone.

      It is a multicenter single-arm phase II trial aiming to determine the objective response rate
      4 months after inclusion following IA gemcitabine / oxaliplatin administered as second-line
      treatment in patients with non-metastatic unresectable intra-hepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

      It will be the first French phase II trial for 2nd line treatment in intrahepatic
      cholangiocarcinoma.
    
  