
    
      Postoperative pain is an important issue in patients underwent arthroscopic shoulder surgery.
      Pain causes a few problems; discomfortable patients, negative outcomes and longer
      rehabilitation. Postoperative effective pain treatment provides early mobilization and
      shorter hospital stay, thus complications due to hospitalization such as infection and
      thromboembolism may be reduced. Various techniques may be used for postoperative pain
      treatment. Opioids are one of the most preferred drugs among the analgesic agents. Parenteral
      opioids are generally performed for patients after surgery. However opioids have undesirable
      adverse events such as nausea, vomiting, itching, sedation and respiratory depression
      (opioid-related adverse events).

      Various methods may be performed to reduce the use of systemic opioids and for effective pain
      treatment following arthroscopic shoulder surgery. Ultrasound (US)-guided brachial plexus
      blocks such as interscalen and supraclavicular block are commonly used. Interscalen brachial
      plexus block (ISCB) is one of the most preferred techniques among these.

      US-guided interfascial plane blocks have been used increasily due to the advantages of
      ultrasound in anesthesia practice. The US-guided erector spina plane block (ESPB) is a novel
      interfacial plan block defined by Forero et al. at 2016. The ESPB contains a local anesthetic
      injection into the deep fascia of erector spinae. This area is away from the pleural and
      neurological structures and thus minimizes the risk of complications due to injury.
      Visualization of sonoanatomy with US is easy, and the spread of local anesthesic agents can
      be easily seen under the erector spinae muscle. Thus, analgesia occurs in several dermatomes
      with cephalad-caudad way. Cadaveric studies have shown that the injection spreads to the
      ventral and dorsal roots of the spinal nerves. ESPB provides thoracic analgesia at T5 level,
      abdominal analgesia at T7-9 level, and lumbar analgesia at T10-12, L3 levels. To the best of
      our knowledge, there have been a few case reports about the efficacy of ESPB for acute and
      chronic shoulder pain. There are no randomized clinical studies, yet.

      The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of the US-guided ESPB and ISCB for
      postoperative analgesia management after arthroscopic shoulder surgery. The primary aim is to
      compare perioperative and postoperative opioid consumption and the secondary aim is to
      evaluate postoperative pain scores (VAS), adverse effects related with opioids (allergic
      reaction, nausea, vomiting).
    
  