
    
      Aggressive care in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) has been shown to impair the quality of life
      of patients with advanced cancer and to increase the risk of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder
      (PTSD) among the family and friends who serve as informal caregivers. Although ICU stays are
      established indicators of low quality end-of-life (EoL) cancer care, a large, growing number
      of cancer patients - over 1 in 4 -- are being admitted to the ICU in the last month of life.
      Even within the ICU, investigators find that as the number of life-prolonging procedures
      administered to the patient rises, the patient's quality of life falls. Thus, interventions
      to reduce the suffering and to improve the quality of life and care of ICU cancer patients
      are needed.

      As described above, suffering is not confined to the patient. Informal caregivers of cancer
      patients in the ICU also suffer. In our "Severity of Suffering" (SoS) study, which examined
      dying cancer patients' quality of life in the ICU, nurses indicated that 53% of the patients'
      caregivers were acutely distressed. The nurses also reported that 43% of the patient's
      caregivers had unrealistic expectations for the patient's recovery and that 41% insisted that
      the patient receive futile, burdensome care (e.g., resuscitation). Over 85% of these patients
      were unable to communicate, which resulted in the need for grieving, potentially traumatized
      caregivers to serve as the patient's surrogate decision-maker and make life-and-death
      decisions for a critically ill, uncommunicative patient. Additionally, caregivers of patients
      who die in the ICU are also at elevated risk of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in the
      months that follow the potentially traumatic ICU "exposures". These findings indicate a
      compelling need to address the varying mental health needs of informal caregivers and
      surrogate decision-makers of patients in the ICU from admission to after discharge, as well
      as to provide them with resources to clarify and inform the decision-making process regarding
      care for patients who are unable to communicate.

      To address these needs, we have developed and will refine and evaluate EMPOWER, a mental
      health intervention for surrogate decision-makers of ICU patients who are at risk of becoming
      incapacitated or are currently unable to make medical decisions. Delivered by a trained
      mental health professional in the ICU setting, EMPOWER is a cognitive-behavioral,
      acceptance-based intervention designed to reduce "experiential avoidance" of unpleasant
      thoughts and feelings related to thinking about the patient's death and to provide active
      strategies for coping with peritraumatic distress and anticipatory grief. Additionally, by
      reducing surrogates' experiential avoidance, EMPOWER removes a barrier to advanced care
      planning and promotes the receipt of EoL care consistent with patient values. In this way,
      EMPOWER aims to facilitate EoL care that enhances patient quality of life while also
      empowering surrogates to cope with a loved one's potential impending death and adjust
      following the patient's ICU death or discharge.

      This study is designed to obtain information on its feasibility, tolerability, acceptability,
      and preliminary effect size estimates to inform the planning of a larger, efficacy randomized
      controlled trial (RCT). The first 10 surrogate decision-makers were enrolled in an open trial
      to receive EMPOWER. We then began a pilot RCT, randomizing surrogate decision-makers to
      receive either EMPOWER or enhanced usual care using a block-randomization strategy to
      determine condition assignment. In light of restrictions on recruitment and increased needs
      of surrogates during the COVID-19 pandemic, the RCT portion of this trial has been paused and
      we are now recruiting for a second open trial only administering EMPOWER. 60
      surrogate-patient dyads will be enrolled between the RCT and COVID-19 open trial. Including
      the first open trial, we will enroll a total of 70 surrogate decision-makers of 70 current
      patients from the intensive care units at New York Presbyterian-Weill Cornell, New York
      Presbyterian-Queens, and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Research staff will
      regularly contact ICU physicians in person or by email and/or screen patient charts to
      identify eligible candidates based on the inclusion criteria.

      Surrogates will be consented and screened. Those who score above 5 on either item measuring
      anxiety in the McGill Quality of Life Scale, or with a summed score of at least 8 on the
      first two items of the Partner Dependency Scale (PDS) will be randomized to receive EMPOWER
      or usual care in the RCT, or solely assigned to receive the intervention in the pilot trials.
      Surrogates will be assessed pre-intervention/baseline (Time point 1, T1), post-intervention
      (within a week of the surrogate's completion of the baseline assessment) (Time point 2, T2),
      1-month post-T2 (Time point 3, T3), and 3-months post-T2(Time point 4, T4). Surrogates will
      be assigned to either control (usual care) or intervention group using block randomization in
      the RCT, and solely to EMPOWER in open trials.

      EMPOWER is based on well-established cognitive-behavioral techniques that aim to promote the
      expression and understanding of a person's emotional reactions. The EMPOWER interventionist
      will be compassionate and attempt to teach subjects tools for remaining present-focused,
      validate participants' experience, explore participants' loved ones' and participants' own
      wishes, values and decision challenges, increase subjects acceptance and sense of permission
      to experience challenging emotions, and prepare participants for future distressing
      situations. Enhanced usual care will consist of a surrogate's interactions with social
      support services in the ICU as documented in the patient's medical chart, referrals for
      current site-specific resources for informal caregivers, and a packet providing general
      information and tips on serving as an informal caregiver.

      HLM modeling will determine differences between surrogates and patients assigned to EMPOWER
      vs. enhanced usual care. The primary outcome is post-intervention (T2) differences on a
      measure of peritraumatic distress. Secondary outcomes are differences on measures of
      prolonged grief disorder, PTSD and experiential avoidance at one-month (T3) and three-month
      (T4) follow up from T2. Exploratory outcomes for surrogates are differences in reported
      symptoms of anxiety, depression, and decision regret at one-month (T3) and three-month (T4)
      follow up from T2. Exploratory outcomes for patients are differences in surrogate-reported
      quality of life, quality of death, and value concordant care. HLM models will include
      covariates, either as fixed-effect or time-varying, if those variables are found to be
      significantly statistically associated with both intervention assignment and the outcome
      examined.

      Following a review of the open trial pilot data and stakeholder feedback to evaluate our
      intervention targets, assessments and the primary outcome in the RCT were revised to target
      the effects of the EMPOWER intervention on peri (rather than post) traumatic stress.
    
  