
    
      Over 15 million men and women provide informal caregiving services to family members who have
      dementia. The literature is replete with evidence that caregiving results in high rates of
      depression and distress, and potentially high rates of physical morbidity. For example, 40%
      of caregivers are at risk for depression compared to just 5% of non-caregiving older adults.
      Further, increased symptoms of depression and distress in caregivers are associated with
      accelerated risk for developing cardiovascular disease. Thus, efficacious interventions for
      reducing caregiver distress appear potentially valuable for both mental and physical
      well-being.

      Given the distress experienced by caregivers, it is no surprise that over 80 intervention
      studies for reducing caregiver distress have been published. The message from these studies
      is that caregiver interventions, in general, are effective for reducing distress. Yet, the
      implementation of Evidence Based Treatments (EBTs) continues to be a challenge. Despite
      identification of EBTs, their use at the community-level has been absent. In 2007, NIH
      sponsored a workshop on the use of EBTs for caregivers. The conclusion was that "The majority
      of effective interventions for caregivers were not being implemented through the aging
      network." Ten years later, this lack of implementation remains. It is critical that
      scientists develop interventions for caregivers with maximal reach and minimal cost.
      Currently, most caregiver intervention frameworks require caregivers to meet with a therapist
      in one of four formats: a) face-to-face meetings with a therapist outside the caregiver's
      home, b) face-to-face meetings with a therapist in the caregiver's home, c) in-person,
      group-based meetings, or d) phone-based interventions in which caregivers call a therapist or
      support group. While possibly efficacious, these therapeutic formats are limited because: a)
      community agencies serving caregivers do not offer EBTs, b) the interventions are often not
      accessible to caregivers who reside outside the care network, c) they require caregivers to
      attend therapy sessions on specific days and times that may not be convenient for them, or d)
      they may require caregivers to find alternate care for their care recipients while they
      attend the therapy. To address these limitations, the investigators have adapted an
      evidence-based, brief Behavioral Activation (BA) program to be delivered to caregivers via
      mobile phones with internet-based capabilities, thereby increasing caregivers' access to
      quality care. This mobile intervention is now being tested in this full-scale trial. The
      investigators will test mechanisms of action, namely that increased behavioral activation
      promotes well-being in caregivers. To do so, the investigators will recruit and randomize 200
      caregivers to receive either a mobile BA intervention (N = 100) known as the mobile pleasant
      events program (mPEP), or a web-based bibliotherapy condition (N = 100) teaching skills on
      coping with caregiving. Participants will be assessed for depressive symptoms, positive and
      negative affect, well-being, and blood pressure at baseline, 3-months, 9-months, and
      15-months follow-up time points.
    
  