
    
      MATERIAL Consecutive patients suspected of UAP/NSTEMI will be screened for participation in
      the study. Only patients deemed clinically suited for invasive coronary evaluation and
      treatment will be included. A total of 2500 patients will be included in the trial at
      Departments of Cardiology of Danish Hospitals.

      METHODS If the patients accept participation in the trial a computerized 1:1 randomization
      for acute invasive coronary evaluation (Intervention group - within 12 hours from time of
      diagnosis) or for deferred invasive evaluation (Control group - no later than 72 hours from
      time of diagnosis). All included patients undergo CCTA prior to invasive coronary evaluation,
      except for patient with moderately reduced renal function (se below). The treating invasive
      cardiologist will remain blinded to observational CCTA data. Patients with endstage renal
      disease in dialysis may undergo CCTA. CCTA data recorded as part of the research protocol
      will not be made available for the treating physician.

      SECONDARY EXCLUSION Based on post-hoc expert clinical evaluation patients not having
      UAP/NSTEMI-ACS (arrythmias, pulmonary oedema, missed STEMI, pneumonia, Pulmonary emboli) will
      be excluded from analysis of difference between outcome measures in treatment strategy
      groups.

      STATISTICAL METHODS Patients with UAP/NSTEMI-ACS are based on previous studies expected to
      have an event rate of 15% within 1 year and 50% at 4 years of the primary combined endpoint:
      all cause mortality, non-fatal recurrent myocardial infarction, hospitalisation for
      refractory ischemia or heart failure. In order to demonstrate a reduction of 25% within 3
      years 711 patients in each group are needed. The study is powered to detect a clinical
      relevant reduction in mortality or heart failure hospitalization with a total of 2500
      patients.
    
  