
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      During the perimenopause, the incidence of depression increases 1-5 and predicts increased
      all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. A role of estradiol withdrawal in the onset of mood
      disorders in some perimenopausal women has been suggested indirectly by estradiol s
      antidepressant efficacy and safety in perimenopausal depression. Moreover, observational
      studies report the emergence of depressive symptoms after the discontinuation of menopausal
      hormone therapy (HT) in 5-10% of women. The coincidence of declining ovarian function with
      the onset of depression led to the inference that withdrawal from physiologic estradiol
      levels underpinned depression during the perimenopause. To test this inference, we undertook
      a study to examine the role of estradiol withdrawal in perimenopausal depression. We
      evaluated the effects of the acute withdrawal of estradiol therapy in postmenopausal women
      with and those without a past perimenopausal depression. Results demonstrated that estradiol
      withdrawal induces depressive symptoms in women with a past perimenopausal depression, but
      not in those without such a history. This study was the first to provide direct evidence that
      estradiol withdrawal is the relevant physiologic trigger for depressive symptoms in women
      with this condition. In women with past perimenopausal depression, the recurrence of
      depressive symptoms during blinded hormone withdrawal suggests that normal changes in ovarian
      estradiol secretion can trigger an abnormal behavioral state in these susceptible women.
      These data also suggest that the effects of estradiol withdrawal are processed differently in
      some women, presumably by altering the brain network composition or activity that underlies
      affective state. In this next protocol, we will examine a possible mechanism mediating the
      effects of estradiol- withdrawal on mood symptoms in asymptomatic postmenopausal women with a
      past perimenopausal depression. We propose to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a selective
      estrogen receptor (ER) beta agonist (Lilly Compound LY500307) to prevent estradiol
      withdrawal-induced mood symptoms. The effects of estradiol primarily occur through activation
      of two receptor subtypes, often with opposing outcomes: estrogen receptor (ER) alpha, and ER
      beta. We focus on ER beta because the beta estrogen receptor is reported to mediate the
      effects of estradiol on the serotonergic system and mediate the antidepressant-like effects
      of estradiol in the forced-swim test. Moreover, selective agonists of estrogen receptor beta
      have been demonstrated to attenuate the behavioral and hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal (HPA)
      axis response to stress in animal studies. We propose to employ the selective estrogen
      receptor agonist LY500307 under double-blind, placebo controlled conditions to examine the
      specific role of estrogen receptor beta in the effects of estrogen withdrawal in women with a
      past perimenopause-related depression. Depressive symptoms will be measured with standardized
      ratings scales (i.e., Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale (CES-D) and 17-item
      Hamilton Rating Scale of Depression (HRSD)). Results of this study will determine the role of
      ER beta in estradiol withdrawal-induced mood symptoms and can provide preliminary data to
      support the efficacy and safety of this compound as a treatment for depression during the
      perimenopausal transition.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      We propose to employ the selective estrogen receptor agonist LY500307 under double-blind,
      placebo controlled conditions to examine the specific role of estrogen receptor beta in the
      effects of estrogen withdrawal in women with a past perimenopause-related depression.
      Depressive symptoms will be measured with standardized ratings scales (i.e., Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale (CES-D) and 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale of
      Depression (HRSD)). Results of this study will determine the role of ER beta in estradiol
      withdrawal-induced mood symptoms and can provide preliminary data to support the efficacy and
      safety of this compound as a treatment for depression during the perimenopausal.

      DESIGN:

      We propose to employ the selective estrogen receptor agonist LY500307 under double-blind,
      placebo controlled conditions to examine the specific role of estrogen receptor beta in the
      effects of estrogen withdrawal in women with a past perimenopause-related depression.
      Depressive symptoms will be measured with standardized ratings scales (i.e., Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale (CES-D) and 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale of
      Depression (HRSD)). Results of this study will determine the role of ER beta in estradiol
      withdrawal-induced mood symptoms and can provide preliminary data to support the efficacy and
      safety of this compound as a treatment for depression during the perimenopausal.
    
  