
    
      Method: We analyzed 46 patients, both sexes, who filled out a questionnaire about their age
      and habits (sport activity and smoking). They were then divided into two groups. Group 1
      consisted of patients with normal BMI range from 18,5 to 24.9 (n=27) and Group 2 had
      overweight patients with BMI index 25 to 29.9 (n=19). There were no underweight or obese
      patients. All 46 patients had the ADRCS extracted for therapeutical use, but with different
      indications. The mixture of 180 mL saline solution, 1mL Epinephrine (1:10,000) and 20 mL of
      2% lidocaine is injected in the subcutaneous layer of the abdominal wall to allow the
      tumescence and to decrease the blood loss. The manual liposuction procedure has been carried
      out through two or three small incisions using harvester (Tulip® medical products, San Diego,
      USA). All of them had liposuction done by the author and in the same manner (tumescent
      technique, same cannula) to obtain 120-200ml of fat. The harvest site is then covered with a
      pressure dressing for 10 days to reduce swelling and hematoma. The closed system PureGraft®
      250mL (PureGraft®, Solana Beach, California, USA) has been used used to collect the specimen.
      The specimen is transferred within 15 min to the BelPrime Clinic laboratory where the
      Celution® 800/CRS system (Cytori Therapeutics, Inc. San Diego, California, USA) is applied to
      process the lipoaspirate in order to obtain ADRCs. The Celution® 800/CRS system is a closed
      automated medical device that helps to separate blood and fat. The system will then digests
      fat using the proprietary enzyme reagent Celase 835/CRS (Cytori Therapeutics, Inc. San Diego,
      California, USA) to release the stromal vascular fraction (SVF). SVF is subsequently
      concentrated by a short centrifugation and then automated wash cycles to obtain the ADRC
      fraction. This 90 to 120-minute process provides approximately 5mL of pellet. A few drops of
      the obtained pellet were immediately used for cell counting (ChemoMetec A/S DK-3450, Allerod,
      Denmark).

      Results/Complications: Number of ADRCS obtained, cells' viability, viable ADRCS per gram of
      fat processed, ADRCS for active dose and total volume for cell therapy were statistically
      analyzed in correlation with patients' BMI, sport activity, sex, age and smoking habits and
      amount of processed fat.
    
  