
    
      Across the US, substance use (SU) is a significant public health concern, with an estimated
      11.1 million misusing prescription opioids. Rates of opioid use disorders (OUDs) have
      increased exponentially, with 60% of overdoses attributed to heroin and illicit synthetics
      (such as Fentanyl). Although opioid use among youth is low compared to adults,
      experimentation and regular use increases later in adolescence as youth transition to
      adulthood. Juvenile justice (JJ)-involved youth represent a particularly vulnerable
      population, as they often experience mental health disorders, dysfunctional family/social
      relationships, and complex trauma, placing them at greater risk for SU and substance use
      disorders (SUDs). To ensure that these youth do not become another opioid statistic,
      innovative and effective prevention interventions are needed. The investigators propose to
      adapt and test an intervention for preventing initiation and/or escalation of opioid misuse
      among older JJ-involved adolescents. The target enrollment group will be youth aging out of
      JJ (15-18 years at study enrollment) who are transitioning to their communities after a
      period of detainment in a secure treatment or correctional facility. Trust-based Relational
      Intervention® (TBRI®; a relational, attachment-based intervention that promotes emotional
      regulation through interaction with responsive adults) will be adapted as a prevention
      intervention targeting youth at risk for SU (especially non-medical use of opioids). Safe
      adults (e.g., parent/guardian, extended family member) will be trained in behavior management
      techniques for empowering youth to appropriately express their needs, connecting them with
      others in pro-social ways, and correcting or reshaping undesirable behavior. The proposed
      Effectiveness/Implementation study will examine both the effectiveness of TBRI for preventing
      opioid misuse and the comparative utility of three support formats: (1) TBRI Training only,
      (2) TBRI Training + Structured Coaching, or (3) TBRI Training + Responsive Coaching
      (triggered by the youth's need/risk). A total of 360 youth/safe adult dyads will be recruited
      from 9 participating JJ facilities over a 3-year period, and followed for 18 months
      post-release (15 youth-adult dyads/year per facility). This design enables a comparison of
      TBRI versus Standard Reentry Practice (SRP; using a stepped-wedge design where each facility
      serves as its own control) plus a randomized control trial comparing 3 TBRI support formats.
      This study will also examine barriers and facilitators of TBRI sustainment. Ninety JJ staff
      (10 from each agency) will provide input annually via focus groups and surveys. TCU will work
      with administrators and staff at each JJ facility to implement a sustainment plan, which will
      include developing in-house TBRI expertise (i.e., staff training and implementation
      assistance). Successful completion of study aims will provide a test of the adapted
      intervention and will facilitate sustainment by providing training and implementation support
      to participating facilities.
    
  