
    
      Ministry of Health and Welfare Department of Chinese Medicine and pharmacy specially
      subsidizes domestic teaching hospitals to install clinical study centers for Chinese
      pharmacies, in order to establish the clinical study environment for Chinese pharmacies
      meeting the international regulations, to assist promoting and performing clinical studies in
      Chinese pharmacies, and then to improve the nation's health and benefits. This will render
      Chinese pharmacies competitive in the international market by employing scientific tests and
      verifications. The new project applications are respectively as follows: A randomized double
      blind placebo control study of Xiang-Sha-Liu-Jun-Zi-Tang (XSLJZT) in patients with irritable
      bowel syndrome The main clinical manifestations of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are
      chronic, recurrent abdominal pain or abdominal dyscomfortable associated with the changes of
      defecation habit, such as constipation and/or diarrhea. Clinical treatment of IBS includes
      behavioral, and drug treatment, such as anti-diarrheal agent, 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and
      5-HT4 receptor agonist, but these treatments relieve partial symptoms only.
      Xiang-Sha-Liu-Jun-Zi-Tang (XSLJZT) origins from Yizongjinjion, and that uses XSLJZT to treat
      the patients who has qi deficiency, phlegm-retained fluid, nausea and vomiting,
      gastrointestinal dysharmony and producing many symptoms. These symptoms of mentioned-above
      are similar to IBS. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the
      therapeutic effect of XSLJZT on IBS, we designed a randomized double blind placebo control
      study to assess the effect of XSLJZT on IBS.

      In addition to the performance of the clinical study projects for Chinese pharmacies, our
      center will still maintain cooperation with domestic or foreign biotechnology industries, the
      industries of Chinese herbal medicine and academic research institutes, such as the material
      research institute in Industrial Technology Research Institute, Feng Chia University, and
      Yuanpei University, make efforts in expanding the study in the development of novel Chinese
      medicinal drugs and novel medical techniques, and cooperate with famous international
      Contract Research Organizations (CRO). We want to build a clinical study service platform, in
      which the internal part is to integrate various R&D units on campuses and hospitals, such as
      the teams in the department of medical care, department of medical technology, all
      laboratories, the incubation center, the biostatistics center, the administrative department
      and improve the internal procedures for performing clinical studies. The external part is to
      make efforts to win over domestic and foreign clinical study cases to be performed in our
      center. The performing methods are illustrated as follows:

        1. Setting up the environment and related equipment that enable the performance of clinical
           studies in Chinese pharmacies and establishing the operation manuals and standard
           operation procedures for performing the R&D stage for drugs of Chinese pharmacies.

        2. Employing professionals required in the clinical study in Chinese pharmacies and
           encouraging doctors, pharmacists and nurses to attend advanced study and receive
           training while enhancing the incubation for the required professionals of clinical
           studies, such that the experience can be passed to others.

        3. Practically performing one or more proposals of developing new drugs of Chinese
           pharmacies or the clinical study proposal of reassessing therapeutic efficacies of drugs
           in the drug permission certificates issued by the Committee on Chinese Medicine and
           Pharmacy on record.

        4. Promoting and building an intact and strong audit system in accordance with Good
           Clinical Practice (GCP), elevating the clinical study level in our country, and putting
           the regulations of GLP into practice.

        5. Promoting the cooperation with industries, academics, and governments and international
           cooperation.
    
  