
    
      We will enroll 60 participants with diabetes and HbA1c ≥ 7% in a Cooking Matters (CM) program
      using a waitlist control design with 30 participants in the intervention group and 30
      participants in the waitlist control group, separated into two arms.Participants will be
      stratified by sex and randomized using a random number generator program to either the
      intervention or wait list control group. Each CM course is made up of 6, 2-hour, weekly
      classes with 15 participants. The curricula is based on the Dietary Guidelines for Americans,
      MyPlate (the current nutrition guide published by the USDA Center for Nutrition Policy and
      Promotion, a food circle depicting a place setting with a plate and glass divided into five
      food groups), the American Diabetes Association Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes 2017
      and Medical Nutrition Therapy Evidence Based Guide for Practice/Nutrition Protocol as the
      foundation for basic nutrition guidelines, then builds upon these ideas using the collective
      groups' needs and interest to provide interactive lessons to teach cooking, food safety and
      food resource management with emphasis placed on blood sugar management. Five of the 6
      classes will include hands-on cooking instruction and nutrition instruction; one of the 6
      classes will be a grocery store tour held in a grocery store of the groups' choosing. This
      class will provide nutrition instruction with the focus on meal planning for optimal glucose
      control under the constraints of a budget. Each class will be interactive and provides
      participants opportunities to demonstrate their understanding of the lesson. Participants are
      encouraged to ask questions, offer solutions and share their experiences. At the end of each
      class, when food preparation is highlighted, the class and instructors will gather to sample
      all recipes and have open discussion. Each participant will take home a bag of groceries with
      the ingredients to replicate the recipes made in class. At the beginning of each class,
      participants are encouraged to share with the group how they used of the previous week's
      groceries and reflect on cooking at home. We will administer validated surveys measuring
      health-related quality of life, diabetes self-management behaviors, and dietary patterns and
      perform point of care HbA1c assessment of both groups (intervention and waitlist control)
      when intervention 1 begins the program in week 1. We will then proceed with the CM
      intervention with intervention 1 in weeks 1 thru 6 and the post test will be administered to
      the intervention group at the end of the intervention, 3, 6 and 12 months post intervention.
      In week 18-23, we will administer CM to the original waitlist control group and they will
      follow the same protocol as intervention 1. The second arm of the study will follow the same
      design, beginning in week 12 of the study.
    
  