
    
      This clinical study will be a prospective, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized and
      centrally evaluated intra-individual comparative study to assess the safety and efficacy of
      AR/101 concomitantly administered with SoC in accelerating re epithelialization of split
      thickness wounds compared with placebo and concomitantly with SoC, in the pannus of
      volunteers undergoing elective abdominoplasty.

      Total duration of the treatment in the study is 21 days. The patients will be treated with
      AR/101 or placebo until complete re epithelialization or up to 21 days, whichever comes
      first. Evaluation and treatment will be done daily in the outpatient clinic. Throughout the
      study, safety data on adverse events will be collected.

      All patients will receive standard supportive care and dressing supplies concomitantly with
      AR/101 or placebo.

      Volunteers who are scheduled for an elective abdominoplasty at the practice of the principal
      investigator will have superficial split thickness wounds created on their abdomen according
      to protocol about 4 weeks prior to their scheduled abdominoplasty. A total of 8 split
      thickness (5X5 cm, 0.0254 mm in thickness) wounds will be distributed on the abdomen between
      the umbilicus and the suprapubic hairline. All patients will have to agree to daily treatment
      in the hospital clinic by professional staff through the study duration. Degree of
      re-epithelialization will be assessed photographically and confirmed by the absence of
      drainage on wound dressings.

      All treated wounds that achieve complete re-epithelialization within the study period will be
      evaluated for the retention of an intact epithelium at the end of the study (22 days). At the
      time of the subject's abdominoplasty surgery, the pannus of each subject will be surgically
      removed as part of the abdominoplasty procedure, and skin samples will be harvested from the
      excised pannus for further histologic and molecular analysis.
    
  