
    
      Psychological stress has been shown to impair the efficacy of the influenza vaccine,
      particularly in older individuals (> 60 years). However, the effect of depression (as opposed
      to stress per se) on vaccine response has not been measured, especially in younger people.
      One possible cause of this putative impaired vaccine response is suppression of the immune
      system in a subgroup of individuals with depression. Major depressive disorder (MDD) has been
      associated with a decline in total numbers of circulating B-cells, T-cells, and natural
      killer cells (NKC), a reduction in the proliferative responses of NKC and T-cells in vitro
      that is ameliorated by administration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs),
      increased susceptibility to various viral infections, and a decline in the efficacy of the
      herpes zoster vaccine in the elderly (1, 2). On the other hand, MDD appears also to be
      characterized by immunological abnormalities that manifest both as low-grade inflammation,
      including over-activity of the innate immune system (3). Whether inflammation and immune
      suppression are two different manifestations of the same underlying abnormality (unitary
      model) or whether inflammation and immune suppression are distinct phenomena occurring in
      different MDD subtypes (independent model) is not known.

      MDD is also characterized by neurophysiological abnormalities of striatal, cortical midline,
      and limbic brain structures that regulate hormonal, autonomic, and emotional responses to
      reward and stress (4-6). Yet, it remains unclear how immune function relates to these
      depression-associated functional neuroimaging abnormalities. Studies of healthy volunteers
      (HCs) administered endotoxin or the typhoid vaccine have reported inflammation-associated
      increases in negative affect along with neurophysiological changes in brain regions
      comprising the affective and reward circuitry (7-8). However, because these studies were
      limited to HCs, it is possible that the observed inflammation-induced neurophysiological
      changes were adaptive and therefore not applicable to MDD populations. That is, it remains
      unclear whether any experimentally-induced immune abnormalities in MDD are correlated and
      therefore potentially causally-related to the neuroimaging abnormalities observed in MDD.

      In order to address these questions, we use a parallel group, placebo-controlled influenza
      vaccine challenge to induce transient inflammation that peaks 2-days post vaccination in MDD
      subjects and HCs. Subjects may complete a pre-and-post vaccination MRI scan, the latter
      during the peak inflammatory response.

      Aim 1: To examine whether influenza vaccine effectiveness is compromised in a
      young-to-middle-aged sample (18-55 years of age) of individuals with MDD.

      Hypothesis 1.1. Compared with HCs (n=40), individuals with MDD (n=40) will display reduced
      vaccine titers and reduced influenza virus-induced CD4+ memory T-cell proliferation four
      weeks post vaccination (T2).

      Hypothesis 1.2. A greater number of MDD subjects than HCs will fail to show a four-fold
      increase in antibody titer, the conventional standard for determining a clinically
      significant response to a viral vaccine.

      Aim 2: To test the competing models of immune dysfunction in MDD.

      Hypothesis 2.1. At T0 and T1, stimulated and unstimulated monocytes from MDD subjects will
      show increased interleukin 6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production compared with
      HCs. The effect will be most salient at T1 in individuals receiving vaccine.

      Hypothesis 2.2. Consistent with the unitary model, monocyte IL-6 and/or TNF production at T0
      and T1 will be inversely correlated with antibody titers at T2 in the MDD group.

      Aim 3: To test for neurophysiological differences between MDD patients and HCs in resting
      state cerebral blood flow (with arterial spin labeling), resting EEG activity, and BOLD
      response to monetary rewards and interoceptive stimuli (with fMRI) at T0 and T1, and to
      correlate depression-associated perfusion, EEG activity, reward response, and interoceptive
      function with immune function at T0 and T1.

      Hypothesis 3.1: Compared with HCs, the MDD subjects will display reduced perfusion of the
      subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC) and/or pregenual ACC (pgACC), hemispheric
      asymmetry in the alpha (8-13 Hz) power band (left prefrontal cortex hypoactivation), as well
      as reduced hemodynamic response to anticipatory reward in the ventral striatum. These
      differences will be most salient at T1 in the MDD group receiving vaccine versus the HCs
      receiving vaccine.

      Hypothesis 3.2: The functional imaging abnormalities in the MDD group at T0 and/or T1 will be
      correlated with the abnormalities in monocyte activation in the MDD group at T0 and/or T1.
    
  