
    
      Background

      Establishing breathing and oxygenation after birth is vital for survival and long-term health
      of premature infants. 10% of all preterm infants fail to breathe after birth and require
      respiratory support. An international consensus statement recommends that infants with
      inadequate breathing or bradycardia after birth be given positive pressure ventilation (PPV)
      via a facemask with a T-piece device. Mannequin and DR studies have shown that PPV is
      difficult and mask leak and airway obstruction are common problems during PPV. Several
      factors such as poor facemask application resulting in leak or airway obstruction,
      spontaneous movements of the baby, movements by or distraction of the resuscitator, changing
      the wet towels or putting a hat can reduce the effectiveness of PPV. We recently reported
      both that significant airway obstruction and mask leaks occur in about half of the very
      preterm infants who received PPV in the DR. In particular, large mask leak was observed in
      twice as many recordings as airway obstruction and only in about a third of recordings
      neither obstruction nor facemask leak occurred. In addition, mask leak was more likely to
      occur at the start of PPV, while airway obstruction more often occurred later on. Assessment
      of the infant may distract the resuscitators focus from mask position and mask holding
      techniques during the initial phase of PPV.

      MR SOPA

      Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP) emphasizes on the ventilation corrective steps to ensure
      effective mask ventilation before moving to the next steps of resuscitation. Technique for
      improving PPV by mask is performed by a series of corrective steps, identified by the acronym
      "MR SOPA", to recall ventilation corrective steps. The steps should be followed with this
      order: "M Mask adjustment, R Reposition airway, S Suction mouth and nose, O Open mouth, P
      Pressure increase, A Airway alternative".

      Hypotheses to be tested

      We hypothesize that improved mask ventilation techniques using daily MRSOPA-Drills (MR SOPA
      group) compared to standard NRP teaching (control group) will reduce mask leak in preterm
      infants <33 weeks gestation who requiring breathing support at birth. We aim to determine if
      daily MR SOPA Drills compared to standard NRP teaching improves mask ventilation.

      Experimental design and methods

      Study population: Infants <33 weeks gestation requiring respiratory support at birth will be
      included if member of the Resuscitation-Stabilization-Triage team (RST-team) enrolled in
      study attend deliveries.

      Study design: Randomized controlled trial.

      Participants: Members of the RST-team, which usually consists of a neonatal nurse (n=50),
      neonatal respiratory therapist (n=30), neonatal nurse practitioner (n=16) or neonatal fellow
      (n=6), and a neonatal consultant (n=15). Deliveries are usually attended by a minimum of
      three RST-Team members: a neonatal nurse, neonatal respiratory therapist and neonatal nurse
      practitioner or neonatal fellow. Participants of each professional group will be randomized
      after informed consent and members of each professional group will be stratified to both
      groups.

      In addition, should state that babies health information will be collected

      Description of interventions and timeline

      Interventions for both groups ("MR SOPA group" and "control group")

      Baseline (2 months)

      Over a period of two months all participants will be recorded during several real-life
      resuscitations using our unique recording system (including respiratory function monitoring
      and video recordings) to establish a baseline of mask PPV performance.

      Intervention period

      "MR SOPA group"

      Health care provider randomized to the "MR SOPA" group will receive MR SOPA training provided
      by a qualified educator on every shift. This training will be five minutes long and will
      consist of each MR SOPA step. These corrective steps will be demonstrated and practiced on a
      low-fidelity neonatal mannequin in the DR of the Royal Alexandra Hospital. The mannequin will
      be placed on our DR resuscitation unit to simulate real-life scenarios. The alternative
      airway practice will be performed on an intubation mannequin in the DR also placed on the DR
      resuscitation unit. Each participant will receive five minutes of training at the start of
      each shift.

      The educator will teach mask adjustment, and airway reposition. If either of these first
      steps is unsuccessful the participant will learn about mouth and nose suction, open mouth and
      increase of airway pressure. All participants will also learn and practice alternative
      airways placement including intubation and laryngeal mask airway placement.

      "Control group"

      Health care provider randomized to the control group will receive a copy of the NRP text
      pages discussing MR SOPA at every shift for self-study. They will be encouraged by the
      educator to study these pages for five minutes at every shift. The educator will be there to
      answer questions if they arise.

      After trial period (2 months)

      After recruiting and training the study participants in the intervention period the real life
      resuscitations will be recorded similarly as in the pre-trial period over the next two
      months, using our unique recording system. This period will be compared to the baselines
      measures in the pre-trial period.

      Resuscitation

      All resuscitative measures will be decided by the RST-team, in accordance with the 2010
      guidelines for neonatal resuscitation.

      Equipment for recording resuscitations

      We will use our routinely used equipment to record neonatal resuscitation including a
      user-friendly respiratory function monitor will measure respiratory parameters including
      tidal volume, airway pressures, gas flow, minute ventilation, and exhaled CO2. Percutaneous
      oxygen saturation will be assessed using pulse oximetery and systemic and regional
      hemodynamic function will be assessed using heart rate, and blood pressure. A high-definition
      digital video of these resuscitations will be made using a webcam.
    
  