
    
      MSM are disproportionately impacted in terms of HIV prevalence and incidence. Electronically
      delivered or supported prevention services are effective, are acceptable to MSM, and will
      likely reach heavily impacted men. The study is based on the premise that providing, through
      a mobile phone app, self-directed PrEP information; periodic behavioral screenings to
      identify HIV risk and PrEP indication objectively; referral to PrEP providers with
      directions; and related prevention services will increase the uptake of PrEP among at risk,
      HIV negative MSM to a greater extent than standard of care referrals to existing resources.

      The study will examine the effectiveness of the HealthMindr app to increase uptake of PrEP
      among MSM. The study will enroll 657 men across the three sites - the metropolitan
      statistical areas (MSA) of Atlanta, Georgia (GA), Jackson, Mississippi (MS), and Washington,
      D.C. - into a randomized controlled trial. Participants in the intervention arm will receive
      access to the HealthMindr app and men in the control arm will receive standard of care HIV
      prevention information. PrEP uptake will be assessed during follow-up by self-report at
      months 3, 6, 9, and 12. Self-report will be confirmed by laboratory testing for the presence
      of tenofovir diphosphate (TFV-DP) and/or photograph of PrEP prescription or bottle.

      At the beginning of the study, all participants will download a study mobile app. After
      completing a baseline survey, participants will be randomized to the intervention or control
      arm. For participants assigned to the intervention arm, additional app content will become
      available. This content will include information about basic prevention services (HIV test
      planning and test locators; risk assessment; HIV treatment locators; and condom, HIV test
      kit, and at-home sexually transmitted infection (STI) specimen collection kit distribution)
      plus monthly PrEP eligibility assessments, PrEP provider locator, enhanced information about
      PrEP, and referrals to local PrEP navigators. The app also provides links to health insurance
      exchanges, where men can seek health insurance or assistance to help cover PrEP costs. The
      control arm will be referred to existing online PrEP and HIV prevention information.
      Participants in the control arm will access the control version of the app that contains
      elements pertinent to their participation in the research study.

      Additional follow-up surveys will be conducted at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and participants
      will also complete monthly assessments. The monthly assessments will assess indications for
      PrEP and PrEP uptake (intervention arm) and other health-related behaviors (control arm).
      Participants reporting PrEP initiation will be asked to submit a dried blood spot
      self-collection kit to allow for measurement of tenofovir diphosphate (TFV-DP) levels and/or
      upload a photo of their PrEP prescription bottle to verify PrEP uptake.
    
  