
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare disease-free survival of patients with relapsed or progressive B-cell diffuse
           large cell lymphoma undergoing stem cell transplantation with or without post-transplant
           rituximab.

        -  Evaluate the effect of rituximab, administered post-transplant, on the procedure-related
           mortality of these patients.

        -  Determine the potential infectious complications of the addition of this drug to
           autologous stem cell transplantation in these patients.

        -  Compare overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      relapse (relapsed more than 6 months after either initial complete remission [CR] or CR with
      positive positron emission tomography or MRI [gallium] vs failed to achieve initial CR or
      relapsed within 6 months after either initial CR or CR with positive PET or MRI [gallium])
      and prior rituximab (yes vs no).

      Stem cell mobilization

        -  Patients receive rituximab IV over 4-8 hours on days 1 and 5. Patients also receive
           cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day 8 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC)
           beginning on day 9 and continuing until the last day of apheresis. Stem cells are
           collected over 1-3 days.

      Preparative regimen

        -  Regimen A (patients who have received prior radiotherapy or are ≥ 61 years of age):
           Patients receive carmustine IV over 2 hours on day -6, etoposide IV over 4 hours on day
           -4, and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day -2.

        -  Regimen B (all other patients): Patients undergo total body irradiation twice daily on
           days -8 to -5. Patients receive etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4 and cyclophosphamide
           IV over 2 hours on day -2.

      Stem cells are reinfused on day 0. Patients are then randomized to one of two post-transplant
      treatment arms.

      Post-transplant treatment

        -  Arm I (rituximab): Patients receive G-CSF SC beginning on day 6 and continuing until
           blood counts recover. Patients receive rituximab IV over 4-8 hours every 7 days for 4
           doses, starting on day 45 post-transplant. Course of rituximab is repeated beginning on
           day 180 post-transplant.

        -  Arm II (no rituximab): Patients receive G-CSF as in arm I. Patients are followed for 10
           years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 427 patients will be accrued for this study within 3.5 years.
    
  