
    
      Hypoxia is one of the major worst prognostic factors of clinical outcome in cancer. It is
      actually admitted that hypoxia is heterogeneous, variable within different tumour types and
      that it varies spatially and temporally in a tumor. Hypoxia induce proteomic and gene
      expression changes that lead to increase angiogenesis, invasion and metastases. So, the
      hypoxic fraction in solid tumours reduces their sensitivity to conventional treatment
      modalities, modulating therapeutic response to ionizing radiation or certain chemotherapeutic
      agents. This is particularly important in head and neck cancers (HNC). Hypoxic cells in solid
      tumours could influence local failure following radiotherapy and has been associated with
      malignant progression, loco regional spread and distant metastases and represents an
      increasing probability of recurrence.

      Thus, the non-invasive determination and monitoring of the oxygenation status could be of
      tumours is of importance to predict patient outcome and eventually modify therapeutic
      strategies in those tumours. Today, the oxygenation status of individual tumours is not
      assessed routinely. Numerous different approaches have been proposed to identify hypoxia in
      tumours. Eppendorf oxygen electrode measurements (pO2 histography) may be considered as a
      'gold standard' for hypoxia in human malignancies. However, it is an invasive method being
      confined to superficial, well accessible tumours and requires many measures. PET using
      [18F]Fluoro-deoxyglucose (18F-FDG), allows non-invasive imaging of glucose metabolism and
      takes a growing place in cancer staging, But 18F-FDG can't assess correctly the oxygenation
      status of tumours. PET with appropriate radiotracers enables non-invasive assessment of
      presence and distribution of hypoxia in tumours. Nitroimidazoles are a class of electron
      affinic molecules that were shown to accumulate in hypoxic cells in vitro and in vivo.
      [18F]-FMISO is the most frequently used tracer ; its intracellular retention is dependent on
      oxygen tension. Consequently, [18F]-FMISO has been used as a non-invasive technique for
      detection of hypoxia in humans. Different authors have demonstrated that it is suitable to
      localize and quantify hypoxia. Thus, [18F]-FMISO PET has been studied to evaluate prognosis
      and predict treatment response. However, some investigators report an unclear correlation
      between Eppendorf measurements and standardized uptake values (SUV). This observation may be
      explained by the structural complexity of hypoxic tumour tissues. Nevertheless, there is a
      need of standardized procedures to acquire and quantify [18F]-FMISO uptake. Today, the use of
      this tracer is very limited in clinic and the academic studies have included small
      populations of patients and suffer of the heterogeneity of technical procedures.

      The aim of this study is to determine the optimal acquisition protocol and image
      reconstruction to describe [18F]-FMISO uptake in HNC, then, to validate [18F]-FMISO-PET as a
      predictive marker of response to treatment.
    
  