
    
      Headache is a common health problem that affects quality of life in an older population and
      imposes substantial economic costs. Headache changes with age. Features of headache become
      less typical and neck pain is more frequently associated with headache in older persons. We
      recently demonstrated that the presence of cervical musculoskeletal impairment is not
      specific to cervicogenic headache (headache caused by the neck). Rather it was present in
      various frequent intermittent headache types in elders when compared to elders without
      headache. Changes in headache characteristics with age play an important role not only in
      diagnosis but also in treatment choice. Impairment in cervical musculoskeletal function found
      in older persons with headache has implications for headache management choices as the
      evidence indicates that physiotherapy management methods such as manual therapy and
      therapeutic exercise are an effective management approach for headache associated with the
      neck. Physiotherapy treatment would be a safe therapeutic option and may have a beneficial
      effect for elders with headache who have neck pain and concomitant cervical musculoskeletal
      dysfunction. This is particularly relevant as there are widespread concerns about medication
      overuse, adverse drug events and drug interactions in older persons. The effective management
      of older persons with headache in particular of those with atypical features of headache
      remains a challenge. Physiotherapy is indicated in those older persons diagnosed with
      cervicogenic headache but could also be adjunct treatment for those with cervical
      musculoskeletal signs who are suspected of having transitional headache. At present, there
      has been no trial to date which has investigated the effectiveness of physiotherapy treatment
      specifically for older persons with various types of headache with associated neck pain and
      cervical musculoskeletal impairment. A clinical trial of treatment of cervical
      musculoskeletal impairment in older persons with various headache types may help guide
      management of headache in attempts to lesson medication use and cost in this population.
      Physiotherapy management may be a worthy treatment option particularly in older persons with
      headache who do not respond well to medication.
    
  