
    
      The study is intended to evaluate the post-operative complications and re-herniations
      following the use of OviTex® Permanent 1S reinforced bioscaffold in subjects with ventral
      hernias. The study is designed to mirror surgical standard of care for ventral hernia
      intervention, with the exception of asking for subjects to return for evaluation at longer
      time points post-surgery than is typical for standard care. A baseline visit will be
      performed for patients who are identified for and provide informed consent to participate in
      the study. During this visit, a review of medical history, a physical exam and assessment of
      the hernia site will be performed. The potential subject will also be asked to complete two
      quality of life surveys; one that is disease specific and one that is a standard method of
      health assessment. On the day of surgery, the ventral hernia will be repaired with the use of
      OviTex® 1S reinforced bioscaffold. Perioperative data will be collected and the surgeon will
      provide an assessment of the product's handling qualities. During the course of the hospital
      stay, the subject will be assessed for incidence of early post-operative surgical site wound
      events and complications, all necessary medical interventions and/or re-operations. On the
      day of discharge, surgical site occurrences or wound related events noted at the hernia
      repair site and the occurrence of other post-operative complications will be assessed.

      The Day 30 and Day 90 visits will have a visit window of +/- 2 weeks. At these visits, the
      incidence of late surgical site occurrences or wound related events noted at the hernia
      repair site will be assessed. If hernia recurrence is suspected, it will be confirmed via
      diagnostic imaging with a CT scan. The occurrence of other late post-operative complications
      will also be assessed. The subjects will be asked to complete the same disease specific
      questionnaire and the same health assessment questionnaire as was done at the Baseline visit,
      however the subject will also be asked to complete a pain assessment. Both the surgeon and
      the subject will provide an assessment of his/her satisfaction with the hernia repair. The
      activities at Months 12 and 24 mirror those of Days 30 and 90, however the visit window is
      extended to +/- 4 weeks.
    
  