
    
      Spinal anesthesia is the most common anesthetic technique used for Cesarean delivery in the
      United States and across the world. Intrathecal opioids are administered along with a local
      anesthetic during spinal anesthesia for Cesarean delivery to provide postoperative analgesia.
      The effectiveness of intrathecal morphine for post-Cesarean pain control is well established,
      but the effectiveness of intrathecal hydromorphone in this patient population is limited to
      case reports and small retrospective studies. No prospective studies have been conducted to
      establish the effectiveness of intrathecal hydromorphone for post-Cesarean pain.

      Hydromorphone has been studied extensively as a substitute for intrathecal morphine in
      patients with chronic noncancer pain. In fact, a recent consensus article placed
      hydromorphone as a first line therapy along with morphine for intrathecal pain management.
      Its ability to treat post-Cesarean pain when administered in the epidural space has been
      known for quite some time, but its effects in the intrathecal space are less established. In
      patients undergoing Cesarean delivery, intrathecal doses of 40 to 100 micrograms have been
      reported to provide good pain scores postoperatively with only minimal side effects. Doses of
      up to 300 micrograms have been used, leading to excellent pain control without out
      respiratory depression, but with significant pruritus and nausea.

      Although reducing pain, intrathecal opioids are associated with side effects including
      pruritus, nausea, and respiratory depression. A meta-analysis reviewing twenty-eight studies
      which investigated intrathecal morphine versus placebo demonstrated moderate increases in the
      incidences of pruritus, nausea and vomiting. In fact the incidence of nausea with IT morphine
      has been reported to be 33%. While hydromorphone is similar chemically to morphine, it is
      metabolized differently. Differences in pharmacokinetics may allow for differences in side
      effect profiles. Hydromorphone is more lipid soluble than morphine. This decreases its spread
      within the intrathecal space and enhances its penetration into the dorsal horn of the spinal
      cord where interactions with opioid receptors occur. Some studies have found that
      hydromorphone causes less nausea and pruritus than morphine, while others have not. Although
      opioid-induced respiratory depression is a rare event, studies evaluating intrathecal
      hydromorphone for post-Cesarean delivery pain have not reported any cases of respiratory
      depression.

      The optimal dose of intrathecal morphine for analgesia following Cesarean delivery is still
      debated and the efficacy of intrathecal hydromorphone has not been studied extensively in
      this patient population. The investigators aim to identify the dose of each medication that
      provides good pain relief without causing significant side effects. The investigators will
      then perform a comparative analysis of each drug at their optimal dose.
    
  