
    
      The purpose of this pilot study was to explore the outcomes on performance of functional
      daily living tasks following a six-week combined regimen using ES and the SaeboFlex orthosis
      with repetitive task training (RTT) in four persons with chronic stroke. Functional outcomes
      were assessed before and after (pre-post design) a six-week combined treatment regimen using
      the DHO during RTT followed by a regimen of ES. Feasibility and logistics for translation of
      these preliminary results to a larger, more comprehensive controlled trial were explored.
      Participants donned the orthosis on the affected upper extremity with therapist assistance
      and performed the RTT grasp/release practice daily for 30 minutes, 5X/week for 6 weeks (30
      sessions).Following completion of the grasp/release practice, ES to the finger extensor
      muscles was provided for 15 minutes. Goniometry to measure range of motion (ROM) at wrist and
      fingers, dynamometry to measure hand strength, electromyography (EMG) collection to measure
      muscle activation/deactivation, and AMPS testing to measure functional activity performance
      were performed before starting the intervention (baseline) and one day after the final
      training session. Gains in grip strength, 3rd metacarpophalangeal (MP) flexion, AMPS motor
      score, and improved deactivation of grasp were observed in all participants. Wrist extension,
      3rd MP extension, AMPS process score, EMG root mean square (RMS) and time to release grasp
      improved in three of the four participants.These preliminary pilot results begin to suggest
      that gains can be made in impairment areas of strength, ROM, and the functional movement
      pattern of grasp release with a combined ES-DHO program in individuals with chronic stroke.
      Perhaps most importantly, the results may indicate that this type of training may translate
      to improvement in performance of daily living tasks. Completion of this work suggests that a
      larger trial is feasible and logistically able to be performed. The preliminary data are
      limited in that only four volunteers with chronic stroke were studied, so the small numbers
      involved restrict generalizations of effectiveness and comprehensive analysis of outcomes.
    
  