
    
      Objectives:

      The main objectives of the ProLoVe study are:

        1. To assess clinical effectiveness of somatocognitive therapy (SCT) versus treatment as
           usual (TAU) in provoked vestibulodynia (PVD).

        2. To identify prognostic factors associated with treatment outcome

        3. To assess cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of SCT vs TAU.

      Study design:

      The study is a two-arm, single center randomized clinical trial with a 1:1 allocation ratio,
      recruiting patients with PVD diagnosis. The participants will be randomized to either
      somatocognitive therapy (SCT) or treatment as usual (TAU) group after baseline assessment.
      Randomization will be stratified by type of PVD (primary or secondary), since primary PVD is
      considered to be more treatment resistant.

      Recruitment procedure:

      Participants' eligibility will be evaluated by the medical specialist in gynecology or
      dermatology. During medical consultation an eligible patient will be verbally informed about
      the study and receive an information leaflet about the project. Number of eligible patients
      informed about the study, will be registered. Interested women will contact the primary
      investigator who will set up a meeting. Detailed information about the trial, the assessment
      instruments and existing treatment options will be provided. Women willing to pursue study
      participation will sign an informed consent.

      Randomization and blinding:

      An administrative coordinator, not directly involved in the study, will be responsible for
      randomization of the participants using a computer random number generator, and will be
      responsible for the secure storage of randomization results. The participants will be
      randomized to either somatocognitive physiotherapy (SCT) or treatment as usual group (TAU) at
      1:1 allocation rate. Randomization will be stratified by severity (primary/secondary PVD).
      Blinding of the participants regarding group belonging is not possible.

      Data collection:

      All quantitative instruments will be distributed as electronic forms (nettskjema.no) and
      directly transferred to the Service for Sensitive Data (TSD). Choice and implementation of
      assessment instruments is based on the Recommendations for the study of the vulvar pain in
      women, part I: review of assessment tools (Rosen et al. 2020), feedback from participants
      from the feasibility study and discussions with user representative (former PVD patient).
      Three assessment time points are planned: baseline, 6 months follow up, and 12 months follow
      up.

      Sample size assessment:

      Power analysis suggests that 128 participants split equally between two study arms will be
      enough to reveal the between group difference in total FSFI score changes, from baseline to
      12 months follow-up, of at least 3 points (SD = 6.0) as statistically significant, using α =
      0.05 and 1-β = 0.8. In a feasibility study (n=10) an average of 6 points improvement on FSFI
      in course of 8 months in patients treated with SCT was observed.

      Data analysis:

      Objective 1: To assess clinical effectiveness of somatocognitive therapy (SCT) versus
      treatment as usual (TAU) in provoked vestibulodynia (PVD).

      Hypothesis 1: In treatment of PVD, the effectiveness of somatocognitive therapy is not
      significantly different from treatment as usual as evaluated by changes in FSFI total score
      from baseline to 12 months follow-up

      Independently, a senior statistician and PhD student blinded to treatment group will perform
      intention to treat analyses of the treatment effect on the primary outcome by using linear
      mixed model for repeated measures.

      Subgroup analysis (objective 1) Some of the women with PVD do not engage in penetrative sex
      and thus score 0 at the FSFI pain sub-scale. This influences the psychometric properties of
      FSFI and it is recommended to exclude the pain sub-scale from the analysis in those cases.
      Therefore, additional analyzes will be performed on the subgroups of women who did and did
      not have penetrative sex during the 4 weeks prior to FSFI completion using the same
      statistical approaches as for hypothesis 1.

      Objective 2: To identify prognostic factors associated with treatment outcome

      For prognostic analyses, changes in FSFI scores between baseline and 12 months follow up as
      the dependent variable will be used. Further, an association model to assess possible
      associations between selected variables and the main outcome will be constructed. The
      variables that reached the level of significance of at least 0.10 in univariate analyses will
      be entered into multiple regression models. To avoid over-fitting, at most, one variable per
      10 events will be included. In addition, highly correlated covariates (>0.7) will not be
      included in the final model.

      Objective 3: To assess cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of SCT vs TAU.

      The cost-effectiveness analysis will be carried out from a healthcare and society
      perspective, comparing the treatment effect and health utilities by using the EuroQoL 5D
      (EQ-5D-5L) utility index. Health gains will be expressed as quality-adjusted life years
      (QALYs) derived from the EQ-5D-5L utility scores. Costs to the healthcare system and society
      (production loss) due to PVD will be estimated based on data recorded at the follow-ups
      including visits to general practitioner, medical specialist, physical therapist, manual
      therapist or other physical therapy specialist, and other therapists (e.g. chiropractor,
      osteopath, psychologist); number of days of hospitalization and/or rehabilitation; use of
      medication). Data concerning production loss will include work status in terms of working
      time (percentage of position), partial sick leave (percentage, duration, and reason),
      complete sick leave (duration and reason), disability pension (percentage, duration, and
      reason), unemployment (yes, no), and student/other/unknown (yes, no).

      Secondary analysis

      Proportion comparisons of women who experienced successful treatment outcome in SCT and TAU
      group will be analyzed using global perceived effect scale at 12 months follow up applying
      logistic regression for repeated measures. Within and between group differences in other
      secondary outcomes will be evaluated using linear mixed model for repeated measures.

      Exploratory analysis in TAU group Participants in the TAU group may choose a variety of
      different treatment options, e.g. other types of physiotherapy, osteopathy, chiropractor
      treatment, etc. Exploratory analysis will be conducted to identify the most promising
      treatments with respect to improvement on the FSFI using repeated measures analysis of
      variance. The goal of these analyses is to identify candidate treatments for future studies.

      In all analyses, the between-group mean differences with 95% confidence intervals (CI) or
      odds ratio (OR) with 95% CI for categorical outcomes will be reported. Missing data will be
      replaced using multiple imputation methods.
    
  