
    
      Screening visit, (Day 1) Most subjects will be contacted during their visit to the Kidney
      Center Clinic. In some cases, subjects are identified a few days after their visit with their
      nephrologists and once their laboratory results are available. If a subject is eligible for
      participation in the study, screening visit will occur at the Nephrology Clinical Research
      Center located right next to the Kidney Center Clinic. The following will occur during the
      screening visit,

        1. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be reviewed

        2. Details of the study procedures will be reviewed with the subject

        3. Informed consent is signed and the subjects will be enrolled in the study.

        4. A physical exam will be performed.

        5. Vital Signs will be taken (blood pressure and heart rate)

        6. A urine pregnancy test will be performed for women of child bearing age. If positive
           subjects will be excluded.

        7. If a urine test for proteinuria is not ordered at the clinic visit by subjects'
           nephrologist, a urine sample will be collected and sent to the laboratory for urine
           creatinine and urine protein.

        8. Subjects will be asked to present to the CRU within one week of their screening visit in
           the morning.

        9. Subjects will be asked not to start vitamin D pills prescribed by their nephrologists
           until after completing study visit 2 procedures.

      Visit 2 (Day 2 - 7).

        1. Eligibility will be reviewed.

        2. A physical exam will be performed.

        3. Vital Signs will be taken (blood pressure and heart rate)

        4. A urine sample will be collected and will be tested for,

             -  Urine creatinine (baseline)

             -  Urine protein (baseline)

             -  Urine hcg to check for pregnancy in women of child bearing age

             -  Urinalysis

        5. Subjects with a positive urine pregnancy test will be excluded

        6. A large bore intravenous catheter will be placed in a peripheral vein for the purpose of
           infusion of Definity and will be locked with heparin.

        7. Blood samples will be collected at the time of IV catheter placement. These samples will
           be checked for baseline concentrations of ,

             -  IL-1, IL-6, CRP, and TNF-alpha

             -  Plasma renin activity and serum aldosterone

             -  Basic metabolic panel

             -  Serum albumin

        8. Subjects will be placed on a continuous cardiac monitor and pulse oximetry. If oxygen
           saturation is <90% the subject will be excluded

        9. Subjects will need to lie in bed on their back and remain in bed until the test
           procedures are completed (may be up to use a bedside commode).

       10. Resting ultrasonography will be performed on both kidneys to determine kidney volume,
           and Doppler studies will be done.

       11. Color Doppler from the subcostal view will be performed to rule out the possibility of
           intracardiac shunts. These individuals will be excluded from the study.

       12. The Definity vial will be placed at room temperature before being used. It will be
           activated after shaking the vial using Vialmax for 45 seconds. It will be used
           immediately after activation.

       13. 1.3 ml of Definity will be mixed in 30 ml of preservative free saline. Infusion of
           Definity into a peripheral vein will be started at 2 ml/min and titrated for optimal
           image quality (not to exceed 10 ml/min at any time).

       14. To assess optimal microbubble concentration based upon video intensity, ultrasound
           images of the left ventricle will be obtained and used as the control. Microbubble
           administration will then be titrated accordingly but not to exceed 10 ml/min at any
           time.

       15. Baseline contrast ultrasound imaging of right kidney will be performed using Power
           Modulation imaging with low mechanical index (MI) of 0.1.

       16. One to four impulses with high MI of 1.0 will be used to destruct the microbubbles and
           then imaging of the kidney with low MI (0.1) will continue for several seconds to a few
           minutes. Infusion of Definity will stop at this point.

       17. During the administration of Definity, vital signs including heart rate and pulse
           oximetry will be obtained continuously

       18. Study subjects will stay in CRU for 30 minutes of observation (continuous ECG monitoring
           and frequent blood pressure, pulse, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation monitoring
           will continue during this period.

       19. A urine sample will be collected for urinalysis.

       20. Subjects will be discharged home.

       21. At the time of discharge each subject will be asked to start taking the active vitamin D
           pill prescribed by their nephrologists. They will be asked to inform us if they stop
           their medication for any reason within the next three months.

       22. Subjects will be asked to not to start any new blood pressure medications during the
           time of the study. They will be asked to contact us if a change is made to any of their
           medications.

       23. Between 48 - 72 hours after discharge from CRU subjects will be contacted to assess for
           adverse events.

       24. After three months of treatment with one form of vitamin D, the subjects will return to
           the CRU for the following procedures,

           Visit 3 (day 83 - 107) 90 ± 10 days after visit 1

       25. Eligibility will be reviewed.

       26. A physical exam will be performed.

       27. Vital Signs will be taken (blood pressure and heart rate)

       28. A urine sample will be collected and will be tested for,

             -  Urine hcg to check for pregnancy in women of child bearing age

             -  Urine creatinine (end of study)

             -  Urine protein (end of study)

             -  Urinalysis

       29. Women with a positive pregnancy test will be excluded

       30. A large bore intravenous catheter will be placed in a peripheral vein for the purpose of
           infusion of Definity and will be locked with heparin.

       31. Blood samples will be collected at the time of IV catheter placement. These samples will
           be checked for baseline concentrations of ,

             -  IL-1, IL-6, CRP, and TNF-alpha

             -  Plasma renin activity and serum aldosterone

             -  Basic metabolic panel

             -  Serum albumin

             -  Serum calcium, phosphorus and intact PTH concentrations, unless done as standard of
                care within a week of end of study visit.

       32. Steps 6 - 20 mentioned above will be repeated.

       33. Between 48 - 72 hours after discharge from the CRU subjects will be contacted by phone
           to assess for potential adverse events.

       34. Study procedures will end at this time.
    
  