
    
      The value of oral anticoagulants such as coumarin derivatives as a therapy and in the
      prophylaxis of thrombosis is universally acknowledged. These medicinal products are used in
      the prevention of cerebral infarction, in patients with atrial fibrillation and in the
      secondary prevention of myocardial infarction. In case of elected surgery, the effect of
      coumarin derivatives can be reversed by a termination of the coumarin treatment and the
      administration of vitamin K orally, i.m. or i.v., which will restore the production of the
      vitamin K dependent coagulation factors. For patients due to undergo acute surgery, it will
      be unfavourable to await endogenous production of vitamin K dependent coagulation factor
      production.After CPB surgery, the patients need to be in a controlled coagulated state. Two
      products suitable to rapidly increase the concentration of vitamin K dependent coagulation
      factors, are fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC). These
      products contain factor II, VII, IX and X and help to restore normal levels of the clotting
      fraction.Administration of these products prior to CPB surgery will decrease the INR to a
      level that is acceptable for surgery. In the Academic Hospital Leuven the standard procedure
      in cases of acute and elected CPB surgery is administration of VP-VI, a FFP-product made by
      OCTAPHARMA. In this study the standard treatment of 2x 400 ml VP-VI was compared with a
      treatment of PPSB Solvent Detergent® (PPSB-SD) according to the prescription regimen of
      CAF-DCF. PPSB-SD is a PCC product made by Sanquin Plasma Products (the Netherlands) for
      CAF-DCF (Belgium). The regimen as prescribed by CAF-DCF enables to calculate the quantity of
      PPSB-SD to administer on the basis of the patient's weight, the initial INR and the target
      INR. The expected outcome of the study was that in patients receiving PPSB-SD the target INR
      will be reached more frequently and more rapidly compared to patients receiving VP-VI.
    
  