
    
      Participants and methods All participants will receive caudal block with bupivacaine 0.25%
      1mg/kg diluted in 10 cm saline.

      The participants will be divided to 3 groups

        1. Bupivacaine group (B group) (group 1) N = 31 :- The participants will receive caudal
           block with bupivacaine 0.25% 1mg/kg diluted in 10 cm saline.

           + I.V injection of 10 cm saline over 10 mins then, followed by I.V infusion 50 cm saline
           with rate 10-20 ml/h according to child weight.

        2. Magnesium sulfate caudal group (MC group) (group 2) N = 31 :- The participants will
           receive caudal block with bupivacaine 0.25% 1mg/kg plus Magnesium sulfate 50 mg diluted
           in 10 cm saline.

             -  I.V injection of 10 cm saline over 10 mins then, followed by I.V infusion of 50 cm
                saline with rate 10-20 ml/h according to child weight.

        3. Magnesium sulfate I.V group (MV group) (group 3) N = 31 :- The participants will receive
           caudal block with bupivacaine 0.25% 1mg/kg diluted in 10 cm saline.

           + I.V injection of Magnesium sulfate 30mg/kg diluted in 10 cm saline over 10 mins then,
           followed by I.V infusion one ampule of Magnesium sulfate 500mg diluted in 50 cm saline
           with rate 10 mg/kg/h.

           Standard monitoring is used during anesthesia and surgery include :-
           electrocardiography, non-invasive arterial pressure, arterial oxygen saturation using
           pulse oximeter and end-tidal concentrations are measured using capnography.

           An intravenous line is secured before induction of anesthesia, all participants will
           receive a standardized rapid sequence induction of anesthesia and oxygen administration
           for 3 minutes. Anesthesia is induced with Inhalation of 8% sevoflurane without use of
           muscle relaxant, cricoid pressure is applied and the trachea intubated with a
           suitable-size endotracheal tube. Maintained end-tidal sevoflurane concentration will be
           between 2.5-3.5 and will be titrated. The participants will breath spontaneously during
           surgery and tidal volume will be adjusted to maintain normocarbia. I.V injection of 0.2
           mg/kg dexamethasone after induction as a prophylaxis of post-operative nausea and
           vomiting of Mg sulfate. Caudal block will be performed to participants before surgical
           incision with 1 of 2 investigators using the following technique :- The Participants are
           placed in left lateral position after induction of general anesthesia. The back of the
           participant including the sacral hiatus are carefully sterilized with an antiseptic
           solution and sterile drapes will be placed around the injection site. The technique will
           be done by introducing a 23-gauge hypodermic needle perpendicular to the sacrococcygeal
           membrane with the bevel in the direction of the long fibers of the membrane. The needle
           will be inserted until there is release of impedance as it pierced the sacrococcygeal
           membrane. Then, it is directed upwards so that it make an angle of 20-30° with the skin
           about 2 mm so that the whole bevel will be inside the sacral canal. The injection will
           be made over a period of about 60 s and then a small elastoplast dressing is placed over
           the injection site and the participant will be placed supine. Intraoperative analgesic
           supplement will not be given.

           Caudal block will be failed if HR &/or MAP increased 10 more than the previous basal
           value of beginning of surgery.participants will be fasting 4-6 hours for solid foods and
           2 hours for clear fluids. Balanced fluid therapy containing Na Cl, glucose, K and Ca
           will be infused according to body weight as follows :1st 10 kg 4 ml/kg/hour, 2nd 10 kg 2
           ml/kg/hour and 1 ml//hour for every 1 kg.

           Then, anesthetic gas discontinued and replaced O2 100%. At the end of the operation the
           trachea is extubated, The participants will be transferred to the postanesthesia care
           unit (PACU).

           Intraoperative assessment:-

           • Heart rate (HR) and mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), oxygen saturation (SO2) are
           recorded basal before operation and every 10 mins. until the end of surgery.

           • minimal alveolar concentration (MAC) of sevoflurane is recorded every 10 mins.

           • The occurrence of intraoperative hypotension (defined as systolic arterial pressure 70
           plus twice the age in years and associated with altered peripheral perfusion), requiring
           a fluid bolus.

             -  The occurrence of intraoperative bradycardia (defined as heart rate below 60 beats
                min for ages above 1 years), requiring atropine.

             -  Duration of anesthesia: it is the time from start of inhalation induction by
                sevoflurane till tracheal extubation in mins.

             -  Extubation time: it is the time from termination of sevoflurane to tracheal
                extubation in mins.

             -  Emergence time: it is the time from the end of surgery till the opening of
                patient's eyes in mins.

             -  Interaction time: it is interval between stopping sevoflurane and verbal or
                physical response in mins. All are noted.

           Postoperative assessment in the ( PACU):-

             -  The oxygen saturation (SO2), heart rate (HR), and mean arterial pressure (MAP) are
                monitored by the observer blinded to group allocation on admission and 10 mins till
                discharge (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60mints, time of discharge) from the PACU.

             -  Emergence agitations (Pediatric anesthesia emergency delirium scale (PAED):- The
                presence of Emergence agitation and its severity will be measured using (PAED).

           Item 1. The participant makes eye contact with care giver 2. The child's actions are
           purposeful 3. The child is aware of his/her surroundings 4. The child is restless 5. The
           child is inconsolable - Items 1, 2 and 3 are scored: 4 = not at all, 3 = just a little,
           2 quite a bit, 1 = very much, 0 = extremely.

           - Items 4 and 5 are scored: 0 = not at all, 1 = just a little, 2 = quite a bit, 3 = very
           much, 4 = extremely.

           It will be monitored on admission and every 10 mins till discharge from the PACU (0, 10,
           20, 30, 40, 50, 60 mins, time of discharge).

           PAED score ≥ 10 will be managed by intravenous doses of fentanyl 1micg/kg, repeated
           after 10 min if the child is still agitated, with a maximum total dose of 2 micg/kg.
           (PAED) score ≥ 10 will be considered to be a diagnostic endpoint for the development of
           agitation.

           • Pain score (FLACC scale) :-

           The presence of Pain and its severity will be measured using FLACC scale.

           CATEGORIES SCORING

      0 1 2 Face

      No particular expression or smile Occasional grimace or frown, withdrawn, disinterested.
      Frequent to constant quivering chin, clenched jaw. Legs

      Normal position or relaxed. Uneasy, restless, tense. Kicking, or legs drawn up.

      ACTIVITY

      Lying quietly, normal position moves easily Squirming, shifting back and forth, tense.
      Arched, rigid or jerking. Cry

      No cry, (awake or asleep) Moans or whimpers;occasional complaint crying steadily, screams or
      sobs, CONSOLABILITY

      Content, relaxed. Reassured by occasional touching hugging or being talked to, distractable.
      Difficulty to console or comfort

      It will be monitored on admission and every 10 mins till discharge from the PACU (0, 10, 20,
      30, 40, 50, 60 mins, time of discharge). If the FLACC pain scale score is noted at any time
      to be 4 or more, the patient will be given1micg/kg fentanyl I.V and repeated after 10 mins,
      if the participant is still in pain with a maximum total dose 2 mg/kg

        -  Time of first postoperative administration of fentanyl :- in mints

        -  Modified Aldrete score :- The discharge from the PACU will be measured using Modified
           Aldrete score. Items are :-

      Activity:

      2. able to move 4 extremities voluntarily or on command

      1. able to move 2 extremities voluntarily or on command 0. unable to move extremities
      voluntarily or on command

      Respiration:

      2. able to breath deeply and cough freely

      1. dyspnea or limited breathing 0. apneic

      Circulation:

      2. BP +/- 20% of pre-anesthetic level

      1. BP +/- 20% to 49% of pre-anesthetic level 0. BP +/- 50% of pre-anesthetic level

      Consciousness:

      2. fully awake

      1. arousable on calling 0. not responding

      O2 saturation :

      2. able to maintain O2 saturation <92% on room air

      1. needs O2 inhalation to maintain O2 saturation <90% 0. O2 saturation >90% even with O2
      supplement. It will be monitored on admission and every 10 mins till discharge from the PACU
      (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 mins, time of discharge). Participants will be discharged from the
      PACU after adequate control of agitation and pain, and when they has achieved Modified
      Aldrete score characteristics of ≥ 9,

      Postoperative complications :- All post operative complications are also recorded by the
      observer blinded to group allocation which include :-

        -  The occurrence of Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) :-

        -  (PONV) is treated as needed with i.v.ondansetron 0.06 mg/kg every 4 h.

        -  The occurrence of postoperative respiratory depression (defined as oxygen saturation
           below than 95%) and respiratory rate below than 10 breaths/min.

        -  The occurrence of Postoperative Laryngospasm or Bronchospasm.

        -  The occurrence of postoperative Hypotension definition and treatment as mentioned
           before.

        -  The occurrence of postoperative Bradycardia definition and treatment as mentioned
           before.

      Statistical analysis

      Statistical analysis will be done by using statistical package for social scientists (SPSS)
      program version 16. Data will be proved parametric by using kolmogorov -Smi mov test. The
      quantitative data will be presented in the form of mean and standard Deviation. One-way ANOVA
      test will be used to compare between quantitative data of the three groups. Paired t-test
      will be used to study between two values in the same group. Pain score, sedation score will
      be represented by median and range and will be analyzed by Kruskal-Wallis test to compare
      between the three groups. Mann-Whitney test will be used for comparison between 2 groups
      separately. Significance will be considered when P-value is less than 0.05

      Sample size The primary outcomes was the incidence of emergence agitation. A previous study
      on the effect of magnesium sulfate infusion on the incidence and severity of emergence
      agitation in children under going adenotonsillectomy under sevoflurane anesthesia reported a
      72% incidence of emergence agitation. (14). We presumed that a clinically significant
      difference would be 50% between the incidence of agitation in the intervention and control
      groups. With a power of 85% (a = 0.05, two-tailed), the sample size was calculated to be 93
      patients (31 in each group). The sample size was calculated using Power Analysis and Sample
      Size 12 software (NCSS, Kay seville, ut USA).
    
  