
    
      Study Background:

      People from different cultures may have different preferences in the way decisions about
      their healthcare are made, as well as how much information they may want to know about the
      diseases they may have. However, patients and families sometimes disagree about these
      preferences. In this study, researchers want to learn about any differences in healthcare
      decision-making and information-sharing preferences between patients and their families,
      among a group of people from different Hispanic backgrounds.

      (Please note that the phrase "family member" has been used in this consent form for short,
      but the definition includes non-family members that you may consider a "significant other").

      Screening Procedures:

      Participants in this study must also agree to give the name of a family member (a parent,
      spouse, adult child, sibling, other family member, or a non-family member that you consider a
      "significant other") that researchers can ask to participate in a separate part of this study
      that will require signing a separate consent form. (If the person of your choice is not with
      you at the time of joining the study, he/she may come back to the clinic at your next
      follow-up visit.)

      If the family member agrees, he/she will complete a similar series of questionnaires about
      his/her preferences in decisions about your healthcare, what information he/she might want
      you to know about the disease, and what information he/she might want to know about the
      disease him/herself. Like you, he/she will also be asked how decisions about your healthcare
      have been made, his/her satisfaction with those decisions and your healthcare, and his/her
      sense of connection with what he/she defines to be the overall Hispanic culture. He/she will
      also complete a similar interview on general information (such as marital status and
      educational level).

      Study Visit:

      If you agree to take part in this study and you have given the name of a family member, you
      will be interviewed to ask for general information about yourself ("demographic" information
      such as marital status and educational level).

      After that, you will complete a series of questionnaires that ask about your preferences in
      decisions about your healthcare and what information you may want to know about the disease,
      how decisions about your healthcare have been made, your satisfaction with those decisions
      and your healthcare, and your sense of connection with what you define to be the overall
      Hispanic culture.

      It should take about 5-10 minutes for the interview and another 20-30 minutes to complete the
      questionnaires.

      Your interview and questionnaire responses will not be shared with your regular doctor. If
      you feel you need a doctor's opinion about anything that is asked about in the interview
      and/or questionnaires, please contact your doctor.

      Family Member's Participation:

      Your family member would complete the questionnaires separately and be interviewed separately
      from you. You may ask as many additional family members as needed, until one agrees. However,
      if the family member is scheduled for his/her study visit but does not end up completing the
      study procedures (interview and questionnaires), your interview and questionnaire data will
      be destroyed without being used in this study.

      Confidentiality:

      Your interview and questionnaire responses will only be used for this research study, and
      will not be shared with your family member.

      Length of Study Participation:

      After completing the interview and questionnaires, your participation in this study will be
      over.

      This is an investigational study. In total, up to 900 patients and family members will take
      part in this multicenter study. Up to 300 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  