
    
      In Chile, gastric cancer (GC) is the leading cause of cancer death, killing 17.8 in 100,000
      people/year. Most GC cases are diagnosed at advance stage, indeed 70% of diagnosed patients
      are stage IV classified as metastatic GC (mGC). Median survival rates with standard
      chemotherapy is <6 months. In recent years the development of immune checkpoint inhibitors
      that activate a sustained T-cell response has revolutionized oncology treatments. Indeed,
      humanized monoclonal antibodies against the CTLA4 and PD1/PDL1 pathways treatments, a
      strategy commonly called "checkpoint therapy" has demonstrated effective against many
      malignancies. Despite this, a substantial percentage of patients (~60%) remain unresponsive
      or display non-significant clinical responses to these regimes. Previous studies suggest that
      cancer cells employ a variety of strategies to become resistant to these therapies, these can
      include: existence of genomic alterations in their "mutational landscape" that cause immune
      suppression, inhibition of the Interferon (IFN) gamma pathway (among others), upregulation of
      alternative immune checkpoints (other than CTLA4 or PD1/PDL1) and upregulation of the
      Indoleamine 2,3-DyOxygenase (IDO) enzyme.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      Metastatic GC patients, whose tumor microenvironment presents a specific mutational
      landscape, increased levels of alternative immune co-inhibitors and enhanced IDO expression,
      fail (determined by RECIST 1.1) in response to checkpoint therapy.

      In order to validate this hypothesis, the investigators will:

        1. Retrospectively collect samples derived from mGC patients who received checkpoint
           therapy and clinical data including RECIST 1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid
           Tumors) to classify them as responders or non-responders to checkpoint therapy.

        2. Obtain RNA/DNA samples from stored patient biopsies in order to perform a comprehensive
           analysis of mutational landscape using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) methods.

        3. Analyze tissue samples from patients by immunohistochemistry to evaluate expression of
           the IDO enzyme and the levels of alternative immune co-inhibitors.

      Therefore, this proposal will use samples derived from mGC patients who received checkpoint
      therapy at the Cancer center of the Clinical Hospital at the Pontificia Universidad Catolica
      de Chile. Biopsies, paraffin embedded samples and full clinical history are available for
      analysis. The team of investigators is composed by both physicians (MD) and molecular
      biologists (PhD). Dr. Garrido and clinical coordinator Dr. Retamal will select patients,
      obtain cancer samples and perform correlations with treatment outcome and coordinate the
      immunohistochemistry. The laboratory of Dr. Owen (co-investigator in this proposal with Dr.
      Pinto) has vast experience in the field of molecular oncology and will perform the molecular
      analysis.

      The overall goal of this proposal is to elucidate the molecular mechanism(s) involved in the
      resistance to CTLA4/PD1/PDL1 targeted checkpoint therapy in mGC patients. The relevance lies
      in the high prevalence and mortality rates of this disease in Chile. Finally, its
      significance stems from the potential discovery and characterization diagnostic companion
      biomarkers that could allow stratification in order to identify mGC patients that could get
      the most benefit from checkpoint therapy regimes.
    
  