
    
      The current recommendation by the World Health Organization (WHO) to prevent malaria
      infection in pregnancy in areas of stable malaria transmission relies on:

        -  Prompt and effective case management of malaria illness

        -  The use of intermittent preventive treatment (IPTp) with at least 2 treatment doses of
           sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) and

        -  The use of insecticide treated nets (ITNs)

      However, the spread of parasite resistance to SP, particularly in eastern Africa, and the
      significant overlap in some regions of malaria transmission and high prevalence of HIV
      infection, have raised concerns about the medium and long-term use of SP for IPTp.

      HIV infection increases susceptibility to malaria and may reduce the efficacy of
      interventions. The evaluation of alternative antimalarials for IPTp is thus urgently needed
      also involving HIV infected women.

      Of all the current available alternative antimalarial drugs, mefloquine (MQ) is the one that
      offers the most comparative advantages to SP.

      A randomized multicenter trial will be conducted in 4 sites in Africa (Benin, Gabon, Tanzania
      and Mozambique) in order to compare the safety and efficacy of SP versus MQ as IPTp in the
      context of ITNs. In addition, MQ tolerability will be also evaluated by comparing the
      administration of MQ as a single intake with its administration as split dose in two days. In
      total 4716 pregnant women will be enrolled at the antenatal clinic (ANC) and will be followed
      until the infant is one year old.

      Besides, in those countries where HIV prevalence in pregnant women is > 10%, MQ-IPTp will be
      compared to Placebo-IPTp in HIV infected pregnant women receiving cotrimoxazole (CTX)
      prophylaxis. This trial will be double blinded and will be carried out in Kenya, Tanzania and
      Mozambique. It will involve 1070 pregnant women that will be followed until the infant is 2
      months old.
    
  