
    
      Identifying treatment options is critical to the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak response. Currently
      there is no vaccine and treatments used are not specifically designed for this virus; They
      are drugs used for other pathologies. We have identified possible drugs with a known safety
      profile, selected the most promising ones and designed 3 combinations to select the one with
      the best results in clinical improvement of pneumonia due to Covid-19.

      -Virus entry inhibitors: broad spectrum antivirals (antimalarials). They block viral
      infection by increasing endosomal pH necessary for virus / cell fusion, as well as
      interfering with glycosylation of cellular SARS-CoV receptors. It also has immunomodulatory
      activity, which can enhance antiviral effect. Latest evidence from the UK RECOVERY and WHO
      SOLIDARITY trials suggest that antimalarials do not provide clinical benefit in hospitalized
      patients with COVID-19.

      Baricitinib, Janus kinase inhibitor, showing high affinity for AAK1. Disruption of AAK1 (one
      of the known regulators of viral endocytosis) could block passage of SARS-CoV-2 to cells and
      also the intracellular assembly of virus particles. Furthermore, it has the capacity to bind
      cyclin G-associated kinase, another regulator of endocytosis. You can limit systemic
      inflammatory response and cytokine production by inhibiting the JAK-STAT32 pathway.

      Imatinib; Antitumor agent inhibitory activity of some tirsin kinases (TK), especially fusion
      oncoprotein BCR-ABL1, c-kit and native kinase ABL1. It has shown antiviral properties in
      early stages of infection against SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, phylogenetically related to
      SARS-CoV2. In addition, it has been linked to reduced inflammation and improved endothelial
      barrier and pulmonary edema.

      -Protease inhibitors: lopinavir / ritonavir (HIV treatment); expected interactions with
      SARS-CoV-2 proteases; The therapeutic effect of ritonavir and lopinavir could be mainly due
      to its inhibitory effect on coronavirus endopeptidase C30. The RECOVERY clinical trial
      investigators have also reviewed the data concluding that LPV / r does not provide clinical
      benefit in hospitalized patients with COVID-19.
    
  