
    
      It is now known that ethnic minorities are less likely to receive quality health services and
      evidence worse treatment outcomes when compared with other groups (IOM, 1999; USDHHS, 2001).
      Moreover, there continues to be a shortage of systematic investigations examining the
      efficacy of evidence-based treatments (EBTs) with ethnic minorities, especially among Chinese
      Americans. Developing interventions that are both empirically grounded and that are
      culturally sensitive and compatible with Chinese culture is one promising strategy that may
      improve treatment outcomes for this understudied group. The goal of this study is to
      culturally adapt a cognitive-behavioral therapy manual for use with depressed Chinese
      American patients. This study will be among the first to develop a culturally adapted EBT for
      use with this ethnic group and will involve three study phases. Phase I of the study will
      focus on modifying and refining a CBT intervention protocol into a manualized treatment for
      Chinese Americans. Phase two involves a randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing the
      effects of the culturally adapted CBT treatment manual with nonadapted CBT. Phase three will
      involve further refinement of the treatment manual, data analysis, and report writing.
      Patients will be recruited from an ethnic-specific mental health center that specializes in
      treating Asian American clientele to participate in the study. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to either the adapted CBT treatment or the nonadapted CBT treatment. Moreover,
      feedback from patients and therapists in both conditions will be used to further refine the
      new treatment manual, provide valuable information about salient issues in treating depressed
      Chinese Americans, and will provide initial estimates of treatment parameters that will be
      used in preparing a larger R01 proposal to further test the adapted intervention.
    
  