
    
      Clinical, experimental, case control and prospective study. Inclusion criteria are: patients
      who suffered severe TBI more than one year previously with physical or psychological
      sequelae, male sex, and age 20-60 years old. Patients with epilepsy are not included. The
      study was approved by the institution's Research Ethics Committee and informed consent was
      obtained from the patients.

      A program of three days per week during twelve weeks will be applied to the active groups:
      one, exercise and muscle electrical stimulation, and the other, exercise, muscle electrical
      stimulation and IHH chamber exposure. Control group participants will follow a a day of
      cognitive activities one day per week during 12 weeks.

      Psychological and physical stress tests are carried out before and after the program.
      Psychological tests evaluate features of language and work (verbal memory-RAVLT), Trail
      Making Test (TMT A and B), Stroop Test, working memory capacity and attention (WAIS III),
      information processing speed (WAIS III), orientation and verbal fluency (Barcelona test),
      executive functions (WAIS III and Tower of London tests) and estimated premorbid intelligence
      index (vocabulary, WAIS III). Reduced Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT-G) evaluate
      work memory components. Physical graded maximum stress tests were performed on a cycle
      ergometer increasing progressively the workload, in order to evaluate physical capacity and
      adaptation to different intensities of effort. CPC (CD34+) are measured in peripheral blood
      according to a previously used method (Viscor et al., 2009), at the beginning, every two
      weeks, and at the end of the program (blood samples were always obtained before the exercise
      sessions).

      Statistical analysis: data will express as mean, median, standard deviation and interquartile
      range as appropriate. The continuous variables will compare using the Mann-Whitney U test.
      Wilcoxon signed rank test and Friedman test are used for repeated measures. All tests will
      perform using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) v.13. Statistical
      significance was set at P<0.05.
    
  