
    
      Background:

      Post traumatic Stress disorder (PTSD) is a common condition for persons who have served in
      the Armed services during combat or deployment. Treatments include medications, cognitive
      behavioral therapy, and other social support mechanisms.

      Our aim in this project is to critically evaluate the effects of a novel music therapy
      intervention on the symptoms of PTSD. Estimates developed by the Global Burden of Disease
      Study reveal that mental illness accounts for over 15% of the burden of disease on health and
      productivity in established market economies--more than the disease burden caused by all
      cancers combined.[1] Perhaps no industry has had the burden of mental disorders affect its
      labor force as severely and pervasively as the Armed Forces.

      Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a common sequelae of severe emotional trauma that is
      often associated with combat exposure. The condition has been well documented in returning
      soldiers and is characterized by recurrent and distressing thoughts and feelings related to
      the trauma, persistent avoidance of reminders of the trauma, and increased arousal that
      disturbs sleep, concentration, and the ability to modulate anger. Persons suffering from PTSD
      often have difficulty relating to others, leading to loneliness and isolation, which further
      intensifies their psychiatric symptoms. Current treatment options for PTSD include
      psychotherapy, medication management, or a combination of those. Although these treatments
      have been shown to be effective, returning soldiers are often hesitant to seek and adhere to
      mental health therapies. PTSD-related avoidance, including difficulty trusting, may serve as
      a barrier to seeking or completing treatments. Furthermore, some PTSD medications have
      unacceptable side-effects in some individuals. The need is great, therefore, to identify and
      promote safe, effective strategies for self-management of PTSD among Veterans.

      Objectives:

      The objective was to assess the effectiveness of a novel music therapy on ammelorating the
      effects of PTSD. Specifically a 6 week guitar training program under the direction of
      seasoned instructors through a partnership with Guitars for Vets was assessed before and
      after intervention.

      Methods:

      In this trial we recruited veterans in the Milwaukee region and the Zablocki VA Medical
      Center with significant PTSD symptoms. Forty subjects were recruited and randomized to either
      an immediate entry or a 6 week delayed entry group. Both groups received the intervention,
      but the delayed group received it after a 6 week period.

      Each subject received a guitar that they keep after the study, music, supplies and
      instructions. They each had an hour of individual training each week and a weekly group
      instruction session.

      Status:

      The data collection and analyses are complete, we are writing the final manuscript. In
      addition, we submitted a grant for a multicenter MERIT funded project this past June.
      Unfortunately it will not be funded. We plan to resubmit at the next cycle.
    
  