
    
      Each year, over 2 million Americans are hospitalized with a myocardial infarction (MI) or
      unstable angina pectoris, two acute and potentially fatal manifestations of coronary heart
      disease (CHD). Smoking cessation is highly cost-effective and universally recommended for the
      approximately 20% of these patients who smoke. Hospitalization for acute CHD is an excellent
      time to initiate smoking cessation because hospitalization requires temporary tobacco
      abstinence at the same time that illness increases smokers' motivation to quit.
      Unfortunately, at least 40% of smokers fail to quit even with optimal cognitive-behavioral
      counseling interventions that begin in the hospital and continue after discharge. More
      powerful intervention strategies are needed. Adding pharmacotherapy to behavioral counseling,
      which is standard practice in outpatients, has not been tested in this setting because of
      concern about the safety of nicotine replacement after MI. Sustained release (SR) bupropion
      (Zyban, Wellbutrin SR) is a non-nicotine antidepressant drug that has recently proved to be
      effective for smoking cessation. It appears to be safe in cardiac patients and may have the
      additional benefit of preventing post-MI depression, an independent predictor of mortality.

      This study tested the efficacy and safety of bupropion SR for smoking cessation in adult
      smokers hospitalized with MI or unstable angina. To do so, we conducted a five-site
      randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine whether bupropion SR, initiated
      in the hospital and continued for 12 weeks, was effective and safe when added to
      comprehensive cognitive-behavioral smoking counseling. The primary outcome measure was
      biochemically-confirmed 7-day point prevalence tobacco abstinence at 1 year follow-up.
      Principal secondary outcome measure was biochemically-confirmed 7-day point-prevalence at
      end-of-treatment (12 weeks). Secondary aims were to test whether bupropion SR delays the time
      to smoking relapse, reduces CHD morbidity and depressive symptoms, and improves
      health-related quality of life over 1 year of follow-up.
    
  