
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival rate of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer treated
           with gemcitabine alone vs with cisplatin vs with docetaxel vs with irinotecan.

        -  Compare the time to disease progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the CA 19-9 biomarker response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate the CA 19-9 biomarker response with survival in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the response in patients with measurable disease treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one of four
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 followed by
           cisplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at
           least 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 150 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment
           repeats every 28 days for at least 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes followed by docetaxel IV over
           60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 3 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes followed by irinotecan IV over
           90 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 3 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 240 patients (60 per arm) will be accrued for this study within
      30 months.
    
  