
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial comparing patients undergoing open carpal tunnel or
      trigger finger release with or without the use of a tourniquet. This will be a parallel study
      by design where the allocation ratio between the two groups will be set to be 1:1.

      Patients are to be recruited on the day of the procedure. Upon arrival, they will be
      presented with the research project and given the information pamphlet and consent forms.
      Sufficient time to read these documents will be allocated.

      For the purpose of this RCT, the same volume and concentration of the solution will be
      injected in the surgical site prior to entering the operating room, thereby allowing
      epinephrine to full take effect. The solution used by the hand surgeons will include 8 cc of
      2% xylocaine with epinephrine mixed with 3 cc of 0.5% Marcaine with epinephrine. Eight
      millilitres will be used for the CT releases and 4 millilitres for the TF releases. Once in
      the room, the patient's arm will be disinfected and draped in a similar fashion, and surgery
      will proceed without inflation of the tourniquet. A system will be implemented so that before
      patient A's surgery begins, patient B will be injected in a separate room. By the time
      patient B's surgery begins, a minimum of 30 minutes will have elapsed since his injection.
      Other than the differences in tourniquet use, all other procedure-specific elements will be
      identical, namely the size and location of the incision, the surgical technique, skin
      closure, type of dressing, rehabilitation and post-operative follow-up.

      The primary outcome of interest is peri-operative patient experience. The aim is to
      demonstrate the superiority of the no tourniquet technique with respect to the patients'
      subjective experience peri-operatively. This will be measured based on a numerical rating
      scale (NRS) for pain, anxiety and overall satisfaction. As secondary outcomes, operative
      time, bleeding control and short-term complication rates will be looked at and compared
      between the two groups.

      To achieve statistical significance, at least 31 patients will be needed in each group to
      show a minimal decrease of 33% on the NRS scales evaluation of the postoperative pain and
      overall experience with an α error of 0,05 and a power of 80%.
    
  