
    
      1. BACKGROUND AND SETTING

           1.1. Introduction

           Concurrent (chemo-) radiotherapy (CRT) is the current standard of care for patients with
           locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). The proximity of
           important functional structures with the tumour makes treatment however highly complex.
           While locoregional control rates have improved over the last decade, treatment related
           toxicity can be severe with xerostomia and dysphagia gravely complicating the patient's
           quality of life.

           Furthermore, it becomes increasingly clear that while these tumours can be identical in
           location and basic histology, their response to treatment differs greatly. This implies
           that for a subgroup of patients, equal locoregional control rates could be achieved
           using a less intense and consequently less toxic treatment schedule. This in contrast to
           the group of patients who develop a locoregional recurrence during follow up, for whom
           current treatment is apparently insufficient. These patients might benefit from a more
           intense treatment schedule, i.e. a higher dose of radiation.

           These differences in sensitivity to treatment can be explained by variations in
           biological, molecular and genetic factors. Clinical parameters alone are insufficient
           for response prediction. Identifying the different molecular and genetic factors, would
           help us increase the accuracy of response prediction and based on these factors tailor
           the treatment more individually to each patient. Therefore we want to develop a
           prognostic and predictive model incorporating well-defined molecular and imaging
           parameters which show great promise in response prediction after ionizing radiation.

           1.2. Genetic and molecular tumour characteristics

           The first parameter we want to investigate further is tumour hypoxia. Hypoxia has been
           identified as a factor that increases tumour aggressiveness and decreases
           radiosensitivity. In the past, several techniques have been applied to detect
           biologically relevant tumour hypoxia, but none of them are used today in routine
           clinical practice. Recently, a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) -based hypoxia classifier
           gene signature was published by Toustrup et al. This classifier allows us to study
           biologically relevant tumour hypoxia and consequently tumour aggressiveness and
           resistance to ionizing irradiation. This analysis will be performed on biopsies obtained
           prior to treatment. Part of this biopsy material will also be stored into our biobank.
           This will facilitate future research on promising molecular and genetics parameters
           (such as HPV correlated overexpression of p16 for example) on a well-defined and
           structured patient database.

           1.3. Imaging parameters

           Aside from these important molecular and genetic tumour characteristics, several
           functional imaging parameters will also be included in our model. In contrast to
           anatomical imaging, functional imaging modalities provide us with a deeper insight in
           the tumour's underlying biological activity and microstructure.

           Diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) can characterize tissues based on
           the random displacement of water protons. This displacement can be quantified using the
           apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC). Preliminary studies in HNSCC have demonstrated the
           prognostic and predictive potential of repetitive DWI early during and after treatment.

           Dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging(DCE-MRI) is a second technique,
           which shows great promise as an early indicator of response to ionizing radiation. Many
           malignant tumors manifest neovascularity or angiogenesis. These processes are however
           flawed and as a result these newly synthesized vessels manifest a high permeability,
           tortuosity and generally a poor functionality. This might result in poor oxygen supply
           to the tumour cells, which may compromise the effectiveness of radiation treatment of
           the tumour. Therefore the vascular properties of a tumour, assessed with DCE-MRI, could
           prove a prognostic indicator of its aggressiveness.

        2. STUDY OBJECTIVES

           2.1. Primary objectives

           The main objective of this study is to correlate clinical, molecular and radiological
           predictors with outcome, as defined by locoregional control and disease free survival.
           In this way we will develop a prognostic/predictive model. The predictive model will be
           instrumental in the individualization of treatment ensuring optimized treatment and
           avoiding under- and overtreatment.

           2.2. Secondary objectives

             -  We want to get new insights in the tumor biology and microstructure by correlating
                imaging and molecular/genetic markers in a well-defined patient population.

             -  We want to validate the different imaging techniques.

             -  We want to make a correlation between hypoxia and other predictive biomarkers in
                the future, by storing the tissue obtained in this study in our biobank.

        3. STUDY DESIGN

           We propose to set up a study where we will prospectively include patients with locally
           advanced head and neck cancer who will be treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy as
           decided after multidisciplinary consultation. An outline of the trial is presented in
           the figure below. All patients recognized eligible (non-metastatic locally advanced head
           and neck squamous cell carcinoma, treated with chemoradiotherapy, karnofsky performance
           status ≥ 70% and ≥ 18 years old) will be included after written informed consent.
           Staging with a laryngoscopy, CT of the neck, MRI of the neck and a PET-CT will be
           routinely performed.

           The CRT treatment consists of radiotherapy up to 72 Gy using an accelerated
           hyperfractionated schedule. Day 1 and day 22 of the treatment Cisplatin at 100mg/m² will
           be administered.

           Tumour biopsies will be obtained a few days prior to treatment. The hypoxia gene
           expression profile will be derived from the tumour material (15 genes on PCR that can be
           analyzed individually or as a group through one binary variable).

           The tissue used for RNA and DNA extraction needs to be flanked by H&E staining
           confirming tumor presence. From the biopsy the two ends will be cut off and fixed in
           paraffin. This tissue will be stored in the biobank. The middle part of the tissue will
           be stored into RNA-later, and will be used in part to extract DNA and RNA. RNA will be
           used to synthesize cDNA to perform the qPCR analysis for the hypoxic classifier.

           Patients will also undergo a DWI MRI and DCE imaging before and 3 weeks into CRT.
           Lesions will be quantitatively assessed by manual delineation of regions of interest
           (ROI) over the tumour on the native DWI and DCE-MRI images. ADC values and (semi-)
           quantitative DCE parameters will be calculated respectively.

           All the above described data will be integrated into the prognostic model together with
           the available clinical data.

        4. DEFINITION OF ENDPOINTS The main endpoint of this study is to validate the above
           described prognostic model. Using this prognostic model, we can predict response to
           treatment. This will help us to tailor the treatment more individually to each patient.
    
  