
    
      Using neural grafts to restore function after lesions of the central nervous system is a
      challenging strategy. Most of the transplantation experience acquired the last decades was
      focused on fetal neuronal grafts. However, despite the great enthusiasm generated by this
      approach, ethical controversies, immune rejection, and lack of fetal donors remain a major
      problem. Therefore, autotransplantation of adult brain cells represents an attractive
      restoration alternative to bypass the caveats of fetal grafting.

      The optimization of the procedure to obtain ANCE, a cortical autograft obtained from cortical
      biopsy, was first successfully demonstrated in producing long-term primary culture of adult
      human brain cells from temporal lobe tissues obtained from epilepsy and trauma neurosurgical
      patients. ANCE has been characterized as an ecosystem of autologous neural cells in
      suspension, composed of several cell types: astrocytes, proliferative progenitors and
      quiescent progenitors.

      The production of ANCE has been implemented to prepare long-term primary culture from primate
      cortical biopsies. This allowed assessing the feasibility of autotransplantation from brain
      biopsy to reimplantation of cultured brain cells in a non-human primate model of motor cortex
      lesion. On the same model of cerebral cortex lesion in nonhuman primates, further study
      demonstrated, by quantitative behavioral evidence, the beneficial outcome of cell therapy
      following injury of the cerebral cortex.

      Based on the encouraging results from past experiences on non-human primate model of motor
      cortex lesion, this monocentric pilot study aims at evaluating the feasibility and safety of
      ANCE (Autologous Neural Cell Ecosystems), which is cortical autograft intended to be used on
      stroke patients, for the replacement of motor neurons destroyed during an ischemic stroke.
    
  