
    
      Background As the rate of caesarean section continues to increase, concern regarding the
      association between delivery by caesarean section and long-term maternal morbidity has been
      growing . In the past decade, several articles have described a defect that can be seen on
      ultrasound at the site of the caesarean delivery scar, known as a 'niche' . A 'niche'
      describes the presence of a hypoechoic area within the myometrium of the lower uterine
      segment, reflecting a discontinuation of the myometrium at the site of a previous cesarean
      delivery. An incompletely healed scar is a long-term complication of cesarean delivery and is
      associated with symptoms such as postmenstrual spotting, dysmenorrhoea, chronic pelvic pain
      dyspareunia and subfertility. Furthermore, it can increase rates of complications during
      gynaecological procedures and it is associated with higher complication rate in subsequent
      pregnancy including: risk of rupture and morbidly adherent placenta.

      Lately, a surgical resection of the abnormal myometrial area has been proposed mainly for
      symptomatic women, or for women that are planning future pregnancy. Different techniques have
      been used including hysteroscopy, laparoscopy and vaginal repair. Consideration of the
      surgical approach is usually determined by the patient's plans for fertility and by niche
      thickness. For women who do not desire pregnancy and whose niche thickness is >3 mm, a
      hysteroscopic approach is considered. Patients who desire future fertility, especially those
      with <3 mm of myometrium at the niche site, is usually recommended laparoscopic resection.

      Data regarding fertility following niche repair is limited. It has been reported that a niche
      can reduce the chances of embryo implantation and may lead to spontaneous miscarriages if the
      implantation is close to or in the niche. One possible theory refers to inflammatory process
      at the area of the niche that harms the endometrial environment. Additional theories address
      the mechanical changes influencing the myometrium and the discontinuation of the endometrium
      at the site of the niche. Gurol Urganci et al. reported in a meta-analysis including 16
      studies, that caesarean delivery reduces the probability of subsequent pregnancy by 10%
      [relative risk (RR) 0.91; 95% 0.87-0.95] on average, compared with a previous vaginal
      delivery, however, none of the studies included in the meta-analysis evaluated the relation
      between subsequent fertility and the presence of a niche. So far there is no definite proof
      for niche as a cause of infertility. Should this be supported by randomized controlled
      trials, it would be grounds for providing treatment that will expectedly lead to beneficial
      effects on reproductive outcomes. This yet needs to be proven in.

      Due to the aforementioned, the aim of our study is to compare the inflammatory
      characteristics of women with cesarean uterine scar to those without.

      Material and Methods This is a prospective study including all women visiting hysteroscopy
      ambulatory clinics for diagnostic hysteroscopy . All women meeting inclusion criteria will
      sign informed consent prior to the hysteroscopy after given explanation by one of the
      research team. During hysteroscopy 5 cc of the flushed water, that usually is drilled into a
      collecting bin that is thrown away, will be collect threw a small outlet port using a syringe
      connected to the outlet port of the hysteroscope. Women with normal diagnostic hysteroscopy
      will be included in the study. Those with low segment cesarean deliver scar will comprise the
      study arm and will be compared to women with no uterine scar (controls). Samples will be send
      to the IVF laboratory for analyzing inflammatory characteristics. Date regarding
      demographics, obstetrical and gynecological history will be collected from women's medical
      records. Primary outcome is defined as the level of inflammatory cytokines as a composite
      outcome
    
  