
    
      In Taiwan, 54.2% of cardiac surgical procedures in 2010 were performed on older patients (≧65
      years) with higher rates of surgical complications, functional decline, and even death
      reported. Despite the large number of older patients undergoing cardiac surgery with the goal
      of improving functional capacity, the literature in this area is limited. Specifically, there
      is little information about the functional outcomes 1 year after cardiac surgery for older
      patients.

      A prospective, longitudinal cohort study will be conducted to assess and follow patients aged
      65 years and older who undergoing elective or non-elective cardiac surgery for one year after
      surgery. All patients on the cardio-surgical wards of 5A, 5B, and 5CVI at National Taiwan
      University Hospital will be screened for eligibility. Every patient ≧65 years admitted for
      cardiac surgery will be approached and invited to participate. This cohort study aims to
      1)describe the rates of 30-day surgical complication, functional decline, frailty, and
      one-year mortality for older patients underwent cardiac surgery; 2) delineate the rajectory
      of functional capacity 1 year after surgery for these patients; 3) test whether the
      trajectory of functional capacity varied significantly according to delirium status and its
      type over the one-year follow-up period; 4)examine patients' postsurgical actual
      caloric/protein/fluid intake in relation to the functional capacity within 3 months after
      surgery; and 5) evaluate hether activity levels, dietary diversity, and depressive symptoms
      at 3, 6, and 12 months affect patient outcomes. Estimated 236 participants will be enrolled
      to ensure the power of study.

      Data will be analyzed using the SAS package. The Generalized Estimating Equation (GEE) will
      be performed to identify the risk factors and to delineate the trajectory of functional
      capacity 1 year after cardiac surgery for older patients. The findings will add to the
      development of nursing intervention program to promote functional recovery for older patients
      after cardiac surgery
    
  