
    
      In this project, the investigators will collect data from all stroke patients discharged from
      Helse Bergen in 2019 (approx. 1000 patients) via the Norwegian Stroke Registry (NSR). For
      these patients, structured hospital data from Helse Bergen will be retrieved, and based on
      these and the spoken content of their emergency call regarding the stroke, the investigators
      will use machine learning to calculate the stroke risk. The connection of historical hospital
      data to the spoken words in the emergency call, amplifies the analysis of emergency calls in
      a novel way, in comparison to sound analysis alone.

      After retrieving and connecting stroke patient data, the investigators train the deep network
      using data from 2019. Accordingly, testing will be performed based on patients from the first
      half of 2020. A separation of the data into training, test, and validation assures that our
      trained network does not over fit on the training data and can reproduce similar results on
      previously unseen patients. Finally, the investigators will compare the performance of the AI
      with the current system through statistical analyses on data from a period of approximately
      one year of live usage of the AI in AMK Bergen. This will enable us to evaluate to what
      degree the system is able to improve within the decision process of the EMCC operators in
      terms of sensitivity and specificity.

      Summarized, the primary objective is to build a robust, working prototype of an AI system
      capable of real-time identification of acute stroke for improved assessment in emergency
      medical calls.

      Our secondary objectives are:

        -  To implement an AI system capable of providing fast prediction of whether a patient is
           suffering from acute stroke or not based on audio from emergency call and available data
           sources within the hospital records

        -  To prove that AI systems can be used to assist and improve the triage decision procedure
           of the EMCC operator.

      The anticipated result is to deliver fast (i.e. seconds) prediction scores to assist the EMCC
      operator in recognizing acute stroke patients, which provides an improved sensitivity and
      specificity compared to manual assessment only.
    
  