
    
      Vaso vagal syncope recurrence is a relevant clinical problem (1). In fact, despite the vaso
      vagal syncope event is a transient loss of consciousness with rapid onset, short duration,
      and spontaneous complete recovery after the event, it may be complicated by physical injury
      (2). Conversely, the syncope recurrence rate is about 35%, and it causes a physical injury
      until the 29% (3). In addition, the vaso vagal syncope has a frequency between 15% and 39%,
      with annual number of episodes about 18.1-39.7 per 1000 patients, and an incidence of 6.2 per
      1000 person-years, that grows up after 70 years of age with rate annual 19.5 per thousand
      individuals after 80 years (3). The patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) represent a
      percentage about the 30% of all the subjects with syncope (4). About the pathophysiology of
      syncope a central role is played by autonomic nervous system (5). To date, the autonomic
      nervous system regulates the hemodynamic stability by maintaining a stable blood pressure and
      heart rate under normal and abnormal physiologic conditions (5). Consequently, the
      dysfunction of this complex regulatory system, and of its interaction with sensor systems as
      baroreceptors, mechanoreceptors, chemoreceptors, may alter the vascular reactivity, leading
      to the clinical event and to future recurrences (5). Multiple factors affecting the autonomic
      system balance may trigger and cause a syncope event, as the result of an inappropriate
      response of the autonomic nervous system, with excessive vagal tone, and sympathetic tone
      withdrawal (2). In this setting, authors may note the diabetes as a common cause of autonomic
      system dysfunction (6). Moreover, T2DM may cause a severe form of autonomic system
      dysfunction affecting the cardiac autonomic regulation, and named as cardiac autonomic
      neuropathy (CAN), (6). Intriguingly, patients with diabetes experience a parasympathetic
      denervation, with an early augmentation of sympathetic tone, then leading to impaired heart
      rate variability, resting tachycardia, exercise intolerance, abnormal blood pressure
      regulation, and orthostatic hypotension (7). In addition, in T2DM there is a compensatory
      increase in the cardiac sympathetic tone in response to subclinical peripheral denervation
      (7). However, the T2DM may be seen as a relevant risk factor and a trigger to alter the
      autonomic system balance, and to cause vaso vagal syncope. Actually, the association between
      diabetes and autonomic dysfunction and the vaso vagal syncope recurrence at follow up is not
      well established. Moreover, the recent studies cannot come to definitive conclusion about the
      diabetes as risk factor and/or as trigger of vaso vagal syncope events, and about its
      implication to cause future recurrences in affected patients. Conversely, heart rate
      variability (HRV) is a simple, reproducible and well-recognized method for evaluating
      sympatho vagal activity (8, 9). However, in this study authors evaluated the autonomic
      dysfunction as alteration in HRV, and its relevance to cause vaso vagal syncope, and the vaso
      vagal syncope recurrence in diabetics vs. non diabetics at 12 months of follow up.
    
  