
    
      The convenience sample will consist of chemotherapy-naïve women 65 and older with a first
      diagnosis of early stage HR+ BC, post surgical resection, who are prescribed either TAM
      (n=25) or an AI, anastrozole or letrozole (n=50). Based on a survey of medical oncologist
      prescribing practices at Sunnybrook, the investigators will be able to obtain sufficient
      numbers for the convenience sample from the pool of 220 older women with BC referred annually
      to medical and radiation oncology at the Louise Temerty Breast Cancer Clinic and the Odette
      Cancer Centre . The investigators will recruit consecutively seen eligible patients before
      radiotherapy. Experienced clinical trial staff will identify eligible patients from the
      clinic list of each medical and radiation oncologist, who will then introduce the study
      during the visit. The Research Coordinator (RC) will meet with interested patients for
      consent to conduct the screening assessment for signs of cognitive impairment using the
      Memory Impairment Screen (MIS), a sensitive and reliable tool. The MIS will take no more than
      5 minutes and will be conducted in a private room at either the Louise Temerty Breast Cancer
      Centre or the Odette Cancer Centre depending on the location of the patient's appointment.
      The RC will then obtain consent from all those who pass the MIS to participate in the study
      and arrange for testing. The RC will administer the assessment battery at a time convenient
      to the patient, before radiotherapy. Drug adherence rates will be obtained using monthly
      telephone self-reports. After 1 year, participants will undergo the same testing protocol as
      at baseline using alternate forms where possible. The RC will document how many continue to
      meet study criteria including changes in health status, medications, etc. The investigators
      do not expect any major selection biases between our groups. While exclusion of women
      co-administered chemotherapy due to its confounding effects on cognition may bias the sample
      by including more women with co-morbidities, this potential bias should be reduced by our
      exclusion of previous cancers, life expectancy <2 years, and central nervous system (CNS)
      disorders. To determine bias in attrition of women at year 1 due to cognitive impairment, the
      investigators will contact all participants and caregivers who do not return to determine the
      reason.
    
  