
    
      Patients are eligible for RESPECT if they have bone-only metastatic breast cancer (MBC), as
      established by standard CT and bone scintigraphy, and are starting a new line of systemic
      therapy. This can be first line SACT or any subsequent line.

      All patients undergo a baseline CT scan (thorax/abdomen/pelvis) and isotope bone scan prior
      to commencing their new systemic therapy. All CT and bone scans are performed according to
      standard departmental protocols, with no deviations required. WB-MRI are performed within 2
      weeks of study entry. CT scans and WB-MRI are then performed every 12 weeks until week 96,
      and then every 24 weeks until the patient completes the study. The reporting radiologist who
      interprets the CT scans is blinded to the images and results of the WB-MRI scan and vice
      versa.

      At study commencement Participants are required to have had a CT scan of the thorax, abdomen
      and pelvis and a bone scan (bone scintigraphy with technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate) no
      more than 4 weeks prior to trial entry to ensure that they have bony-only metastatic disease,
      as defined using standard imaging. Baseline WB-MRI scans are performed within 2 weeks of
      entry into the study.

      Participants are assessed in clinic and a baseline physical examination is undertaken. Any
      additional tests required for the initiation of the new SACT are performed at the discretion
      of the treating clinician and according to local protocols.

      During the study CT scans and WB-MRI are performed every 12 weeks until week 96, and then
      every 24 weeks until disease progression is evident (as defined in the study protocol). Scans
      are performed within the range of 7 days prior and 7 days after the planned 12 weekly scan
      interval date.

      If there is evidence of equivocal disease progression on WB-MRI only, a repeat WB-MRI is
      undertaken between 28 and 42 days after the equivocal WB-MRI to confirm or refute the
      presence of progressive disease. If this confirmed disease progression, then the date of
      progression is defined as that of the original WB-MRI (i.e. the one performed 4-6 weeks
      earlier). No repeat CT scans are performed alongside the confirmatory WB-MRI.

      Participants are reviewed in outpatient clinic after every imaging time point so that the
      results of the CT and WB-MRI can be relayed to them by their oncologist and a decision can be
      made about their ongoing treatment. If more frequent clinic reviews are required then these
      are not prohibited by the trial protocol. As with the frequency of imaging, the required
      trial clinic visits change to every 24 weeks after the week 96 visit. During these clinic
      visits a clinical assessment is made and a full physical examination undertaken. Current
      anti-cancer drug therapy, including any changes, are documented. Any skeletal related events
      are also documented. Skeletal related events are defined within the RESPECT study as:

        -  pathological fracture

        -  metastatic spinal cord compression

        -  radiotherapy for bone pain

        -  surgery to site of bone metastasis Case report forms are completed by the trial
           administrators at every imaging time point. These are referred to as week 12, week 24,
           week 36 and so forth.

      Patient Imaging Questionnaires are performed at the week 12 and week 36 visits, and are
      completed by the patients within the radiology department soon after their CT and WB-MRI
      scans has been performed.

      End of study

      The end of the study protocol is reached when any of the following occur:

        1. Progressive bone and/or visceral disease is demonstrated on CT scan and WB-MRI (as
           defined in section X).

        2. Unequivocal progressive bone and/or visceral disease is demonstrated on WB-MRI alone (as
           defined in section X).

        3. CT and/or WB-MRI findings requiring intervention such as palliative radiotherapy, or a
           change in systemic therapy.

        4. Equivocal evidence of progressive bone and/or visceral disease (not meeting the full
           criteria for disease progression in section 7.1.3) demonstrated on WB-MRI only, with
           confirmation of findings on repeat WB-MRI undertaken 4-6 weeks later.

        5. Symptomatic skeletal disease or evidence of clinical progression of disease that
           necessitates a change in systemic therapy.

      A repeat nuclear medicine bone scan is undertaken once the participant met one of the end of
      study criteria above.
    
  