
    
      This study will be comparing women who have had endometrial cancer (cases) to women who have
      not had endometrial cancer (controls) in Harris County, Texas to better understand the risk
      factors for getting endometrial cancer. Insulin resistance is a condition of pre-diabetes.
      Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is a condition associated with irregular periods, obesity,
      infertility, and/or difficulty in getting pregnant. Both insulin resistance and PCOS are
      believed to increase a woman's risk of getting endometrial cancer.

      As part of this study, you will be asked to fill out a questionnaire that asks about your
      medical history, weight history, family history, reproductive history, and birth
      control/hormone use. The questionnaire should take about 20 minutes to complete, and you will
      need to complete it only once. You will have your height and weight measured, and about 4
      teaspoons of blood will be drawn to test for insulin resistance (or pre-diabetes). You will
      be required to fast, not eat or drink anything except water, for 8 hours before having this
      blood sample drawn. If you are premenopausal and still have both your ovaries, you will have
      an additional 4 teaspoons of blood drawn to test for PCOS. You will complete the
      questionnaire during your first visit or at home and will bring it back with you when you
      come back for your fasting blood test appointment.

      If you have been diagnosed with endometrial cancer and have had surgery to remove your
      uterus, you will also be asked to give permission to use a piece of your leftover tumor and
      surrounding normal tissue to test for markers of insulin resistance and PCOS. This will be
      from tissue that was removed during your surgery and will not require another biopsy or
      surgery.

      You will not be required to come back for any follow-up as part of this study. However, you
      will be asked to fill out a form that asks if you would be willing to be called in the future
      to participate in other studies.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 700 women will take part in this multicenter
      study, 350 women with endometrial cancer and 350 women without endometrial cancer. A total of
      up to 350 women will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson.
    
  