
    
      Immediate postpartum hemorrhage (IPPH) is among the most frequent causes of pregnancy-related
      mortality in both the USA and in Europe. In France, IPPH remains the leading cause of
      maternal mortality, responsible for 18% of the maternal deaths and 90% of the deaths from
      IPPH are considered avoidable. The initial treatment of severe IPPH involves medical
      management, uterine massage, and uterotonic drugs such as oxytocin, ergometrine, and
      prostaglandins or their analogues; In France oxytocin is used as the first line uterotonic,
      and Sulprostone as the second line uterotonic. When these first-line medical treatments fail,
      invasive therapies, including uterine compression suture, pelvic vascular ligation, or
      arterial embolization can be used, individually or in combination. Hysterectomy is the
      ultimate measure to control a hemorrhage and save the mother's life. Nonetheless, the
      management of severe IPPH is less well standardized than its prevention, especially after the
      failure of uterotonic drugs, as demonstrated by the heterogeneity of practices between
      countries and even between hospitals in the same country. These invasive treatments require
      specific and expensive technical and human resources and have adverse effects. That is why,
      over the last years, intra-uterine tamponade with balloon has been increasingly used; indeed,
      it is a new minimally invasive method that can be used directly in the delivery room, at the
      initial stage of second-line treatments; it could accelerate the control of IPPH, limit
      recourse to these surgical or interventional radiology treatments, and reduce the quantity of
      blood products transfused. Intrauterine balloon tamponade thus appears to be a potentially
      additional effective strategy for obtaining hemostasis in the case of IPPH refractory to
      conventional uterotonic treatments. Despite the fact that the current literature assessing
      its efficacy is limited to case series and before-after observational studies, the available
      evidence suggests that it is associated with a drop in the need for invasive treatments.
      Based on this evidence, intra-uterine tamponade balloon has been included in guidelines for
      PPH treatment in many countries, including France, and it has widely spread in clinical
      practices. The clinical question that is now arising is its optimal timing in the management
      of PPH. It is currently classically performed after failure of second-line uterotonic
      treatment but it is possible that its earlier use, after failure of first-line uterotonic
      treatment, could further decrease the rate of severe PPH.

      A randomized controlled trial is therefore necessary to determine the optimal timing of
      intrauterine balloon tamponade in the treatment of PPH. .

      We propose a multicenter, randomized open treatment trial with two parallel arms. The trial
      will be conducted in 21 maternity units. Before inclusions begin, the medical staff will be
      trained in the use of the obstetric tamponade system to be used in the trial. For each woman
      with IPPH refractory to first line uterotonic, the eligibility criteria will be immediately
      verified, the woman informed and her written informed consent obtained if that is possible.
      If not, the woman can nonetheless be randomized and she will be secondarily informed and her
      consent requested. The randomization list will be centralized and generated by a computer
      program under the supervision of the Paris Centre Clinical Research Unit. Allocation to a
      study arm will be performed on a secure Internet platform (CleanWeb) always accessible (24/7)
      in each delivery room. The clinician including the patient will know her allocation
      immediately.

      The management of randomized women will depend on the arm to which they are allocated:

        -  In the Experimental arm : the intravenous second line uterotonic Sulprostone infusion
           will be immediately combined with an intrauterine tamponade with the Belfort-Dildy
           balloon. Balloon insertion and inflation will follow a standardized protocol. Its
           intrauterine position will be verified by abdominal ultrasound. If the bleeding persists
           from the cervix or the balloon catheter drainage port 30 minutes after the beginning of
           the Sulprostone infusion, the tamponade will be considered a failure and an invasive
           emergency procedure by interventional radiology or surgery will be arranged and
           performed immediately after the removal of the balloon in the operating room.

        -  In the Control arm, women will only receive the Sulprostone infusion first. If bleeding
           persists 30 minutes after the beginning of this infusion, an intrauterine tamponade with
           the Belfort-Dildy balloon will be performed. Balloon insertion and inflation will be
           performed following the standardized protocol. If the bleeding persists from the cervix
           or the balloon catheter drainage port 15 to 30 minutes after the introduction of the
           balloon, the tamponade will be considered a failure and an invasive emergency procedure
           by interventional radiology or surgery will be arranged and performed immediately after
           the removal of the balloon in the operating room.

      In both arms, all patients will have an indwelling urinary catheter and will receive
      antibiotic prophylaxis (amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and gentamicin) beginning with the
      Sulprostone infusion and continuing for 48 hours. The other components of IPPH management
      (fluid resuscitation, transfusion, resuscitation) will comply with national guidelines. If
      the bleeding stops, the patient will be transferred to a continuous care or
      post-interventional monitoring unit. Monitoring will be conducted by the investigator who
      included the patient. A venous blood sample will be collected on the 2nd day postpartum to
      measure hemoglobin and hematocrit values. The data will be entered as they are collected
      throughout the trial with Cleanweb software.

      The duration of the participation of each patient included in the trial will be from
      inclusion through postpartum visit, or a maximum of approximately 8 weeks after the delivery.
      The maximum duration of study treatment will be 24 hours for each patient included in the
      protocol.

      The total duration of the trial will be 36 months including 24 months of patient inclusion:
      the first 4 months, before the beginning of the inclusion period will be devoted to training
      staff in the use of the balloon tamponade system and in compliance with the trial protocol
      and the 8 months following the end of the inclusion period will be used to finalize the data
      collection, clean the database and analyze it.
    
  