
    
      Maxillary transverse discrepancy (MTD) is a difficult deformity to correct. In skeletal
      immature patients, an orthopedic-orthodontic expansion is the preferred treatment strategy.
      In case of a skeletal mature patient, a surgical treatment should be considered. A Surgically
      assisted Rapid Palatal Expansion (SARPE) procedure is a common surgical treatment for MTD in
      skeletal mature patients. In this procedure the skeletally mature, maxillary sutures are
      surgically reopened. One week postoperatively, the patient will activate the expander
      appliance. There are three widely-used expander appliances: tooth-borne, bone-borne and
      hybrid expanders. The use of the expander appliance is based on surgeon and referring
      orthodontist's common practice and preference. A tooth-borne expander is an appliance which
      is supported by the teeth and bridges the palate. A bone-borne expander is surgically placed
      at the level of the palate during SARPE surgery. Hybrid expansion is a combination of
      tooth-borne and bone-borne expansion. These appliances progressively widen the maxilla by
      daily activation of the distractor. The activation is stopped when the surgeon and/or
      referring orthodontist judge that the maxilla is sufficiently expanded. However, historical
      research with the use of cast model's and 2D posteroanterior cephalograms suggest that this
      expansion is not stable. With the emergence of 3D Cone-Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) and
      its appliance as standard of care for pre-operative diagnosis and postoperative follow-up,
      stability and complications can be assessed more accurately. The goal of this study is to
      prospectively evaluate stability following SARPE, by analyzing the clinical and radiological
      data collected according to the existing clinical SARPE follow-up protocol. The secondary
      outcome is to evaluate complications following the three distractors.
    
  