
    
      The main objective of the trial is to investigate if doxapram is safe and effective in
      reducing the composite outcome of death and neurodevelopmental impairment/severe disability
      at 2 years corrected age as compared to placebo. This multicenter double blinded randomized
      placebo-controlled superiority trial will be conducted in multiple neonatal intensive care
      units in the Netherlands and Belgium, including 8 years follow-up. After written
      informed-consent the patients will be randomized into the doxapram treatment group or the
      placebo treatment group. Randomization will be stratified based on center and gestational age
      < or >= 26 weeks.

      The participating departments include Dutch and Belgian Neonatal Intensive care units. The
      units include both academic and non-academic level III and IV units that are specialized in
      the care for critically ill and preterm born infants. Postnatal ages of patients at doxapram
      start vary from directly after birth up to months for the most-preterm born infants.

      Blinded continuous doxapram or placebo (glucose 5%) will be infused as long as needed.
      Therapy is down titrated or stopped based on the patients' condition. If endotracheal
      intubation is needed study drug is stopped. After extubation study drug may be restarted.
      Switch to gastro-enteral administration is allowed if no iv-access is needed for other
      reasons. Next to study drug infusion, there will be no other study-related interventions. All
      outcome variables are already collected as standard of care. In a subset of patients doxapram
      plasma levels will be determined to validate the doxapram pharmacokinetic (PK) model. Blood
      will only be collected during routine blood sampling, with a maximum amount of 0.6 ml.
      Economic and cost-effectiveness evaluation will be performed. The national protocol for
      preterm birth advices follow-up at 2, 5.5 and 8 years respectively, as in the current study.
      Additional questionnaires will be used to collect data on the quality of life of patients and
      their parents.
    
  