
    
      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic relapsing inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) characterized
      by a diffuse mucosal inflammation, extending proximally from the rectum and causing symptoms
      of bloody diarrhea. The complex pathogenesis of IBD remains largely unknown.

      Manipulation of the enteric microbiota to restore normobiosis has therapeutic potential in
      IBD. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), whereby fecal microbiota from a healthy donor is
      transplanted to a patient, is being studied as therapy for active UC patients. Currently
      three randomized controlled FMT trials have been published in patients with active ulcerative
      colitis with increasing success9-11. The investigators feel that the FMT success rate in
      active UC patients can be improved by solving the remaining pressing questions including the
      use of selected donors, preparation of the FMT, mode and frequency of administration. The
      investigators therefore designed a new multicenter interventional study with FMT to
      specifically answer these questions.

      The overall main aims of this project are:

      Objective 1: They want to examine whether the FMT success rate in active UC patients can be
      increased by strictly pre-selecting the donors, by standardizing and optimizing the FMT
      preparation and by repeated FMT administration.

      Objective 2: The investigators want to investigate the temporal and functional changes of the
      intestinal microbiota of UC patients after FMT

      Objective 3: They will try to define host-related predictors for (non-)response to FMT with
      integration of the genetic susceptibility of the patients and their baseline mucosal gene
      expression

      Study design:

      This will be a national multicenter (6 university centers) double blind placebo-controlled
      randomized clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of FMT in active UC patients
      (Mayo endoscopic sub score: 2 or 3 and Total Mayo score: 4-10).

      The primary endpoint will be steroid-free clinical and endoscopic remission at week 8
      (defined as a total Mayo score of 2 or less, with all Mayo subscores of 1 or less, and at
      least a 1 point reduction from baseline in the endoscopy subscore).

      The secondary endpoints will be the investigation of changes in blood and fecal inflammatory
      markers before and after FMT (e.g. calprotectin and C-reactive protein (CRP)), steroid-free
      clinical remission, steroid-free clinical response, steroid-free endoscopic remission and
      steroid-free endoscopic response.

      Assuming a success rate of 40% to achieve mucosal healing at week 8 in the donor FMT arm, a
      treatment difference of 25% in the autologous FMT arm, a sample size of 49 patients per group
      is required to obtain a power of 80% and a statistical significance at the 5% level. In
      addition, considering 10% dropouts, a total of 108 patients will be included. Two interim
      analysis will be performed after inclusion of respectively 33% and 66% of the sample size
      (N=108) at week 8.

      A data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) can than give advice on adjustment of the sample
      size or early termination.

      Fecal, blood, mucosal samples and questionnaires will be collected by the investigators at
      different time points.

      Baseline fecal samples from donors and baseline mucosal samples together with fecal samples
      (at start of the study and at weeks 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 24, 52) from patients will be
      studied by 16S rDNA sequencing based analysis of microbiota.

      The goal of the investigators is to improve FMT success rates by microbial prescreening of
      the donor and by repeated FMT (4 FMT's/patient).

      Prior to FMT, donor stool and blood will be screened for pathogens according to the
      international consensus guidelines. Furthermore, the investigators will pre-select their
      donors based on species richness and abundance of taxa of interest.

      One donor per ten patients will be used and fecal material will be frozen at -80° until use.
      Therefore the investigators need at least 15 donors to provide fecal samples during the whole
      trial, inclusive the open-label faze ( +/- 600 donor samples in total).

      To optimize the FMT preparation the investigators will prepare the FMT samples under strict
      anaerobic circumstances.

      To standardize the FMT preparation an absolute cell count of the fecal suspension will be
      determined after a first dilution.

      Repeated FMT will be performed for four times with an interval of 1 week until week 4. At
      baseline, patients will drink 2L Moviprep (standard preparation), afterwards a sigmoidoscopy
      will be performed whereby the donor feces solution will be administered through a rectal
      tube.

      At week 1, 2 and 3, the donor feces solution will be administered through rectal instillation
      without prior water enema.

      Open label FMT will be available for all patients in the sham-FMT arm from week 8.
    
  