
    
      The IMN exposes patients to severe complications which engage the vital prognosis or
      Nephrotic Syndrome.

      The development of well tolerated and effective pathogenesis linked therapies is needed to
      treat patients with idiopathic Membranous Nephropathy Rituximab, a monoclonal antibody (mAb)
      against the CD20 present on B cells, has been recently used in patients suffering of
      nephrotic syndrome related to IMN in four international studies. Rituximab appears effective
      and safe in reducing proteinuria in nearly 60% of patients.

      However, no randomized controlled study has been published to date.

      In a previous study, outcome of 28 patients treated with rituximab for idiopathic MN is
      analysed. Anti-PLA2R antibodies in serum and PLA2R antigen in kidney biopsy were assessed in
      10 and 9 patients.

      Proteinuria was significantly decreased by 56%, 62% and 87% at 3 months, 6 months and 12
      months. At 6 months, 2 patients achieved full remission and 12 partial remission (overall
      renal response, 50%). At 12 months (n=23), complete remission was achieved in 6 patients and
      partial remission in 13 patients (overall renal response, 82,6%). Three patients suffered a
      relapse of nephrotic proteinuria 27 to 50 months after treatment. Univariate analysis
      suggested that the degree of renal failure (MDRD < 45/ml/min/1.73 m²) is an independent
      factor that predicts lack of response to rituximab. Anti-PLA2R antibodies were detected in
      serum in 10 patients, and PLA2R antigen in immune deposits in 8 of 9 patients. Antibodies
      became negative in all 5 responsive patients with available follow-up. In this retrospective
      study, a high rate of remission was achieved at 12 months after treatment.

      Our trial is a Prospective randomized multicentric open label study. The 2 arms of the study
      are : Non Immunosuppressive Symptomatic Treatment (NIST) and Rituximab+ NIST Patients
      randomized to the Rituximab arm will receive 375 mg/m² on days 1 and 8 (+ NIST). Patients in
      the control arm will be treated only with Non Immunosuppressive Symptomatic Treatment (NIST).

      The duration of participation per patient is 6 months for interventional study. An
      observational follow-up is performed at M9, M12, M18 & M24 for all patients included in study
      with lab data collection of test done during usual pathology follow-up.

      A part of the diagnosis renal biopsy (performed usually as part of health care) is collected
      for all patients as for the purpose of central analysis.

      Our Primary Outcome Measure is evaluation of efficacy of Rituximab associated with NIST in
      (IMN) in reducing the rate of proteinuria (patients with persistent urinary protein excretion
      rate ≥3,5g/24 h and albuminemia < 30g/l ).
    
  