
    
      Purpose:

      To evaluates the difference in thyroid cosmesis between two different surgical incision
      methods during thyroidectomy: scalpel vs electrocautery.

      Hypotheses:

      The investigators' hypotheses is that there is no difference in the cosmetic outcome of
      surgical incision during thyroidectomy by either a scalpel or electrocautery.

      Justification:

      Very few studies have addressed whether electrocautery produces a cosmetically inferior
      surgical scar in an objective manner. While some studies have commented briefly on the
      cosmesis of electrocautery scars, only one previous randomized clinical trials to date have
      evaluated the cosmesis of electrocautery and scalpel incisions using a validated scar
      assessment tool. In this study, Chau et al. found that after 6 months postoperatively there
      was no difference in objective cosmetic outcome or subjective patient satisfaction between
      the two techniques. This study was a relatively smaller trial, evaluating a total of 38
      incisions, thus a larger scale study would be warranted.

      A further advantage of electrocautery over scalpels is the decreased risk of surgical
      injuries. Approximately 17% of all surgical sharps injuries are due to scalpel blades, while
      only 2% were associated with electrocautery devices. As awareness and concern over blood born
      diseases increases, further efforts to reduce sharp injuries including replacing scalpels
      with electrocautery when possible should be investigated.

      Objectives:

      Aim 1: To compare the cosmetic outcome of surgical scars resulting from scalpel and
      electrocautery incisions.

      Aim 2: To determine rates of wound infection associated with each technique.

      Aim 3: To assess if electrocautery incisions are associated with a difference in
      postoperative pain compared to incisions made by a scalpel.

      Research Method:

      Patients who are already scheduled for thyroid surgery with Dr. Sam Wiseman at St. Paul's
      Hospital in Vancouver, BC, and that meet the eligibility criteria for this study will be
      invited to participate. After signing the informed consent form, participants will be
      randomized into either one of the two incision methods, but will be blinded as to which one
      they receive. There will be two follow-up time points: one at 6 months and another at 12
      months postoperative. At these time points the research team will send a letter to the
      participant asking them to rate the appearance of their surgical scar, rate of their wound
      infection and the degree of their post operative pain using the Patient Observer Scar
      Assessment Scale (POSAS). They will also be asked to take a picture of their scar and send it
      back to the research team so the research team can make a similar assessment.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Once the research team receives the participant's questionnaire and photo, the images of
      their surgical scars will be evaluated by independent, trained, and blinded observers who
      will use the Patient Observer Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS) and the Vancouver Scar Scale
      (VSS) to evaluate the cosmesis of the surgical scar. The participants questionnaires will
      also be evaluated by the surgical team to assess Objective: Aim #3. The study concludes when
      the 12 month follow-up and these assessment by the research team is complete.
    
  