
    
      The development of community services for treating and rehabilitating people with longer term
      mental disease, including residential units, is a priority throughout Europe. Recent outcome
      studies have demonstrated encouraging results in rehabilitation program for most people with
      schizophrenia, event those with high needs.

      Recent legislation in Portugal and the approval of the first Mental Health Plan provided a
      thrust for developing community services for severe mental patients, specially those directed
      to patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorders.

      The recent National Program for Ongoing Care in Mental Health is a unique opportunity to
      develop even more residential units and highlights the urgent need to evaluate these
      facilities.

      There are no published studies on the quality of these services, nor the impact that teatment
      and rehabilitation programs may have on the abilities and negative symptoms of their
      inpatients because, until recently, their were no reliable instruments for this.

      The DEMoB.inc (Development of a European Measure of Best Practice for People with Long Term
      Mental Illness in Institutional Care) study, a multicentric study financed by the European
      Comission, between 2007-2010, changed this situation. Its primary goal was the development of
      a a new instrument for evaluating the quality of the care provided and the quality of life in
      psychiatric residential units and the social sector. Our team was the portuguese partner for
      the study.

      The final version of the instrument now called QuIRC (Quality Indiciator in Rehabilitative
      Care) is available in portuguese on www.quirc.com. Several articles on this study have been
      published.

      This set of circumstances opens a unique opportunity:

        -  The creation of more residential units for longer term mental patients.

        -  The existence of an instrument designed and developed for assessing these facilities.

      The urgent need for assessing the quality of care provided in the facilities and the
      efectivity of their interventions is the primary goal of this study.
    
  