
    
      The research will include about 150 respondents aged 40-65, smokers and non-smokers, and will
      be conducted at the Special Hospital for Medical Rehabilitation 'Daruvarske toplice'. All
      patients will make spirometry and the Tiffeneau-Pinelli index (ratio of forced expiratory
      volume in 1 second - FEV1 and forced vital capacity FVC).

      All patients will be maesured: body weight, height, BMI (body mass index), waist
      circumference, pulse (cp), saturation (SpO2), blood pressure, respiratory index and thoracic
      spine mobility index measured. The thickness of the skin fold will be measured on the abdomen
      with a caliper and on the measuring device for the analysis of body mass composition - Gaia,
      the percentage of muscle and fat tissue will be determined for each patient, as well as the
      analysis of body mass composition. All patients will do a 6-minute walk test and the
      patient's cardiorespiratory and muscular ability will be tested on a bicycle erogometer, the
      values of maximal oxygen uptake (VO2 max) and pulse (cp) will be recorded and the patient's
      fitness status determined. Each patient will estimate dyspnea intensity from 1 -10 before and
      after a 6-minute walk test and before and after a bicycle ergometer according to the Borg's
      dyspnea scale. The strength test of the the quadriceps muscle, will be measured in all
      patients on the Biodex isokinetic device. Quadriceps strength testing will be performed on 2
      occasions. On one occasion without medication, except those that the patient may take
      permanently, and on the other 90 minutes after the patient takes 1 tbl of L - Arginine 500 mg
      on mouth to an empty stomach ,in order to monitor the possible increase in quadriceps
      strength. All patients who are smokers will have recorded : the age of onset of smoking, the
      year of smoking experience and the average number of cigarettes smoked per day. All patients
      will complete the CAT, IPAQ and DASS-21 questionnaire.
    
  