
    
      Rationale why study should be conducted: Leiomyomas are the most common benign neoplasm in
      women; it has been estimated that these tumors occur in at least 25% of all women, which is
      probably an underestimation, because this figure is based on a select population. They are
      histologically composed by smooth muscle cells with bland, uniform, cigar-shaped nuclei that
      are arranged in interlacing bundles, showing little or no mitotic activity. Cellular
      leiomyomas (CLs) are described as leiomyomas that are significantly more cellular than the
      surrounding myometrium, often with crowding and overlapping of nuclei.

      The presenting symptoms do not differ from those of patients with typical leiomyomas. On
      gross examination, CLs are more often soft and appear more tan or yellow and less
      circumscribed than the usual leiomyomas.

      Pre-operatively, anyway, CLs can be recognized at ultrasound evaluation because they appear
      as hypoechoic uterine lesions. It has been demonstrated that patients with hypoechoic myoma
      have a significantly longer surgery time after treatment with a GnRH analog than for the rest
      of the pretreated fibroids or the untreated patients with hypoechoic myomas. Considering the
      predominant relevance of the traction maneuvers in laparoscopic myomectomy, the difficulty in
      adequately grasping the tumor is the key element in the longer operative time. The greater
      softening of the fibroid tissue is probably related to degenerative changes induced by the
      GnRH-analog pretreatment, particularly in those fibroids without an adequate fibrous
      "skeleton" and thus with the appearance as hypoechoic at the admission ultrasonography. From
      a pathologic point of view, these fibroids, when pretreated, showed a predominance of areas
      of coagulative necrosis and mixoid degeneration, causing longer operative time and showing
      unequivocally the negative effect of preoperative GnRH analog treatment for these kinds of
      uterine fibroids.

      At the same time, hypoechoic CLs should be more responsive to ulipristal acetate treatment
      than common leiomyomas, given its antiproliferative activity in cultured leiomyoma cells.

      The antiproliferative ulipristal effect, moreover, induces a condition of apoptotic necrosis
      that, compared to GnRH-a myxoid necrosis, probably allows an easier surgical enucleation of
      the tumor.
    
  