
    
      Cleanoze® consists of a powder made up of Sodium chloride and Sodium Bicarbonate. This powder
      when dissolved in 250 ml of water is closely resembles the content of a body fluid which
      normally baths the outside of the cells of the body. This fluid is isotonic solution.

      The nasal saline irrigation is the common procedure for upper respiratory tract infection
      patients including chronic rhinitis. The physician usually order the normal saline with
      appropriate medication e.g. anti-histamines, nasal steroids and anti-biotics to treat this
      condition.

      The investigators proposed that the Cleanoze® is superior to the traditional nasal saline
      irrigation in term of the ease of use which will resulting in a better quality of life of the
      participants. This study will compared the efficacy, adverse reactions, complications and
      ease of use of Cleanoze® comparing with normal saline solution.

      Study Population: Any patients with chronic rhinitis (e.g. allergic rhinitis, vasomotor
      rhinitis) will be randomized to receive the study or control medication. The investigators
      will include the children 5 years and above which able to doing the lavage under the parents
      assistant or by them self.

      Study Design: Phase III randomized controlled trial

      Sample Size: Estimate from pilot study, the 71 patients per arm was estimated (142
      participants totally).

      Study Duration:

        -  Duration of enrollment is 1 year.

        -  The patients will be followed up to 1 months depend on the disease conditions.

        -  The data analysis will take 3 additional months

        -  The full report will complete after the data analysis within 3 months

        -  The total of 1 year and 6 months period needed for this study.

      Primary Objective: To compare the satisfaction of the patients using Cleanoze® versus
      conventional device

      Secondary Objective(s):

        -  The adherence to Cleanoze® device

        -  The durability of the Cleanoze® device

        -  The patient symptom score (VAS)

        -  The SNOT-22 questionaire for evaluating the quality of life of the patients
    
  