
    
      An individually randomised, open label, non-inferiority trial of ciprofloxacin versus
      streptomycin and ciprofloxacin in patients with bubonic plague. We are using a
      non-inferiority design since the overall cure rate for bubonic plague without septicaemia
      with streptomycin is approximately 95%. As a result, demonstrating superiority would be
      unnecessary and impractical given the sample size that would be required. Our aim is
      therefore to demonstrate that ciprofloxacin alone is not more than 15% inferior to
      streptomycin followed by ciprofloxacin. (15% is the non-inferiority margin in our study). The
      trial is powered for bubonic plague, although we will recruit pneumonic plague patients as
      well. We will recruit patients with a clinical suspicion of bubonic plague, but the size of
      our sample is powered based on an intention to treat infected patients sample size of 190,
      where infected is defined as a confirmed or probable case of bubonic plague. As a result the
      total number of patients to be enrolled will be higher than 190. We estimate that we will
      need to recruit approximately 600 patients with bubonic plague to achieve a sample size of
      190 confirmed/probable bubonic plague patients. However, to mitigate risks of being
      under-powered we will propose to recruit for three full seasons with a minimum target of 190
      confirmed/probable cases. Should we achieve the target of 190 confirmed/probable bubonic
      plague cases before the end of the third season, we will nevertheless continue to recruit
      until the end of the season to retain power in the event of different treatment success
      percentages and to allow us to increase precision.

      Whilst we will also recruit and collect data on patients with pneumonic plague, it is highly
      unlikely that we will have the power to complete a non-inferiority trial for pneumonic plague
      patients. For example, with a case fatality rate of 20-25%, we would need a sample size of
      approximately 400 patients with probable/confirmed pneumonic plague for a non-inferiority
      margin of 15%, which is unrealistic.
    
  