
    
      Aerobic glycolysis also called "Warburg effect", represents one of the distinctive hallmarks
      of the malignant cells. Although energetically less efficient than respiration, fermentative
      metabolism is advantageous for cell growth due to the increased availability of anabolic
      intermediates and the reduced cell dependence on oxygen. Moreover, by increasing
      intracellular reducing equivalents and decreasing mitochondria-derived ROS, glycolysis
      protects malignant cells from oxidant-induced senescence and apoptosis.

      In diagnostic imaging, the "Warburg effect" is visualized thanks to the utilization of
      ﬂuoro-2-deoxyglucose, a glucose analogue, labeled with the positron emitting nuclide
      fluoride-18 (18F). F-2-ﬂuoro-2-deoxyglucose (18F-FDG) with positron emission tomography (PET)
      has emerged useful in many tumor types and in HCC can help ruling out extra-hepatic
      metastases or sites of recurrent disease, and giving prognostic information. Considering the
      abovementioned premises, the investigators hypothesize a potential use of 18F-FDG PET for the
      early assessment of sorafenib-induced metabolic shift in HCC, especially in
      well-differentiated subtypes usually showing an uptake of the tracer not different or at
      least not sufficiently increased compared to the normal liver.

      For these reasons the investigators decided to conduct an explorative study for the
      assessment of predictive and prognostic role of 18F-FDG PET in patients affected by advanced
      HCC and candidate to systemic treatment with sorafenib.

      The principal objective of this study is to explore the role of 18F-FDG PET in identifying
      sorafenib-induced metabolic shift in HCC, thus in predicting treatment response and disease
      outcome in advanced HCC patients candidate to systemic treatment with sorafenib.

      More specifically the investigators will:

        -  compare 18F-FDG uptake in HCC lesions, identified as target lesions (diam. min. 2cm), at
           baseline, at 24 hours and 1 week after the first administration of sorafenib.

        -  correlate the patterns of 18F-FDG uptake in HCC lesions with objective tumor response
           assessed 8 weeks after the first administration of sorafenib according to mRECIST
           criteria.

        -  correlate the patterns of 18F-FDG uptake in HCC lesions with alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)
           variation at baseline, at 24 hours and 1 week after the first administration of
           sorafenib.

        -  correlate the patterns of 18F-FDG uptake in HCC lesions with progression-free survival
           (PFS) and overall survival (OS).
    
  