
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      In this research study, the investigators are evaluating the safety and effectiveness of
      palliative radiotherapy ("radiation therapy") in combination with pembrolizumab in
      HR-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer. This study is designed to test how well radiation
      therapy in combination with pembrolizumab treats this type of cancer.

      The FDA has approved radiation therapy as a treatment option for this type of breast cancer.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved pembrolizumab for this
      specific disease but it has been approved in the United Sates for other types of cancer.

      Pembrolizumab is a drug that may treat cancer by working with the immune system. The immune
      system is the body's natural defense against disease. The immune system sends types of cells
      called "T cells" throughout the body to detect and fight infections and diseases, including
      cancer. For some types of cancer, the T cells do not work as they should and are prevented
      from attacking the tumors. Pembrolizumab is thought to work by blocking a protein in the T
      cells called PD-1 ("programmed death 1"), which then allows these cells and other parts of
      the immune system to attack tumors.

      The combination of pembrolizumab and radiation therapy is investigational. The study drug and
      radiation therapy, when given separately, work in different waysto help stop the cancer cells
      from growing and spreading. However, it is not known if giving the study drug and radiation
      therapy at the same time will have a better anti-cancer effect than giving each treatment on
      its own.
    
  