
    
      Patients diagnosed with COVID-19 by means of a PCR test, who are treated at the ISSEMYM
      Toluca Arturo Montiel Rojas Medical Center, located in Paseo Tollocan, Av. Baja Velocidad km
      575, Barrio de Sta Clara, Toluca de Lerdo, México; both sexes, with the presence of
      comorbidities (type 2 DM, SAH, overweight or obesity BMI <35) and in stage III of the
      disease.

      Consecutive cases. With systematic randomized allocation using a sequence of random numbers
      built with the Excel program divided into two groups. Once the participants have been
      selected, patients and / or family members will be spoken to to explain the protocol and
      obtain the signatures of the letters of informed consent. Once the patients have been
      admitted to the study, the following will be carried out: Confirmatory test of COVID-19 by
      means of PCR, which must confirm the diagnosis to remain the study, complete clinical and
      dietary history, complete blood count, blood chemistry, D-dimer, coagulation times , bleeding
      time and prothrombin time, fibrinogen, serum electrolytes, serum homocysteine levels, serum
      levels of 25 hydroxycholecalciferol, triceps fold and arm circumference,% muscle mass,% fat,
      BMI, weight, height.

      Assignment to the research group will be carried out randomly.

      The follow-up will be carried out daily for 21 days or earlier, if they are discharged from
      the hospital due to improvement in the evolution, at that moment the patient concludes the
      study. The following points will be supervised:

        1. Application and consumption of NSS supplementation as appropriate, recording of all
           information in the files, food diaries of each patient, laboratory studies: QS every
           other day, BH every 3rd day, clotting times every 3rd day, blood gas twice a day,
           D-dimer and fibrinogen every 3rd day, serum electrolytes every other day, serum
           homocysteine every other day, and serum levels of 25 hydroxycholecalciferol every other
           day.

        2. % SpO2, heart rate, respiratory rate.

        3. Clinical evaluation and registration of evacuations.

        4. Taking the triceps fold and arm circumference,% muscle mass,% fat, BMI, weight, height
           every other day.

        5. Average days of hospital stay.

      A descriptive analysis will be carried out for each continuous variable. These variables will
      be expressed as mean ± standard deviation and standard error. It will be done according to
      the distribution of the data; For independent groups with a normal distribution, Student's T
      will be applied. If the distribution does not meet normality criteria, a Mann Whitney U will
      be performed; For the follow-up of dependent groups with normal distribution, two-way ANOVA
      will be applied. If the distribution does not meet normality criteria, a Friedman test will
      be performed, in both cases post hoc tests will be performed, taking into account that a
      significant value of p of < 0.05. The results will be analyzed using version 8 of the
      Graphpad Prism software.
    
  