
    
      The Global Registry for COL6-related dystrophies (www.collagen6.org) is an international
      registry for patients with a COL6-related condition; no experimental intervention is
      involved. Patients will receive information on the most up to date standards of care relating
      to their disease and may be invited to participate in relevant clinical trials. Their data
      will be updated annually and stored indefinitely, or until they request their data to be
      removed.

      The data will be collected via a secure online form and stored on a secure server. Data
      collected from patients will include demographic information, diagnosis, current condition
      (wheelchair use and motor ability, respiratory function, contractures and scoliosis), family
      history and quality of life. Further information collected from patients' doctors will
      include genetics, age of onset, lung function, medication, muscle strength, contractures and
      muscle MRI findings.

      One of the purposes of the Global Registry for COL6-related dystrophies is to define the
      patient population and disease course, therefore data is collected longitudinally and
      participants will be invited to update their records on a yearly basis.

      Access to the database is limited to named individuals, approved by the Principal
      Investigator, Professor Volker Straub, and the database curator. The database is password
      protected, with different levels of access. All database entries and contacts are traceable
      through an audit trail. A SOP has been formulated to cover administration, management and
      communication procedures for the database.

      Researchers and Industry may ask specific questions of registry data. These questions may be
      to support academic research, feasibility studies for clinical trials or recruitment for
      clinical trials. Any enquiries for data will be examined and approved by the registry
      steering committee. Data released for approved enquiries would be de-identified aggregate
      data. In the case of recruitment for clinical trials when the registry principle investigator
      and/or curator believe that a patient meets a trial's inclusion criterion and might benefit
      from participation in a trial, the patient will be contacted by the curator with general
      information about the upcoming trial and will be asked to contact their local trial/study
      centre for more information if they are interested in participating. The patient's name or
      any other personal information will not be given to researchers or industry. Clinical trials
      will need to have appropriate IRB/ethics board and steering committee approval although the
      registry will not endorse any particular trial.

      Registry participation in voluntary and participants may decline to participate or withdraw
      consent for their data to be stored in the Global Registry for COL6-related dystrophies at
      any time without prejudice.

      The protocol, patient information sheets and consent forms, and relevant supporting
      information has been reviewed and approved by NHS HRA Research Ethics Committee and Newcastle
      University ethics committee.
    
  