
    
      Women with a prior early spontaneous preterm birth and a shortened mid-trimester cervical
      length (less than 25 mm) are at very high risk for having another premature baby. The Vaginal
      Ultrasound Cerclage Trial is a multicenter, randomized clinical trial designed to determine
      the efficacy of cerclage (a purse-string suture placed around the uterine cervix) for the
      prevention of spontaneous preterm birth prior to 35 weeks' gestation. The study will evaluate
      women at significant risk for recurrent spontaneous preterm birth (those with a prior
      spontaneous birth at 17 to 32 weeks' gestation) and who have an increased risk based on
      mid-trimester ultrasound findings of a cervical length less than 25 mm.

      The trial will have an observational portion and an interventional portion. In the
      observational portion, 1,000 women with a history of a spontaneous preterm birth at 17 to 32
      weeks' gestation will undergo biweekly vaginal ultrasounds beginning at 16 to 18 weeks'
      gestation and ending by 22 weeks. Prior research indicates that one third of these women will
      either have or develop a cervix less than 25 mm long. Women will be seen at a frequency
      determined by the cervical length (as determined by ultrasound examination starting at 16
      weeks' gestation). If cervical length remains greater than 30 mm, the next visits will occur
      in 2 week intervals until 22.6 weeks' gestation. If the cervical length is 25 mm to 29 mm,
      the visits will be scheduled weekly. If the cervical length shortens to less than 25 mm, the
      woman is eligible for randomization, and will undergo one more study visit.

      In the interventional portion of the trial, women will be randomized to either cerclage or no
      cerclage (control group). Randomized women will have weekly contact with a nurse either by
      phone or in person, whichever is convenient for the woman, until delivery occurs. The woman
      is followed during the course of her pregnancy and delivery of her infant. Her infant is
      followed until discharge from the hospital.
    
  