
    
      Study Design : Prospective,multi-center, randomized controlled, Post market Study (PMS)

      Two groups:

        -  Control arm - ERCP arm: ERCP impression and ERCP-guided brushing and biopsy

        -  Study arm - Cholangioscopy arm: SpyDS impression and SpyDS-guided SpyBite biopsy
           Randomization 1:1 ratio. Primary Endpoint: Diagnostic accuracy of cholangioscopy or
           cholangiography assessed at 6 months after initial ERCP procedure

        -  Malignancy will be determined by cytology or histology on tissue sampling during the
           index procedure, or from other tissue acquisition or surgical specimen histopathology up
           to 6 months after the index procedure.

        -  Overall diagnostic accuracy.

        -  The assessed strictures will be considered benign if there was no confirmation of
           malignancy by 6 months after the index procedure.

        -  Overall diagnostic accuracy will be assessed for

        -  ERCP impression of malignancy

        -  ERCP-guided brushing and biopsies separately and combined*

        -  SpyDS impression of malignancy

        -  SpyBite biopsies

        -  In case of discordant results, the following will be followed for the combined
           pathology/cytology measure:

        -  If at least one is malignancy, then combine metric is malignant

        -  If both are benign or one is benign and one is non-diagnostic, then combined metric is
           benign

        -  If both are non-diagnostic, then combined metric is non-diagnostic

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Occurrence and severity of procedure related serious adverse events from index procedure
           through 30 days after procedure. Hospitalization and ICU admissions

        2. Technical success of procedure defined as ability to collect tissue deemed adequate for
           cytology or histology. Indeterminate or equivocal or atypical or non-conclusive cytology
           or histology will be considered failures to this endpoint.

        3. Correlation between impression of malignancy and cytopathology in the ERCP arm compared
           to the Cholangioscopy arm.

        4. Additional diagnostic accuracy metrics: Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive
           value, negative predictive value. The assessed strictures will be considered benign if
           there was no confirmation of malignancy by 6 months after the index procedure.

        5. Impact of ERCP or cholangioscopy on patient management.

        6. Need for additional diagnostic procedures beyond the index procedure.

        7. Procedural measures: Type and number of devices used,

        8. Duration of procedure from duodenoscope in to duodenoscope out
    
  