
    
      The incidence of post-operative pain after open inguinal hernia repair is high according to a
      a larger-sample epidemic research. Meanwhile, the investigators also found the incidence of
      CPSP of herniorrhaphy was 37.8% among the patients with PCA, and the incidence of neuropathic
      pain was 37.5% in these patients with CPSP. European hernia society has proposed that local
      infiltration anesthesia was suggested to all patients without any contraindications who
      undergo inguinal hernia repair. Transverse abdominis plane block(TABP),which injecting local
      anesthetics into the interval between obliquus internus abdominis muscle and transverse
      abdominal muscle could block the abdominal nerve and could alleviate the pain
      postoperatively. TABP can block the two mainly nerve (iliohypogastric nerve, ilioinguinal
      nerve) for inguinal hernia repair and so it seems to have a good effects to relieve the pain
      of inguinal hernia repair. So the investigators conduct the randomized controlled trial to
      investigate whether transversus abdominis plane block combined with intravenous patient
      controlled analgesia is superior to intravenous patient controlled analgesia in improving the
      quality of life and reducing the incidence of chronic post-surgical pain.

      This study was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of
      Chongqing Medical University. All potentially eligible participants will be asked to give
      written informed consent before they are enrolled in this study. This study is a prospective,
      randomized, controlled clinical trial guided by the standard of good clinical practice (GCP),
      and eligible participants are divided into two groups: group TAPB and group PCIA, and assess
      the outcomes of the incidence of acute and chronic postoperative pain and the effects of the
      two methods on the quality of lives of patients undergo inguinal hernia repair.

      Participants in group TAPB will receive transversus abdominis plane block guided by
      ultrasound at the end of the surgery and also receive intravenous patient controlled
      analgesia after surgery.

      Participants in group PCIA will only receive intravenous patient controlled analgesia after
      surgery.

      The primary outcome of the study is VAS scores at rest and in motion at 3 months
      postoperatively. The secondary outcomes of this study are chronic post-surgical pain at 6 and
      12 months postoperatively, acute post-operative pain, rescue medication and the incidence of
      neuropathic pain at 3, 6,12 months postoperatively, also the quality of life measured by
      EQ-5D questionnaire, adverse events associated with postoperative analgesia.

      This study will be conducted under the supervision of an independent auditor. Every week, the
      auditor checked the data of the participants the day after the surgery was conducted.
      Assessment of pain intensity and prognostic outcomes must be confirmed by the auditor in
      sample population. When there is disagreement between surgeon and anesthesiologists in
      evaluating the prognosis of patients, the auditor must solve this disagreement by discussion
      with evaluators. Data will be double-entered by two statisticians with limitation of access
      and locked during statistical analysis
    
  