
    
      Nearly one-third of epilepsy patients are refractory/resistant to medical treatment .
      Refractory or drug-resistant epilepsy is defined as resistance to treatment with two
      appropriately chosen and tolerated antiepileptic drugs (AED) . Nevertheless, epilepsy surgery
      is an effective alternative treatment for some patients as it suggests seizure freedom .
      During the past 3 decades, surgery has found more acceptance as an option for drug-resistant
      epilepsy . Developments made in surgical techniques (cortical resections) have significantly
      increased the effectiveness and safety of these techniques; as such techniques have been
      demonstrated to improve seizure control/freedom outcomes and enhanced quality of life in
      patients . Neuro imaging developments with the introduction of positron emission tomography
      (PET), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), functional MRI, single-photon emission computed
      tomography (SPECT), and magneto encephalography, electroencephalography and neuronavigation
      have facilitated the presurgical evaluation of patients, thus providing the lesion-directed
      surgeries more possible , also reducing the number and severity of complications .
      Complications of epilepsy surgery including failure to stop seizures and neuropsychological,
      psychosocial, or psychiatric impairment are still difficult to define, and there is no
      universal consensus in this regard .

      This technique characterized by :

      • Once the epilepsy focus is located by using interpretation and collection of data from
      functional MRI, EEG long term video and clinical findings, the specific surgery involved in
      treatment is decided on. The type of surgery depends on the location of the seizure focal
      point. Surgeries for epilepsy treatment include, but are not limited to, the following types:
      temporal lobe resection, ground temporal and extra temporal resection, parietal resection,
      occipital resection, frontal resection, extra temporal resection.
    
  