
    
      Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) is the second most common retinal vascular disease leading to
      visual impairment. Main cause for visual impairment in CRVO (Central Retinal Vein Occlusion)
      is macular edema (ME) while neovascularization of the retina and/or the anterior segment is
      the most serious complication leading to vitreous hemorrhage, retinal detachment and
      neovascular glaucoma. In serious cases loss of vision is imminent. To date, no causal
      treatment has been proven to be effective in large trials. Intravitreal injections of drugs
      that inhibit the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and other inflammatory factors are
      the current treatments of choice for ME due to CRVO. Two different anti-VEGF drugs
      (ranibizumab and aflibercept), and a biodegradable dexamethasone implant are approved by the
      EMA (European Medicines Agency). Based on data from confirmatory studies anti-VEGF-drugs are
      recommended as a treatment of first choice in patients with RVO. All intravitreal drugs
      provide only a temporary effect with need for re-treatment for recurrences of ME. Mean number
      of ranibizumab application needed in CRVO patients was found to be 7.4 to 10.2 injections in
      12 months. A significant number of CRVO patients require treatment over several years. Need
      for repetitive treatments and ophthalmic controls are a major burden for patients (and their
      relatives who are required for driving the patients to ophthalmologists) despite of only few
      adverse events and generally well-tolerated injections. Endophthalmitis is the most severe
      ocular complication which can be eye-sight-threatening. The more injections are administered,
      the higher is the cumulative risk of complications. Due to high costs (>1000 € per injection)
      treatment with repeated injections over years is of significant socio-economic importance,
      too. Therefore, treatments concepts which would lead to permanent reduction of ME and/or
      significantly reduce the number of re-injections over long-term periods are the major
      currently unmet need in patients with RVO.

      Until now, several studies evaluated the impact of the additional pan-retinal laser
      photocoagulation in patients undergoing the anti-VEGF-treatment for the ME due to retinal
      vein occlusions. However, most of the studies are limited by retrospective design, small
      number of evaluated patients or lack of the randomization. None of the available prospective
      randomized studies had sufficient power to finally clarify the benefit of the additional
      laser treatment. Therefore, there is an unmet need for a large randomized, prospective,
      multicentric trials.

      The proposed study will be the first sufficiently powered trial evaluating the long-term
      effect of targeted laser photocoagulation performed selectively (targeted) in peripheral
      areas of non-perfusion in combination with standard anti-VEGF treatment (ranibizumab
      injections) on the duration of the required intravitreal treatment over time period of 2
      years.
    
  