
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of LMB-2 immunotoxin in pediatric patients with
           CD-25 positive relapsed or refractory leukemia or lymphoma.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug, including the terminal elimination serum
           half-life, area under the curve, volume of distribution, and relationship to disease
           burden, in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the immonogenicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine response in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine changes in lymphocyte subsets, immunoglobulin levels, serum cytokines, and
           soluble cytokine receptor levels in patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

      Patients receive LMB-2 immunotoxin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression, neutralizing
      antibodies (i.e., > 75% of the activity of 1 µg/mL of LMB-2 immunotoxin), or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients achieving complete remission (CR) receive 2 additional courses beyond CR.
      Patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia also receive cytarabine and hydrocortisone
      intrathecally once monthly concurrent with restaging lumbar punctures.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of LMB-2 immunotoxin until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, a
      total of 12 patients are treated at that dose level.

      Patients are followed weekly for 1 month and then monthly thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-40 patients will be accrued for this study within 2-4 years.
    
  