
    
      The proposed study is a randomized trial of two methods of laboratory reporting in which
      physicians are the main research participants. At the time of positive urine culture results,
      the patient will be randomized by computer generated random number placed into serially
      numbered sealed, opaque envelopes into two equal groups. One group will receive modified
      reporting, with a report that states "This POSITIVE urine culture collected from an
      indwelling catheter may represent asymptomatic bacteriuria or urinary tract infection. If
      urinary tract infection is suspected clinically, please call the microbiology laboratory for
      identification and susceptibility results." The other group will receive conventional
      reporting of identification and susceptibility. Physicians will then have the option of
      calling the laboratory to receive the results or not. Complete results will be released by
      telephone and laboratory information system to physicians who call to request them.
      Physicians will be informed about the study prior to initiation, and debriefed about the
      study after the results have been collected.

      Inclusion criteria will include consecutive positive urine cultures collected from indwelling
      catheters among patients admitted to acute care, that are greater than or equal to 18 years
      of age. Inpatients must be admitted to Health Sciences Center or St. Clare's Mercy hospitals
      only, in order to facilitate access to inpatient records.

      Exclusion criteria will include pregnancy, antibiotic treatment at the time of collection,
      patients in the Intensive Care Unit and patients with blood neutrophils <1.0 within 7 days,
      which will help protect immunocompromised individuals.

      Investigators will review patient charts at 24 and 72 hours and 7 days after collection.
      After randomization and reporting, a physician investigator will assess inpatients for the
      true diagnosis of asymptomatic bacteriuria (AB) or urinary tract infection (UTI). Health
      records will be accessed including demographics, treatment decisions and outcomes (untreated
      UTI or pyelonephritis). Frequency of physician calls requesting complete reporting will be
      recorded.

      The research hypothesis is that restricted reporting will reduce the rate of inappropriate
      treatment prescribed by physicians. Among inpatients, the expected rate of inappropriate
      treatment in the control group will be 50 percent, and 20 percent in the intervention group.
      Accepting a risk of type 1 error of five percent, and a risk of type 2 error of twenty
      percent, the study will recruit 72 patients. In order to account for missing data,
      recruitment will be increased to 100 patients. The statistical test to be used is a
      comparison of proportions between two groups (T test, two sided analysis). An intention to
      treat analysis including all patients randomized will be performed.

      Physicians must remain unaware of the research project so that their treatment decisions are
      unbiased. However, a general notice will be sent to all physicians regarding the study
      design, and a debrief will be provided in which study results are presented and the option to
      withdraw data will be provided. This will cause physicians to feel less deceived while still
      not informing them of the study and thus will not change their behavior.

      Physicians of discharged inpatients will be contacted at 7 days to assess for adverse events.
      Because recruitment will be brief, it is unlikely that physicians will have a second patient
      in the study.

      Ethics permission will be sought from the local ethics board. Consent of patients or
      physicians will not be requested. In compliance with ethics requirements, participants will
      experience no more than minimal risk. If an adverse event occurs, the patient will be removed
      from the study immediately and given standard treatment. Physician consent will not be
      requested, as awareness of the study would bias treatment decisions.

      The benefit of this study to patients includes a reduction in adverse events caused by
      inappropriate treatment. The risk to patients includes possible untreated UTI. The benefit to
      physicians includes education toward appropriate treatment of AB. The risk to physicians
      includes additional effort to access laboratory results for UTI.

      Data collection will use a paper case report form, and entry into a password protected online
      database. Analysis will be performed using SPSS 20.0 (IBM). The only expense of the project
      will be the graduate student to collect the data, perform the analysis and write the
      manuscript. The manuscript will be published in a peer-reviewed journal and presented at a
      national conference.
    
  