
    
      ImmStat@Cure will be undertaken at 4 treatment centres for leishmaniasis in East Africa; the
      Institute for Endemic Diseases, University of Khartoum, Khartoum, Sudan, the University of
      Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia, Amudat Hospital, Amudat, Uganda and the Kimalel and Chemolingot
      Health Centres, Baringo County, Kenya.

      The primary objective of the study is to assess systemic and skin immune responses and
      parasite load in patients before, and at end of treatment for visceral leishmaniasis.

      Secondary objectives are:

        1. To identify systemic and local immune correlates of treatment outcome

        2. To evaluate parasite genotype in relation to immune response characteristics

        3. To compare immunological and parasitological data across each site and determine
           possible correlates of progression to PKDL

      The outcomes include data on immune cell phenotypes and function in peripheral blood and
      tissue, as determined using standard methods in immunology (e.g. flow cytometry,
      transcriptomics and histopathology) and parasite quantitation (e.g. PCR, histopathology).
      There will be qualitative and quantitative analysis of data across patient cohorts and
      between patients and controls.

      Forty patients diagnosed with VL from each site will be included in the study. Patients must
      be willing and able to adhere to the study procedures and to give written informed consent.
      All patients will have been clinically and parasitologically confirmed as having visceral
      leishmaniasis (VL) and will receive one round of sodium stibgluconate/paramomycin (SSG/PM)
      treatment as per normal clinical practice and regional guidelines. Thirty healthy endemic
      controls will also be studied from each country.

      For patients, confirmation of VL will be made by visual identification of parasites in
      stained tissue smears according to recommended diagnostic practice (using bone marrow, spleen
      or lymph node aspirates as clinically indicated and as per local procedures). Parasites will
      be isolated from residual tissue aspirate and genotyped. Where tissue aspirate is not a
      recommended or currently performed diagnostic procedure, parasites will be isolated where
      possible from blood and diagnosis confirmed by PCR.

      The study requires two additional blood draws, one taken before treatment and the second
      taken at the end of treatment.

      The study also requires two 3mm skin biopsies (taken from the back of the neck/shoulder), one
      taken prior to the beginning of treatment and the second taken at the end of treatment.
      Biopsies will be taken under local anaesthesia. Patients refusing skin biopsies can still be
      recruited into the study.

      For healthy controls, 23mL of blood will be taken on a single occasion, for diagnostic
      purposes and to provide blood for immunological analyses.
    
  