
    
      While being benefited from the results of previous studies, the sample size of the research
      was type 1 error performance α=0.05 and type 2 error performance β=0.20. The power of the
      test was taken as 1-β=0.80 and the power analysis was statistically made with NCCS PAS 11
      program. 200 individuals voluntarily participated into the study as control group, including
      100 patients diagnosed with AMD (50 women, 50 men) and 100 patients not diagnosed as AMD (50
      women, 50 men).

      Sociodemographic Variables The questionnaire form, prepared to determine socio-demographic
      features of individuals participating in the research, was applied by the research with the
      method of face-to-face interview. The socio-demographic features of individuals (gender, age,
      occupation, educational status, health conditions), use of cigarettes and drugs was
      questioned.

      Anthropometric Variables The body weight of the individuals were measured with a calibrated
      electronic scale, which could measure even 0.1 kg, while the individuals were hungry, in
      light clothes and their shoes were taken off. The body lengths were measured by the
      researcher with the tape measure while they were standing upright in Frankfurt plane position
      (ear canal and lower margin of orbit in the same horizontal plane, facing forward). BMI was
      calculated with the formula [body weight (kg)/body length (m2)]. BMI evaluation was made
      while the classification developed by World Health Organization (WHO) was taken as a basis
      (13). According to this classification; (BMI<18.5 kg/m2 thin, 18.5< 24.9 kg/m2 normal,
      25.0-29.9 kg/m2 overweight and ≥30 kg/m2 obese. The waist circumference of the individuals
      was measured with tape measure by founding the midpoint between the lowest rib and umbilicus.
      The relation between waist circumference and chronic diseases is as follows: If the waist
      circumference is ≥88 cm for women and ≥102 cm for men, it is shown as high risk. The hip
      circumference of the individuals was measured with a tape measure from the highest point by
      standing the left side of the individuals. If the waist/hip rate is over 0.85 for women and
      over 0.90 for men, the risk of chronic diseases increases.

      Assesment of dietary intake and diet total antioxidant capacity Participants' dietary intake
      was assessed using food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). The FFQ included 65 food items
      traditionally consumed in Turkey. Foods were classified into the following food categories:
      milk and dairy products, meat and meat products, fruits, vegetables, breads and cereals,
      beverages, and desserts. Intake frequencies for the food items consisted of eight categories
      ranging from never/once a month to more than one per day. Trained interviewers asked
      participants how often they had consumed one portion of each food item in generally. To
      compute the total amount of food intake per day, the reported frequency of consumption for
      each food item was multiplied by the portion size and then total food intake was converted to
      nutrient intake based on the food's nutrient profile. Standardized food recipes for Turkey
      and Nutrition Information System (BEBIS) program which is a food composition database for
      nutrient estimation were used to determine average daily energy and nutrient intake for each
      participant. These values were compared with the recommended daily allowance values to
      determine the energy and nutrient requirement meeting status and the requirement meeting
      percentages were calculated.

      By using food intake frequency amounts, dietary total antioxidant capacity was tried to be
      determined approximately with the use of data obtained from a large-scale study made by
      Carlsen for developing a database including total antioxidant component of essential
      nutrients. The antioxidant amount in 100 g food given for each nutrient group in the related
      resource was used as standard antioxidant activity value in this study and the approximate
      antioxidant activity values of the grouped food intake amounts of individuals were
      calculated.

      Statistical Analysis In the statistical evaluation of data obtained from the study,
      Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) 22.0 program was used. For the data obtained
      from the measures of individuals participating in the study, average, standard deviation and
      the lowest and the highest values were calculated. The distribution of data determined with
      numbers was given with number-percentage tables. While evaluating constant data, it was
      determined with Kolmogorov Smirnov test whether there was normal distribution or not. The
      data of individuals having normal distribution were analyzed with parametric statistical
      tests and the data of individuals not having normal distribution were analyzed with
      non-parametric statistical tests. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were
      calculated by univariate logistic regression analysis separately for food group, BMI, and
      adjusted age, gender before combined in multivariate logistic regression. Logistic regression
      analysis was performed to determine risk factors for AMD using odds ratio estimates with 95%
      confidence intervals. Furthermore, a stepwise multivariate regression analysis was performed,
      with p value less than 0.05 being required for entering the model and remaining there.
    
  