
    
      BACKGROUND:

      COPD is one of the most pressing healthcare problems facing our nation. AE-COPD is
      responsible for the bulk of healthcare costs, and much of the morbidity and decline in health
      status among individuals with this common disease. The lack of accepted animal models of
      AE-COPD necessitates novel approaches using human samples. Advances in the understanding of
      the pathogenesis have been slowed, in part, due to controversy as to how exacerbations should
      be defined. The prevailing paradigm has defined AE-COPD as event-based. Such definitions
      clearly identify groups of patients with accelerated loss of pulmonary function and increased
      mortality. However, limited data show that symptom-based definitions of AE-COPD also capture
      episodes inducing significant morbidity and functional decline, and hence of concern to
      patients. Fundamental mechanisms are lacking to explain AE-COPD defined by either means.

      Controversy also surrounds triggers of AE-COPD. Bacteria and viruses are involved in some
      episodes, but the relative importance of each is intertwined with disputes over the
      definition of AE-COPD. Progress at linking specific pathogens to molecular pathogenesis has
      been slow, both due to their diversity, and to the high rates of bacterial colonization of
      patients with COPD, even in the stable state. Moreover, in many AE-COPD cases, no pathogen
      can be identified. Without negating the value of analyzing infections with specific species
      of pathogens, it appears that progress in molecular pathogenesis could be accelerated by
      focusing on unifying features of the pulmonary immune response during AE-COPD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The research protocol involves isolating lung lymphocytes from surgical specimens of patients
      already undergoing clinically indicated lung resections. Surgical lung resections may be
      performed either by open thoracotomy or by video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS), and
      could include pneumonectomies, lobectomies, or wedge-excisions, as dictated by clinical care
      of the patient. This protocol will exclusively use tissue that is of excess after a clinical
      diagnosis is established. The setting is the operating rooms at the Ann Arbor VA Hospital or
      the University of Michigan Hospital System. Subjects will be recruited from the outpatient
      clinics, but will be inpatients at the time of surgery.

      Subjects will not undergo any additional procedures beyond routine clinical care as a result
      of participating in this protocol. However, it is anticipated that the study will have access
      to the medical record to extract results of demographic data, including occupational
      exposures and smoking history, pulmonary function testing, and results of imaging and other
      staging studies.
    
  