
    
      This is the first-year part of a two-phase prospective study. The aims of this study are to
      investigate the prevalence rate of eating disorders in Taiwan, it's correlated psychosocial
      risk factors and establish the validity index of BITE. The study subjects consist of
      Taiwanese gifted dance high school students and comparable ordinary class students. Parental
      informed consent for nonpartipation was delivered 3 days before study started.All students
      completed questionnaires(Eating Altitude Test (EAT-26), Bulimic Investigatory Test, Ediburgh
      (BITE), Body Shape Questionnaire (BSQ), Physical Appearance Related Teasing Scale, Pubertal
      Develoment Scale, and Brief Symptom Rating Scale (BSRS) at first phase. All subjects who are
      above threshold (EAT-26 score≧20 and BMI≦17.5Kg/m2; the symptom scale score of BITE≧15 and/or
      severity scale≧5),and 10% of the sub-threshold cases need to receive second-phase interview
      by two senior psychiatrists. The contents of interview included SCID-IP, and risk factors
      assessment for eating disorders. The known risk factors included both personal factors
      (history of obesity, psychiatric, menstruation, teasing, or sexual or physical abuse, etc.)
      as well as family factors (parental problems, history of obesity, dieting, psychiatric
      illness etc.).

      Statistical analyses were conducted using SPSS 10.0 for Windows/PC. Categorical data were
      analyzed by nonparametric test (Chi-square test). ANOVA or Student's t-test was used for
      continuous data analyses. Reliability is assessed by internal consistency and test-retest
      reliability. Inter-rater reliability was assessed by Kappa statistics. The sensitivity and
      specificity for eating disorders were calculated for individual screening instrument.ROC
      analyses were undertaken to evaluate the overall performance of the BITE +/- EAT in detecting
      eating disorder cases. Regression analysis was applied to determine predictors of disordered
      eating or eating disorder status. A value of P< 0.05 was considered statistically
      significant.
    
  