
    
      Dementia, regardless of its cause, has been recognized to be one of the most important and
      common problems among the elderly worldwide. The prevalence of dementia has been increasing
      gradually throughout the world. It is associated with medical and psychological consequences,
      especially in the advanced stage of the condition. Medications for dementia, specifically,
      acetylcholine esterase inhibitors, have proven efficacy but variable individual response.
      They are very expensive and stress families and insurance payers. Dementia and its
      neuropsychiatric co-morbidities effects not only individual patients, but also family members
      and care givers as it stresses interpersonal relationships, increases the need for personal
      care, nursing home placement, and the use of neuropsychiatric medications. Any new approach
      to improve cognitive function, behavior, mood and sleep quality among demented individuals
      therefore could have far reaching benefits for patients, care givers, financially responsive
      parties, and the country as a whole.

      There are several studies focusing on the non-pharmacologic approaches to care of the
      demented. The objectives were to reduce reliance on prescribed medications with these
      adjunctive therapies. One of the interesting non-drug trials was about music therapy. It was
      found that music could improve behavioral and social functions among individual demented
      patients. However, the methodology of each music study varied considerably. To our knowledge,
      there has been no music study in dementia performed in Thailand using our unique Thai
      traditional music. We therefore aim to study this non-pharmacologic approach in Thai demented
      individuals using Thai traditional music. We hypothesized that regular listening to Thai
      traditional music will improve cognitive function, activities of daily living, mood, behavior
      and sleep quality in Thai demented patients.
    
  