
    
      The purpose of this study is to identify the genes in airway epithelial and BAL cells that
      are differentially expressed following inhalation of house dust mite allergen among study
      subjects with allergic asthma and normal phenotypes. This approach is designed to identify
      novel genes associated with both asthma pathogenesis (differentially expressed in the
      exposure-response study) and asthma susceptibility (genetically associated with asthma in a
      linkage/association study).

      Patients with asthma and allergic rhinitis have long been known to have positive skin test
      responses to house dust. In the 1960's it was shown that the dust mite was the most important
      source of allergen in house dust. Techniques for growing dust mites in the laboratory enabled
      the preparation of dust mite allergen extracts. Identification of the major allergens of dust
      mite along with specific skin test methodology has resulted in standardized dust mite
      allergen extracts for diagnostic and therapeutic use. Numerous epidemiologic studies have
      demonstrated the importance of sensitization to dust mite as risk factors for asthma and
      allergic rhinitis symptoms.

      Administration of dust mite by inhalation is considered investigational. However, numerous
      studies demonstrate the safety of allergen inhalation in well characterized subjects. A
      recent NHLBI/NIAID Workshop summarized evidence of the safety and utility of research
      bronchoprovocation and bronchoscopy studies in subjects with chronic airway diseases.
      Bronchoprovocation challenge has emerged as an important tool to understand the environmental
      factors involved in the asthmatic response. Airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), an exaggerated
      bronchoconstrictor response to a variety of stimuli, is a prominent characteristic of asthma.
      Importantly, AHR to methacholine is correlated with symptoms and severity of disease.
      Although the mechanisms underlying AHR are poorly understood, it is believed to result, at
      least in part, from airway inflammation. Bronchoprovocation is a well-established method to
      detect and quantify AHR and to obtain insights into the mechanisms associated with this
      pathophysiologic entity. Increased airway response after allergen inhalation parallels the
      subsequent inflammatory reaction, suggesting that the allergen-induced inflammation has
      direct effects on mechanisms of airway responsiveness. Moreover, the techniques and
      applications of bronchoprovocation, both for testing nonspecific airway responsiveness and
      specific allergen challenge, have been well defined. Therefore it is evident that
      bronchoprovocation testing is considered useful and safe, and also likely to yield important
      insights into the pathogenesis of asthma.

      Bronchoscopic airway sampling for investigational purposes has also yielded important
      insights regarding the pathogenesis of asthma and related airway disorders. Bronchoalveolar
      lavage (BAL) and endobronchial brush biopsies have emerged as the most widely used invasive
      research tools to assess inflammation and tissue remodeling in airway and interstitial lung
      diseases. Such procedures allow airway inflammatory and epithelial cells, proteins and other
      molecules of interest to be isolated in vivo in a manner that is critical to understanding
      the complex nature of asthma and other airway disorders. Numerous reports have attested to
      the safety of bronchoscopy including BAL and brush biopsy; these reports have been reviewed
      recently in a joint publication between the NHLBI and NIAID. So not only is bronchoscopic
      airway sampling important scientifically, but it is considered appropriate for research use
      in normal and asthmatic subjects.

      The combination of bronchoprovocation and bronchoscopic airway sampling thus seems ideally
      suited to understand the complex host-environment interactions of asthma: the environmental
      stimulus response in a specified host could trigger a number of reactions that could be
      measured in the distal airways and airway epithelia.
    
  