
    
      Current therapy for GBM GBM is the most frequent primary malignant brain tumor in adults.
      Prior to the introduction of temozolomide, the median survival was generally less than one
      year from the time of diagnosis. Standard therapy had consisted of surgical resection to the
      extent safely feasible, followed by radiotherapy. Adjuvant carmustine, a nitrosourea drug,
      was commonly prescribed in the United States. Cooperative-group trials had investigated the
      addition of various chemotherapeutic regimens to radiotherapy but no randomized phase 3 trial
      of nitrosourea-based adjuvant chemotherapy had demonstrated a significant survival benefit as
      compared with radiotherapy alone. A metaanalysis based on randomized trials suggested a small
      survival benefit of chemotherapy, as compared with Template Version: 7 May 2008 IRB
      APPLICATION page 1 of 8 radiotherapy alone (a 5 percent increase in survival at two years,
      from 15 percent to 20 percent). To further improve on these survival rates, the European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Brain Tumor and Radiotherapy
      Groups, and the National Cancer Institute of Canada (NCIC) Clinical Trials Group completed a
      randomized, multicenter, phase III trial to compare the alkylating agent temozolomide and
      radiotherapy with radiotherapy alone in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. [1] A
      total of 573 patients from 85 centers underwent randomization. At a median follow-up of 28
      months, the median survival was 14.6 months with radiotherapy plus temozolomide and 12.1
      months with radiotherapy alone. The unadjusted hazard ratio for death in the
      radiotherapy-plus-temozolomide group was 0.63 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.52 to 0.75;
      P0.001 by the log-rank test). The two-year survival rate was 26.5 percent with radiotherapy
      plus temozolomide and 10.4 percent with radiotherapy alone. Concomitant treatment with
      radiotherapy plus temozolomide resulted in grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxic effects in only 7
      percent of patients.

      Due to this landmark study, GBM patients who have a good performance status are now typically
      treated with concurrent radiation and temozolomide followed by adjuvant temozolomide.
      However, this standard therapy still only results in a median survival of about 14.6 months
      and a progression-free survival of about 6.9 months. Given these low survival rates, new
      approaches are needed. The addition of a molecularly-targeted therapy to the standard
      treatment is an approach that merits further investigation.

      GBM, Molecular Markers, and Radiosensitization In GBM, PTEN mutations occur in about a third
      of patients while EGFR or EGFRvIII (truncated EGFR) amplification occurs in up to 40% of
      patients. These changes have been shown to correlate with a poor prognosis. Over the past
      decade EGFR and Ras have been shown to modulate tumor radiosensitivity. EGFR has a number of
      downstream effectors that include Ras and PI3K. EGFR and Ras-mediated radioresistance is
      mediated, at least in part by PI3K, and phosphorylated Akt (P-Akt) is a good marker for this
      effect . We have previously shown in head and neck cancer that P-Akt is a good predictor of
      clinical response to radiation. We and others have shown that blocking PI3K-Akt pathway
      enhances radiation response in vitro and in vivo. Radiosensitization occurs in cells in which
      this pathway is constitutively activated but does not occur in cells (such as normal tissues)
      in which this pathway is not activated. Inhibition of this pathway, therefore, is a promising
      approach for radiation sensitization. One difficulty in implementing this therapeutic
      strategy has been obtaining the means to block this deregulated signaling pathway in
      patients.

      We have found that one class of commonly used drugs, the HIV protease inhibitors (HPIs)
      interfere with PI3K-Akt signaling. These drugs given in combination with reverse
      transcriptase inhibitors are the mainstay of the current therapeutic regimens for HIV
      infected patients. The HPIs are peptidomimetics that inhibit the HIV aspartyl protease, a
      retroviral enzyme that cleaves the viral gag-pol polyprotein and is necessary for the
      production of infectious viral particles. One prominent side effect of HPI treatment is
      insulin resistance. Since Akt, plays a key role in the coordinated regulation of growth and
      metabolism by the insulin/IGFsignaling pathway, we explored the possibility that HPIs might
      block the PI3K-Akt signaling axis in tumor cells and hence might be used clinically as
      radiation sensitizers. We tested NFV and found that it inhibited Akt at concentrations that
      are routinely achieved in patients. NFV also sensitized tumor cells both in vitro and in vivo
      to radiation. HPIs have been used continuously in patients with well-characterized
      pharmacokinetics. There are reports of HIV patients on protease inhibitors who have received
      radiation therapy; no increase in side effects from the radiation have been reported and
      clinical outcome may be improved.

      In summary, there is clearly strong rationale to proceed with a clinical trial of NFV and
      chemoradiation in GBM:

        1. The prognosis in GBM patients is poor with median survival of 14.6 months with best
           therapy.

        2. Preclinical work demonstrates NFV results in down regulation of Akt signaling in cancer
           cells and results in radiation sensitization.

        3. There is a high frequency of Akt activation in GBM, which has been linked to the
           pathogenesis and maintenance of the tumor.

        4. NFV has been shown to be distributed brain tissue while on therapy and is likely to have
           increased brain penetrance during fractionated radiotherapy when disruption of the
           blood-brain-barrier may occur.

        5. NFV has not been shown to sensitize normal tissues to radiation.

        6. NFV has been safely administered to HIV+ patients over the last decade with minimal side
           effects.
    
  