
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is one of the most successful surgery in orthopaedic field.
      However, occasional outliner from perfect alignment after prosthesis implantation and
      unavoidable complications are still concerns. The usage of navigation-assisted system on
      total knee arthroplasty has provided better accuracy of the component alignment and quantity
      in knee kinematics, which theoretically affords better and consistent functional outcome.

      In addition to better alignment, the design of navigation system avoids violation of the
      medullary canal. This less invasive environment might be contributable to the less blood loss
      in the drainage bottle, less blood transfusion more stable hemodynamic status, fewer
      hospitalization days, and fewer complications.

      Systemic emboli phenomena during preparation of the femur and tibia are well recognized
      during total knee arthroplasty. They are widely believed to be the cause of intraoperative
      hypotension and reduced cardiac output, which may lead to circulatory collapse, change of
      mental status or cerebral infarction. Kalairajah et al reported that navigation-assisted
      total knee arthroplasty, when compared with conventional jig-based surgery, significantly
      reduces systemic emboli as detected by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. Church et al
      undertook a prospective, double-blind, randomized study to compare the cardiac emboli load by
      tranesophageal echocardiography and demonstrated that computer-assisted TKA resulted in the
      release of significant fewer systemic emboli than the conventional procedure using
      intramedullary alignment. The increased blood loss in conventional TKA may be due to
      intramedullary jigging of both femur and tibia, bleeding from sinusoids at the cut cancellous
      bone surfaces with continuous suction drainage and more soft tissue dissection during
      balancing of the prosthesis. The investigators have underwent more than 730 computer-assisted
      TKA since 2005. The investigators data shows less bleeding and fewer transfusion after
      navigation assisted TKA. The investigators wish to further follow-up and delineate the
      differential clinical outcomes and perioperative markers (including ICAM, VCAM, and PECAM and
      other cytokines )between computer-assisted TKA and conventional TKA.
    
  