
    
      Lung cancer accounts for 13% of all new cancer cases in the UK and is the third most common
      cancer1. However, lung cancer has the highest mortality rate9, thought partly related to late
      diagnosis. Pleural effusions develop in up to 40% of patients with lung cancer2, and can be
      the first presenting sign. Current methods of analysing pleural fluid are based on using
      Light's criteria to distinguish between exudates and transudates depending on the protein and
      LDH component of the fluid. However, this system does not discriminate between causes of
      exudative effusions for example malignant effusions vs infective causes. Pleural fluid
      cytology can identify malignant effusions but gives an average yield of 60%3 through a labour
      intensive and time consuming process. If pleural fluid cytology is non-diagnostic, patients
      require further invasive investigations such as local anaesthetic thoracoscopy, lymph node
      biopsies or image-guided biopsies to gain a tissue diagnosis. Therefore, determining an
      alternative, accurate method of diagnosing cancer at the earliest opportunity would reduce
      the need for further invasive investigations and would provide patients with increased
      treatment options, thereby increasing survival rates. There are differences in the
      biochemical composition of malignant and non-malignant effusions thereby offering an
      opportunity to develop alternative techniques of investigating the cause of these
      effusions10.

      Ascites is a common symptom of patients with various underlying cancers; most commonly breast
      cancer, colon cancer, gastrointestinal cancer and ovarian cancer4,5 and is often associated
      with significant morbidity. However, up to 50% of patients with malignant ascites present
      with ascites as the first feature5. This symptom is not specific to any type of cancer;
      current investigations including using serum tumour markers have a low diagnostic specificity
      and there is a need for new techniques to improve our diagnostic ability.

      Fourier transform mid-infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) is a reproducible and relatively simple
      investigation used to analyse the structural components of tissue or cells. As infrared light
      is passed through a sample, some light is absorbed and some transmitted through. The
      resulting signal at the detector presents as a spectrum, representing a 'molecular
      fingerprint' of the sample. Each chemical structure produces a unique spectral fingerprint
      making FTIR a useful tool for identifying components of tissue or cells6,7,8.

      Attenuated Total Reflection Linear Variable Filter (ATR-LVF) spectroscopy is a variant of IR
      spectroscopy in which samples can be examined directly with no preparation needed. ATR-LVF
      spectroscopy can be performed on benchtop spectrometers with minimal operator training and an
      immediate result can be obtained.

      Both FTIR and ATR-LVF are non-invasive, reproducible, do not damage the sample and have the
      benefit of only requiring a small sample size to generate results all of which are desirable
      qualities in developing a new investigation.

      FTIR has been used to successfully discriminate between malignant and non-malignant lung
      tissue6, and also to identify spectral differences in samples of pleural fluid from malignant
      and non-malignant participants11. There is currently ongoing work investigating FTIR in
      diagnosing malignant pleural mesothelioma and initial results have shown significant spectral
      differences in this population too12. There is very little information regarding the use of
      FTIR in assessing ascitic fluid. However, despite the technology, it is not available as a
      bedside point-of-care test for clinicians. The differences and discrimination of the model
      has not been tested prospectively to determine sensitivity and specificity of the FTIR test.
      A mobile point-of-care devices that may be able to provide rapid diagnostic results. This
      study aims to confirm that the spectral changes between malignant and non-malignant samples
      are present in a UK population in both pleural effusions and ascites.
    
  