
    
      Vacuum-assisted removal and biopsy of the tumor bed after neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST)
      in patients with clinical complete clinical response with a biopsy of sientinel lymph nodes
      is in the future a modern alternative to the standard, often crippling and traumatic surgical
      procedures and does not require additional financial costs for the reconstruction of the
      breast.

      There are only two trial visits that are specific to the trial. All other visits will be
      routine visits.

      The first trial visit before NST will take place in order to provide the patient with
      detailed information on the study, its' aims, the VAB procedure, and its risks. The patient
      will be asked to sign a form of informed consent.

      In the second visit after the NST, VAB planning will be carried out. This visit may vary
      depending on the patient, the tumor, and the characteristics of the study site. We will
      provide each test participant with the opportunity to choose the appropriate conditions for
      the procedure.

      The VAB procedure with a sentinel lymph node biopsy will be performed in the operating room
      Research objectives

        1. To evaluate the frequency of coincidence of the clinical complete or partial response
           (cCR and PR) with pathological complete response (pCR).

        2. To study the frequency of detecting a residual tumor in the mammary gland using a
           Vacuum-assisted biopsy or another type of core biopsy and / or detection of metastases
           in regional lymph nodes (sentinel lymph node biopsy) in comparison with a standard
           pathological study of the surgical material and regional (including sentinel ) lymph
           nodes.

        3. To analyze the frequency of false-positive conclusions of a vacuum aspiration biopsy of
           the tumor bed about the achievement of pathological complete response (pCR) in
           comparison with a standard pathological study of a surgical material.

        4. To study the long-term results (local-regional relapse, survival) of surgical treatment
           of patients with clinical complete response (cCR) after neoadjuvant systemic therapy,
           including residual disease compared with patients who achieved pathological complete
           response (pCR).

        5. To develop an algorithm for treating patients with clinical complete response, with a
           confirmed pathological complete response using a tumor bed biopsy and targeted biopsy of
           sentinel lymph nodes (taking into account the initial characteristics: age, stage with
           TNM, disease subtypes, the presence of a genetic mutation BRCA1 / 2).

      Ultrasound guided VAB will be performed on breast cancer patients with clinical complete
      response (cCR) after NST.

      The pathological results of the VAB specimen will be generally categorized as follows:

        1. Residual tumor cells in VAB specimen (=non-pCR)

        2. No residual tumor cells in the VAB specimen and VAB representative of former tumor
           region (="pCR in VAB")

        3. No residual tumor cells in the VAB specimen but VAB unclear or not representative of
           former tumor region (=possible sampling error). These VABs are categorized as
           uninformative for the primary endpoint of the clinical trial.

      The results will be compared with the results of a pathological examination of a surgical
      material.
    
  