
    
      Atherosclerosis is a condition in which deposits of fat, cholesterol, and other substances
      build up along the inner walls of arteries; these deposits are known as plaque. As plaque
      builds up, it increases the risk of blood clots, heart attack, and stroke. Research has shown
      that the risk of developing atherosclerosis can be influenced by heredity. However,
      researchers have been unable to identify the specific genes associated with this risk. Single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are small genetic variations that can occur within an
      individual's DNA. In this study, researchers will analyze the DNA of many individuals for
      differences in SNP patterns. The goal of the study is to determine which SNP patterns are
      associated with the development of atherosclerosis. The data from this study may lead to new
      strategies for early identification of high risk individuals who may benefit from aggressive
      treatment to prevent the development of atherosclerosis.

      This study will not recruit any new participants. DNA will be collected and analyzed from
      participants in two existing studies-the Pathobiological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in
      Youth (PDAY) study and the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA). DNA from the PDAY
      participants will be obtained from liver samples gathered during an autopsy following the
      participants' deaths; DNA from the MESA participants will be obtained from blood collected
      during routine study visits. There will be no additional study visits for participants, and
      all DNA samples and study information will be kept confidential. Genetic testing will be
      performed to determine the association between SNPs and subclinical atherosclerosis, which is
      a form of the condition prior to the onset of symptoms. The study will evaluate specific
      variations in SNPs and subclinical disease among different ethnic groups, which may help to
      explain why certain ethnic groups have higher rates of atherosclerosis. The study will also
      examine the association between SNPs and other indicators of subclinical and clinical
      atherosclerosis, including the thickness of arteries, heart calcium levels, and blood
      pressure levels.
    
  