
    
      The health and mental health benefits of physical activity, quality sleep and optimal
      nutritional habits are innumerable and widely reported. Unfortunately, resident physicians
      report participation in physical activity at reduced rates compared with the general
      population. Reasons for limited physical activity include fatigue and lack of free time to
      dedicate to exercise. The lack of exercise is combined with variable sleep patterns due to
      call schedules, as well as deterioration of nutritional habits, leads to weight gain and
      overall decline in the health of the resident physician population. Another neurosurgery
      department has implemented a similar program for their resident physicians and found
      improvements in weight, biometric markers and increased cardiovascular tolerance of physical
      activity.

      The activity goals are derived from the 2013 the American Heart Association/American College
      of Cardiology Guidelines on lifestyle management to reduce cardiovascular risk, with
      considerations made for different levels of ability among the participants, as well as
      limitations time.

      Fitness Protocol: The investigators will view any activity as better than no activity. The
      program will begin with activities geared toward the least fit/active resident to encourage
      participation from all levels of ability. The investigators will need options to increase
      intensity or difficulty for more advanced participants. Prior to introduction of the fitness
      regimen, the investigators would discuss appropriate progression of activity with a fitness
      expert. The proposed progression through various fitness goals is noted by type and timeline
      below.

      Step Goal: Each participant will be asked to wear a fitness tracker to quantify steps walked
      per day, among other health parameters. Goals will be set for number of steps per day and per
      week, with incremental increase through the course of the program.

      Cardiac Activity: Goals will be suggested for participants to complete cardiac activity
      through the course of their week. This may be running, which would overlap with the step
      goals, biking, or another cardiac exercise of the participants' preference. The goal will
      increase gradually over the course of the program.

      Daily Challenge: A physical challenge will be extended to each participant to be completed
      every day, increasing in difficulty or repetitions through the month. This will be a simple
      task that could be performed without any equipment, such as (but not limited to) a plank
      hold, pushups or jumping jacks.

      Weekly Workout: Workouts will be created by colleagues from appropriate departments
      (Kinesiology, Sports Performance) to be completed in a single ~30 minute setting or small
      5-10 minute increments in order to be integrated into the physician lifestyle. These workouts
      will be completed on an individual basis and will be simple enough for completion in a small
      space, such as the call rooms, with access to hand weights, resistance bands and the
      stairwell.

      Group Activities: Group activities will be planned once per month, with a focus on team
      building and physical activity. These group activities will be made available to non-study
      participants to encourage family attendance and participation in physical fitness. Some
      examples of proposed activities include soccer, sand volleyball, basketball.

      Education: Colleagues from nutrition, neuropsychology and kinesiology will be invited for
      guest lectures on a monthly basis to improve resident education on topics such as making
      nutritionally smart choices and appropriate meal preparation, improving sleep hygiene, and
      how to incorporate activity into our currently lifestyles.

      Study Timeline Pre-Program - distribution of surveys; biometric data obtained Month 1 - goal
      for steps. Group activity: movement safety. Month 2 - goal for steps + cardiac activity.
      Group activity. Month 3 - goal for steps + cardiac activity + daily challenge + improve sleep
      hygiene. Group activity. Repeat health surveys.

      Month 4 - increase goal for steps + cardiac activity + daily challenge + weekly workout.
      Group activity.

      Month 5 - goal for steps + cardiac activity + daily challenge + weekly workout + improve
      sleep habits. Group activity.

      Month 6 - continuation of above goals + setting individual goals. Group activity.

      Post-Program - distribution of surveys; biometric follow up data obtained.
    
  