
    
      This study is open to all patients with a diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) who
      are PCR positive for the PML-RARα transcript or rarer retinoid sensitive subtypes (i.e.
      NPM-RARalpha, NuMA-RARalpha) and less than 21 years of age (for AIEOP, see appendix A). APL
      is a rare disease with each national group recruiting small numbers of patients to their
      trials annually. Therefore this will be an international study expecting to recruit 60-70
      patients per annum and a total of 300 patients in 5 years. The study aims to limit the use of
      anthracyclines and stratify treatment by risk group: standard risk - WBC <10 x 109/l : high
      risk - WBC ≥10 x 109/l. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is included in all phases of therapy
      and intermediate dose Ara-C (IDARAC) is given during consolidation treatment. Following one
      induction course of treatment standard risk patients have 2 consolidation blocks whilst high
      risk patients have 3 consolidation blocks.

      The PML-RARα transcript will be monitored throughout and standard risk patients with
      detectable minimal residual disease by real time quantitative reverse transcriptase
      polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR+) at the end of the second consolidation block will receive
      a third consolidation block identical to high risk patients. Patients who are RQ-PCR+ for
      PML-RARα after completion of the third block of consolidation therapy will be candidates for
      refractory/relapse treatment, but will remain on study. Refractory/relapsed patients who
      remain RQ-PCR+ for PML-RARα will be candidates for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation
      (allo-BMT), whilst those who become RQ-PCR- for PML-RARα will have individualised treatment
      with ongoing MRD monitoring.

      These study guidelines are intended to describe a collaborative international study in APL in
      children and adolescents and to provide information about procedures for the entry, treatment
      and follow-up of patients. It is not intended that these guidelines be used as an aide-memoir
      or guide for the treatment of other patients. Every care has been taken in its drafting, but
      corrections and amendments may be necessary. Before entering patients into the study,
      clinicians must ensure that the study has received clearance from their Local Research Ethics
      Committee and any other necessary body.
    
  