
    
      Invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) is associated with numerous complications. Hence,
      patients should be weaned from the ventilator as early as possible . Approximately 25% and
      (14-22) % of mechanically ventilated patients experience difficult and prolonged weaning
      respectively. A number of randomized controlled trials have addressed whether NIV can
      facilitate weaning in patients failing SBTs. The most recent systemic review included 16
      trials -mainly COPD patients- found that patients weaned with NIV had reduced mortality,
      greater weaning success, less ventilator-associated pneumonia, shorter length of ICU and
      hospital stay and less reintubation rate.

      Most of the previous studies used pressure support ventilation with fixed pressure support,
      but no studies published on hybrid NIV modes. Intelligent Volume Assured Pressure Support
      (iVAPS) is a recent NIV mode, which achieves a target alveolar volume by adjusting pressure
      and respiratory rate automatically. In iVAPS, the target is alveolar ventilation not the
      tidal volume. taking into account a predicted dead space. This new mode has been investigated
      in stable COPD patients with domiciliary NIV and it was comparable to pressure support
      ventilation (PSV) regarding improvement in oxygenation, CO2 wash and therapy compliance.
      Other studies focused on sleep quality and found that iVAPS was comparable to PSV regarding
      sleep quality, arousal, O2 de-saturation index, increase in therapy adherence and decrease in
      median PS needed with iVAPS.

      Yet, less numerous studies have been performed on this mode when used for acute respiratory
      failure. These studies investigated the outcomes in acute hypercapnic respiratory failure and
      found that iVAPS was comparable to PSV as regards PaCO2 and logarithm of hydrogen ion
      concentration (pH) improvements, minute volume, pressure support and respiratory rate. No
      published data about the role of iVAPS as a weaning mode in mechanically ventilated patients.
    
  