
    
      The study seeks to determine whether the implementation of a culturally-appropriate early
      childhood caries intervention reduces dental disease burden and oral health inequalities
      among Indigenous children. The study is part of a tri-nation research project entitled
      "Reducing disease burden and health inequalities arising from chronic dental disease among
      Indigenous children: an early childhood caries intervention", being simultaneously conducted
      in Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. It was created in response to a Request for
      Applications for the International Collaborative Indigenous Health Research Partnership
      (ICIHRP) grant - a funding initiative of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, the
      Health Research Council of New Zealand and the National Health and Medical Research Council
      of Australia.

      The Baby Teeth Talk (BTT) Study, the Canadian arm of the project, is a community-based
      participatory research project being conducted in partnership with Aboriginal communities and
      organizations. BTT targets expectant mothers and their newborns, over a three-year
      intervention period. BTT has successfully recruited over 500 pregnant First Nations and Metis
      women living in urban and on-reserve communities in Ontario and Manitoba in the past two and
      a half years. This 5-year study promotes and offers good dental care during pregnancy and
      uses Motivational Interviewing (MI) and Anticipatory Guidance (AG) to counsel mothers on
      caring for their children's teeth. Presently, study participants have all given birth and
      fluoride varnish is being applied to their babies' teeth twice per year for 3 years by First
      Nations and non-First Nations community-based researchers associated with the project. At the
      same time, mothers continue to receive MI and AG in an effort to address the dietary and oral
      health concerns of their children. The goal of the study's multi-pronged approach is to
      intervene early enough in the child's life to prevent the onset of early childhood caries, or
      at least, reduce the rates of the disease to levels comparable to the general Canadian
      population so that fewer Indigenous children require dental treatment under general
      anesthesia.

      The investigators have currently started the clinical oral examinations of the 2-year-old
      participants to assess the effectiveness of the investigators pre- and post-natal preventive
      and behavioral interventions to prevent caries in young Indigenous children. This is the
      point when the investigators collect the primary outcome data for the investigators project.
    
  