
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate whether chemotherapy alone is as effective, but less toxic, as combined
           modality treatment, in terms of progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with
           favorable or unfavorable supradiaphragmatic stage I or II Hodgkin's lymphoma who are
           fludeoxglucose F 18 positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scan negative after two
           courses of doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD).

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate whether early change of chemotherapy from ABVD to escalated cyclophosphamide,
           doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, bleomycin, etoposide, procarbazine
           hydrochloride, and prednisone (escalated BEACOPP) improves the PFS of patients who are
           FDG-PET scan positive after two courses of ABVD.

        -  Confirm that early response by FDG-PET scan is predictive of the outcome of patients
           randomized to the standard treatment arm.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease prognostic profile (favorable vs unfavorable), participating center, Ann Arbor
      clinical stage (I vs II), and availability of a baseline fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron
      emission tomography (FDG-PET) scan (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I (standard [closed to accrual as of 6/24/2011]): Patients receive ABVD chemotherapy
           comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, bleomycin IV or intramuscularly (IM),
           vinblastine IV, and dacarbazine IV on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with favorable
           prognostic profile receive 3 courses of ABVD. Patients with unfavorable prognostic
           profile receive 4 courses of ABVD. Patients undergo FDG-PET scan after completion of 2
           courses of ABVD. Beginning 3-4 weeks after completion of ABVD, patients undergo
           involved-node radiotherapy (INRT) 5 days a week for 4-6 weeks.

        -  Arm II (experimental): Patients receive ABVD as in arm I for 2 courses and then undergo
           FDG-PET scan. Further treatment is adapted according to FDG-PET scan result.

             -  FDG-PET negative: Patients with favorable prognostic profile receive 1 additional
                courses of ABVD. Patients with unfavorable prognostic profile receive 2 additional
                courses of ABVD. Patients with favorable or unfavorable prognostic profiles
                randomized on or after August 9th 2010 who are FDG-PET negative after two courses
                of ABVD will receive standard combined modality treatment consisting of ABVD and
                INRT as in arm I.

             -  FDG-PET positive: Patients receive ABVD as in arm I for 2 courses or
                intensification to escalated BEACOPP chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV
                and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1, vincristine IV and bleomycin IV or IM on
                day 8, etoposide IV on days 1-3, oral procarbazine hydrochloride on days 1-7, oral
                prednisone on days 1-14, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 9
                and continuing until blood count recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2
                courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning
                3-4 weeks after completion of ABVD or BEACOPP, patients undergo INRT 5 days a week
                for 4-6 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 10
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,797 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  