
    
      This will be a parallel group, randomized controlled trial. Patients fulfilling the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria above will be randomized 1:1 to two groups. Randomization will be
      carried out through the use of computer-generated list of random numbers in variable blocks
      of 4 to 10. Concealment of group allocation will be achieved through putting the group
      allocation cards in consecutively-numbered and sealed envelopes. The patients and physicians
      will know that the patients are in the intervention group if they see the reminder messages.
      When they do not see a reminder message, there will not be a specific indicator of whether
      the patient is in the control group or in the intervention group but having low fibrosis
      scores. Furthermore, the outcome assessors will be blinded to the group assignment.

      For patients in the intervention group, we will calculate the fibrosis scores. For patients
      with increased fibrosis scores, we will type the following pop-up message in our electronic
      clinical management system:

      "This patient has high Fibrosis-4 index (and/or AST-to-platelet ratio index) of xxx
      suggestive of significant liver fibrosis. Please consider referring the patient to the
      hepatology clinic or arranging further test such as FibroScan."

      The reminder message will pop up when physicians see the patient at the clinic and use the
      electronic clinical management system. The message will remain active for one year. Although
      the message is entered manually at this stage, the arrangement mimics an automated computer
      system. If the study results are positive, the next step is to modify the system to automate
      the process.

      Patients in the control group will undergo the same assessments as patients in the
      intervention group. Although physicians will have access to the raw liver biochemistry
      results and platelet count, the fibrosis score results will not be specifically shown, and
      there will be no electronic reminder messages regardless of the fibrosis scores. This is to
      mimic usual care when there is no dedicated care model for case identification.
    
  