
    
      Integrative health coaching, based on a curriculum designed and implemented by Duke
      Integrative Medicine, uses a patient-centered approach that features elements of
      accountability, self-discovery, and patient-driven goals. It strives to empower patients to
      enact lifestyle changes situated in the context of their lives, and invites them to identify
      intrinsic values that might help guide those choices This type of approach is rooted in
      validated theories of health psychology. Preliminary work using IHC has found this new
      approach to be effective for improving lifestyle behaviors (diet, exercise, medication
      adherence) with concomitant improvements in glycemic control in type 2 diabetes, and for
      reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in patients with traditional risk factors.
      In addition, program outcomes suggest reduced healthcare spending in patients enrolled in
      IHC. A large trial to evaluate how this approach will perform in the primary care setting is
      currently ongoing.

      Health coaching and health literacy efforts that are "community-based" or take place in
      community settings have also been evaluated for effectiveness as well as feasibility and
      acceptability. Approaches utilized include telephonic coaching and peer coaches, often in an
      effort to provide increased accessibility. These studies highlight diverse coaching
      interventions with mixed results. There are no studies of Integrative Health Coaching
      implemented in non-profit community settings.

      Study Procedures

      Baseline visit - After screening to confirm eligibility, an in-person baseline visit will be
      organized with the participant, during which full consent will be obtained. Following subject
      consent, each participant will be asked to fill out a brief survey instrument on paper
      consisting of the ISEL-12 and PAM (or Parent PAM for the Healthy Lifestyles cohort).
      Participants (in the case of the Healthy Lifestyles cohort, pediatric participants and not
      parents or guardians) will then be weighed without shoes or outer garments using a zeroed
      electronic scale. Weight will be recorded to the nearest tenth of a pound. Height will be
      recorded to the nearest tenth of a centimeter using a stadiometer. Body mass index (BMI) will
      be calculated from these measurements using the conversion formula BMI = weight (kg)/ height
      (m2). Randomization will occur after collecting baseline measures. If randomized to receive
      health coaching, the participant (or parent) will receive a handout briefly describing what
      to expect from their health coaching sessions and how to best prepare. They will also be
      asked to fill out a "Current and Desired States" form, which is part of the IHC coaching
      model and will be passed along to coaches for use in the first session.

      Integrative Health Coaching Sessions - After completing the baseline visit, each participant
      randomized to coaching will be scheduled for an initial telephone call (~ 60-75 minutes in
      length) to discuss the role of a health coach, when and how s/he may be contacted by
      participants, and an initial participant self-assessment of health perceptions and goals.
      This self-assessment creates the foundation for the personalization of the behavioral
      intervention. From this point, participants will schedule weekly to biweekly (~ 30-45 minute)
      calls with their health coach, for a total of 6 coaching calls over a 3-month intervention
      period. For the Healthy Lifestyles cohort, all telephonic coaching sessions and activities
      conducted therein will be directed towards the parent or guardian providing consent. While
      family health goals and the child's weight management may be anticipated areas of focus in
      these sessions, coaches and clients will not be limited to any particular topics of
      discussion.

      Participants may initiate coaching sessions from their own personal phone, or by using a
      landline extension on site at CAARE Inc. or Healthy Lifestyles during business hours,
      depending on which is more convenient for their schedule and budget. This protocol provides
      no reimbursement for inadvertent phone charges.

      Post-intervention follow-up meeting - Three months following baseline (+ or - one week) and
      after 6 coaching sessions for the IHC group, participants will meet with a member of the
      research team to complete the same survey instruments from the baseline visit, and to
      reassess height and weight, using identical methods to those at baseline. At this time,
      participants randomized to the IHC group will also have the opportunity to offer recorded
      feedback regarding their experience in a coaching intervention. This feedback will be
      solicited via an interview guide of pre-drafted questions, after which the participant will
      have the opportunity to add additional comments. At this point, unless the participant is
      part of the subset allocated to the focus group (see below), his/her role in the study is
      completed. After the post-intervention survey has been completed, coaches and clients may
      agree to continue sessions on an individual basis, although coaches-in-training must clearly
      communicate that further sessions are not part of the study.

      Focus Group regarding impact of coaching on community needs assessment - This portion of the
      study will recruit a subset of those participants enrolled from the Healing with CAARE Inc.
      site. All participants previously enrolled, consented and randomized to receive health
      coaching will be asked to participate in a focus group session of about 1.5 hours regarding
      community needs assessment; the target participatory goal is 6-8 participants. The session
      will take place following post-intervention data collection for all participants who received
      coaching. It will be guided around a series of questions detailed in a separate document, and
      centered around data from the 2013 State of the County Health Report and 2013 Community
      Health Assessment Survey Results conducted and reported by the Durham County Health
      Department (DCHD) and Partnership for a Healthy Durham. 32 Participants will be invited to
      comment on the results of these assessments relative to their personal experiences, and to
      offer their perspectives on community needs, current resources or areas for improvement
      regarding health and wellness. They will also be asked about their experiences in using
      community resources or identifying community or environmental barriers through their behavior
      change efforts while receiving coaching. Participants will be asked whether and how their
      perspectives on community needs or available resources may have changed following coaching,
      and if and how they intend to utilize or advocate for community resources in the future.

      Post-Intervention Qualitative Evaluation In order to learn as much as possible from this
      community engagement project, after completion of the study intervention, interviews will be
      conducted with the coaches that delivered the interventions as well as clinical and
      administrative staff of the respective community sites. These interviews will take place in
      small groups or individually and may include briefer, follow-up conversations with the same
      individuals by phone or in person, to clarify responses as needed. The interviews will be
      recorded for the purposes of subsequent review and analysis. Participants in the interviews
      will be identified only by their role in the study in any written analysis of interview
      content.

      The interviews will be structured around a series of interview guides, each of which is
      composed of a series of questions directed at the health coaches, and community staff or
      providers who referred patients. Participants will also have an opportunity to draft their
      own questions regarding the study, and common themes of these questions will be explored
      further in the group conversation.

      Interviews will also be conducted with study participants individually, as outlined above, at
      the time of their post-intervention follow-up visit. As in the provider and staff interviews,
      the participant interviews will also be structured around interview guide questions, with an
      opportunity for participants to draft additional questions or share feedback beyond the
      question prompts.

      The interviews will provide feedback regarding feasibility, delivery, resources utilized, and
      interprofessional communication throughout the study. Specifically, the areas addressed will
      include reach, effectiveness, adoption, implementation and maintenance, as have been outlined
      in previous studies and briefs.
    
  