
    
      BACKGROUND:

      African Americans suffer from disproportionate rates of hypertension and related
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality due, at least in part, to excessive socioenvironmental
      and psychosocial stress. Furthermore, despite the substantial individual and population risk
      burden associated with high normal blood pressure (BP) in African Americans, there had been
      no controlled studies to evaluate stress reduction approaches in the primary prevention of
      hypertension targeted to this high risk group. Therefore, recent (mid 1990s) NIH and NIMH
      policy committees called for a new research focus on primary prevention of hypertension
      targeted to high risk populations-notably African Americans with high normal BP. In previous
      randomized controlled trials by the investigator, hypertension and psychosocial stress were
      significantly reduced in low SES African Americans who practiced stress reduction with the
      Transcendental Mediation (TM) program compared to relaxation or health education controls. In
      the most recent long-term trial, African Americans with borderline hypertension showed BP
      reductions that would be associated with a 17 percent decrease in prevalence of hypertension,
      a 15 percent reduction in stroke, and a 6 percent reduction in CHD in the population. These
      BP reductions compared favorably to decreases shown with sodium restriction and weight loss
      programs in other prevention trials. Also, pilot data from two clinical trials indicated that
      TM was associated with significantly lower cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in African
      Americans and in Caucasians with high BP over a 5-year and 15-year period, respectively.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A randomized controlled trial of stress reduction for the primary prevention of hypertension
      was conducted in African Americans with high normal BP. African American males and females
      (N-352, aged 21-75 years) with high normal BP (SBP 130-139 and/or DBP 85-89 mm Hg) were
      recruited from the African American Family Heart Health Plan at the Medical College of
      Wisconsin, Milwaukee, which housed the nation's largest registry of African Americans with
      known CVD risk factors. After baseline assessment, participants were randomized to either the
      TM program or to a matched health education control intervention. The primary outcome was
      change in clinic BP over a 12-month follow-up. Secondary outcomes included changes in
      ambulatory BP, hypertensive events, psychosocial stress and health behaviors. Also, a model
      of the pathways through which components of stressful experience affect high BP in African
      Americans was tested.

      This study is described as a clinical trial. The summary statement states that it is not an
      NIH Phase III clinical trial.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  