
    
      Sildenafil is a cyclic GMP selective phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor approved for use by
      the FDA in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension. There has been recent interest in
      the use of the drug in patients with diffuse parenchymal lung diseases. This is largely based
      on sildenafil's salutary effects observed in small studies (Collard et al. 897-99;Ghofrani et
      al. 895-900;Collard et al. 897-99) and the frequent coexistence of pulmonary hypertension in
      these patients (Nathan et al. 657-63). In eight patients with pulmonary fibrosis and
      pulmonary hypertension, sildenafil reduced pulmonary artery pressure and improved shunt
      fraction as determined by multiple inert gas elimination technique (Ghofrani et al.
      895-900;Nathan et al. 657-63). Collard et al demonstrated a 49 meter improvement in 6 minute
      walk distance in 11 patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and pulmonary hypertension
      after 3 months of therapy with sildenafil.

      Main theoretical concern with the use of pulmonary arterial vasodilator therapy has been
      worsening of ventilation perfusion matching due to release of hypoxic vasoconstriction. Such
      a phenomenon is well recognized during prostacyclin infusion(Ghofrani et al. 895-900;Walmrath
      et al. 1084-92). Inhaled route seems to circumvent this side effect by preferentially
      delivering the drug to the alveoli with high V/Q ratios and augmenting blood flow to these
      regions (Ghofrani et al. 895-900;Walmrath et al. 1084-92). In the only study to address
      possible effect of systemically administered sildenafil on gas exchange, Ghofrani et al
      observed improvement in V/Q matching in eight patients using the multiple inert gas
      elimination technique (MIGET). The authors postulated an enhancement of local defense
      mechanisms against hypoxia i.e. increased nitric oxide availability to hypoxic alveoli
      despite oral route of administration(Ghofrani et al. 895-900). In a recent study of 14 normal
      subjects, oral sildenafil did not effect DLCO measurements at rest, after exercise and under
      hypoxic conditions(Snyder et al. 421-30).

      Diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (DLCO) is the clinically available method
      of assessing gas exchange for practitioners. It is frequently used as a tool for serial
      monitoring of diffuse parenchymal lung disease. American Thoracic Society has endorsed its
      use in the assessment of patients with idiopathic interstitial pneumonias(American Thoracic
      Society/European Respiratory Society International Multidisciplinary Consensus Classification
      of the Idiopathic Interstitial Pneumonias . This Joint Statement of the American Thoracic
      Society (ATS), and the European Respiratory Society (ERS) was adopted by the ATS Board of
      Directors, June 2001 and by The ERS Executive Committee, June 2001 277-304).

      The aim of our study was to delineate the effects of orally administered sildenafil on
      diffusion capacity (absolute value). The significance of this information was twofold. First,
      it would be helpful clinically to determine the contribution of a pulmonary vasodilator to
      the change in DLCO to separate this effect from a true clinical change. Second, sildenafil's
      effect on gas exchange may lead to modifications in therapy such as changes in oxygen flow
      delivered to patients.

      This is not a study that measures clinical outcome or safety of sildenafil. A single dose was
      administered and effect on diffusion capacity and 6 minute walk were assessed compared to
      baseline. While we would caution clinicians for rare exceptions to these findings, we believe
      our data exclude a significant confounding effect in interpretation of diffusion capacity in
      patients with parenchymal lung disease who are treated for pulmonary hypertension with oral
      sildenafil. Whether this conclusion holds true at higher doses of sildenafil and in patients
      with vasodilator response may offer further venues for research.

      We were asked to retrospectively register the study at the request of BMC Pulmonary Medicine
      Journal Editorial Office prior to publication.
    
  