
    
      Participants will be randomized equally into an experimental group and a wait list control
      group.

      Experimental training will occur in the home, and will last 12 weeks, each week having 5
      sessions of therapeutic game play. Each session will start with vitals being measured and
      logged followed by motor and biosensor baselines. Subsequently, participants will play an
      increasing number of games, targeted at the major cognitive domains of memory (primarily),
      attention and executive functions. Since sessions will increase in length, researchers expect
      that more than 10 short games may eventually be played in each session.

      This will be an ABAA protocol for the experimental group, and a AABA protocol for the
      wait-list control group. Data will be sampled at baseline (A), during each rehabilitation
      session (B), mid-way through the study (at 3 months from baseline) and at the end of the
      study, at 6 months from baseline (A).

      At the end of every 4 weeks of BrightGo training, the participant and caregiver will each
      fill a custom subjective evaluation questionnaire.

      Before crossover to the experimental protocol, participants in the wait-list group will
      continue with their daily routine and prescribed medication (which will be logged). After
      crossing over, they will add the BrightGo intervention to their daily routine.

      Participants initially randomized to the experimental group will continue with daily routine
      and medication, and add the 5 sessions per week of experimental therapy. Once they cross over
      to the control arm after 12 weeks from start, they will continue with their daily routine and
      prescribed medication (which will again be logged) for another 12 weeks.

      All participants will receive a weekly call from the Clinical Coordinator so to report on any
      health concerns and system issues, as well as medication use. Caregivers will also be
      enrolled so they support the trials.
    
  