
    
      Diabetes is a chronic metabolic disease affecting 415 million people worldwide and 3.5
      million people in the UK, with ninety percent suffering from type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes
      is characterised by the inability of muscle and fat tissues to adequately respond to
      physiological levels of insulin (peripheral tissue insulin resistance), and to restore the
      normal levels of sugars in the bloodstream. Insulin resistance may occur prior to the
      development of type 2 diabetes and has been shown to be strongly linked to lifestyle and to
      obesity, although the underlying mechanisms are incompletely resolved. A defining
      characteristic of insulin resistance is abnormal glucose transport as a result of decreased
      cell surface expression of the glucose receptor GLUT4. In healthy adipose and skeletal muscle
      this receptor is trafficked to the cell surface in response to an insulin stimulus. We have
      shown that this translocation to the cell membrane requires the protein Rab3, and expression
      levels of this protein are reduced in cell models of insulin resistance.

      We hypothesise that this downregulation of Rab3 is associated with the development of insulin
      resistance and its activity would increase following the restoration of insulin sensitivity.
      The primary aim of this study is to examine the effect on Rab3 levels and GLUT4 trafficking
      of a diet and exercise intervention that has been previously shown to increase insulin
      sensitivity. Additionally, the gut microbiome will be studied before and after the
      intervention to determine any relationship to insulin sensitivity. Recent evidence suggests
      the microbiome has a significant role in the development of insulin resistance through a
      number of potential mechanisms. Infusion of microbiota from lean donors has been shown to
      result in improved insulin sensitivity in male recipients with metabolic syndrome, with
      concomitant increases in the prevalence of butyrate-producing intestinal microbiota. Exercise
      is associated with greater microbial diversity, including increases in butyrate-producing
      microbes. No study to date has monitored insulin sensitivity and microbiota composition
      before and after an exercise and diet intervention, and so this will lead to a better
      understanding of the mechanisms that lead to insulin resistance and subsequently type 2
      diabetes.

      The study participants will include males and females aged between 40-65 years who fit the
      criteria for inclusion. After monitoring of normal daily activities for 7 days, volunteers
      will reduce their calorie intake by 5000 kcal/week and take part in 5 weekly exercise
      sessions for 3 weeks. Participants will attend one session of laboratory testing before and
      one after this period which will take place at the University of Bath. This intervention
      should be sufficient to improve insulin sensitivity and allow us to study the cellular
      changes that will have taken place during this time.
    
  