
    
      The study takes place in older people long-term care on two cities in western part of
      Finland. The long-term care units are similar as stuff structure, nurse/resident ration,
      working ideology and quality management.

      The research design is cluster randomised controlled trial with pre- and post- test
      measurements in the intervention and control groups. The intervention group will follow the
      protocol and the control group participants will follow the usually care. Data are being
      collected at baseline, immediately after 10 weeks intervention and at follow-up 6 weeks after
      intervention.

      Continuing education named "Person First - Please" (PFP) based on Person-Centered Care (PCC)
      Practice Framework and Theory of Collective Competence and it consist of four modules:
      Information, Person, Autonomy and Dignity. Information module will take one hour in the first
      intervention week, and it will include information about the study; informed consent; short
      clarification about concept PCC and prerequisites for PCC. Tree other modules takes 4 hours
      contact with researcher in every three weeks.

      Power analyses for the sample size showed that for 0.8 effect size, power of 0.8 and
      statistical significance of 0.05 with three main hypotheses, for intervention group n=64 and
      for control group n=128. ICC of 0.1 was used based on previous sample of the primary outcome
      measurement.

      The randomization based on cluster sampling. Two cities will be constituting the clusters in
      western part of Finland. From these cities will be selected first all public long-term care
      units for the older people. To avoid contamination, one of the cities will be selected to
      participate in the intervention and the other in the control.

      Participants in the study consist of nurses (Managers of the Units, Registered Nurses,
      Licensed Practice Nurses, Caregiver Assistants) who work in older people LTC and older people
      from the same units participate alone or with their next of kin.

      Nurses background questions are age, education, working experience. Older people and next of
      kin background questions are age, length of the living in LTC, relationship, number of visits
      per week in LTC. The effectiveness of an intervention is measured by validated measurements
      that have been properly licensed.

      The data will be analysed by latest version of the Software Platform for Statistical Analysis
      (SPSS). Descriptive statistic will be calculated for the numerical and categorical data. The
      normal distribution of the data and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for the
      numerical and categorical data. Intervention and control group will be statistically
      compared, and differences will be measured at each time point. At the baseline will be ensure
      the similarity of intervention and control group for background variables. Cross-tabulations
      will be done for categorical and numerical variables. The sum variable of the measurements
      during the three different measurement time will be analysed using hierarchical linear mixed
      models will compare the changes over time between the groups.

      Each participant will be informed before about the purpose of the study, issues related to
      research ethics, reporting of the findings and they will sign informed consent. Since the
      study involves research participants who are vulnerable due to cognitive impairment,
      researcher have clear protocol and special attention will be paid to ethical issues during
      the study.
    
  