
    
      The pathophysiological basis of postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is not well elucidated.
      The most widely recognized primary cause of POTS is a "restricted" or "selective" peripheral
      neuropathy - neuropathic POTS. Several lines of evidence point to a restricted peripheral
      neuropathy, specifically sympathetic denervation in the lower hemibody, as a cause of POTS.
      These include venous denervation, impaired distal sudomotor dysfunction, lower norepinephrine
      spillover in the legs than the arms. However, not all POTS patients have peripheral
      neuropathy. Proposed pathogenic etiologies for non-neuropathic POTS include deconditioning,
      low-grade inflammation and oxidative stress. Neuropathic POTS is present in 33% of patients
      while non-neuropathic POTS is present in 67% of patients.

      The most frequent neuropathic feature in the neuropathic POTS group is decreased sweat output
      measured by quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test. Headache and gastrointestinal symptoms
      (such as abdominal pain, bloating, nausea and constipation) are also more prevalent in the
      neuropathic than in the non-neuropathic POTS group, suggesting more global differences
      between the two populations.

      In relation to the ambiguous pathophysiological basis, there is no definitive treatment for
      POTS. There are reports of improvements in hemodynamic measures and symptoms of orthostatic
      tolerance with pharmacologic agents that include intravenous saline, intravenous
      phenylephrine, midodrine, octreotide, erythropoietin, pyridostigmine, and betablockade. The
      therapy is however frequently disappointing. Furthermore, there are no reported long-term
      studies of medications to treat POTS and there are no reports of the effects of any
      intervention on fatigue or quality of life.

      The most widely used agents to treat POTS, the alpha-adrenoreceptor agonist midodrine, and
      the beta blockers, paradoxically have agonistic and antagonistic effects on the autonomic
      nervous system. Responses to these drugs are inconsistent and there are no delineated
      predictors of the response in POTS patients.

      The comparison of therapeutic interventions in this protocol are based on the rationale that
      while alpha-adrenoreceptor agonists are thought to be more effective in neuropathic POTS - a
      disorder characterized by a compensatory increase in sympathetic outflow in which
      sympatholysis may be counterproductive, beta-adrenoreceptor antagonists are thought to be
      more effective in non-neuropathic POTS - a disorder that could be characterized by increased
      central sympathetic outflow due to impaired sympathetic inhibition.

      This protocol uses droxidopa, which is converted to direct adrenoreceptor agonist,
      norepinephrine. The protocol also uses beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist, the non-selective
      atenolol.

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over experimental study with
      three trial arms, according to the two medications (droxidopa and atenolol) and the placebo.
      The trial is performed in the Center for Autonomic and Peripheral Nerve Disorders at the Beth
      Israel Deaconess Medical Center.

      The study consists of 10 visits:

        -  screening visit,

        -  testing days to define drug sensitivity

        -  classification day

        -  autonomic testing visits

        -  follow-up visits

      Screening visit (Visit 1) includes

        -  Consenting procedure

        -  Review of medical history

        -  Review of all current medications, prescription and over the counter

        -  Physical and neurological examinations

        -  Measure height, weight, temperature and vital signs

        -  12-lead ECG

        -  Baseline autonomic tests

        -  Blood labs

        -  Serum pregnancy testing for women of childbearing potential

        -  Patients are able to take PO medications

      Drug Sensitivity Visit (Visit 2 and 3) On the first visit, patients receive one 100 mg
      droxidopa while on the second visit patients receive one 300 mg test dose of droxidopa to
      define their response to the drug. The drug administration is preceded and followed by heart
      rate and blood pressure measurements and side effect monitoring. The two consecutive visits
      are made within a period of 3 days. The goal of sensitivity visit is to determine if a
      patient has any sign of denervation supersensitivity in response to droxidopa. The patient is
      considered to have denervation supersensitivity if systolic blood pressure is greater than
      180 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure is greater than 110 mmHg after 3 minutes of standing or
      after 5 minutes of sitting or the patient is unable to tolerate the side effects believed to
      be related to the drug.

      Patient classification visit (Visit 4) includes

        -  Quantitative Direct and Indirect testing of Sudomotor Function (QDIRT)

        -  Quantitative Sudomotor Axon Reflex Testing (QSART)

        -  Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST)

        -  Punch skin biopsy

        -  Questionnaires (Chronic Fatigue Screening Form, Fatigue Severity Scale, Chalder Fatigue
           Questionnaire, etc., see Questionnaires section)

      Autonomic Evaluation Visits (Visit 5, 7 and 9) include

        -  Urine pregnancy test for women of child-bearing potential

        -  Setup and instrumentation

        -  Blood draw for hormones and catecholamines (Visit 5 only)

        -  Microneurography procedure

        -  Drug/placebo administration

        -  Deep breathing test

        -  Paced breathing test

        -  Modified Oxford test

        -  Sympathetic transduction

        -  Static exercise

        -  Tilt table test

      Primary outcome measure of autonomic evaluation visit is maximum postural tachycardia while
      secondary outcome measure of autonomic evaluation visit are blood pressure, heart rate,
      vascular resistance, muscle sympathetic nerve activity.

      Follow-up testing visits (Visit 6, 8 and 10) include

        -  Medical history

        -  Physical examination

        -  Vital signs

        -  EKG

        -  Blood pressure measurement

        -  Tilt table test

      Primary outcome measure of follow-up testing visits is the fatigue score on the Chalder
      Fatigue questionnaire while secondary outcome measures of follow-up testing visits are the
      scores on the physical functioning subscale of the SF-36 questionnaire, 7 item patient global
      impression of change, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scales, the Checklist Individual
      Strength (CIS), Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI), the Fatigue Severity Scale, the
      EuroQOL, the HADS and anxiety scores. The Orthostatic Intolerance Questionnaire - a unique
      validated questionnaire is used to assess orthostatic intolerance symptoms and quality of
      life-related to orthostatic intolerance.
    
  