
    
      Background Patients with complex chronic multiple illnesses constitute an increasing
      challenge and more evidence-based knowledge of effective practice is required. In Denmark and
      the rest of the world, improved health care, public health, and increased focus on early
      diagnosis have led to increases in life expectancy resulting in a growing population of older
      people living with multiple long-term conditions (multimorbidity). Today, every fourth Dane
      suffers from more than one concomitant chronic or severe disease, estimated to rise to 60%
      for those over 65 years. Multimorbidity is more prevalent in women, rises with declining
      social status and is associated with poorer quality-of-life. With an increasing proportion of
      multimorbid patients, the prevalence of polypharmacy will increase. A multisymptomatic and
      complicated disease pattern applies to both physical and mental illness, multiplicative
      effects can create a need for people within different specialities working together. Earlier
      studies show, that the most common chronic diseases are diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
      cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma. Comorbid diseases tend to compound
      and interact, for example, COPD and diabetes are often seen in combination with
      cardiovascular disease.

      Everyday-life of multimorbid patients is influenced by drug consumption, frequent visits to
      general practice, hospitalisations and outpatient clinics. A recent study showed that
      patients with three chronic conditions visit health professionals five times a month and
      spend 50-71 hours per month on health-related activities. However, studies on derivative
      effects of multimorbidity are scarce and research focus is primarily placed on mainly health
      services. Multimorbid patients experience and are in reality exposed to lack of coordination,
      lack of inter-disciplinary communication and overall poor care management. Individual
      resources and priorities in everyday life play a dominant role in navigating the tension
      between everyday life and the health care system. This is often extremely demanding for
      patients to navigate in.

      National and international health care is organised and targeted as specialised,
      mono-diagnostic efforts for single diseases leading to lack of coordination and failure to
      integrate multidisciplinary patient trajectories. Danish research shows that general practice
      is challenged by insufficient collaboration between professionals involved in the treatment.
      Despite this, there exists limited evidence of initiatives aiming to improve care for
      multimorbid patients. Previous initiatives involve getting patients to take more active part
      in their disease, creating disease insight, involving case managers, patient-shared medical
      appointments, collaborative models and communication technology. Present on-going studies
      focusing on interventions for multimorbid patients are also few.

      In conclusion, the evidence is sparse on collaborative approaches directed at multimorbid
      patients and on organising health care systems to accommodate this.

      Objectives and hypotheses Hypothesis 1 Multimorbid patients have numerous contacts to
      outpatient clinics and are characterised as being older patients with common chronic
      diseases, a complicated disease pattern and frequent users of health care utilisations.

      Objective 1: To identify chronic multimorbid patients and to analyse their use of two or more
      outpatient clinics, their general use of health care utilisations and their disease pattern
      and characteristics.

      Hypothesis 2: It is feasible to convert several outpatient clinic pathways to one
      multidisciplinary outpatient pathway and to structure an organisation around it.

      Objective 2: To develop an innovative organisational structure around a multidisciplinary
      outpatient pathway for multimorbid patients and to pilot-test it.

      Hypothesis 3: Patients and health care professionals find it advantageous to convert
      outpatient visits for multimorbid patients to a multidisciplinary outpatient pathway, and the
      use of resources will lower.

      Objective 3: To phase-III test a multidisciplinary outpatient pathway and to preliminarily
      evaluate the effects in patients and health professionals and on resource utilisations.

      Materials and Methods

      Objective 1:

      In a national cross-sectional study, data on multimorbid patients is obtained using validated
      Danish registries, processed with remote access to Statistics Denmark.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patients who are diagnosed with more than one chronic disease

        -  Seen in more than one outpatient clinic (within 18 months, 12 months, 6 months, 3
           months)

        -  ≥18 years of age.

      Exposure and outcomes: Primary exposure constitutes chronic diseases occurring in multimorbid
      patients with classification a priori. Based on diagnoses (selected diagnoses chosen from
      previous studies), clinical, socio-demographic characteristics and the need for health care
      are investigated. We wish to demonstrate how these exposures are distributed by the number of
      concomitant outpatient visits within different time intervals of 18 months, 12 months, 6
      months, 3 months.

      Objective 2:

      In a feasibility-design efforts will be devoted to setting up an innovative multidisciplinary
      outpatient pathway based on recommendations for complex interventions in the health system.
      It involves the process of going from a conceptual to an operational setup.

      Procedure: A multidisciplinary outpatient pathway will be established at the University
      Research Clinic for Innovative Patient Pathways. Through literature review and specialist
      opinions, interviews, the intervention will consist of two or more disciplines collaborating
      in establishing a treatment plan for the patient. A process manual of the individual phases
      and a participatory cooperative approach will be used. A steering group will involve plastic
      organic groups (health care professionals, patients, GPs), which will contribute along with
      the hospital's task force team (center management, senior health care professionals,
      representatives of quality development) through process support.

      Exposure and outcomes: In the multidisciplinary outpatient pathway, health care professionals
      will collaborate between medical specialties and examinations gathered for one joint
      encounter with the patient. An integrated discharge summary is sent to general practice. The
      exact structure and composition of the multidisciplinary outpatient pathway is part of the
      feasibility study. Interviews are conducted on patients and healthcare professionals to
      assess their experience with the pathway. Also a process evaluation is made.

      Study 3: To phase-III test a multidisciplinary outpatient pathway and to preliminary evaluate
      the effects in patients and healthcare professionals and on resource utilisations.

      In a prospective study with difference-in-difference analysis, a cohort of multimorbid
      patients seen in outpatient clinics is included based on the composition from the feasibility
      study.

      Exposure: The newly established multidisciplinary outpatient pathway. Outcomes: In paired
      measurements, Patient Reported Experience Measures (PREM) are recorded in questionnaires
      before and after trajectories in conventional mono-disciplinary outpatient clinics are
      converted to trajectories in the multidisciplinary outpatient pathway. Questionnaires are
      compiled according to the literature of existing, validated questionnaires and supplemented
      by ad hoc questions when no existing questionnaire exists). Questionnaires are set up in the
      processing program, REDCap and sent through "e-boks" merged with doc2mail where replies are
      entered directly in REDCap through a link. Questionnaires will also be sent by letter.

      The cohort will be followed for one year for data collection on health care utilisations
      (e.g. admissions, visits to outpatient clinics, redeemed prescriptions, contacts to general
      practice or emergency medical services, hospital activity/examinations). A control group of
      patients from other hospitals with trajectories in outpatient clinics are matched by gender,
      age, disease, comorbidity, and length of disease. Difference-in-difference comparisons are
      made on healthcare utilizations one year prior to the index date (first consultation with the
      new pathway). Data is retrieved from national registers.
    
  