
    
      Both ketoconazole and posaconazole are FDA-approved anti-fungal agents with a
      well-established side effect and safety profile. Ketoconazole and posaconazole have shown
      efficacy in reducing tumor cell proliferation in in-vitro studies. Furthermore, both have
      also shown efficacy, mediated at least in part through inhibition of HK2 activity, in animal
      models with dosing concentration and schedules that are documented as safe in humans. As a
      drug, posaconazole has a more predictable half-life than ketoconazole and has less off-target
      effects. Therefore, the proposed trial will focus on the role of posaconazole exclusively. As
      a first step, demonstration of adequate penetrance of study drug in brain and tumor tissue
      (pharmacokinetics) and biological effect (inhibition of glycolysis and subsequent tumor cell
      death) is necessary prior to large scale clinical studies. A total of 5 control participants
      will be included in this study as the investigator specifically wants to assess for
      pharmacodynamic differences too. The addition of a control group to this study rather to both
      the studies (ketoconazole study is a separate protocol) is because the investigator feels
      posaconazole may be a more promising drug for moving forward.

      Plasma drug concentration measurements are an unreliable method to assess delivery of drugs
      across the blood-brain barrier. In contrast, intracerebral MDC monitoring allows for
      approximate measurements within extracellular fluid (ECF) sampling of the brain. MDC
      placement within the brain is not a novel technique and has been utilized routinely in the
      ICU setting to measure brain metabolism by sampling of ECF of traumatic brain injury patients
      [59-61].

      MDC are now FDA-approved and are being placed routinely with intracranial pressure monitors.
      This method allows for continuous measurement of ECF within a tumor or normal tissue. The
      dialysis probe has a semipermeable membrane which is less than 1 mm in diameter into which
      two sections of microcatheter are fused. Previous studies have demonstrated the feasibility
      of keeping the catheters in place of critically injured patients for up to 2 weeks [62-64].

      When placed at the time of surgical resection, the microcatheters are stereotactically
      implanted, placing the probe within the desired brain and/or tumor region. Externally, the
      catheter is connected to a syringe pump, which delivers a low flow rate (μl/min) of
      continuous perfusion fluid (Lactated Ringers or artificial CSF) and dialysate is collected in
      a microvial from the outlet tube. This sterile, single use catheter is minimally invasive and
      developed to achieve optimal diffusing characteristics similar to passive diffusion of a
      capillary blood vessel. Just as in the function of brain capillary vessel, water, inorganic
      ions and small organic molecules freely diffuse across the membrane of the probe, whereas
      proteins and protein bound compounds are impermeable. Additionally, lipophilic compounds are
      poorly recovered. Therefore, assessment of pharmacokinetics of drug using MDC provides
      valuable insight relevant to its anti-neoplastic properties.
    
  