
    
      Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is a condition that when found prenatally offers parents a poor but
      often uncertain prognosis for their baby. Parents that continue the pregnancy given this
      diagnosis are left to endure the remainder of the pregnancy and the ambiguity involved in
      this highly variable condition. Previous studies have examined the psychological and social
      impact of prenatal diagnosis on parents and the outcomes of the pregnancy in conditions such
      as Down syndrome and sex chromosome abnormalities. Because the majority of parents receiving
      abnormal prenatal information terminate their pregnancies, most studies have focused on these
      parents' experiences, specifically the mothers'. However, little is known about the
      experiences of parents (both fathers and mothers) continuing a pregnancy given abnormal
      prenatal information especially in highly variable conditions such as HPE.

      In this study, the experiences and needs of parents who received the diagnosis of HPE
      prenatally will be explored. Study participants will be drawn from several sites that include
      an existing molecular diagnostic protocol for HPE at the University of Pennsylvania, clinical
      patients seen at the University of Michigan, HPE family resources, and an upcoming conference
      on HPE to be held in April of 2000. Through semi-structured interviews, fathers and mothers
      of children with HPE who were diagnosed prenatally will be asked to talk individually about
      their experiences of receiving the diagnosis and continuing with the pregnancy. Their
      perceived informational, emotional and supportive needs at that time will be explored. In
      addition, their thoughts on the health care professionals' role in meeting these needs will
      be discussed. A brief questionnaire following the interview will gather quantitative data to
      serve as descriptors of the population and to help interpret the qualitative findings. The
      questionnaire includes demographic questions as well as a scale measuring tolerance for
      ambiguity and questions regarding the parent's perceived severity of their child's diagnosis
      of HPE.

      Interviews will be analyzed qualitatively through thematic analysis. Specifically, recurring
      themes that emerge from interview transcripts will be analyzed for content and patterns. In
      addition, descriptive statistics will be applied to the questionnaire data and will be used
      to aid in the interpretation of the qualitative findings. An exploration of the experiences
      and needs of fathers and mothers who receive the diagnosis of HPE prenatally will offer a
      better understanding for health care professionals, specifically genetic counselors,
      regarding their role in working with parents continuing a pregnancy given prenatal
      information about a fetal anomaly.
    
  