
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of onalespib (AT13387) in
      combination with concurrent cisplatin and radiotherapy in patients with locoregionally
      advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (LA-SCCHN). (Dose Escalation Phase) II.
      To preliminarily evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of AT13387 in combination with
      concurrent cisplatin and radiotherapy in patients with LA-SCCHN. (Dose Expansion Phase)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of AT13387 in combination with cisplatin and
      radiotherapy.

      II. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of cisplatin in combination with AT13387 and
      radiotherapy.

      III. To assess for pharmacodynamics biomarkers for proof-of-mechanism. IIV. To assess for
      potential predictive biomarkers of efficacy. V. To document the toxicities associated with
      the administration of AT13387 in combination with cisplatin and radiotherapy in patients with
      LA-SCCHN.

      VI. To explore and characterize predictive biomarkers for individual cancer patients
      utilizing genomic sequencing technologies.

      VII. To provide preliminary disease-free survival, locoregional control, distant
      metastases-free survival, and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of onalespib.

      Patients receive onalespib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days -7, 3, 10, 24, 31, and 38
      and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43. Patients also undergo IMRT
      once daily (QD), 5 days a week over 7 weeks for a total of 35 fractions. Treatment continues
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 8 weeks, every 3 months for
      1 year, and then every 6 months for 1 year. Beyond the first 2 years, patients may be
      followed up every 6 months for up to 3 years per institutional standards.
    
  