
    
      Sinusitis is inflammation of the sinuses that results in symptoms such as thickened nasal
      drainage, nasal congestion and facial pain or pressure. Because sinusitis is often preceded
      by and almost always accompanied by, inflammation of the nasal mucosa, the term
      "rhinosinusitis" is used by ENT (ear, nose and throat) physicians to replace the term
      "sinusitis." Viruses, bacteria, and nasal allergies are common causes of inflammation. The
      inflamed, swollen mucosa of the nasal and sinus cavities leads to obstruction of the openings
      of the sinuses. Unable to circulate air and eliminate the secretions that are normally
      produced, the sinuses then become an ideal environment for bacterial infection.

      Sinusitis is categorized into the following types according to the duration of symptoms:

      Acute - symptoms are present for 4 weeks or less; Subacute - symptoms are present for more
      than 4 weeks, but less than 12 weeks; Chronic - symptoms are present for 12 weeks or greater;
      Recurrent Acute - 4 or more acute episodes occurring within 1 year, with resolution of
      symptoms between episodes; Acute exacerbation of chronic rhinosinusitis involves an episode
      of worsening symptoms in a patient with diagnosed with chronic rhinosinusitis.

      In the United States, more than 30 million people are diagnosed with sinusitis each year.
      Moreover, chronic sinusitis effects approximately 15% of the U.S. population and is one of
      the most common chronic illnesses in America. Both budesonide and mometasone nasal sprays are
      used to relieve sneezing, runny, stuffy, or itchy nose caused by hay fever or other allergies
      (caused by an allergy to pollen, mold, dust, or pets). These nasal sprays are in the class of
      drugs called corticosteroids. They work by blocking the release of certain natural substances
      that cause allergy symptoms.

      The objective of this study is to determine the incidence of cortisol suppression with the
      use of nasal mometasone irrigations in varying dosages.

      Low levels of cortisol can cause weakness, fatigue, and low blood pressure. In using nasal
      sprays, a drug may enter the body's circulation through direct local absorption in the nasal
      mucosa or oral absorption of any swallowed medication. Some people can reduce symptom
      severity using medication, including antihistamines and anti-inflammatory drugs. Nasal
      irrigation - the flooding of the sinus cavity with warm saline solution - can help to reduce
      sinus congestion and is often recommended by otolaryngologists for a variety of sinus
      conditions. The goal of nasal irrigation is to clear excess mucus and foreign debris out of
      the sinuses, and to moisturize the mucosal membrane. The practice has been subjected to
      clinical testing and has been found to be safe and beneficial with no apparent side effects.

      The addition of budesonide to nasal irrigations has become common practice in the treatment
      of chronic rhinosinusitis. Mometasone has been shown to be an alternative to budesonide with
      increased local effects and lower absorption by the body. Studies have shown that saline
      irrigation treatments show greater effects versus saline spray for providing short-term
      relief of chronic nasal and sinus symptoms. There is limited data on the use of mometasone in
      nasal irrigations.

      The sample size for this study will be 45 patients. Patients will sign the consent form and
      get a baseline morning cortisol blood draw to confirm eligibility. Once enrolled, they will
      be instructed on how to perform the nasal irrigation twice a day with a 240 milliliter saline
      filled Neilmed bottle. Patients will receive either the 1 milligram mometasone dose, 2
      milligram mometasone dose, or 4 milligram of mometasone dose. The dose assignment will be
      determined by the treating physician. After 12 weeks of continuous use of the mometasone
      irrigation, there will be a repeat morning blood draw to compare cortisol levels to the
      baseline blood draw.

      Scientific Review:

      The addition of budesonide to nasal irrigations has become common practice in the treatment
      of chronic rhinosinusitis. The dose of budesonide 0.5 milligrams/2 milliliters was chosen as
      a result of convenience, as budesonide respules are commercially available as an inhalation
      in the treatment of asthma. Mometasone is an alternative to budesonide with improved
      pharmacokinetics resulting in increased local efficacy and lower systemic absorption,
      however, data is limited in its use as a topical irrigation formulation.

      There is relevant literature available discussing the pharmacokinetic profile of budesonide
      and mometasone used intranasally. Following intranasal administration a drug may enter
      systemic circulation through direct local absorption in the nasal mucosa or oral absorption
      of any swallowed medication. The intranasal bioavailability of budesonide and mometasone
      through nasal mucosa have been measured at 34% and less than 0.1% respectively. If a drug
      enters systemic circulation through the nasal mucosa, the medication is subject to plasma
      protein binding. When a medication is protein bound it is not bioactive and thus reduces the
      potential for systemic adverse effects. Approximately 85-90% of budesonide is bound to plasma
      proteins after entering systemic circulation. Alternatively, mometasone is 99% protein bound
      at clinically relevant concentrations. Therefore, budesonide is bioactive at 10-15 times the
      concentration of mometasone in the serum due to plasma protein binding.

      A portion of the drug may also be cleared from the sinuses into the throat and swallowed,
      making it available for gastrointestinal absorption. Medications absorbed through the
      gastrointestinal tract are subject to first pass hepatic metabolism which largely determines
      the amount of medication which reaches systemic circulation. Approximately 90% of swallowed
      budesonide is metabolized by the liver during first pass metabolism7. On the other hand, when
      mometasone is swallowed and undergoes first pass metabolism, 99% of the drug is eliminated
      leaving only 1% of the drug to enter the circulation.

      A desired pharmacokinetic property of intranasal steroids is high lipophilicity. Higher
      lipophilicity leads to increased intranasal absorption as well as prolonged retention in the
      nasal tissue. Longer retention of the steroid in nasal tissue results in increased exposure
      to the glucocorticoid receptor. The relative lipophilicity of budesonide and mometasone are
      3,980 and 50,000 respectively. Thus, mometasone has twelve times higher lipophilicity than
      budesonide.

      There is current relevant data to assess the safety of mometasone administered intranasally.
      A review of 20 clinical trials with more than 6,000 patients worldwide at doses up to 20
      times the recommended daily dose found no detectable effect of mometasone on the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA). Additionally, mometasone at high doses, did not
      cause atrophy to the nasal mucosa. Intranasal mometasone at a dose of 1600 micrograms, which
      is 4 times the recommended dose administered daily to human volunteers for 29 days showed no
      incidence of adverse effects. The effects of oral mometasone on HPA axis function has also
      been studied. Oral mometasone was administered at doses of 2, 4, and 8 milligrams to 24
      healthy male volunteers with no significant change in plasma or urinary cortisol from
      placebo.
    
  