
    
      Peer mentoring and support models have been found in two recent VA Randomized Controlled
      Trials (RCTs) to be more effective than usual care, financial incentives, and usual nurse
      care management to improve glycemic control in high-risk Veteran patients with poor glycemic
      control. Such models are important complements to provision of care by formal health care
      providers as they provide sustained, flexible between-visit support. Peer supporters and
      coaches can be trained in effective behavioral approaches to support other Veterans'
      self-management behaviors. Such supporters, however, necessarily lack the content expertise
      to help Veterans make informed treatment decisions and set health goals with their health
      care providers. Accordingly, in a recent study the investigators developed and tested a
      tailored, interactive computer-based tool with diabetes and medication information embedded
      in the tool's software that peer coaches and other outreach workers can employ to facilitate
      discussions with patients. Such tailored, interactive tools have been found to be more
      effective than generic educational and decision support tools in improving clinical and
      patient-centered outcomes. Moreover, these tools could enhance the sustainability and
      effectiveness of coaching programs to better prepare patients to set self-management goals
      and action plans, and to discuss treatment options with their health care providers. With VA
      support and input from Veterans, the investigators adapted the tailored, interactive
      computer-based tool for use with and by Veterans with diabetes. The investigators now propose
      to incorporate this tool into a peer mentor-led diabetes self-management coaching program
      among predominantly African American Veterans with poor glycemic control at the Detroit VA, a
      VA health system with high rates of poor risk factor control among diabetes patients. The
      investigators propose to evaluate this Technology-Enhanced Coaching (TEC) program.
      Specifically, the investigators propose to:

      Aim 1: Test the effectiveness of a technology-enhanced peer coaching (TEC) program in
      improving glucose control relative to peer coaching without technology enhancement; and, also
      test the effectiveness of peer support compared to observed usual care. For the "usual care"
      observed group, the investigators will use electronic health record data to measure A1c
      levels.

      Aim 2: Assess the impact of the intervention on key patient-centered outcomes, including
      patients' satisfaction and involvement with care, perceived social support, diabetes-specific
      quality of life, and medication adherence.

      Aim 3: Identify patient characteristics associated with engagement in the intervention and
      mediators and moderators of the intervention's impact on patient outcomes.

      In summary, the TEC program builds on the demonstrated strengths of peer support models and
      of tailored, interactive decision support tools in improving diabetes self-management and
      outcomes. This study will test incorporation of tailored interactive educational tools into a
      peer coaching model found in prior VA RCTs to be effective in improving diabetes outcomes.

      The tools tested in the proposed intervention will be disseminated for use in other VA sites
      through a tool kit with training and support materials. Because the intervention addresses
      barriers to disease management for chronically ill patients, physicians, and case managers,
      the study may have broader impact on management practices for other chronic illnesses.
    
  