
    
      Twenty-five percent of the United States population has nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
      (NAFLD), a disease that includes hepatic fatty infiltration alone (simple steatosis) or
      steatosis plus inflammation, liver cell injury and death (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
      [NASH]). NAFLD involving hepatic steatosis alone can be a stable clinical condition existing
      as the hepatic manifestation of insulin resistance. NASH develops in 25% of patients with
      NAFLD, and likely has additional pathologic underpinnings compared to steatosis alone. NASH
      leads to liver fibrosis, an elevated risk of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma and is
      likely to be the leading cause of liver transplantation in the U.S. The gold standard to
      distinguish probable uncomplicated NAFLD from NASH can be made using the histopathological
      nonalcoholic fatty liver disease score (NAS) score in which the sum of the categorical
      severity of steatosis, inflammation, and hepatocyte ballooning injury is ≥ 4, i.e.,
      suggestive of NASH. Patients with obesity (BMI³30 kg/m2), type 2 diabetes (T2DM), age older
      than 45 years, and certain ethnicities are at high risk for developing NASH. In the U.S., the
      cost of management of NASH and its complications is $32 billion annually. Durable therapies
      are lacking for the NASH spectrum and an acceptable pharmaceutical intervention is not
      approved. Weight loss, achieved through lifestyle modification, is the cornerstone of
      therapy. Improvements in NAS are proportional to weight loss but weight loss does not
      reliably surpass 10% with lifestyle modification. Weight loss surgery (bariatric surgery)
      achieves dramatic weight loss. The vertical sleeve gastrectomy (VSG), a bariatric surgical
      procedure, can dramatically reduce (NAS) and favor NASH remission. Importantly, not all
      patients with NASH demonstrate histologic improvements following bariatric surgery, and in a
      small percentage of patients the disease may progress. Presently, it is not known what
      mechanistic biomarkers might prioritize steatosis, inflammation, or hepatocyte ballooning
      injury, and furthermore there are no known antecedent biomarkers of outcome of NAFLD with
      bariatric surgery. As the primary host for glucose and fat metabolism, the liver forms the
      critical nexus for whole body metabolism. In the setting of insulin resistance and NAFLD,
      glucose production becomes less responsive to the suppressive effects of insulin while de
      novo fat synthesis is enhanced in a paradoxical setting in which fat oxidation is not
      decreased. Mitochondrial b-oxidation of fatty acids normally produces acetyl-CoA which is
      terminally oxidized via the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, producing reducing equivalents
      needed for gluconeogenesis. While measured in uncomplicated human NAFLD, hepatic energy
      fluxes have never been formally measured in human NASH, and thus there is an unmet need to
      determine whether mitochondrial metabolism drives and/or predicts NAFLD
      progression/resolution, potentially yielding quantifiable predictive value over NAS alone.
      The research group has developed magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS)- based methods for
      quantifying hepatic oxidative energy fluxes and glucose metabolism ('hepatic energy fluxes')
      using administered dual 2H and 13C isotope tracers non-invasively and without imaging,
      requiring only collections of peripheral venous blood. These flux measurements will be
      performed at baseline in obese patients (BMI of 30-39.9 kg/m2) prior to VSG, who have all
      received preoperative liver biopsies for histopathological determination of NAS score, liver
      MRI-derived proton density fat fraction (PDFF) and elastography (MRE) assessment of fibrosis,
      and intravenous glucose tolerance tests (IVGTT) as a crude measure of insulin resistance.
      Then it will be determined how preoperative energy flux indices correlate with pre- and
      post-operative NAS, PDFF, and MRE indices. Thus, the premise of this study is that deranged
      hepatic mitochondrial metabolism is a key biomarker and mediator of the NAFLD/NASH continuum,
      and the central hypothesis the investigators will test is that preoperative hepatic fat
      oxidation and glucose production flux parameters differ between low versus high NAS, and
      response of the liver to bariatric surgery can be predicted by preoperative fluxes. It is
      anticipated that these preliminary observations will serve as proof-of-concept datasets
      supporting future R01 funding that comprehensively determine the role of hepatic oxidative
      fluxes in human NASH evolution and response to bariatric surgery. This will be first study to
      quantify hepatic metabolic fluxes in obese (BMI 30-39.9 kg/m2) adult patients with
      biopsy-proven NASH compared to NAFLD without NASH. This will also be the first study to
      correlate these findings to histopathological, radiographic, and clinical outcomes following
      VSG. Central parameters of hepatic energy fluxes, and the relative contributions of the
      liver's three carbon sources to endogenous glucose production (i.e., from PEP, glycogen, or
      glycerol), have not been quantified for in human NASH. Contributions of these metabolic
      indices preoperatively to VSG outcomes have not been interrogated.
    
  