
    
      Alzheimer's disease and related syndromes have become a major public health priority issue in
      France. Pharmacological treatments are ineffective and symptomatic, and only delay the
      progression of the disease.

      The management of Alzheimer's disease involves the development of multi-domain prevention
      programs, including physical activity and neurostimulation by cognitive stimulation. They aim
      to delay the appearance of fragility defined according to Fried by difficulties in walking,
      weight loss, fatigue, lack of wrist strength and sedentary lifestyle.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a stimulation technique using a low
      intensity DC electric current that acts by modulating neuronal excitability at the cerebral
      level.

      According to recent data, by its action on the cerebral cortex, this simple and non-invasive
      stimulation technique could prevent the effects of pathological aging, and reduce the
      cognitive difficulties of the elderly concerning episodic memory, attention and executive
      functions. These difficulties are also factors related to the risk of the elderly falling
      (defined by the slowness of walking speed, reduced monopodal support time and the existence
      of a falling antecedent).

      TDCS is a rapidly expanding technique, used to treat cognitive difficulties associated with
      many pathologies (Parkinson's disease, rehabilitation after head trauma, etc.), but which
      remains of the field of research.

      Its use remains very experimental, and concerns the exploration of cognitions, in healthy and
      diseased subjects. There are not many studies on the elderly subject with Alzheimer's
      disease, nor do they document the medium- and long-term effect (more than one month), nor the
      effect on geriatric parameters such as Fragility indices and the risk of falls, especially at
      home. These characteristics are decisive because they define the level of autonomy.

      The investigators therefore wish to study the effect of a 2-week treatment with tDCS (tDCS
      active) versus placebo (2-week tDCS group) on these criteria. This effect may stop or curb
      cognitive decline.
    
  