
    
      Sickle cell disease is an autosomal recessive disorder and the most common genetic disease
      affecting African-Americans. Approximately 0.15% of African-Americans are homozygous for
      sickle cell disease, and 8% have sickle cell trait. Hemoglobin S polymerization leads to red
      cell rigidity, microvascular obstruction, inflammation, and end-organ ischemic injury. Our
      published data indicate that up to 50% of sickle cell patients have vascular dysfunction due
      to impaired bioavailability of endogenous nitric oxide, due in large part to scavenging of
      nitric oxide by cell-free hemoglobin. In previous studies we have demonstrated that
      steady-state serum LDH is strongly associated with 1) other markers of intravascular
      hemolysis including plasma cell-free hemoglobin and arginase levels, 2) levels of soluble
      endothelial adhesion molecules, and 3) an impaired vasodilatory response to an NO donor.
      Further, significant steady-state LDH elevation identified a subset of patients in our cohort
      as well as the CSSCD cohort at increased risk for developing pulmonary hypertension,
      cutaneous leg ulceration, priapism, and early death. Previous biochemical studies have
      demonstrated significant transient increases in serum LDH and plasma hemoglobin levels during
      VOC, and this presumed hyperhemolysis has been confirmed by 51Cr labeled RBC studies that
      revealed further decreases in RBC survival during VOC. However, serum LDH levels are not a
      specific biomarker of hemolysis, and furthermore these observations on RBC survival have not
      been correlated with markers of intravascular hemolysis at baseline in patients with sickle
      cell disease in order to confirm the presence of chronic hyperhemolysis subphenotypes in
      sickle cell disease as posited in our previous work.

      The current gold standards of random and cohort labeling of RBCs used to quantitate RBC
      survival suffer from many technical drawbacks that make them impractical for routine clinical
      use. The production rate of expired CO has previously been used to assess RBC survival, based
      upon the principal that virtually all CO produced in human beings results from cleavage of
      the ?-methene bond of heme and is completely excreted via the lungs. Because RBC destruction
      accounts for approximately 80% of heme turnover in the body, endogenous CO production can be
      used as a quantitative indicator of RBC life span. Furne et al have previously reported on
      the development of a simple, rapid, and noninvasive method for determining RBC life span
      based on measurement of exhaled alveolar CO concentration immediately upon awakening
      corrected for atmospheric CO, as determined with a device that simulates the body s
      equilibration with CO with results comparable to standard labeling techniques. We propose
      that this methodology could also provide a quantitative, simple, and noninvasive test to
      study the RBC life span and thus rate of hemolysis in those patients with sickle cell
      disease.

      This trial will aim to 1) establish the use of end-alveolar CO concentration as a
      quantitative measure of RBC life span and hemolytic rate in subjects with sickle cell
      disease; 2) investigate the association between end-alveolar CO concentration-derived RBC
      life span and laboratory measures of hemolytic severity; and 3) investigate the association
      between end-alveolar CO concentration-derived RBC life span and the incidence of various
      clinical sequelae of sickle cell disease.
    
  