
    
      Background:

        -  Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) is a multi-organ severe alloimmune and -
           autoimmune disorder that occurs after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
           (HSCT). It is characterized by immune dysregulation, immunodeficiency, impaired organ
           function, and decreased survival.

        -  Manifestations of cGVHD in the oral cavity are observed in 45-85% of cGVHD patients and
           include 3 components: limitation of mouth opening, oral mucosal changes (lichenoid
           lesions, ulceration) and salivary gland changes.

        -  There is an urgent need for new tools to diagnose and treat oral cGVHD. To develop
           targeted therapies and non-invasive methods for serial screening, an improved
           understanding of the clinical course and underlying mechanisms of oral cGVHD are
           required.

      Objectives:

        -  Advance understanding of cGVHD pathophysiology and generate hypotheses for future cGVHD
           studies by tracking the longitudinal development of cGVHD in the oral cavity and
           transplant-related changes in the oral microenvironment.

        -  Leverage knowledge about the impact of transplant on the oral cavity to develop better
           protocols for supportive dental care, to refine clinical definitions and classifications
           of oral cGVHD, and to test and improve criteria and tools for clinical trials.

        -  Include healthy volunteer cohorts both as a direct control group for HSCT patients, and
           to characterize measures of interest that were not previously defined in the normal oral
           cavity.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients who are scheduled to undergo allogeneic HSCT at the National Institutes of
           Health (NIH) or who have already undergone allogeneic HSCT at the NIH or elsewhere.

        -  Healthy individuals who have not undergone transplant and are willing to undergo oral
           exam and sample collection will be included in a control group.

        -  All study subjects, including patients and healthy individuals, must be able to provide
           written informed consent and be willing to return to the NIH Dental Clinic for scheduled
           evaluations.

      Design:

        -  This is a single site, observational study with four cohorts. There are 2 transplant
           cohorts: the New Transplant Cohort ("Cohort NT"; approximate n=300) consists of patients
           who are scheduled to undergo allogeneic HSCT (under another protocol at the NIH) and the
           Prior Transplant Cohort ("Cohort PT"; approximate n=100) consists of patients who have
           already undergone allogeneic HSCT. These Cohorts will have up to 8 regularly scheduled
           visits across 3 years, along with a variable number of acute-episode visits.
           Additionally, subjects will have the opportunity to participate in and optional annual
           follow-up visits in years 4-10 post transplant.

        -  The other 2 Cohorts include healthy volunteers: the Healthy-controls Longitudinal (HL)
           Cohort ("Cohort HL"; approximate n=20) includes subjects who will participate in up to
           the full set of 8 study visits across 3 years, and the Healthy-controls Short-term (HS)
           Cohort ("Cohort HS"; approximate n=80) will participate in a single baseline visit.

        -  Each visit will include collection of biologic samples, patient-reported data and
           clinical assessments.

        -  Initial statistical analysis will begin with unsupervised clustering methods and simple
           logistic regression to identify biomarkers important in oral cGVHD. Based upon the
           results of these initial analyses, more complex multivariate statistical models will be
           developed to both classify and predict onset of oral cGVHD. Given the
           hypothesisgenerating nature of this study, additional prospective statistical analysis
           plans will be developed in consultation with a statistician as the study progresses to
           address specific scientific questions.
    
  