
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Define a risk-based treatment strategy comprising observation only, adjuvant radiotherapy,
      or adjuvant chemoradiotherapy or neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, surgery, and adjuvant
      chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy in young patients with non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft
      tissue sarcoma (NRSTS).

      II. Assess event-free and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      III. Assess the pattern of treatment failure in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the feasibility of a neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy approach in patients with
      intermediate- or high-risk NRSTS.

      II. Assess the imaging and pathologic responses to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in patients
      with intermediate- or high-risk NRSTS.

      III. Correlate imaging and pathologic response with clinical outcomes in patients with
      intermediate- or high-risk disease who undergo neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

      IV. Prospectively define clinical prognostic factors associated with event-free survival,
      overall survival, local recurrence, and distant recurrence in these patients.

      V. Correlate patient outcomes with findings of biologic studies performed on tissue specimens
      collected on protocol COG-D9902 from these patients.

      VI. Determine whether the diagnosis and histologic grade of NRSTS assigned by the enrolling
      institution correlates with the diagnosis and histologic grade established by central expert
      pathology reviewers.

      VII. Compare the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) and Fédération Nationale des Centres de Lutte
      Contre le Cancer (French Federation of Cancer Centers [FNCLCC]) pathologic grading systems to
      determine which better correlates with clinical outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are divided into 3 risk groups according to
      presence of metastatic disease (yes vs no), status of prior surgery (resected vs unresected),
      grade of tumor (low vs high), and size of primary tumor (≤ 5 cm vs > 5 cm). Patients are
      assigned to different treatment regimens based on disease extent (nonmetastatic vs
      metastatic), tumor size (≤ 5 cm vs > 5 cm), extent of resection of primary tumor (resected vs
      unresected), extent of resection of metastases (complete or microscopic residual vs gross
      residual), microscopic tumor margins (negative vs positive), and tumor grade (low vs high).

      GROUP 1 (low risk [nonmetastatic, grossly resected disease, except high-grade tumor > 5 cm]):
      Patients with low-grade tumor with either negative or positive microscopic margins or
      high-grade tumor ≤ 5 cm (in maximum diameter) with negative microscopic margins are assigned
      to regimen A. Patients with high-grade tumor ≤ 5 cm (in maximum diameter) with positive
      microscopic margins are assigned to regimen B.

      REGIMEN A (observation only): Patients undergo observation only.

      REGIMEN B (adjuvant radiotherapy): Beginning between 6-42 days after surgical resection,
      patients undergo a total of 31 fractions of adjuvant radiotherapy.

      GROUP 2 (intermediate risk [nonmetastatic, resected or unresected disease]): Patients with
      grossly resected, high-grade tumor > 5 cm (in maximum diameter) are assigned to regimen C.
      Patients with unresected tumor are assigned to regimen D.

      REGIMEN C (adjuvant chemoradiotherapy): Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 3 hours on days
      1-3 in weeks 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, and 16 and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24 hours on days 1
      and 2 in weeks 1, 4, 13, 16, and 19. Beginning in week 4, patients also undergo a total of 31
      fractions of radiotherapy.

      *NOTE: *Patients who receive brachytherapy will initiate radiotherapy in Week 1. If
      brachytherapy is administered, chemotherapy should begin within 2 weeks of completion of
      brachytherapy and the Weeks 1 and 19 doxorubicin should be given instead at Weeks 7 and 10.

      REGIMEN D (neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, surgery, and adjuvant chemotherapy with or without
      radiotherapy): Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and surgery: Patients receive ifosfamide IV over
      3 hours on days 1-3 in weeks 1, 4, 7, and 10 and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24 hours
      on days 1 and 2 in weeks 1 and 4. Beginning in week 4, patients also undergo a total of 31
      fractions of radiotherapy**. Patients undergo surgical resection in week 13.

      NOTE: **Patients with primary hepatic tumors do not receive radiotherapy in week 4.

      Adjuvant chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy: Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 3
      hours on days 1-3 in weeks 16 and 19 and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24 hours on days 1
      and 2 in weeks 16, 19***, and 22. Beginning in week 16, patients achieving gross total
      resection with positive microscopic margins undergo a total of 6 fractions of adjuvant
      radiotherapy. Patients achieving less than total gross resection undergo a total of 11
      fractions of adjuvant radiotherapy. Patients achieving total gross resection with negative
      microscopic margins do not receive adjuvant radiotherapy.

      NOTE: ***Patients who receive adjuvant radiotherapy in week 16 receive doxorubicin
      hydrochloride in week 25 instead of week 19.

      GROUP 3 (high risk [metastatic, resected, incompletely resected, or unresected disease]):
      Patients with low-grade, all-sites resected tumor with either negative or positive
      microscopic margins are assigned to receive treatment as in group 1 regimen A. Patients with
      high-grade, grossly resected primary tumor, and metastatic disease are assigned to receive
      treatment as in group 2 regimen C. Patients with unresected, high-grade metastatic tumor are
      assigned to receive treatment as in group 2 regimen D.

      In all groups, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression. After completing
      study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.
    
  