
    
      A dysregulation of lipid metabolism with increased levels of free fatty acids (FFA)
      represents one key mechanism in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance, which contributes to
      the development of type 2 diabetes (T2D). In most cases, dyslipidemia is related to obesity
      and the metabolic syndrome. Not only skeletal muscle glucose uptake, but also hepatic glucose
      fluxes are altered in insulin resistant states. In obese and T2D subjects, rates of
      gluconeogenesis (GNG) are increased, but in obese normoglycemic subjects endogenous glucose
      production (EGP) remains constant because of downregulation of glycogenolysis (GL). However,
      in T2D subjects, both GNG and GL are elevated, contributing to fasting and postprandial
      hyperglycemia. Therefore, elevated GNG rates may represent an early event in the
      pathophysiology of insulin resistance and T2D.

      Preliminary studies of our institute show that intravenous lipid infusion with subsequent
      elevation of FFA results in increased GNG rates without alteration of EGP in lean,
      non-diabetic subjects. In another recent study we investigated the effects of an oral fat
      load on hepatic insulin sensitivity. As expected, we did not find any alterations in EGP;
      however, rates of GNG and GL have not been assessed.

      The aim of this study is to analyze the effects of an oral fat load with transiently elevated
      levels of circulating lipids on hepatic glucose fluxes, especially GNG and GL, to elucidate
      the role of dietary fat in the induction of insulin resistance in healthy humans.

      In this randomized, controlled cross-over study, effects of oral palm oil and canola oil
      ingestion will be investigated in young, healthy lean subjects. Hepatic glucose fluxes will
      be assessed by two independent methods, in vivo magnet resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and the
      deuterated water/acetaminophen method, which also allows for the determination of glycogen
      cycling rates. Furthermore, hepatic phosphorus metabolites and liver fat content will be
      monitored by MRS.
    
  