
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called dexlansoprazole. Dexlansoprazole is being
      tested to heal erosive esophagitis (EE) and maintain healing of EE in pediatric participants
      aged 1 to 11 years. This study will look at the healing of EE followed by maintained healing
      of EE in children who take dexlansoprazole.

      The study will be conducted in two periods; a Healing of EE Period and a Maintenance of
      Healed EE Period. Approximately 80 patients will be enrolled in this study. Participants will
      be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to receive dexlansoprazole 60 mg or
      dexlansoprazole 30 mg for 8 to 12 weeks during the Healing of EE Period. Participants who
      have healed EE confirmed by endoscopy at week 8 or 12 will enter the Maintenance of Healed EE
      Period and will be randomly assigned to receive half their healing dose of dexlansoprazole,(
      i.e., either 30 mg, dexlansoprazole 15 mg), or placebo (this is a capsule that looks like the
      study drug but has no active ingredient).

      All participants will be asked to take one capsule at the same time each day throughout the
      study. All participants will be asked to record any time they have heartburn symptoms in a
      diary.

      Subjects who complete the 16 weeks of the Maintenance of Healed EE Period (Week 24 or Week 28
      as applicable) and have maintained healing of EE as confirmed by endoscopy, will enter a
      Post-Treatment Follow up Period for up to 3 months after the last dose of study drug. During
      this period subjects will continue to complete the symptom questionnaires daily in the
      eDiaries and return for a clinic visit each month. Subjects who require an invasive procedure
      or treatment with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) or histamine 2-receptor antagonist (H2RA) for
      gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)/EE will be discontinued from the Post-Treatment
      Follow-up Period and a Final Study Visit will be performed.

      This multi-center trial will be conducted worldwide. The overall time to participate in this
      study is up to 40 weeks. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic including a
      final visit 3 months after last dose of study drug for a follow-up assessment.
    
  