
    
      The investigators plan to conduct a pragmatic, randomised controlled trial of the use of the
      Valsalva Assist Device (VAD) versus standard care to treat SVT delivered by ambulance
      clinicians.

      Ambulance clinicians within South West Ambulance Service Foundation Trust (SWASFT) will be
      invited to help deliver this study by becoming recruiting practitioners. All participating
      ambulance clinicians will have specific trial training including an update of SVT management,
      use of the VAD and GCP training as needed. It is estimated a two month ambulance clinician
      recruitment period would enable approximately 80 clinicians to be enrolled.

      Patients presenting with SVT to these trained participating ambulance clinicians will be
      screened according to the eligibility criteria during their initial clinical assessment over
      a 6-8 month concurrent recruitment period. This will include routine observations and
      recording of an ECG.

      Eligible participants will be informed about the nature of SVT and the VM as the initial
      recommended treatment. They will then take part in a structured verbal consent process,
      witnessed by a second member of ambulance staff or nominated individual such as a relative or
      friend. They will be given a verbal explanation of the study and that the proposed treatment
      differs only in the method used to generate the Valsalva strain and that all other management
      is entirely as normal. It will be stressed that they are under no obligation to take part and
      that the method of producing the strain will be chosen at random on the opening of a box
      containing a simple device (VAD) or instructions advising usual practise such as blowing into
      a syringe.

      These boxes will be indistinguishable and distributed to participating ambulance clinicians
      at random. Clinicians will carry one box at a time and restock by taking the next available
      lowest numbered box from their ambulance station when used. They will be closed with a tamper
      evident seal and not opened until the witness has confirmed the patient's verbal consent to
      take part and that the box's seal is intact.

      Consenting participants will undergo a maximum of three Valsalva manoeuvres under direction
      of the treating crews according to training and allocation of device or standard care. All
      other treatment and subsequent clinical management will be according to national and local
      guidelines. This includes ongoing observations and ECGs as recorded on the ambulance
      electronic patient record (ePCR). Participants who remain in SVT will be conveyed to hospital
      as is standard practice. For participants whose SVT has cardioverted back to normal sinus
      rhythm, there is an excisting locally approved protocol for non-conveyance of well patients
      at the discretion of the treating ambulance clinician. This includes a plan for ongoing
      follow up by the patient's GP.

      All participants will be given a written information sheet at a suitable time after
      pre-hospital treatment is complete. This will give further details of the research, contact
      details for the research team and clear instructions on how to withdraw from further
      participation or use of their data. Paramedics will also verbally confirm that participants
      are still willing to be included and ask if they would be happy to be contacted for a brief 5
      minute telephone follow up call by a member of the research team to ask their views on the
      consent process and other trial procedures. Participants will also be offered the device or a
      syringe to take away depending on their allocation. The written advice will include reminder
      instructions on how to perform a VM themselves as SVT can recur and self treatment is
      recommended if patients would like to try this.

      Screening and notification of recruitment will be taken from the ambulance electronic patient
      record (ePCR) which has a field to indicate involvement in a research program. Evidence of
      participation will also be collected by return or photo (on ePCR) of the opened, completed
      lid of the trial allocation box. All other data collection will as far as possible mirror
      normal procedures. Source and outcome data will also be taken from the ePCR. Primary outcome
      data (ECG) will be checked by an independent consultant emergency physician, blind to the
      patient's trial allocation. Where disagreement, arbiter (consultant cardiologist) assessment
      will be made and confirmed by independent outcome committee. No other routine trial follow up
      is planned. However, adverse events will be reported and followed up according to good
      clinical practice (GCP) principles.

      Statistical analysis will be conducted on intention to treat basis blind to allocation.
      Recruitment and baseline cardioversion rates will enable subsequent sample size estimates to
      be made for the definitive trial grant application.
    
  