
    
      This is a rater- blind, parallel assignment, randomized and active controlled study. The
      subjects investigated are outpatients or inpatient with schizophrenia from the Chinese Han
      race. The screening phase lasts for 1 week. The eligible patients enter the next randomized
      treatment phase. The titration duration is 1 week. After the first week, the patients are
      administered with a flexible dose regimen. In this study, the effective doses range of
      seroquel and risperidone are 600-750mg/d and 3-6mg/d respectively and the treatment duration
      lasts for 6 weeks.

      The efficacy and safety of seroquel in the treatment of patients with schizophrenia have been
      confirmed by multiple double blind studies. This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy
      and safety of seroquel in the treatment of Chinese Han patients with schizophrenia.
      Therefore, the single blind and active control design should be selected for this study. The
      drug titration method and dose are within the range specified in the instruction and patients
      with schizophrenia are tolerant to the drug in clinical treatment.

      The purpose of schizophrenic patient treatment is to improve the core symptoms, prevent
      suicide and other aggressive behavior, alleviate the side reactions caused by the drug, and
      recover the life functions of patients. Generally, the treatment in the acute phase lasts for
      6 to 8 weeks. In this study, the treatment in the acute phase lasts for 6 weeks.

      The rating scales used in this study are standard psychiatric rating scales with good
      validity and are widely used in the study of antischizophrenia drugs and in the treatment of
      patients with schizophrenia in China. The PANSS is developed from two early rating scales,
      namely the brief psychiatric rating scale (BPRS) and the psychiatric rating scale. The high
      inter-investigator reliability and repeated measurement reliability of these scales have been
      proved by multiple studies. The clinical global impression (CGI) is a simple but convenient
      global impression scale. It is applicable to any patients treated and studied by the
      psychiatric department. The Carlgary depression scale for schizophrenia (CDSS) is used to
      evaluate the depressive symptoms of patients with schizophrenia. It has good reliability and
      validity. The abnormal involuntary movement scale (AIMS) is another evaluation tool
      consisting of 12 items. The AIMS is used to evaluate the abnormal involuntary movements
      related to antischizophrenia drugs. The AIMS is nearly the most frequently used multi-item
      rating scale evaluating of tardive dyskinesia. The Simpson and Angus scale (SAS) is also a
      rating scale commonly used since its release in 1970. The validity of SAS has been verified
      in the double blind and placebo-controlled study involving two haloperidol doses.
    
  