
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a diagnosis in Western Medicine characterized by recurrent
      abdominal pain associated with disturbance in bowel habit such as diarrhea or constipation.
      Epidemiological studies showed that 14% of males and 27% of females in the US (white) have
      symptoms of IBS. In Hong Kong, our survey reported a similar prevalence of this condition
      among Chinese (13% in males and 21% in females). IBS is one of the most common conditions
      leading to seeking of medical care. Treatment for IBS has so far been unsatisfactory.
      Numerous medications have been proposed for IBS; however, none is convincingly effective. A
      review and critique of published drug trials for IBS from 1966 to 1988 concluded that there
      was no proof that any western medicine is effective for all IBS patients. With the
      unsatisfactory treatment response of western medicine, many turned to alternative treatment
      modalities for IBS. Traditional Chinese medicine is particularly attractive as their
      effectiveness in treating functional disorders and retaining balance of body functions has
      been known for centuries. However, there is a lack of convincing clinical data demonstrating
      the effectiveness of Chinese medicine in this condition. In this study, we sought to
      determine the efficacy of herbal medicine in relieving symptoms and quality of life of
      patients with IBS. This is a prospective randomized, double-blinded double placebo-controlled
      study in patients with non-constipation type IBS. Patients will be randomized to receive
      either one of three treatment arms: 1. herbal medicine (HM) + placebo western medicine (WM),
      2. WM + placebo HM and 3. placebo HM + placebo WH. Each patient will go through an 8-week
      period of randomized double-blind treatment with either HW, WM or placebo and followed by an
      8-week of observation period. The IBS symptom and quality of life will be compared.
    
  