
    
      Most opioid misuse begins during adolescence and young adulthood. Adolescence is the time to
      intervene with prevention interventions (i.e., interventions focused on adolescents who have
      not yet misused opioids) in settings like school-based health centers (HCs), yet few
      interventions exist that prevent initiation of opioid misuse. "Serious videogame"
      interventions can improve health behaviors. Serious videogames meet adolescents "where the
      adolescents are," and compared to standard interventions, these type of interventions can
      reach large populations, with consistent fidelity, place limited demands on
      personnel/resources, facilitate rapid sustainable distribution, all at a potentially lower
      cost.

      This study harnesses the power of videogame interventions and incorporates components of
      effective substance use prevention programs to develop an evidence-informed intervention to
      prevent the initiation of opioid misuse in adolescents. Building on the investigator's
      experience developing videogame interventions and in partnership with the national
      School-Based Health Alliance (SBHA), the investigator and team will develop and test a new
      videogame intervention, PlaySmart.

      PlaySmart will build upon the PlayForward videogame intervention platform that has
      demonstrated efficacy in improving attitudes and knowledge related to risk behaviors. Through
      rigorous formative work and with input from adolescents, the SBHA and game development
      partners, the PlaySmart videogame intervention will be developed.

      PlaySmart will be designed to provide players with behavioral skills and knowledge through
      repetitive and engaging videogame play to target adolescent perceptions of risk of harm from
      initiating opioid misuse.

      This research has the potential to create a videogame intervention to prevent initiation of
      opioid misuse with far-reaching and sustained impact on adolescents. This protocol
      registration will focus on the pilot test portion of the study.
    
  