
    
      Research Question:

      In general pediatric surgical patients, do isotonic PMS compared to hypotonic PMS, result in
      a lower risk of acute hospital acquired plasma sodium derangements, occurring at any time
      during the study intervention? Primary efficacy objective -To determine the impact of
      postoperative administration of isotonic compared to hypotonic PMS on the risk of hospital
      acquired PNa derangements in pediatric surgical patients, occurring at any time during the
      study intervention.

      Secondary efficacy objectives: a) To determine the impact of postoperative administration of
      isotonic compared to hypotonic PMS on clinical sequelae related to acute PNa changes, in
      pediatric surgical patients. b) the independent predictors of hospital acquired PNa
      derangements will be explored.

      Study Design:

      This is a double-blind randomized controlled trial. Participants, health care providers, data
      collectors, and judicial assessors of outcomes will be blinded to the study intervention.

      Setting: McMaster Children's Hospital.

      Trial Intervention:

      Enrolled patients will be randomized postoperatively to receive either one of the following
      parenteral maintenance solutions: 1) hypotonic PMS, or 2) isotonic PMS. For the purposes of
      this study the hypotonic PMS will be 0.45%NaCl, and the Isotonic PMS will be 0.9% NaCl.
      Enrolled patients will receive their allocated treatment (provided there are no safety issues
      or concerns) until they are fully orally fed and the PMS rate is no greater than a rate
      required to "keep vein open (KVO)", to a maximum duration of 48 hours. The physician can
      thereafter administer the maintenance solution of their choice. The following parameters will
      be monitored in each study participant during the treatment period: hourly urine output,
      strict intake and output, 12 hourly fluid balances and daily weights. Blood and urine samples
      will be obtained on study patients every 12 hours until they are fully orally fed and the IV
      rate is at KVO, for a maximum of 48 hours. Any additional investigations ordered by the
      caring physician during the treatment and follow up period will also be recorded. Patients
      will be followed for clinical outcomes for 48 hours after the study intervention is
      discontinued, or until the time of discharge.
    
  