
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. The current US prevalence is
      estimated at over 4 million people, and it ranks as the 8th leading cause of mortality in the
      United States, accounting for over 60,000 deaths per year.

      Memantine is the newest medication approved by the FDA for the treatment of AD. Since it
      works on a different transmitter system, it can be used in combination with the other
      FDA-approved treatments for AD, tacrine, donepezil, rivastigmine, or galantamine
      (collectively referred to as cholinesterase inhibitors).

      It remains to be determined what effect currently available AD treatments have on the
      underlying structural and functional correlates of the dementia process. While preclinical
      evidence suggests that memantine decreases neuronal toxicity in vitro, it is not clear
      whether this translates into a beneficial effect in patients with AD.

      One of the most pressing challenges underlying clinical trials in AD is the need to validate
      reliable surrogate biomarkers of disease progression. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (MRS) allows for in vivo detection and measurement of brain metabolites. The spectroscopic
      features that have been most consistently observed in AD patients, as compared with patients
      with other causes of dementia, or with normal subjects, have been elevated myo-inositol (mI)
      and reduced N-acetylaspartate (NAA) .

      Evaluation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) via lumbar puncture affords a minimally invasive
      window into the biochemical substrate enveloping the brain. Multiple previous studies of AD
      patients compared with control subjects have demonstrated decreased CSF beta-amyloid, and
      elevated CSF tau protein. Previous longitudinal studies have documented the stability of CSF
      beta-amyloid over one year and CSF tau over two years in AD, suggesting that these may be
      possible stable target measures for therapeutic intervention.

      The purpose of this study is to characterize the progression of disease using MRS, CSF
      biomarkers, and cognitive outcome measures in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's
      disease after 24 weeks of observational treatment with stable dose of a cholinesterase
      inhibitor, and after another 24 weeks of open-label memantine treatment in addition to stable
      dose of a cholinesterase inhibitor.
    
  