
    
      Arterial hypertension is a central risk factor for cardiovascular disease, major
      cardiovascular events and mortality. Treatment of arterial hypertension necessitates
      lifestyle modifications, but often also requires medical intervention. In most cases, a
      combination of two or more anti-hypertensive drugs is recommended and necessary for reaching
      the target blood pressure levels.

      Hypotheses / research questions/objectives Spermidine potentiates the blood pressure lowering
      effect of standard anti-hypertensive medications, particularly when a combination of at least
      two first-line drugs (as recommended by the European Society of Cardiology guidelines) has
      not resulted in sufficient and adequate blood pressure control.

      Approach/methods Spermidine Anti-Hypertension Study (SMARTEST) is a prospective, randomized
      and double-blind placebo-controlled single-centre trial with a balanced 2x2 crossover design,
      where 46 medically pre-treated hypertensive patients will be subsequently treated with
      spermidine and placebo (each for eight weeks) in two arms of opposite treatment sequence. A
      washout period of four weeks will separate the two intervention periods in both arms.

      Patients will undergo physical examination, ECG (electrocardiogram), echocardiography, and
      blood draws at four time points coinciding with the baseline and termination of each
      treatment at: 0, 8, 12, and 20 weeks of/after recruitment at the Department of Cardiology,
      Medical University of Graz. In addition, 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure (24-h BP)
      monitoring (BPM; Mobil-O-Graph®) and on-site blood pressure will be obtained (the device will
      be sent back to the hospital the following day) at these time points. A 6-minute walk test
      (6MWT) will be performed at every visit.

      Spermidine will be administered orally as an approved dietary supplement (spermidine-rich
      wheat germ extract) at a dose of 4 mg spermidine per day for eight weeks. The primary outcome
      will be arterial systolic blood pressure at 24h BPM. Further secondary outcomes/safety
      outcomes will be:

      24-h BP: analysis of systolic, diastolic and mean arterial blood pressures and pulse wave
      analysis; on site ambulatory blood pressure; 6 minute walk test distance (difference in
      meters); laboratory analysis; ECG - standard parameters; Echocardiography: standard
      parameters as well as strain analysis
    
  