
    
      Bipolar disorder is a chronic illness associated with significant personal and societal
      costs. Patients with bipolar disorder also experience more general medical comorbidities than
      the general population. Potential disparities exist in the receipt of medical and preventive
      care for individuals with serious mental illness compared to those without serious mental
      illness. The goal of this study is to pilot test an adapted version of the Wagner Chronic
      Care Model (CCM). Our target population will be all adult patients with a diagnosis of
      bipolar disorder (bipolar I, II, NOS) receiving care in the VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System.
      We plan on consenting and enrolling 60 patients, in which 30 will be randomized to receive
      the intervention, and 30 will receive usual care. Key components of the intervention include:
      1) access to a Care Manager who will help patients make and keep appointments for general
      medical care by contacting patients on a regular basis; 2) a self-management program, which
      is education on adherence and self-management for patients by the Care Manager, including
      information on side-effects, bipolar disorder illness, and tips on communicating with general
      medical providers that will be provided during group sessions during the first 3 months of
      the study, and; 3) a registry that tracks patient progress maintained by the Care Manager.
      Both groups will receive practice guidelines for the treatment of medical conditions tailored
      to the needs of patients with bipolar disorder. Patients in the intervention arm will meet
      with the Care Manager after the baseline assessment, who will initially set up regular visits
      or contacts with the patients and work with them to connect with a primary care clinician. A
      Survey Coordinator will have patients complete a baseline assessment, and then a follow up
      assessment at 3 and 6 months later. Our primary outcome is changes in physical and mental
      health related quality of life. Secondary outcomes include changes in symptoms and
      functioning. Findings from this study will inform our long-term goal of implementing a larger
      scale version of the adapted CCM for veterans with bipolar disorder.
    
  