
    
      Women will be randomly assigned into two study groups using a computerized random number
      table generator in order to get the trial sequence which will be hidden in sealed numbered
      opaque envelopes. Each envelope contains a single element (assignment) of the trial sequence.
      The statistician generated the random allocation sequence, and the investigators enrolled the
      participants.

      Each patient will undergo an ultrasound examination prior to randomization to confirm GA,
      rule out major fetal anomalies and to determine cervical measurements. Dexamethasone in a
      total dose of 24 mg will be administered to all patients if not given in a previous
      admission.

      Eligible women are then randomly assigned into two study groups:

      Group I: (combined nifedipine and sildenafil citrate) The protocol for nifedipen in our units
      consists of 20 mg orally stat, followed by 10 mg orally every 6-8 hours, at the same time
      sildenafil citrate will be administered vaginally in a dose of 25mg at 8 hourly intervals and
      both medications will be continued for 48-72 hours as indicated.

      Group II: (nifedipine alone) will receive therapy by nifedipine alone in the same regimen and
      duration described before.

      During therapy, maternal (pulse rate, blood pressure, uterine contractions), as well as fetal
      (heart rate) monitoring will be performed every 15-30 minutes during the first 4 hours
      following the start of therapy then every 2 hours during the rest of treatment period.
      Patients whose contractions will stop after 48-72 hours will be observed for additional 24
      hours to detect if contractions appear again so that if they remain stable, then they can be
      discharged and asked to come for follow-up after 1 week. As we stated in a previous work (13)
      that vaginal progesterone was effective for preventing recurrent PTL, thus all discharged
      patients will be advised to continue on progesterone till completed 36 weeks' gestation. In
      addition to progesterone treatment, all patients will be instructed to undergo periods of bed
      rest and, also they will be educated about the symptoms of PTL. The provided antenatal care
      will be at 2-weekly intervals till delivery. At any time if preterm contractions appeared
      re-admission with repeated treatment using the same drug will be used. At delivery, all data
      regarding the timing of labor onset, along with maternal and neonatal complications, will be
      documented.
    
  