
    
      JDTic-001 will be a single-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose study
      evaluating three planned escalating oral doses of JDTic in three planned cohorts of healthy
      male subjects without a history of illicit drug use within the 12 months preceding the
      Screening Visit, or other substances of abuse within the 12 months preceding the Screening
      Visit. Each cohort of up to 8 eligible subjects will be enrolled sequentially to receive a
      single oral dose of study drug under fasting conditions. JDTic dose escalation will occur
      only if safety and PK data permit. A semi adaptive dosing plan will be followed such that the
      first two dose cohorts will comprise 4 subjects each and the third planned cohort will
      comprise 8 subjects. If adverse events (AEs) considered to be at least possibly related to
      study medication by the Clinic Principal Investigator are noted in study subjects
      participating in the first two cohorts, an additional 4 subjects will be dosed at the same
      dose level as part of the affected cohort, unless otherwise determined by the Safety Review
      Team (SRT) as guided by the JDTic-001 Data and Safety Monitoring Plan (DSMP). Should dosing
      of additional subjects occur in the first cohort of subjects, then the second cohort of
      subjects will also include 8 subjects. In each cohort, subjects will be randomized 3:1 active
      drug: placebo in a double-blind fashion.

      The planned JDTic dose levels to be evaluated are 1 mg, 3 mg, and 10 mg; however, the actual
      dose levels evaluated may be different, and/or additional dose levels may be added by
      protocol amendment, depending on the safety and PK results of the lower doses.

      Subjects will be admitted to the clinic the day before dosing and will be confined to the
      clinic for 6 nights, with safety and PK evaluations and assessments lasting approximately 125
      hours following administration of study drug. Subjects will be required to remain confined to
      the clinic for more than 6 nights if they experience persistent AEs that require observation
      and/or the Clinic Principal Investigator or qualified designee (physician who is listed as a
      subinvestigator on FDA Form 1572) considers it unsafe to release the subject from the clinic.
      Additionally, alternate subjects admitted with Group 1 but not dosed may remain in the clinic
      overnight for the possibility of being dosed with Group 2 and therefore would spend more than
      6 nights in the clinic. Subjects will return to the clinic at 14 days after receiving their
      dose for a follow-up visit. If, at this visit, changes in the POMS™ assessment are noted that
      are considered significant in the Clinic Principal Investigator's opinion, or if a subject
      has an ongoing AE, the subject will return to the clinic every 14 days (or sooner, if
      clinically indicated) from the date of the follow-up visit until these changes/AEs have
      resolved. Subject participation in the study will last up to 4 weeks, from screening through
      the follow-up visit, depending on the date the subject's screening visit begins with respect
      to the date he is dosed, and provided no additional follow-up visits are necessary.
    
  