
    
      Introduction The world health organization defines dehydration as condition that result from
      excessive loss of body water .the most common cause of dehydration in children are vomiting
      and diarrhea. Dehydration is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in infant and young
      children world wide .most cases due to consequence of acute gastroenteritis.

      Pathophysiology. Dehydration cause decrease in total body water in both intracellular and
      extracellular fluid volume. Volume depletion closely correlate with sign and symptom of
      dehydration .the total body water is higher in infant and children compared to adult.

      In infant, it is 70% of total body weight, whereas it is 65%and 60% respectively in children
      and adult.

      The World Health Organization recommends assessing dehydration in children based on four
      clinical features: general appearance , eyes (whether they appear sunken), history of thirst
      , and skin pinch to assess turgor. However, these clinical signs may be subtle or non
      specific and thus have important limitations if used as independent predictors of
      dehydration. A more objective way to assess for dehydration using urine analysis has been
      implicated.

      Additionally, studies on dehydration have shown urine analysis do not show sufficient
      sensitivity, Specificity or reliability [3, 4] and are typically only useful in children with
      moderate to severe hypovolemia.

      . Bedside ultrasonography is a noninvasive method that can serve as a more objective tool for
      assessing dehydration in both adults and children. Point-of-care ultrasound has the potential
      to reduce unnecessary use of resources such as IV fluids or hospital access, while
      identifying children who are severely dehydrated and need immediate medical attention.
      Previous studies have shown that intravascular volume correlates to the diameters of the
      inferior vena cava.

        -  The normal IVC diameter is 15_ 17mm

        -  small IVC (usually < 12mm) with spontaneous collapse is often seen in the presence of
           intravascular volume depletion.

      Bedside emergency ultrasonography (EUS) is a relatively new imaging modality in
      pediatrics.(8,9) EUS is fast, painless, and noninvasive. In recent years, many new pediatric
      indications for EUS have been developed.

      Ultrasonography (US) assessment of the inferior vena cava (IVC) has been used as a
      noninvasive diagnostic tool for the assessment of intravascular volume and right heart
      function. Specifically, IVC diameter and collapsibility have been used as methods of
      assessing fluid status in dehydrated patients .

      In these studies, contraction of the intravascular volume resulted in measurable decreases in
      IVC diameters. Conversely, research has shown that the diameter of the descending aorta (Ao)
      remains mostly constant, despite intravascular volume depletion.
    
  