
    
      1. Written informed consent from parent/guardian and assent from the patient will be
           obtained.

        2. Each patient will be randomized into either the control arm or Cardio Q directed fluid
           therapy arm.

        3. The following standard monitors will be placed before induction of anesthesia:
           electrocardiography, non-invasive blood pressure and pulse oximetry. The patient is
           anesthetized in the supine position using a standardized anesthetic technique. All
           attempts will be made to maintain normothermia

        4. Following induction of anesthesia, the following will be placed: invasive arterial
           cannula, large bore intravenous cannula, Bispectral index monitor, temperature probe and
           central venous cannula (if needed).

        5. Cardiac output monitor: Following induction of anesthesia and after placement of
           appropriate lines and monitors, a transoesophageal doppler (TED) probe will be inserted
           through the mouth into the esophagus and positioned correctly. A normal saline infusion
           will be started once the patient is anesthetized at 0.5 ml/kg/hour in the line where the
           drugs will be infused.

             1. Control Group: In this group, fluid administration, using boluses of 5ml/kg of
                plasmalyte at the anesthesiologist's discretion will be used. Anesthesiologists
                will be blinded to the cardio-Q numerics on the monitor. The flow waveform and
                sound will be available to optimize probe position.

             2. Intervention groups: Boluses of 5ml/kg plasmalyte will be given when: either MAP
                drops 20% from baseline or stroke volume drops 15% from baseline. If the patient is
                fluid responsive, a further 5ml/kg of fluid will be given.

             3. Vasopressor use: MAP (and stroke volume) becomes unresponsive to a fluid bolus then
                a bolus of phenylephrine or ephedrine may be given at the anesthesiologist's
                discretion.
    
  