
    
      Study Question: Does use of a Bluetooth enabled serum glucose monitor in conjunction with a
      mobile health application improve pregnant women's glucose log completion? This pilot study
      proposes that the use of Bluetooth glucometers and mobile health applications will be
      feasible and well accepted by the target population.

      Methods: This project utilizes a quasi-experimental pre-post design with up to 25
      participants. Over the course of eight weeks, participants will collect serum glucose logs
      (SGL) for four weeks using usual care followed by SGLs for four weeks using Bluetooth-enabled
      glucometers and the iGluco application. Measures will include a demographic sheet and
      completed SGL. Descriptive statistics of the appropriate level will be used to summarize the
      data collected. Glucose log completeness will be calculated using the total number of entries
      required for the period between visits divided by the number of actual entries. For example,
      if the participant has had 14 days between appointments, 56 entries would be expected, if the
      patient only records 40 results the completeness score would be 0.71. Raw data will be
      reported in the final manuscript under results. The data anticipated from this study include
      the number of women who consented to participate, average education level, primary languages,
      age range with mean age, the number of women on medication or diet only control, average
      completion score for usual care phase, and average completion score for the intervention
      phase. Data will also be generated and reported for the number of patients that did not bring
      their logs but brought their smartphones or glucometer for transcription and the number of
      patients that dropped out of the study before completion of eight weeks of glucose logs, and
      a mean satisfaction score calculated. Eligibility for this study includes women who are at
      least 18 years old, competent for consent, have gestational diabetes, speak English, have
      ownership of a smartphone capable of running the mobile health application and are willing to
      download the application.

      Implications: This study has the potential to demonstrate the feasibility of improved
      Self-management of GDM and provide the groundwork for future studies. The use of Bluetooth
      enabled glucose monitors with mobile health applications to aid in efficient and complete
      SMBG management may translate to a decrease in adverse outcomes.
    
  