
    
      Potential participants are identified upon admission to acute care post cerebrovascular
      accident (CVA) and screened for inclusion. Informed consent is obtained from the patient
      and/or designee. Demographic information is obtained from the medical record, the patient
      and/or designee by the clinical coordinator. The participant is randomized into traditional
      gait training group or body weight support (BWS) group. The participant receives the required
      amount of physical therapy as directed by clinicians at the acute care facility and
      accrediting agencies.

      The traditional gait training group will receive gait training as presently performed without
      additional modalities. The BWS group will received BWS gait training in lieu of traditional
      gait training. Participants will be treated in in-patient rehabilitation for a duration as
      determined by the clinical team; thus, the overall duration of care may be variable between
      participants. Time spent in gait training activities for both groups will be tracked by both
      service unit and by time (minutes).

      Within 48 hours of discharge from the acute care facility, the participant will be
      transported to a separate site for kinematic gait analysis using a marker based motion
      capture system.

      The procedure for gait analysis is as follows:

        1. Investigators will place reflective markers on the following areas using non-latex
           adhesive tape: top of the shoulders, bony part of the pelvis on the front and back,
           hips, front of the thighs, outside of the knees, front of the shins, outside of the
           ankles, first and fifth toes, and back of each heel.

        2. The participant will walk across the room in the gait analysis lab no more than 20 times
           at his/her choice of pace while the camera system records gait parameters and
           kinematics. He/she will be allowed to rest as needed during the data collection.

        3. The reflective markers and adhesive tape will be removed and the participant thanked for
           his/her participation.
    
  