
    
      The research study will be performed as a 16 day double-blind placebo controlled study
      design. The research will be conducted at the University of Johannesburg, Doornfontein
      Campus. Forty participants, both males and females, between the ages of 18 and 45 years will
      be recruited via advertisements placed at the University of Johannesburg Health Clinic,
      Doornfontein Campus, at hair salons and gyms situated around Gauteng (with relevant
      permission given).

      The initial consult (day zero) will consist of a full description and discussion of the
      research method with the participant. Thereafter, the participant will be requested to read a
      participant information form and sign a consent form. An evaluation, based on the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria, to determine whether the participant meets the criteria for the
      research study will be performed. A physical and general assessment will be conducted to
      determine vital signs and health status respectively. Thereafter, the participant's dandruff
      will be evaluated using the Adherent Scalp Flaking Score (ASFS) grading, completed by the
      researcher, and the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), completed by both the participant and the
      researcher.

      The participants will be divided into two groups by means of match pairing, according to
      severity of dandruff. Based on the determined group, the participants will be given either
      the experimental (with active anti-dandruff agents) or control (without active anti-dandruff
      agents) shampoo together with the directions for the use of the shampoo at the first
      consultation. At the second consultation, which will occur on day 8, the participant's scalp
      will be evaluated using the ASFS grading, completed by the researcher, and the VAS, completed
      by both the participant and the researcher. On day 16 (final consult), a final evaluation of
      the participant's dandruff will be done, using the same method described as with the second
      consultation. At each consult, all results will be recorded. Participants will be requested
      to wash the scalp once every second day, starting from day 1 to day 16. Reminders to wash the
      scalp will be sent to each participant via a text message the night before they are due to
      wash their hair.

      On completion of the study, all data will be collated and an Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
      will be performed to determine group normality and comparability of the data. Parametric
      intergroup analysis will include the independent T-sample test, followed by intragroup
      analysis using the ANOVA measurement. Non-parametric intergroup analysis will include the
      Mann-Whitney U test, while intragroup analysis will involve the Friedman or the Wilcoxon
      Signed-Ranks test.

      Positive results of the study may yield an effective and safe treatment option for dandruff.
    
  