
    
      The planned non-commercial study is a randomised, controlled crossover trial of ambulatory
      oxygen against no ambulatory oxygen over a four week period (two weeks on ambulatory oxygen
      and two weeks on air, with no portable devices), to evaluate the effects of ambulatory oxygen
      on health status in patients with ILD. A short crossover study in this context has many
      advantages, since ambulatory oxygen has immediate effect, with no wash-out period needed
      after use. The primary outcome of the study will be the change in health status, as measured
      by the K-BILD questionnaire (Thorax 2012 67: 804-810).

      At the start of the trial, the effects of ambulatory oxygen on 6 Minute Walk Test (6MWT)
      parameters will be evaluated on oxygen and on air-filled canisters, with the patient blind to
      the contents of the canister, to assess whether oxygen-induced improvements in 6MWT
      parameters can predict its effectiveness in day to day life. The 6MWT is a well established
      and highly reproducible test validated in ILD patients, with significant prognostic
      implications.

      The study design does not include a placebo arm because:

        1. The intervention is a combination of possible benefits from oxygen and the disadvantage
           of canister weight. These cannot be separated. Placebo control is impossible because
           there is no means of providing placebo weight. Attempts to control solely for oxygen use
           without taking canister weight into account are clinically meaningless. In a recent
           COPD, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease study, cylinder weight was reported as a
           barrier to use by 93% of study participants.

        2. A positive result against an air-filled canister arm would be clinically
           uninterpretable. This is a study design in which the 'placebo' would be actively harmful
           to study participants. Carriage of an air-filled cylinder would be expected to lead to
           earlier desaturation and reduced exercise tolerance. Such a design would not inform the
           real life comparison between oxygen plus cylinder and no intervention.

        3. All this aside, blinding is legally impossible (UK health and safety regulations require
           that oxygen cylinders for home use must be clearly labelled).

      It should also be stressed that objective measures of change are evaluated as secondary
      end-points: the investigators expect to explore correlations between these variables and the
      primary end-point to exclude the possibility that an observed treatment benefit on the
      primary end-point might be confounded by a placebo effect.

      A more in depth qualitative assessment of the impact of ambulatory oxygen will be undertaken
      via a semi-structured interview, in a subset of 20 patients, to investigate patients' and
      their carers' personal perspective on how the ambulatory oxygen has affected their day to day
      life. The interview will be conducted within 2 weeks of the end of treatment visit. Patients
      from the Royal Brompton Hospital site will be approached by the researcher at the end of
      treatment visit and asked if they will participate in the qualitative assessment. If the
      patient agrees a date will be agreed for the patient to be interviewed at a venue convenient
      to them (usually the patient's home).

      During the interviews a semi-structured topic guide will address practical barriers to
      optimal oxygen usage, practical, social and psychological difficulties encountered, concerned
      about dependency, and views on the information required prior to ambulatory oxygen
      prescription. The interviews will also explore patients' (and carers') experience of
      participating in the trial. Notes will be written after each interview to aid reflective
      analytical processes. Individual feed back on how the system and the service could be
      improved will assess how the needs of patients and their future involvement can be
      incorporated into the design of more patients and their future involvement can be
      incorporated into the design of more patients centred devices.

      Qualitative interview analysis: Interviews will be transcribed verbatim. Interview
      transcripts will be analysed thematically using a framework approach. Atlas/ti computer
      software (http://atlasti.com) will be used to manage and index the data prior to charting,
      mapping and interpretation.
    
  