
    
      This study was planned as a randomized controlled study to compare the effects of Towel Curl
      Exercise (TCE) which is often used in physiotherapy clinics for injuries caused by
      contractile structures of the foot, especially in cases of pes planus and Short Foot Exercise
      (SFE) which has increasing popularity with recent studies. This study was conducted between
      March 2018 and June 2018. Firstly, informed consent form was signed by participants and that
      the rights of the subjects were protected. The participants were randomized using a computer
      assisted randomization method; they were divided into Short Foot Exercise Group (SFEG), Towel
      Curl Exercise Group (TCEG) and Control Group (CG). Pre and post-test design was used for this
      randomized controlled study. The dependent variables recorded before and after four weeks of
      SFE and TCE were; changes in navicular drop, metatarsal enlargement amounts, static and
      dynamic pedobarographic parameters and balance scores. Evaluations and exercises of the
      individuals were performed by the same researcher physiotherapist. The study protocol was
      approved by the ethics committee of Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University (Protocol no: 170054).

      Subjects The study was conducted on 91 healthy subjects, 68 female and 23 male, with a mean
      age of 20.65 ± 2.410 years (18 to 34 years). Four of SFEG, three of TCEG, four of CG patients
      had left dominant feet and the others had right dominant feet.

      Procedures Subjects were invited for evaluation in clinic for three consecutive days; first
      day their age, height, weight values, foot sizes, navicular drop distance (ND) and metatarsal
      width (MTW) were measured and determined their dominant lower extremity. Balance scores were
      recorded with SportKat device on the second day and static and dynamic pedobarography results
      recorded on the third day. Navicular drop test was used to evaluate the flexibility of the
      foot. In this study, MTW were measured in order to evaluate the effects of SFE and TCE on the
      flexibility of fore foot. Diagnostic Support Electronic Baropodometer and Milletrix software
      (DIASU®, Italy) were used for static and dynamic pedobarographic measurements to evaluate
      foot plantar pressure distribution.

      After all evaluations had been completed the exercises were taught by the researcher
      physiotherapist with video and verbal narration and exercise were tested on each participant
      who were included Short Foot Exercise Group and Towel Curl Exercise Group.

      Subjects who completed all evaluations, started their exercises according to the exercise
      groups they were assigned to and the CG was not given any exercise. Exercises were performed
      under the supervision of physiotherapist for four weeks in 30 repetitions five days a week.
      Exercises were progressed by sitting for one week, standing on double leg in the 2nd week and
      standing on one leg in the 3rd and 4th weeks in both groups. The individuals in the control
      group were asked not to go out of their daily physical activity routine during this four-week
      period.

      The SFEG, TCEG and CG were called to the clinic again and their final measurements were
      recorded after the intervention.
    
  