
    
      Blood clot formation involves a cascade of reactions that results in the production of
      thrombin, which converts fibrinogen into fibrin. In turn, fibrin aggregates and forms a clot.
      Hemostasis depends on a balance between this clotting cascade and the processes that break
      down clots, particularly the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin and plasmin's subsequent
      degradation of fibrin polymers. Tranexamic acid (TXA) is an agent, first patented in 1957,
      that competitively inhibits plasmin generation and activity.

      As a result, TXA promotes clotting and, therein, hemostasis, making it useful for controlling
      surgical bleeding. (See figure below.) Indeed, a 2012 meta-analysis demonstrated that
      administering TXA intra- or perioperatively reduces the probability of receiving a blood
      transfusion by one-third.

      Additionally, large trials have shown that TXA does not increase the risk of thromboembolic
      events in patients. One study noted that there was a slightly increased incidence of seizures
      in patients who received TXA, though this was limited to patients who underwent open-heart
      surgery, which is, itself, an independent risk factor for seizures. Another study halved the
      dose of TXA administered to its participants, but this did not reduce seizure risk amongst
      the participants. Thus, the data on this adverse effect remains inconclusive, and surgeons
      continue using TXA for its hemostatic effects, especially in cardiac and orthopedic
      surgeries. Given that facial plastic surgery does not incur the same sort of blood loss as
      cardiac or orthopedic surgery, efforts to describe TXA use in this field have focused on its
      established anti-inflammatory properties in addition to hemostasis. There are reports of TXA
      use in rhinoplasties, face lifts, and blepharoplasties; however, such reports are scarce,
      with randomized, double-blinded, controlled clinical trials even more so. Only one study has
      examined TXA use in blepharoplasties. In that study, 34 patients were randomized to receive
      an injection of lidocaine mixed with either TXA or saline. The authors did not find any
      significant difference in post-operative parameters including size of periocular ecchymoses
      and patient-reported pain level. Since the only randomized controlled trial investigating TXA
      use in blepharoplasty involved 34 participants, the investigators aim to add to the body of
      knowledge on this matter.

      Furthermore, the investigator's study will be structured differently from that of Sagiv et
      al. Firstly, the patients will serve as their own controls, since we will inject one eyelid
      with a solution containing TXA and another with a placebo solution. This will help reduce
      bias between study groups that may have existed in Sagiv et al's trial. Secondly, the
      investigators will follow the patients for 3 months after the procedure, which is eleven
      weeks longer than the duration of follow-up amongst participants in Sagiv et al's trial. This
      will give the investigators an even better sense of TXA's impact on patients' post-operative
      courses. In summary, the investigators wish to characterize TXA's hemostatic and
      anti-inflammatory effects in patients who undergo blepharoplasty. Since there is currently
      only one publication that accomplishes this, the investigators' objective is to expand
      knowledge in this area so that surgeons performing facial plastic procedures can optimize
      patients' recovery and outcomes.
    
  