
    
      Vaccination with dendritic cells pulsed with autologous tumor homogenate in combination with
      HD-IL2 and immunomodulating radiotherapy in metastatic RCC: a phase II trial Proof of
      Principle phase II study Study Design Single center, open-label trial to assess response rate
      Study Duration Total duration: 36 months Enrollment: 24 months Treatment: 5 months per
      patient Follow-up every three months Primary objectives: Overall Response Rate (ORR) by irRC

      Secondary end points:

        1. Toxicity

        2. Overall Survival

        3. Duration of response

        4. PFS

        5. ORR by RECIST 1.1

        6. Prognostic and predictive marker response

        7. Immunological response Study Product, Dose, Route, Regimen and duration of
           administration Three daily doses boost radiotherapy (XRT) at 6-12 Gy to at least 1, and
           up to a maximum of 5, metastatic fields, will be administrated on days -4 -3 -2 or -3 -2
           -1 before the first and the third cycle of vaccine+IL-2. The first day of administration
           of vaccine is day +1 and of IL-2 is day +2.

      The intradermal autologous dendritic cell vaccine loaded with autologous tumor homogenate
      plus IL-2 (dose 18 MIU/m2/day in 500cc by continuous IV infusion for 72 hours) will be
      administered every 3 weeks up to 6 cycles.

      Statistical Methodology

      This is a Proof of Principle trial with a minimax two stage design:

      • Step 1: 12 patients enrolled; A 5% response rate will preclude further study, whereas a 20%
      response rate will indicate that further study would be warranted.

      Using alfa and beta errors of 0.10, if an objective response is observed in at least 1 of the
      12 patients enrolled during the first stage the study will go on with a:

      • Step 2: recruitment of an additional 25 patients The treatments will be considered active
      if an objective response is observed in 4 out of 37 patients treated.

      The enrolment period will be 24 months. To ensure patients' safety, a continued safety
      evaluation by an independent DSMB will be performed and formal rules will be planned to
      continue or stop the recruitment; in particular, the enrollment will be interrupted when six
      patients completed at least one cycle of the combo treatment and they will be evaluated for
      safety: if grade ≥3 AEs (except for fever and rash that will be consider only for grade 4) in
      2 (two) or more patients will be observed within 30 days after completion of the first dose
      of combo treatment, the study will be interrupted.
    
  