
    
      This is a single center, open label study with crossover in patients with Cystic Fibrosis
      (CF). Patients will have 2-3 visits at the Diabetes Center at Massachusetts General Hospital
      (MGH).

      The participants will have been previously screened clinically to make sure they are
      candidates for starting the combination drug, lumacaftor-ivacaftor. These patients will be
      contacted prior to their first visit to discuss enrollment in the study.

      At the first study visit (Visit 1), the participant will come to the Diabetes Center after an
      overnight fast of at least 8 hours. The following will occur at this study visit: informed
      consent; brief medical history; weight and height; vital signs and blood pressure; blood draw
      for DNA extraction, and an extra research tube for storage; administration of 75g Glucola
      load as per a standard oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) protocol; and blood work for
      glucose and insulin at 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after the glucose load. This will be
      scheduled at a time that is convenient to the patient, with an attempt to coordinate with the
      patient's visit to the CF clinic prior to starting lumacaftor-ivacaftor combination drug.

      At the 2nd study visit (Visit 2), which will take place 3 months after starting the
      combination drug, the participant will again come to the Diabetes Center after an overnight
      fast of at least 8 hours. The participant will undergo a second OGTT as in the first visit.
      The 3rd study visit (Visit 3) will be 6 months after initiation of the drug, and will have a
      repeat administration of an OGTT. If a participant starts the combination drug before
      enrolling in the study, he/she can still participate in the study as long as he or she has
      had a clinical OGTT performed within 6 months of starting the combination drug. In these
      cases, the informed consent, brief medical history, weight and height and vital signs and
      blood pressure, as well as blood draw for DNA will occur on the Visit 2, which will be the
      first study visit for these participants. If a clinical OGTT had been performed prior to but
      within 6 months of starting the combination therapy, this OGTT can be used in analysis of the
      data, although will not have the full amount of data as the study OGTT.
    
  