
    
      The Metabolic Syndrome (MS) is a rapidly growing public health problem. This constellation of
      metabolic abnormalities increases the risk of diabetes, heart disease and death. Recently
      evidence has linked MS with cognitive impairment and dementia, including Alzheimer's Disease
      (AD). AD is preceded by a state called Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), characterized by
      subjective and objective memory impairment, but no functional impairment. Although not all
      persons with MCI will develop AD, the conversion rate from MCI to AD is about 15% per year,
      or 5-10 times that of cognitively normal individuals. There is great interest in finding
      treatments to prevent AD by intervening at an earlier stage, i.e. MCI.

      The mechanism(s) linking MS and cognitive impairment are not clear, although there is
      evidence that insulin resistance and inflammation play key roles. Thiazolidinediones (TZDs)
      are medications approved for the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes, which work by reducing insulin
      resistance. In addition, these drugs have anti-inflammatory properties. A recent pilot study
      showed improvements in some areas of cognition in patients with MCI or mild AD treated with
      the TZD rosiglitazone. Endurance exercise training (EET) is an established treatment for MS
      and insulin resistance. There is also evidence that EET may improve cognitive function as
      well.

      Adults aged 55 years or older with both MS and MCI at baseline will be randomized to a
      6-month intervention with either (1) treatment with pioglitazone, (2) endurance exercise
      training, or (3) control (placebo and no exercise). The hypothesis is that treatment with the
      TZD pioglitazone or EET will improve cognitive function compared to controls, as evidenced by
      either improvement, stabilization, or lesser decline in performance on cognitive testing.
      Participants will undergo a physical exam including blood and urine tests, a complete
      neurologic exam, and a comprehensive battery of cognitive tests. They will also have a DEXA
      scan, exercise treadmill test, non-invasive tests of vascular function and a
      hyperglycemic-euglycemic clamp procedure to measure insulin resistance.
    
  