
    
      Until relatively recently, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was the
      primary diagnostic and therapeutic modality for assessing patients with suspected pancreatic
      disease or abnormalities. However, this invasive procedure carries with it a significant
      potential for complications including acute pancreatitis, hemorrhage and infection, as well
      as reactions to contrast material or premedications and exposure to radiation. In addition,
      the success of such procedures, both from the standpoint of safety and efficacy, is highly
      dependent on the skill of the endoscopist, and the cost of ERCP is relatively high.

      The advent of magnetic resonance imaging has resulted in the development of a less expensive,
      non-invasive, radiation-free means of assessing the pancreaticobiliary system: Magnetic
      Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (MRCP). MRCP uses stationary water in biliary and
      pancreatic secretions as an intrinsic contrast medium, thus facilitating examination of
      pancreatic and biliary ducts and surrounding tissue. Secretin, which promotes the secretion
      of pancreatic fluid into the pancreatic ducts, can thereby enhance the MR imaging signal,
      improving delineation of both normal and abnormal structures, as well as highlighting
      abnormal fluid collections and leakage. Conversely, filling defects can indicate the presence
      of stones or mass lesions.

      This study is being undertaken to prospectively assess the effectiveness of RG1068-enhanced
      MRCP relative to unenhanced MRCP in pediatric patients. RG1068 is a synthetic human secretin
      with a pharmacological profile very similar to that of biological and synthetic porcine
      secretins. Secretin is a 27-amino acid gastrointestinal peptide hormone that is produced by
      S-cells in the duodenum in response to the pH decrease caused by the passage of partially
      digested food from the stomach into the intestine. RG1068 is identical in amino acid sequence
      to naturally occurring human secretin and differs from porcine secretin in 2 amino acids.
    
  