
    
      Primary brain injury, the initial physical injury to brain tissue post-trauma, responds only
      to measures that prevent TBI from occurring in the first place. However, secondary brain
      injury, a complex cascade of events causing additional brain injury following primary brain
      injury, is more amenable to pharmacologic treatment. Neuroinflammation is one of the
      recognized mechanisms of secondary brain injury. In response to primary brain injury,
      activated microglia and injured neurons both release signaling proteins including cytokines
      and chemokines. Ω-3 and ω-6 fatty acids are major components of immune cells and neuronal
      cell membranes. They are also precursors to neuromodulatory lipids such as eicodanoids,
      endovanilloids and endocannabinoids that have antinociceptive and anxiolytic properties.
      Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is one of the most abundant fatty acid components of brain cell
      membrane phospholipids. In rodent model studies, dietary supplementation with omega-3 fatty
      acids (eicosapentaenoic acid [EPA] and docosahexaenoic acid [DHA]) decreased secondary axonal
      injury, attenuated endoplasmic reticulum stress response, decreased neuroinflammation
      post-TBI, and improved short and long-term neurologic outcomes. Additionally, DHA
      supplementation post-TBI enhances neurogenesis by counteracting reductions in neuroplasticity
      biomarkers such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Furthermore, DHA deficient rodents are
      more likely to have a greater amount of axonal injury and slower recovery neurologic recovery
      post-TBI. To our knowledge there are no human studies examining the effect of omega-3 fatty
      acid supplementation post-TBI on functional, symptomatic and neurologic outcomes. However, a
      study of collegiate football players who were randomized to 2, 4 or 6g/day of DHA or placebo
      for a total of 189 days (including 80 pre-season days). Irrespective of the dose of DHA
      supplementation, those receiving DHA had lower values of serum neurofilament light chain, a
      biomarker of axonal injury, than those receiving placebo.
    
  