
    
      The main goal of the Boston University's TIPS II project is to examine differences in
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) illness perceptions between African Americans and Whites in order to
      better understand attitudes and beliefs and to develop more culturally sensitive health
      services for AD. This 30-minute telephone survey will include a total of 140 first-degree
      relatives and caregivers of people with AD, as well as a comparison group of 70 adults
      without family history. The researchers will assess 1) beliefs about AD; 2) the perceived
      threat it poses; 3) sources of information about AD; 4) knowledge of basic facts about AD; 5)
      appraisal of AD treatments; and 6) intentions regarding current and emerging care options.
      Based on preliminary data, this study hypothesize that, as compared to Whites, African
      Americans will report lower levels of perceived threat, fewer sources of information, less
      awareness of facts, and less interest in care options. Focus group interviews with African
      American participants will help interpret study findings and inform recommendations for
      health education interventions.

      Findings will inform the development of a set of recommendations for AD health educators that
      will help them tailor their interventions to African Americans. Such educational programs
      promote increased use of assessment, treatment, and caregiver assistance services. Results
      will also be used as pilot data in a proposal for a national survey of caregivers and
      relatives. This program of research will address a growing need for increased understanding
      of beliefs, knowledge, and intentions regarding AD. A total of 210 participants are being
      sought (105 African Americans, and 105 Whites). Participants who complete the survey will be
      given a $10.00 check, plus informational brochures on AD and the latest newsletter from the
      Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Center.
    
  