
    
      Patients will be consented for the study and asked to initial on the consent form to state
      whether they agree for the genetic testing. After signing informed consent, complete medical
      history and medication list will be obtained and verified with the electronic medical record.
      After meeting all inclusion and exclusion criteria during the screening visit, those patients
      on aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular events will be asked to stop it for 2
      weeks prior to blood collection for baseline data. Normal controls will be chosen after
      frequency matching for decade of age, gender, diabetes mellitus and interval of body mass
      index (5 kg/m2). Dietary supplements (Vitamin E and fish oil) known to affect platelet
      function will be assessed and patients on those will be asked to discontinue these.
      Participants with also be asked to not eat foods known to affect platelet function (coffee,
      chocolate, grapes, and alcohol) 48 hours prior to sample collection on visit 1. An
      interviewer-administered assessment of diet and exercise with a modified 24-hour dietary
      recall and the Stanford 7-day Physical activity Recall will be performed to ensure dietary
      consistency which may affect platelet aggregability on visit 1. Blood will be drawn via
      venopuncture for laboratory studies (whole blood platelet aggregation, von Willebrand Factor
      antigen levels and activity). Participants will be administered aspirin 81 mg for 2 weeks and
      asked to return in 2 weeks. On visit 2, whole blood platelet aggregation will be re-measured
      and questionnaires filled out. Two oral swabs will be taken from those participants who
      consented for genetic testing and samples will be stored at Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical
      Center for short term until shipped to Diagnostics Laboratory for genetic testing of
      clopidogrel cytochrome P450 polymorphisms. All participants will be administered clopidogrel
      75 mg daily on top of aspirin 81 mg for 2 weeks and asked to return in 2 weeks. On visit 3,
      whole blood platelet aggregation will be re-measured and questionnaires filled out. At the
      completion of the study, participants will be placed back on their original antiplatelet
      agent if applicable and referred back to the primary care provider.
    
  