
    
      Pulmonary transplantation (PT) is a therapeutic option now accepted in the management of
      selected patients who have reached the irreversible and terminal stage of their chronic
      respiratory insufficiency. Its main indications are: cystic fibrosis and other bronchial
      diseases, emphysema (primary deficit or in the context of COPD), interstitial lung diseases
      with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis in the foreground, and severe pulmonary hypertension.

      The evocation of osteo-articular and musculotendinous pain symptoms in the aftermath of PT is
      frequent and very diversified. These complications are poorly codified and hinder the
      rehabilitation and early resumption of physical activity and sports. Few data are available
      on this subject in the literature.

      Following transplantation, improvements in respiratory function, quality of life, and
      exercise capacity are observed, with large inter-individual variations.

      Patients are encouraged to resume physical activity, initially as part of a rehabilitation
      exercise.

      Among the factors limiting exercise, some have been more widely studied, such as muscular
      deconditioning related to pre-existing chronic respiratory insufficiency, prolonged stay in
      intensive care, side effects of transplant-related treatments (corticosteroids and
      immunosuppressants).

      Pain is also a factor limiting the recovery of physical activity and quality of life. Pain
      related directly to thoracotomy surgery has been explored but there is little data available
      on musculoskeletal pain.

      The purpose of this study is to better understand the musculoskeletal pain occurring in the
      aftermath of a lung transplantation. Conducting this study for a period of 1 year will allow
      you to move away from the immediate post-transplant time, and the pain associated with the
      transplant will no longer have any interference.

      The main objective of our study is to better know the prevalence of algic manifestations of
      the musculoskeletal system (osteo-articular, musculotendinous ...) occurring in the year
      following a TP, and may constitute a brake on the rehabilitation of the musculoskeletal
      system. effort and recovery of physical activity or sport.
    
  