
    
      Stroke is the fifth cause of all-cause mortality in US http://www.cdc.gov/stroke/facts.htm .
      Early identification and treatment not only prevent mortality but also morbidity. Recent
      advancement in the imaging and diagnostic technique and novel therapeutic modalities has
      dramatically helped to downgrade stroke from the list of top mortality index in the last 3
      years. However, studies determining factors which help predict stroke outcome are still
      underway and much work needs to be done in this direction. Many factors currently are used to
      predict stroke outcome with varying results, for e.g. NIHSS is a good predictor of stroke
      outcome at 3 months; however, we need better predictors, outcome scales or outcome measures
      which are easy, reliable and has better specificity and sensitivity.

      There is also some correlation of clinical and biochemical predictors in subarachnoid,
      cerebral venous thrombosis including Hunt and Hess, SAH score, WFNS-SAH grading among others
      with variable predictive quality. (Rosen et al; Neurocritical Care; April 2005, Volume 2,
      Issue 2, pp 110- 118: Subarachnoid hemorrhage grading scales).

      During the acute phase of focal cerebral ischemia, there is an elevation of thrombin activity
      and a decline in fibrinolytic activity. Moreover, the role of pro-inflammatory cytokines has
      been proven in the last few decades, as markers of inflammation have been closely studied in
      mice models; there are indications that elevated levels correlate with the extent of ischemic
      injury. Various interleukins were found to be elevated in most if not all patients with acute
      ischemic stroke. Correlation of hemostatic (procoagulant and fibrinolytic markers) with
      inflammatory markers is under discussion, with no confirmed common marker identified as of
      yet.

      As new cytokines and tissue markers are established in scientific literature, stroke
      scientists are interested in evaluating the role of these markers in the pathophysiology of
      stroke. The role of glial cell markers has been of remarkable interest. Recently, an
      astrocyte marker S100B has shown association with infarct size, neurological outcome, and
      prognosis. Moreover, analyzing the cytokines in stroke and ICH patients would help understand
      their role in the acute phase, which may become potential therapeutic adjuncts for tpa and
      endovascular thrombectomy. In summary, inflammation in acute stroke is an area of interest in
      the recent years, with the theoretical benefit of aborting the inflammatory chain during
      acute stroke might be useful in limiting stroke-related brain damage or hemorrhagic
      transformation in acute stroke.
    
  