
    
      This study had a cluster-crossover design, where each of the two involved ICUs was the
      cluster. The genaral aim was to test the effectiveness of a 3-in-1 perineal care washcloth
      versus standard of care (e.g., water and pH neutral soap) to prevent and treat pressure
      ulcers in ICUs. The study has been articulated in two phases, lasted three months each. In
      the first phase, from the 1st of February to the 2nd of May, the 3-in-1 perineal care
      washcloth procedure has been adopted by the ICU of San Donato Hospital (Milan, Italy), while
      the Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit (CVICU) continued to adopt the standard procedure
      (water and pH neutral soap). In the second phase, from the 2nd of May to 31st of July, the
      two procedures have been switched between the two wards.

      Adult patients (aged over 18 years old) requiring personal hygiene care (total or perineal)
      in ICU and CVICU of San Donato Hospital have been enrolled. Patients who present allergic
      reactions or sensitivity to the experimental procedure have been excluded. All the
      longitudinal data related to the presence/grading of pressure ulcer (PU) at every hygiene
      care (total or perineal) performed on the patients in ICU and CVICU have been collected.

      The primary endpoint of the study is represented by PU during the hospitalization in ICUs,
      whis is expected to be reduced from 10% in the experimental clusters. A sample size composed
      by 240 patients (120 patients/group) has been calculated, following methodological approach
      for difference between proportions. The sample size was calculated to be representative in
      observing a 10% decrease in the onset of PU, with a 80% power and an alpha error equal to
      0.05. This approach led to the detection of a clinical relevant difference to compare the
      effectiveness between the two different procedures.

      Data collected for the study were recorded on data-collection sheets in hard copy format.
      Data were also collected after every hygiene procedure on patient-related characteristics,
      skin condition and general clinical status.

      The comparison between the two clusters (i.e. ICU and CVICU) will be performed using
      Student's t-test for the continuous variables and the χ2 for the categorical ones. Treatment
      effectiveness will be evaluated through the difference between proportions of IAD and PU in
      Period 1 and Period 2. A decrease in the onset of IAD and PU is expected as the main
      endpoint, considering a 95% confidence interval. The data will be compared using generalized
      estimating equation (GEE). The variables that might have an influence on the
      prevalence/incidence measures (i.e., patient's characteristics and ICUs management/staffing)
      will be monitored. The Period will be considered a "within" factor and the procedure/cluster
      a "between" factor. The α significance level will be preventively set at 5%.

      Data have been stored to a master file on the San Donato Hospital server. This is
      password-protected and only available to the Principal Investigator user. On completion of
      the project, identifying data have been removed from all the record.
    
  