
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Measure the anti-cancer activity of pembrolizumab in men with metastatic, castration
      resistant prostate cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate immunological and genetic parameters to evaluate for possible markers and
      functional changes that are predictive of a clinical response or linked to response or
      resistance to PD-1 inhibition.

      II. To collect circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and determine the degree to which tumor
      characteristics are shared by the CTCs.

      III. Changes in T cell numbers, activation, and phenotype as measured in whole blood at
      diagnosis and throughout therapy.

      IV. Systemic inflammatory markers: serum interleukin (IL)-8, IL-6, IL-1, tumor necrosis
      factor (TNF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta.

      V. Objective disease response by radiographs. VI. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression
      free survival. VII. Overall survival. VIII. Microbiome and correlation with response.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Additional genetic (deoxyribonucelic acid [DNA], ribonucleic acid [RNA]) and protein
      analyses will be conducted to further evaluate immunotherapy and profile/characterize
      disease.

      OUTLINE:

      INITIAL TREATMENT PHASE: Patients who are progressing on enzalutamide will receive
      pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks
      for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      continue to receive standard of care enzalutamide orally (PO) daily.

      MONITORING PHASE: After completion of the initial treatment phase, patients continue to
      receive standard of care enzalutamide PO daily for the duration of the trial.

      RETREATMENT PHASE: Patients with disease response or stability after the initial treatment
      phase will receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks
      for an additional 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients continue to receive standard of care enzalutamide PO daily for the duration of the
      trial.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 12
      weeks for 2.5 years.
    
  