
    
      People with a history of traumatic brain injury (TBI) often have pain, such as headaches or
      neck pain as well as pain from other injuries. Effective treatments that teach people how to
      manage pain have been used to treat chronic pain in the general population. However, it is
      often hard for people to access these treatments, as since they are usually only offered in
      person. The investigators are interested in learning if these treatments can be effectively
      delivered by telephone, and if the treatments are effective for Veterans with a history of
      TBI. The purpose of this study is to compare two of these treatments to see if they can be
      delivered by telephone, and see if they can help reduce pain in Veterans with a history of
      TBI. Both of these methods are called "self-management" approaches to pain management. Both
      of these treatments are commonly used in pain clinics and have been used to treat pain in
      persons with TBI. The investigators are interested in comparing these two different
      approaches to self-management delivered by phone. Additionally, the investigators want to
      determine if these treatments can help reduce the negative consequences that pain often
      causes, such as disruption in mood, daily activities, and enjoyment of life.

      The sponsor of this study is the Department of Defense. The scientist in charge of this
      project is at the University of Washington, as are many of the co-investigators and study
      staff. However, all the people who participate in this study will be Operation Enduring
      Freedom (OEF)/Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF)/Operation New Dawn (OND) Veterans recruited from
      VA Puget Sound Health Care System (VAPSHCS). Dr. Rhonda Williams is the scientist at the
      VAPSHCS who will oversee the project activities at this site. The investigators enrolled 231
      subjects into this study. The study will be funded through September 29, 2017.

      Subjects will be asked to participate in the following:

      1)Informed Consent 2)6 Six Assessments (including cognitive testing, interviews administered
      by phone and in person) 3)Participate in a telephone-based 1:1 treatment intervention for
      pain. Subjects will be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of the two
      treatment interventions.

      4)All of the activities included in the study are considered research and would not normally
      be part of the treatment subjects receive at the VAPSHCS.

      Details about the various study activities are included below:

      Informed Consent A research staff member will review the details of the study with each
      subject and answer any questions the subject may have, and see if the subject is interested
      in participating. Subjects will then print their name, sign and date the study consent form
      if they are interested in participating.

      Assessments There are several assessments required as part of subjects' participation in this
      study: cognitive tests, a baseline assessment interview, and four "assessment periods". The
      "assessment periods" are weeks in which the researchers will call subjects four times, each
      on a different day, to do a brief assessment interview. All of these assessments are
      described in detail below.

      Cognitive Testing Session

      The first assessment is a short battery of cognitive tests. These tests will test memory and
      information processing. These tests will take about 15-20 minutes to complete and need to be
      completed in person. Subjects can complete them immediately following the consent process
      today or at a later time. Subjects will be compensated $20 for completing this assessment.

      Baseline Assessment Interview A research staff member will interview each subject for 20-30
      minutes. Subjects will be asked a number of standard questions such as their age, gender,
      race, ethnicity, education level, military service, and their pain problem(s). Research staff
      members will also ask about personal habits and history, including alcohol and drug use, as
      well as any problems subjects may experience related to stressful military experiences.
      Subjects will also be asked two questions about whether or not they ever experienced military
      sexual trauma. These questions will take about 20-30 minutes to answer all together, and can
      be completed in person after the cognitive testing session, or over the telephone at a later
      time. Subjects will not be paid to complete this interview.

      Medical Record Review

      Research staff members will collect some information about subjects from their medical
      record, including the following:

      Level of Service Connection Number of TBI-Related Events Where subjects were located when the
      TBI-Related Events occurred (e.g., in combat, in the USA) Causes of TBI(s) Severity of TBI(s)

      This information will be linked to the data subjects provide while participating in the
      study. Subjects will not have to do anything other than enroll in the study in order for the
      researchers to review their medical records.

      Four Telephone Assessment Periods Research staff will call subjects to complete four sets of
      telephone interviews during study participation. The first of these will occur at the
      beginning of the study. The second will occur about half- way through treatment. The third
      will occur at the end of treatment, and the fourth will occur about six months after the
      subject began treatment. Each assessment period will include four telephone calls on
      different days, all within the same week. Telephone calls may be as brief as 5 minutes, or
      one of the 4 lasting as long as 30 minutes, depending on how subjects choose to space the
      assessment questions over the four calls within a given assessment period week. The entire
      assessment will take about 40-45 minutes to complete, spread over four telephone calls within
      a week.

      During each telephone call, research staff will ask subjects at the minimum to rate their
      current, average, worst and least pain intensity over the past 24 hours, as well as the
      frequency and severity of any headaches subjects may have had in the past 24 hours.

      In addition, once during each of the four assessment period weeks the research staff will
      also ask subjects an extra set of questions about how much pain has interfered with their
      life, how they have been feeling recently, and thoughts or feelings they have had about their
      pain problem. These extra questions take about 25 minutes in total to answer.

      Subjects will have the option to:

        1. complete the extra set of questions all at once, in one of the four telephone
           interviews,

        2. spread the set of questions across the four telephone interviews, so that each call is
           about 10 minutes long, or

        3. complete a bare minimum of questions over the telephone during any of the four phone
           interviews, and then complete the remaining questions via a paper-and-pencil
           questionnaire sent to the subject. Subjects will then return the completed questionnaire
           in a postage-paid envelope provided by staff. Research staff will call subjects if they
           have not received the completed questionnaire after a certain period of time.

      The four telephone interviews must be completed within one week, and each of the assessment
      calls will take place on different days during the one week. The pre-treatment assessments
      must be completed in the week before the first treatment session. Otherwise, the first
      treatment session will be postponed until all four of the assessments have been completed.

      Treatment Once subjects are enrolled in the research study and have completed the cognitive
      testing session and the baseline assessment, a research staff member will call each subject
      to schedule the initial treatment session. The clinicians who will conduct the treatment
      sessions are clinical psychologists or trained therapists who are supervised by clinical
      psychologists.

      Before the first treatment session, subjects will be randomly assigned (by chance, like
      flipping a coin) to one of two treatment interventions. Both treatments involve eight
      hour-long telephone calls with the assigned study therapist. Both treatments involve
      educating subjects about pain, discussing the impact of pain, and discussing different ways
      to manage it in hopes of decreasing subjects' pain and its impact on their lives. Subjects
      will be encouraged to use what they learn in the telephone sessions outside of treatment to
      help them with their pain.

      Every participant will receive eight 60-minute sessions conducted by telephone by one of the
      study's clinicians. Whenever possible, research staff will try to schedule the treatment
      sessions an average of once a week, so that a subject's total time in treatment is eight
      weeks. Research staff will send subjects a workbook by standard mail or electronically, with
      materials to refer to and discuss during the telephone sessions, as well as additional
      materials to review between sessions. Subjects may also receive audio recordings as part of
      the material they will talk about in treatment.

      The research staff members who are conducting the assessments will not know which treatment
      intervention subjects have been assigned to, nor will they have access to any information
      covered during the treatment sessions with study clinicians. All treatment is administered
      over the phone.

      Subjects will be asked to complete the follow-up assessments if they decide they no longer
      want to participate in the study before they finish the treatment sessions.

      The study clinician who conducted the treatment sessions will call each subject 2, 6, and 10
      weeks after the last treatment session. The clinician will call to ask how subjects are doing
      and answer questions they may have. These telephone calls are called "booster sessions" and
      will take about up to 15 minutes to complete.
    
  