
    
      This will be an 8-week single center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible
      titration trial evaluating the efficacy of solriamfetol in the treatment of fatigue symptoms
      in adult patients (18-65) with a diagnosis of ME/CFS. Subjects will be randomized (1:1) to a
      solriamfetol (flexible titration dosing) group (n=17 to 22) or placebo group (n = 17 to 22).
      The investigators will utilize an intent to treat model and impute data, if statistically
      feasible, from dropouts utilizing a MNAR (missing not at random) approach.

      The trial involves primary, secondary, exploratory and safety/tolerability objectives.

      Primary objective: Evaluate IMP efficacy in treating ME/CFS fatigue symptoms

      Primary endpoint: Difference in means at week 8 between treatment and control groups as
      measured by the Fatigue Symptom Inventory.

      Secondary objective: Evaluate IMP efficacy in treating ME/CFS cognitive symptoms.

      Secondary endpoint: Difference in means between treatment and control groups as measured by
      the BRIEF-A.

      Exploratory objective: Evaluate IMP efficacy in treating symptoms related to overall clinical
      severity/distress of patients with ME/CFS and common co-occurring conditions of ME/CFS.

      Exploratory endpoints: Differences in means between treatment and control groups as measured
      by the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire, the Sheehan Disability Scale, the Clinical Global
      Impression measure, and the Patient Global Impression measure.

      Safety and tolerability objective: Evaluate the safety and tolerability of IMP for the
      treatment of patients with a diagnosis of ME/CFS.

      Safety and tolerability endpoints: Frequency and severity of AEs, changes in vital signs:
      blood pressure, pulse rate, weight, and physical exams. Subjects will undergo a 12-lead ECG
      exam, Urine Drug Screens, and Urine Pregnancy Test. Suicidality will be assessed utilizing
      the Columbia Suicidality Severity Rating Scale.
    
  