
    
      Rationale of the study :

      Currently there is insufficient evidence on the most effective regime of fluoride application
      to regress post orthodontic WSLs and how it affects the quality and quantity of oral
      microbial flora.

      The study aims to determine the effect of different remineralizing agents on white spot
      lesions and dental plaque of post-orthodontic treatment patients.

      The objectives are:

        1. To compare the tooth surface changes (based on ICDAS, optical changes and patient
           perception) of white spot lesion treated with different remineralizing agents during
           orthodontic retention

        2. To compare the bacterial count (including streptococcus and lactobacillus) in subjects
           with white spot lesions treated with different remineralizing agents during orthodontic
           retention

        3. To compare the salivary profile (flow rate, Ph, buffering capacity) in subjects with
           white spot lesion treated with different remineralizing agents during orthodontic
           retention

      Sample size calculation :

      Sample size was calculated using G-power. Given an effect size of 0.49 (Jung et al., 2014),
      80% power of study, alpha of 5% and 7 measurements, the sample size required was 27. With a
      10% dropout, the final sample size is 30.

      Methodology :

      A. Subjects screening and preparation

      Orthodontic patients treated with at least fixed appliances on the maxillary arch at the
      Faculty of Dentistry, University of Malaya whom are scheduled for debond, are invited to
      participate in this study. Participants will be screened for white spot lesions based on the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Participants will be randomly allocated to 3 groups that
      will receive remineralizing applications according to their allocated groups:

      Group 1 The participants in group 1 will act as control group as they will be advised in
      using fluoridated toothpaste to brush twice daily during the follow up periods. No other
      fluorides supplements will be allowed to use.

      Group 2 The participants in this group will received fluoride varnish (5% sodium fluoride)
      treatment. The labial surface of each tooth will be polished with non-fluoridated pumice
      powder and will be rinsed and dried thoroughly. Approximately 0.5-1.0ml fluoride varnish will
      be applied on the tooth surface (labially) with the paint-on method from canines to canines.
      After varnish application, patients will be advised not to drink for at least 30 minutes and
      not to brush teeth or eat food for the next 4 hours after application. Participants can brush
      teeth the night after application. The participants will be advised to brush their teeth
      daily with fluoridated toothpaste. Fluoride varnish application will be on 3 months intervals
      from first review visit (T1). No other fluorides supplements will be allowed to use.

      Group 3 The participants will be advised to use pea size CPP-ACP plus crème on the tooth
      surfaces using a clean fingers twice daily following brushing their teeth with fluoridated
      toothpaste. The participants will be taught to keep the CPP-ACP plus crème on the tooth
      surface for at least 3 minutes before rinsing the mouth. After application of CPP-ACP plus
      crème, participants will be advised not to drink or eat for at least 30 minutes. No other
      fluoride supplements will be allowed to use.

      During the first appointment (T0),

        1. Debond procedure will be done according to the standard protocol.

        2. Two sets of impression will be taken for the construction of study model, construction
           of the standard retainers and also for the research purpose.

        3. Participants will be screen for white spot lesion by using the Optical Coherence
           Tomography (Santec) . A jig will be constructed for reproducible positioning of the
           probe. Two maxillary teeth with the worst WSL will be selected for each patient to
           measure the lesion depth and integrated refractivity. The intraoral photos of the
           maxillary teeth will be taken.

        4. The salivary profile (flow rate, Ph, buffering capacity) will be measured using Saliva-
           Check BUFFER (GC America) according to the manufacturer's instruction.

        5. Plaque samples will be collected with sterile swabs from the enamel surface of each
           tooth with the identified WSL to measure the bacterial count.

      1 day after T0,

        1. Participants will receive pressure formed or thermoplastic retainer in upper arch and
           instructed to wear their retainers all day (for at least 8 hours) and wear them after
           toothbrushing.

        2. ICDAS score and optical changes (lesion depth and integrated refractivity) of the white
           spot lesion will be measured.

        3. Participants will be given a set of questionnaires to assess the compliance to the
           remineralizing agent application and perception on the WSL.

      Treatment follow up

        1. The participants will be coordinated for follow up after 3 months (T1), 6 months (T2), 9
           months (T3), 12 months (T4), and 18 months (T5)

        2. During the follow up visit , each participant will be subjected to the measurement of :

             -  tooth surface changes

             -  bacterial count

             -  salivary profile

             -  intraoral photos of maxillary teeth

        3. Participants will be given a set of questionnaires at every follow up visit to assess
           the compliance to the application of remineralizing agent and perception of the WSLs

      Statistical Analysis

      Data analysis will be done using the SPSS version 22. Descriptive date will be expressed as
      mean ± standard deviation (SD) unless otherwise stated. Repeated measurement ANOVA will be
      used for analysis of normally distributed variables. Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA will be used for
      non-normally distributed data. A value of P < 0.05 is considered statistically significant.
      The data collected will be analyzed using an intention-to-treat basis.
    
  