
    
      Thumbtack Intra-dermal Needle is a type of intra-dermal needle with a round thumbtack like
      needle head that is perpendicular to the needle and its sharp end. It is also named as
      Push-pin Intra-dermal Needle. The Thumbtack Intra-dermal Needle is designed to be embedded in
      the dermal part of the patients'body for a prolong period to provide continuous stimulation,
      it is a further development of the treatment method of retaining the filiform needle in the
      patients'body. The main purpose of embedding the needle in the patients' body for a prolong
      period of time is to enhance the effect of acupuncture, and improve its clinical efficacy.
      After the Thumbtack Intra-dermal Needle is applied to the acupuncture point, the needle will
      be fastened by adhesive tape on the skin surface, and embedded in the dermal part of the
      patient's body for a period of time. Currently, Thumbtack Intra-dermal Needle is widely used
      in clinical application. On April 23, 2008, the State Administration of Quality Supervision,
      Inspection and Quarantine of the People's Republic of China, together with the China National
      Standardization Management Committee, released the GB standard of applying Intra-dermal
      Needle: The national standard of the People's Republic of China - Acupuncture and Practices,
      Part 8: Intra-dermal Needle (GB/T 21709. 8-2008).

      Filiform needle is the most common needle used for acupuncture, and it is commonly accepted
      as the primary tool to perform acupuncture. Traditional Acupuncture (using filiform needle)is
      proven to be effective in pain management. In 2003, World Health Organization(WHO) confirmed
      that "There is significant neurophysiological evidence that supports the the notion that
      acupuncture is capable of modulating pain sensation". Relatively fewer research and study has
      been done on efficacy of Intra-dermal needle in pain management.

      The objective of this trial is to further confirm and assess the efficacy of filiform needle
      therapy on the common orthopedic pain syndromes and investigate whether or not thumbtack
      needle therapy could further enhance the clinical efficacy and pain healing effect of the
      filiform needle therapy.

      150 outpatients diagnosed with common orthopedic pain syndromes (Coracoiditis, External
      humeral epicondylitis, Radial styloid process stenosing tenosynovitis, Flexor tendon
      stenosing tenosynovitis, Costochondritis and Supraspinal ligament injury) will be recruited.
      The recruited patient will be divided randomly into (i)Filiform Needle Group (75 cases) and
      (ii)Filiform Needle supplemented by Thumbtack Intra-dermal Needle Group (75cases) by using
      computer generated random number.

      During the study period, a maximum of two courses of acupuncture therapy, consisting of 7
      sessions each, will be administered. Treatment will be given twice per week. After completing
      the first course of 7 sessions, there will be a break of one week, at the end of which the
      second course will commence. Treatment will come to a halt as soon as the pain has totally
      subsided. The aim of treatment is to relieve the pain associated with the common orthopedic
      syndrome within the shortest period of time.

      Questionnaire incorporating The Short-form McGill Pain Form and selected life efficacy
      questions will be used in this study to quantify the level of pain. Traditional Chinese
      Medicine(TCM) Syndrome Diagnostic Efficacy Standards and The Guiding Rules of Clinical
      Research of New Chinese Medicine will be adopted as the standard to observe and evaluate the
      efficacy of treatment. Patients will be observed and evaluate before and after each treatment
      and each treatment course. The subjects' level and intensity of pain will be recorded
      together with the improvement of body mobility and symptoms related to the pain. Follow up
      will take place 3 months, 6 months and 12 months after treatment completed through phone
      interview.

      Data collected will be analysed by Statistical Product and Service Solutions(SPSS)
      statistical software, The efficacy of Filiform Needle Therapy and Thumbtack Needle Therapy on
      Common Orthopedic Pain Syndromes will be objectively assessed and compared.
    
  