
    
      COPD exacerbations are a common cause of ill health, hospitalization and death. Once
      exacerbation symptoms are recognized, the current treatment consists of short course of oral
      steroids, antibiotics and increased bronchodilator intake. Systemic steroids are thought to
      reduce the inflammatory component of COPD exacerbation. A short course of steroid therapy
      improves FEV1 and decreases the relapse rate but most studies have been done on patients
      requiring hospitalization. Only few studies have described the role of steroids in the
      outpatients setting. However, some concerns remain about using systemic steroids for all
      patients with acute exacerbation. Their short-term advantages may be outweighed by the
      occurrence of adverse side effects such as hyperglycemia, which is difficult to manage on an
      outpatient basis. In this context, the possibility of treating patients with COPD
      exacerbation with inhaled steroids having less systemic adverse effects is interesting. In
      clinical trials, combination of corticosteroid with long-acting β2-adrenoceptor agonists
      (LABA) reduces airway inflammation, exacerbation rates, and improves lung function and health
      status of patients with stable moderate to severe COPD beyond that achieved by individual
      component therapy. Trials showed that nebulized steroid during acute COPD exacerbation
      requiring hospitalization is as effective as prednisone with less hyperglycemia. To our
      knowledge, no study has been conducted on the efficacy of combination treatment with inhaled
      steroid and LABA in the outpatient management of COPD exacerbation. Combination treatment
      could be a good alternative for patients with steroid contraindication and to reduce
      hospitalisation for uncontrolled hyperglycemia.

      Primary objective: To compare relapse rates, lung function, the severity of dyspnea and,
      systemic and sputum inflammatory markers in outpatients with acute exacerbations of COPD
      treated with twice the regular dosage of Advair® or oral prednisone for 10 days.

      Secondary objectives: To obtain preliminary data allowing sample size calculation for a
      larger similar clinical trial.

      Hypothesis: Advair® is as effective as oral prednisone in treatment of outpatients with an
      acute COPD exacerbation.

      Airway inflammation is a component of the pathophysiology of COPD exacerbation. Sputum from
      COPD-exacerbation patients has elevated inflammatory cells, TNF, IL-8 and RANTES levels
      compared to stable patients. Systemic steroid are thought to reduce the inflammatory
      component of COPD exacerbation. Appraisal of the current literature on glucocorticosteroids
      for acute COPD exacerbation show that a short course of systemic corticosteroid therapy
      improves spirometry and decreases the relapse rate but most studies using steroids for
      exacerbation have been done on patients requiring hospitalization, and only few have
      described the role of steroids in the outpatients setting. Two randomized controlled trials
      studied patients with acute COPD exacerbations not requiring hospitalization. Patients were
      assigned to receive oral prednisone for at least 9 days or placebo. The prednisone group
      showed a more rapid and significant improvement in forced expiratory volume at one second
      (FEV1). This therapy also resulted in fewer treatment failures and a trend toward more rapid
      improvement in dyspnea scale scores compared to placebo. However, despite proof of efficacy,
      some concerns remain about using systemic corticosteroid for all patients with acute
      exacerbation. Mainly because the short-term advantage may be outweighed by the occurrence of
      adverse side effects such as hyperglycemia, which is difficult to manage on outpatient basis
      and myopathy that can be observed even following a single oral dose of prednisolone. In this
      context, the possibility of treating patients with acute COPD exacerbation with inhaled
      corticosteroid having less systemic adverse effects is on particular interest.

      Two trials have studied the effect of nebulized steroid during acute COPD exacerbation
      requiring hospitalization. Maltais et al. showed that 3 days of oral prednisone or nebulized
      budesonide significantly increased FEV1 compared to placebo. Compared with prednisone,
      nebulized budesonide was associated with a lesser occurrence of hyperglycemia, a potential
      advantage for diabetic patients with COPD. Recent studies have suggested long-acting
      b2-agonist as potential option in the treatment of acute exacerbation of COPD. It has been
      shown that salmeterol (up to 100 mcg) as formoterol (up to 48mcg) given over the same
      interval time induced an effective dose-dependent increase in FEV1, FVC and IC in patients
      with mild acute COPD exacerbation. Finally, the inhaled combination of salmeterol/fluticasone
      during 13 weeks in stable COPD patients showed a significant decrease in airway inflammation
      with decrease of lymphocytes, neutrophils, eosinophils and cells expressing genes for TNF and
      IFN. The main effect of inhaled corticosteroids is thought to be mediated through suppression
      of airway inflammation, while LABA are thought to work by inducing bronchodilation. However,
      there is emerging data to indicate that long-acting b2-adrenoceptor agonists may amplify the
      anti-inflammatory effects of corticosteroids by accelerating nuclear translocation of the
      glucocorticoid receptor complex, and enhancing transcription and expression of
      steroid-inducible genes in pro-inflammatory cells. These results suggest a role of the
      combination of long-acting b2-adrenoreceptor agonist and inhaled steroid in the inflammation
      observed in acute COPD exacerbation.
    
  