
    
      Labor induction is a common procedure among pregnant patients at term. This process involves
      a period of cervical preparation ("ripening") for women who have an "unfavorable" cervical
      examination at the time labor induction is scheduled. Cervical ripening may take place with
      pharmacologic or mechanical strategies, which at this time are traditionally administered on
      an inpatient basis. This process can 24 or more hours, resulting in a lengthy hospitalization
      with the associated costs and frustrations for both patients and L&D staff.

      The proposed study is a randomized, controlled trial to explore the following research
      question: Among women with full-term pregnancies requiring labor induction, does
      pre-hospital, outpatient cervical ripening reduce the amount of inpatient time needed to
      achieve delivery as compared to no pre-hospital cervical ripening? As a secondary objective,
      we also wish to explore if outpatient cervical ripening is acceptable to patients.

      This study will involve randomizing eligible and consenting women who have been scheduled for
      labor induction by their obstetrical providers into a pre-hospital cervical ripening
      (intervention) group or a no pre-hospital ripening (control) group. A trans-cervical Foley
      balloon (TCFB) will be used for outpatient pre-hospital cervical ripening in women randomized
      to the intervention group. No pre-hospital ripening will be performed for women in the
      control group. Both groups will be admitted for induction as scheduled and will undergo labor
      induction according to a specified, Bishop-score based induction protocol, which may or may
      not include a TCFB. We will compare the duration of inpatient stays from admission until
      delivery between the groups as well as satisfaction with the pre-hospital period and labor
      and delivery experience. Maternal and neonatal outcomes will also be compared between the two
      groups.
    
  