
    
      The objective of this study is to determine whether the use of direct oral anticoagulants
      (DOACs) is associated with an increased risk of major bleeding compared to warfarin use, for
      the treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE).

      A common-protocol approach will be used to conduct retrospective cohort studies using
      administrative health care data from eight jurisdictions (the Canadian provinces of Alberta,
      Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Quebec, Saskatchewan, as well as the United Kingdon (UK)
      Clinical Practice Research Datalink and the United States (US) Marketscan). Briefly, the
      Canadian databases include population-level data on physician billing, diagnoses and
      procedures from hospital discharge abstracts, and dispensations for prescription drugs. The
      data in Nova Scotia, Ontario, and Alberta will be restricted to patients aged 65 years and
      older, as prescription data are not available for younger patients. The CPRD is a clinical
      database that is representative of the UK population and contains the records for patients
      seen at over 680 general practitioner practices in the UK.

      In each jurisdiction, the investigators will assemble a study cohort that includes all
      patients newly prescribed a DOAC or warfarin from January 1, 2009 (or the earliest date of
      data availability at each site) to October 2, 2014 (or 180 days before the last date of data
      availability at each site, if earlier), that had an incident diagnosis of VTE within the 30
      days prior to the date of the prescription. The date of study cohort entry will be defined by
      the prescription (for CPRD) or dispensation (for all other sites) date of the newly
      prescribed DOAC or warfarin. Patients in the study cohort will be followed from the date of
      study cohort entry until an event (defined below), censoring due to death or departure from
      the database, 3 months after cohort entry, or the end of the study period (March 31, 2015),
      whichever occurs first.

      Exposure to a DOAC will be defined as a new prescription for a DOAC on the date of cohort
      entry. Exposure to warfarin will be defined as a new prescription for warfarin on the date of
      cohort entry. The investigators will use an analysis analogous to an intention-to-treat
      approach. The primary outcome will be defined as a hospitalization or emergency department
      visit for a major bleed within 3 months of cohort entry.

      The study cohort will be analyzed using a matched cohort design, where up to 5 warfarin users
      will be matched to each DOAC user on sex, age, cohort entry date, and propensity score (which
      will be constructed using a multivariable logistic regression model estimating the odds of
      being treated with DOACs, while adjusting for a number of pre-identified covariates to
      account for baseline difference at the time of cohort entry). The hazard of major bleeding
      with DOAC use vs. warfarin use will be estimated using Cox-proportional hazards regression
      models accounting for the potential correlation in the matched pairs. Meta-analyses of the
      site-specific results will then be performed using fixed or random effects models (according
      to results of Chi-squared tests for heterogeneity). Sensitivity analyses will be conducted,
      all defined a priori, to assess the robustness of the results.

      As secondary analyses, the investigators will: 1) assess the risk of all-cause mortality
      associated with DOAC use compared to warfarin use in the 3 months after cohort entry; 2)
      assess the risk of major bleeding associated with DOAC use compared to warfarin use,
      according to chronic kidney disease status; 3) determine (descriptively) the proportion of
      patients who experienced a major bleeding event by major bleed type; and 4) stratify the
      primary analysis by age (less than 66, 66-75, 76-85 and greater than 85), sex, and use of an
      anti-platelet medication in the 90 day period prior to cohort entry.
    
  