
    
      Subjects:

      Patients with persistent Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia for more than 48 hours from the
      beginning of antibiotics treatment to which Staphylococcus aureus is susceptible.

      Study Method:

        1. Selection of patients with persistent S.aureus bacteremia for more than 48 hours even
           after application of the standard treatment for S. aureus bacteremia

        2. Randomization according to the trial institutions

        3. The control group receives a single intravenous dose of the placebo in addition to the
           standard treatment for persistent Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia

        4. The study group receives a single intravenous dose of the N-Rephasin® SAL200 (3 mg/kg)
           in addition to the standard treatment for persistent Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia

        5. A blood culture is performed 18 hours (±6 hours) after the administration of N-Rephasin®
           SAL200

        6. Blood cultures continue to be performed every 24 hours (±6 hours) or 48 hours (±6 hours)
           after the previous blood culture, until two consecutive results of 'no growth (negative
           conversion)' are obtained

        7. Adverse events are monitored at the time of the first blood culture following the
           administration of N-Rephasin® SAL200 or placebo, and at the subsequent intervals of 24
           hours or 48 hours

      Statistical Analysis:

        1. Primary endpoints

             -  Safety analysis is conducted in the Safety group. A distribution table of patients
                who experience at least one adverse event (incidence), and distribution tables of
                the relationship of the reported adverse events with the investigational product
                (distribution tables for severity and the relationship with the drug) are presented
                with respect to the groups (study group, control group), to determine safety of the
                investigational product.

             -  The results of the laboratory tests, anaphylaxis test, inflammatory cytokine test
                and vital signs at baseline and the last visit are summarized as mean values and
                standard deviations, to determine the change before and after the treatment within
                each group.

             -  Categorical data are divided into normal and abnormal, and summarized as the
                frequency and percentage to determine the difference before and after treatment
                within each group.

        2. Secondary endpoints

             -  Proportion of patients who are negative for bacterial growth in the first blood
                culture after administration of the investigational drug. The descriptive
                statistics for the proportion of patients who are negative for bacterial growth in
                the first blood culture (the rate of no growth) after the first treatment are
                presented by treatment group. Whether the rate of no growth is superior in the
                study group compared to the control group, is evaluated by a descriptive
                statistical method.

             -  Proportion of patients who die due to S. aureus bacteremia by Day14 after the
                incidence of bacteremia. The descriptive statistics for the proportion of patients
                who die due to S. aureus bacteremia by Day14 are presented by treatment group and
                evaluated.

             -  Proportion of treatment failure for S. aureus bacteremia by Day 14 (if two
                consecutive results of 'no growth' are not achieved in the blood cultures which are
                performed until Day 14. The descriptive statistics for the proportion of treatment
                failure for S. aureus bacteremia by Day 14 are presented and evaluated.
    
  