
    
      Participants will be recruited from patients evaluated at University of Kentucky Chandler
      Hospital for acute ischemic stroke. Participants with impaired capacity may be included, as
      the pathology to be studied (stroke) may impair their capacity. Initial contact will be made
      by the sub-investigators approved to obtain consent; all sub-investigators are practitioners
      who would make contact with potential participants in a clinical manner under standard
      clinical procedures. All sub-investigators will have access to stroke patients' medical
      information under normal circumstances. No special outreach is necessary to recruit
      particular populations. Enrollment goal will be 15 patients in each group.

      Participants will not be compensated or provided any incentives for study participation.

      The following describes all study procedures and evaluations that are to be done as part of
      the study.

      Visit 1-Baseline (Day 0):

        -  Obtain consent.

        -  Medical history taken from medical record, participant and family to determine
           eligibility based on inclusion/exclusion criteria (Standard of Care)

        -  Medication history (Standard of Care)

        -  Physical examination to include vital signs (Standard of Care)

        -  Pregnancy Testing (Standard of Care)

        -  NIH Stroke Scale (Standard of Care)

        -  Verify inclusion/exclusion criteria

        -  Randomization

        -  Cerebral angiogram with Endovascular Thrombectomy (Standard of Care)

        -  Study Drug administration

        -  Adverse event (AE) collection

      Visit 2 - Within 48 hours of admission

      • Non-contrast Postoperative MRI or CT (Standard of Care) The choice of one or the other will
      be determined by clinical criteria; CT or MRI may be preferable for different reasons
      depending upon the patient's clinical scenario.

      Visit 3 - ( By Discharge)

        -  NIH Stroke Scale (Standard of Care)

        -  Discharge Destination (Standard of Care)

        -  Cognitive Assessment (Standard of Care)

        -  Radiographic assessment of primary and secondary radiologic endpoints

      Visit 4 - End of Study (90 Days) (+/- 30 days)

        -  UBACC assessment will be used to assess consent capacity at follow-up.

        -  Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA)

        -  Modified Rankin Score (mRS; Standard of Care)

      The visit may be conducted over the phone with the participant or their legally authorized
      representative.

      Unscheduled Visits. It is unexpected that Unscheduled Visits will be common, especially with
      the follow-up within 90 days after the procedure. However, subjects readmitted to the
      hospital for any reason will be tracked to determine if an AE occurred.

      There are no particular prohibited medications, treatments, or procedures for after
      administration of the study drug. However, therapeutic anticoagulation is a relative
      contraindication to thrombectomy. Patients on therapeutic anticoagulation will be excluded
      from the study.

      Following successful completion of the baseline visit, participants will be randomized into
      the study. The randomization number will be assigned by the PI/neurointerventionalist.

      Participants will be randomized to receive 10mg of verapamil in 10 cc of normal saline and
      1000mg of citicoline in 10cc of normal saline or matching placebo.
    
  