
    
      General objective: To determine the effectiveness of the use of BI for IIV compared to the
      usual advice, in people who refuse to be vaccinated.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To examine the effectiveness of Brief Intervention compared to the usual advice in
           different risk groups (> 60 healthy, > 60 years old with a Risk Factor [RF], <60 years
           old with RF).

        2. Quantify influenza vaccine coverage in people with the most frequent RF.

        3. Record the patients' reasons for refusing to be vaccinated.

      METHOD A cluster randomized controlled clinical trial. The reference population consisted of
      patients assigned to and treated by urban and rural health centres in the centre of
      Catalonia, an area with a population of approximately 405,000. 135,648 were the risk factor
      population that could be vaccinated against influenza virus.

      The study population consisted of individuals with high risk factors who were treated in
      healthcare centres during the 2017 influenza campaign.

      The study protocol was approved by the Research Ethics Committee (CEI) of the Institut
      Universitari d'Investigació en Atenció Primària (IDIAP Jordi Gol).

      The participants (doctors and nurses) decided voluntarily whether or not to participate and
      they were randomly assigned to either the Intervention Group (IG) or the Control Group (CG).

      The recruitment of patients suitable to participate in the study was carried out during the
      IIV campaign, as part of the health centre's routine activities. Patients with inclusion
      criteria who came to see a doctor or nurse were invited to participate in the study. Those
      who accepted participating signed an informed consent.

      The intervention consisted of a standardized Brief Intervention for the Influenza
      Vaccination.

      Data was collected anonymously and confidentially via the electronic health record of
      Catalonia [eCAP in Catalan]. The variables analysed for the two groups were: IIV at the end
      of the 2017 vaccination campaign (yes/no), age, IIV risk factors and reasons for
      non-vaccination.
    
  