
    
      Specifically, the intervention system based on the web platform "Tachidino" and routinely
      used for the rehabilitation of reading and spelling disorders at Medea, Lombardy region,
      would be extended to Marche (precisely, the clinical service connected to Urbino University,
      located in Pesaro, a coastal town in Central Italy), a different geographical region with
      different population characteristics. Precisely, the Lombardy region is a highly
      industrialized region with the highest digitalization rate in Italy, whereas Marche is a more
      agriculture-oriented region, with lower population density and less widespread use of digital
      technologies. The main aim of the study is, then, to ascertain whether the effectiveness
      levels found for the treatment protocol in the original context generalize to a different
      context and population.

      The system for the empowerment of reading and spelling skills ("Tachidino" software) is based
      on two principles of proven effectiveness:

        1. The selective stimulation of a cerebral hemisphere and specific reading strategies.

        2. The training of selective visuospatial attention, as well as the perception of rapid
           movement and the control of visual crowding effects.

      Clinical and assessment procedures

      In current clinical practice at IRCCS Medea, intervention in "e-health" mode is divided into
      one or more rehabilitation modules through the use of the Tachidino platform, with systematic
      monitoring and motivational reinforcement by professionals with experience in e-health
      approaches. In order to be included in the training, the child must have already obtained a
      diagnosis of dyslexia, according to the current diagnostic standards.

      The structure of the intervention modules is as follows:

        -  1 initial meeting to get to know the child, pre-test assessment - reading and writing
           tests of words, non-words and sentences, metaphonological tests and text reading tests
           (reading accuracy and speed) in order to define dyslexia subtypes; intervention planning
           - demonstration of Tachidino use and programming of first activities

        -  telephone support to monitor and motivate correct use of the software, during active
           intervention

        -  1 final assessment meeting (with repetition of the tests used at pre-test and
           compilation of questionnaires).

      In addition to the main goal and the above-described procedure, the study will investigate
      the effects of treatment with additional tests providing parallel versions and lists of
      stimuli, so as to exclude any possible repetition effect and thus to better highlight "pure"
      intervention effects.

      Participants' characteristics: Children aged between 7 and 16 years with a diagnosis of
      Specific Reading Disorder, Mixed Disorder of Scholastic Skills or Developmental Dyslexia,
      pertaining to International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) codes F81, F81.0, F81.3,
      referred to one of the two participating centres because of school learning problems.

      Total number of subjects: 32 (16 per centre). An additional group of 16 children with
      Dyslexia and/or Dysgraphia on a waiting list will also be tested and retested after 4 weeks,
      providing a further control for the effects of intervention.

      The number of participants has been determined with a power analysis based on data on the
      effects of treatment observed in the group already treated with Tachidino at IRCCS Medea. The
      number of 32 participants turned out to be sufficient to provide a power of 0.8 with alpha
      set at .005.
    
  