
    
      Introduction:

      The incidence and prevalence of renal calculi have increased globally across all ages, sex,
      and race, probably due to change in dietary habits and global warming. PCNL is considered
      'gold standard' for the management of large renal calculi because it is less invasive and
      morbid than the open surgery. Currently, the indications for PCNL include large size renal
      calculi (>1.5-2 cm), staghorn calculi, upper tract calculi not responding to other modalities
      of treatment, lower pole stones, cystine nephrolithiasis, and stones in anatomically abnormal
      kidneys. However, the procedure causes postoperative pain, mostly due to dilatation of the
      renal capsule, the parenchyma and pain along the tract of the nephrostomy tube. So the
      postoperative pain remains an integral part of management. Postoperative pain management not
      only reduces patient suffering but also improve patient satisfaction, reduces morbidity and
      in parallel enhances recovery, improves rehabilitation, reduces hospital stay and thereby
      overall hospital cost. The postoperative pain due to the procedure may vary with individual
      pain perception, use of percutaneous nephrostomy (PCN) tubes, comorbid conditions, choice of
      analgesic route, anesthetic agents and postoperative course. Small calibers of tubes, even
      mini PCNL or tubeless PCNL and regional analgesia such as intercostal nerve block, peritract
      infiltration, paravertebral block etc. could further decrease postoperative pain and
      analgesic requirement and hence improving postoperative patient comfort. However, studies on
      these techniques have produced conflicting results due to the use of different local
      anesthetics, various regional techniques, and different study designs. So this study aims to
      compare the efficacy of intercostal nerve block and peritract infiltration with 0.25%
      bupivacaine in alleviating postoperative pain following the procedure with the subjective
      assessment of pain

      Rational/justification :

      • The optimal method of pain control after percutaneous nephrolithotomy remains controversial
      till now.

      We need better technique of analgesia to decrease the pain following PCNL.

        -  Intercostal nerve block and peritract infiltration are common regional analgesic methods
           used by most of the investigators that had shown to be adequate for postoperative pain
           control.

        -  This study may be helpful in providing evidence for a clinical guideline to manage
           postoperative pain that will eventually help to decrease the morbidity and bring better
           outcome.

      General Objective :

      To compare the efficacy of intercostal nerve block and peritract infiltration with 0.25%
      bupivacaine in percutaneous nephrolithotomy.

      Specific Objective :

        -  To analyse the demography of the patient [age, sex, BMI, stone size and laterality,
           renal function test, stone burden (size, Guy's Stone score etc.)] undergoing PCNL.

        -  To compare the intensity of pain using visual analogue score, resting and dynamic VAS
           scores, following PCNL between two groups (ICNB and PTI).

        -  To compare the time to first rescue analgesia and total analgesic requirement between
           both groups.

        -  To document the complications of both groups.

      Research Hypothesis Is Intercostal nerve block more efficacious than peritract infiltration
      following PCNL in alleviating pain?

      Study Variables

        -  Independent Variables: Age, Sex, BMI, stone location, laterality and size, Guys Stone
           score (burden), ASA grade, comorbidity, Group I (ICBN), Group P (PTI) nephrostomy tract
           size (mini vs standard), no of Tracts (single vs multiple), use to tube (tube vs
           tubeless), length of hospital stay, stone clearance, complications

        -  Dependent Variables R-VAS score, D-VAS score, Time to first analgesic demand, Total
           analgesic requirement
    
  