
    
      Screening period Subjects will enter the study screening period after signing the informed
      consent, and the maximum screening period will be 28 days. Those who meet all the inclusion
      criteria and do not meet the exclusion criteria will be allowed to enter the study treatment
      period.

      Treatment period Patients received 2-4 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with camrelizumab
      +SOX regimen, and then received adjuvant chemotherapy with camrelizumab +SOX regimen after
      surgery, with a total of 8 cycles before and after surgery.

      Camrelizumab: every 3 weeks (21 days) was given as one administration cycle. 200mg was given
      intravenously on the first day of each cycle. Dose adjustment is not allowed. Delayed
      administration is allowed.

      Apatinib mesylate: 250mg, qd, stopped 28 days before surgery, and can be used by the
      investigator according to the patient's recovery 28 days after surgery.

      Chemotherapy: The SOX regimen consisted of one cycle every 3 weeks (21 days).Dose adjustment
      is allowed. Delayed administration is allowed.

      Oxaliplatin (OXA) : 130mg/m2, intravenous infusion, d1, infusion more than 2 hours.

      Tigio Capsules (S-1) : Take orally after breakfast and dinner, twice daily, d1-14.

      The dosing time window is ±3 days, but within 72 hours before each dosing, subjects must
      complete an examination that includes all clinical requirements to assess tolerance for
      continued dosing.

      Subjects will continue to receive study therapy until disease progression (PD) occurs,
      intolerable toxicity occurs, a new antitumor therapy is initiated, treatment is terminated
      after careful consideration by the patient or investigator, or they die, or are lost to
      follow-up.

      Clinical tumor evaluation during the screening period and throughout the study period will be
      based on RECIST version 1.1.Baseline tumor assessment was performed 28 days prior to the
      start of treatment.Enhanced computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is
      recommended for tumor evaluation.Tumor efficacy evaluation was conducted every 2 cycles (±3
      days) from the beginning of the first dose study until the occurrence of PD. The visit time
      for efficacy evaluation was fixed, regardless of whether the treatment cycle delay
      occurred.If treatment is discontinued for reasons other than PD, subjects will continue to
      undergo tumor evaluation until PD occurs, initiation of new antitumor therapy, withdrawal of
      informed consent, death, or loss of follow-up, whichever occurs first.In the event of
      clinical symptoms suggestive of PD, imaging methods should be used for subsequent evaluation
      in order to record and confirm tumor efficacy.

      From the beginning of the first dose study treatment, a systematic safety assessment was
      carried out for each administration cycle.During the study treatment, a basic safety
      assessment was performed before each administration cycle, including completion of a physical
      examination, vital signs, and basic laboratory tests (ECG, blood routine, urine routine,
      fecal occult blood, blood biochemistry, coagulation function, etc.).
    
  