
    
      This is a single institution Phase II study where all enrolled patients with untreated CLL
      will receive fludarabine and rituximab (FR) combination therapy. Subjects who demonstrate
      Stable disease or Progressive disease after completing 3 cycles of FR will receive
      lenalidomide monotherapy for a maximum of 6 cycles. Subjects who achieve >/= PR after
      receiving 3 cycles of FR will receive 3 additional cycles of FR (maximum of 6 cycles). Upon
      completion of FR treatment subjects will receive lenalidomide monotherapy for a maximum of 6
      cycles.

      Response assessment will be performed for Module A (FR): after every cycle, but would include
      imaging after cycle 3 if clinically indicated. Response assessment will be performed for
      Module B (Lenalidomide monotherapy): Before starting Lenalidomide therapy, after every cycle
      and on completion of therapy. Imaging for Module B would be obtained before starting
      lenalidomide therapy, and on completion of therapy. Bone marrow biopsies will be performed
      prior to starting therapy in Module A (FR), prior to starting Module B (Lenalidomide), and on
      completion of Module B. Bone marrow biopsies can be obtained once during Lenalidomide therapy
      at the discretion of the investigator. Minimum residual disease assessment of bone marrow
      specimens should include immunohistochemistries and flow cytometry. Additional studies on
      bone marrow specimens will be sent for flow cytometric analysis (standard or four color
      flow), ZAP-70 immunohistochemical stains and FISH analysis (13q deletion, trisomy 12, 11q
      deletion, and 17p) will be performed at the time intervals described above.

      Response will be assessed according to the Cheson Criteria.

      Blood specimens for optional correlative studies will be drawn on Day 0 prior to FR, prior to
      starting lenalidomide, 90 days after initiation of lenalidomide, and 7 days after the last
      dose of lenalidomide.
    
  