
    
      Introduction: Infertility and in vitro fertilization (IVF; with or without intracytoplasmic
      sperm injection, ICSI) result in considerate emotional and financial burden. Increasing
      evidence suggests that lifestyle factors, including diet, physical activity and personal
      wellbeing, are associated with IVF-success rates. So far, IVF is not routinely combined with
      a lifestyle programme. The PreLiFe randomized controlled trial (RCT) will assess the effects
      of a new mobile preconception lifestyle programme (PreLiFe-programme) in couples undergoing
      IVF.

      Methods and analysis: A multicentre RCT will include heterosexual couples about to start IVF
      (with or without ICSI) in Belgian fertility clinics. IVF-Couples will be randomized between
      an attention control programme or the PreLiFe-programme for 12 months or until an ongoing
      pregnancy is confirmed by ultrasound. The attention control programme includes a mobile
      application with treatment information (i.e. appointments and medication instructions) in
      addition to standard care. The PreLiFe-programme includes a mobile application with the same
      treatment information in combination with a lifestyle programme. This new lifestyle programme
      includes tailored advice on diet and physical activity and mindfulness exercises in
      combination with text messages and telephone interaction with a lifestyle coach. The primary
      outcome of this RCT is the cumulative ongoing pregnancy rate within 12 months after
      randomisation. Secondary outcomes include changes in diet, physical activity, personal
      wellbeing, body mass index, waist circumference and quality of life measured with
      self-reported questionnaires and physical assessments and changes in other reproductive
      outcomes including clinical pregnancy and time to pregnancy. Additionally, the partners'
      support and the feasibility (use and acceptability) of the PreLiFe-programme will be
      evaluated using self-reported questionnaires and app-based tracking. Analysis will be
      according to intention to treat.

      Ethics and dissemination: This study has been approved by the Medical Ethical Committee of
      the Leuven University Hospital (Belgium) and of the other recruiting clinics. The findings of
      this RCT will be disseminated through presentations at international scientific meetings and
      peer-reviewed publications.

      Due to the worldwide Covid-19 pandemic, we had to stop recruiting new patients and stop
      studying patients who were in the midst of their 12 months study period. This was inevitable
      as all Belgian fertility clinics stopped offering IVF as of March 13th 2020 for a (not
      predefined) period. Patients who had been randomized, but were still ongoing in the trial at
      that time needed to be censored. Based on statistical advise, we changed therefore our
      primary outcome analysis from cumulative ongoing pregnancy rate within 12 months after
      randomisation to time to ongoing pregnancy in order to be able to use the data of the many
      study patients who were in the midst of their 12 months study period.
    
  