
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) criteria of the combination of azacitidine (5-AZA) and entinostat in women with
      advanced breast cancer; triple-negative and hormone-refractory.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of 5-AZA and entinostat in
      women with advanced breast cancer.

      II. To determine progression-free survival, overall survival, and clinical benefit rate of
      the combination of 5-AZA and entinostat.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect safety and toxicity data as well as the feasibility and response rate where
      hormonal therapy is added to the combination under investigation at the time of progressive
      disease. (Exploratory) II. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of 5-AZA (full profile)
      and entinostat (trough concentrations) in patients with advanced breast cancer. (Exploratory)
      III. To assess serum cytidine deaminase pharmacogenetics and phenotypic activity as a
      potential biomarker of response to 5-AZA. (Exploratory) IV. To evaluate baseline and change
      in candidate gene re-expression (e.g., estrogen receptor [ER] alpha, retinoic acid receptor
      [RAR] beta) in malignant tissue obtained from selected patients through fine-needle
      aspiration (FNA) and core biopsy, prior to and following combination therapy. (Exploratory)
      V. To evaluate baseline and change in gene methylation silencing in circulating
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) obtained prior to and following combination therapy.
      (Exploratory) VI. To evaluate baseline and change in gene methylation in malignant tissue
      obtained through FNA and core biopsy. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5 and 8-10, and entinostat orally
      (PO) on days 3 and 10. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with progressive disease may continue azacitidine and
      entinostat in combination with hormonal therapy, at treating physician discretion, or undergo
      event monitoring.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  