
    
      The treatment of open gingival embrasures, which are also known as black triangles (BT) or
      black holes, and cause esthetic, functional and phonetic problems in the anterior region, has
      become an area of interest in current periodontal treatment.Surgical, non-surgical and
      prosthetic methods are applied in the treatment of BT, which can be seen in more than half of
      adults. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of concentrated growth factor (CGF) in
      regenerating interdental papillary of multiple adjacent papillary black triangles (MAPBT)
      occured as a result of soft tissue loss. Interdental papillary regeneration was evaluated
      with the change in the area of interproximal spaces calculated on each of the intraorally
      scanned images obtained with digital impressions of the interproximal space with irregular
      borders.

      This controlled, examiner-blinded, randomized clinical study included 160 teeth of 40
      patients with 120 open embrasures which resulted from papillary loss in adjacent teeth in the
      anterior maxillary esthetic zone resulting in black triangles (BTs). The test group was
      formed of 20 patients with 60 adjacent papillary defects undergoing minimally invasive
      surgery for papillary regeneration with CGF. A control group was formed of 20 patients with
      60 adjacent papillary defects who were not included surgical treatment. A total of 480 images
      obtained with the digital impressions method of each interdental papillary region in each
      patient were uploaded to a special software. Evaluations of the test group were made
      preoperatively and at 3, 6 and 12 months postoperatively. For the control group, oral hygiene
      instruction was provided. Control group is evaluated by the same procedure with test group
      but the surgical part is not performed. Lost interdental papillary area (PA)were calculated
      between the two central teeth, between the lateral and central teeth, and between the lateral
      and canine teeth prior to the treatment and at pro-treatment periods of 3, 6 and 12 months in
      both of the groups. In the test group, the percentage of papillary filling, the presence of
      keratinized gingiva, the thickness of papillary gingiva, blood thrombocyte count and MPV
      values were recorded.
    
  