
    
      The patient admitted to the post-operative Cardiovascular Surgery Intensive Care Units
      primarily meets two nurses and is responsible for the arrangement of medical equipment,
      monitoring, monitoring, maintaining, recording, and performing the necessary treatments. Then
      the nurse positions the drain after checking the drain connections, checks the level of the
      drain and records it in the nurse follow-up note. Then, the method to be used in maintaining
      the drain opening is decided in cooperation with the physician.

      Three different methods are currently used in the unit. The first method; There is no
      application in maintaining the drain opening, but if there are necessary medical indications
      such as clot formation, blood accumulation in the drainage connections, lack of drainage,
      this group is intervened by milking method. In our study, this group will be taken as a
      control group, there will be a situation that requires intervention in the first 6 hours, and
      if the milking method is used, it will be excluded from the sample.

      The second method used to maintain the drain opening is the suction method. In this study,
      this group will be taken as the first experimental group. The suction method is a continuous
      use until the patient's drainage requirement and the physician's request is terminated by
      ensuring that the pressure is between 5 and 15 kPa (kilopascals) or 10-20 cm H20 after the
      appropriate negative pressure tracking system of the patient, who is accepted with intensive
      care under water drainage system, is established. system.

      The third method is milking. In our study, this group will be taken as the 2nd experimental
      group. In the milking method, the process starts from the area close to the drain entry
      point. The latex tube is folded into 12 cm long pieces and gripped with two hands. The nurse
      repeats the process 3 times by compressing the parts gripped by the hand. This process is
      then used at intervals every hour to repeat the distal part.

      After the applications related to the method to be used are performed, the patient's vital
      signs, Sp02 and bleeding amount are generally monitored every hour.

      In this study, the data for each group will be collected before and after the procedure for 6
      hours after surgery, from the moment the patient is admitted to the intensive care unit.
    
  