
    
      -  The first step in this research study is the peripheral blood collection. Approximately
           60-90cc's will be collected intravenously and used to prepare the EBV immunotherapy
           product. It takes about 12 weeks to make the EBV immunotherapy product. During this
           time, the participant will receive standard of care as prescribed by their doctor.

        -  The EBV immunotherapy product will be made at a laboratory at the Connell & O'Reilly
           Families Cell and Manipulation Core Facility at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. The
           EBV immunotherapy product will contain T-cells that may react against your EBV-related
           tumor.

        -  A small amount of the EBV product will be used for research studies that will
           investigate components of the immune system that might be important in effective
           immunotherapy for NPC.

        -  EBV immunotherapy product will be given to the participant intravenously (infusion) on
           the first day of the research study. Fourteen days later, the participant will receive
           infusion #2. After infusion #2, the research doctor will do some tests to determine the
           effects that the EBV immunotherapy product has had on the tumor. If the research doctor
           thinks the participant will benefit from a third infusion then they may receive one.

        -  Before each infusion of EBV immunotherapy product, a physical examination and blood
           tests will be performed. During the active treatment phase of this research study, a
           physical exam and blood tests will be done every 1-2 weeks.

        -  Before each infusion of EBV immunotherapy product, the research doctor may do a
           fiberoptic exam of the participants nasopharynx by using a flexible scop to visualize
           the tumor.

        -  At 8 weeks post-infusion, we will evaluate the tumor by using a CT scan and/or MRI. We
           will also perform a PET or PET/CT scan if the research doctor feels it is necessary. We
           may do a chest CT scan to see if the tumor has spread to the lungs and an
           abdominal/pelvic CT scan or MRI if the participant has symptoms that suggesting that
           there may be tumor in the liver, or a bone scan to see if there is tumor in the bones.

        -  In addition to this study, the research doctor may ask permission to participate in
           optional research studies. We would like the participants permission to take a biopsy of
           the tumor after they have received infusion #2. The biopsy will be done by a surgeon who
           will review the risks of the procedure.

        -  The participant will return to the clinic for a follow-up visit where the response of
           the tumor will be evaluated, blood tests and a physical exam will be performed at the
           following intervals: for the first 2 months after the final infusion, every 2-4 weeks;
           for month 4 to month 12 after the final infusion, every 2 months; for the second year
           after the final infusion, every 3 months.
    
  