
    
      The translation and adaptation of the survey was carried out following the steps that are
      recommended internationally for translation, back-translation, evaluation of translations by
      a commission of judges, cultural adequacy by commission of experts and, finally, a pilot test
      of the pre-final version.

      Translation and Back-translation The first step in the process was the translation of the
      English LO survey by Garvin et al. (En1) based on the modified Brislin reverse translation
      technique.

      During the translation, it was necessary to adapt some terms to maintain the same meaning as
      the original.

      During the back-translation of the survey, no items were found that needed alteration.

      The translated and back translated versions of the survey we ll be presented to a commission
      of 10 multidisciplinary staff from the INO. As a final part of this process, the content
      validity of the questions will be verified for each item of the survey.

      After the necessary adjustments comparing the original survey (En1) with the back translated
      version (En2) and the french draft (Fr1); the french final version (FFr) of the survey will
      be generated and assessed in terms of conceptual equivalence, clarity and language and
      forwarded to the general coordinator of the project who will indicate adjustments.

      Adaptation The FFr of the survey will be presented to a commission of experts in a workshop
      for cultural adequacy. On the day of the meeting, All multidisciplinary groups together will
      finish discussing and validating the pre-final french survey by mutual agreement (PFV).

      Pilot test The objective of the pilot study will be to establish whether the questionnaire
      can be satisfactorily understood and completed by people from the target population, composed
      of doctors, nurses, administrators, professors. The possibility of adjustments will be
      considered in case the participants had difficulty understanding or responding to some item
      of the instrument.

      Data collection The survey will be conducted anonymously and voluntarily; It will be
      distributed to a random sample of INO staff members, from doctors, administrators, residents,
      professors, nurses, technicians, secretaries. And then collected by members of the research
      team during August 2019.

      Descriptive variables of the population were added such as: age, sex, status, years of
      experience, years worked in the INO and service they serve.

      Analysis

      The data collected will be analysed using both Excel® and IBM SPSS Statistics V22.0.

      Continuous variables will be presented with mean and standard deviations(SD). Categorical
      variables will presented with percentage.

      Normality test of the variables will be calculated using Kolmogorov-Smirnov test of
      normality. Cronbach's alpha coefficients will be used to assess reliability and internal
      consistency for each dimension, each block and the entire survey.

      ANOVA test will be used to compare descriptive statistics of different groups of profession
      and the different Blocks and Dimensions of the survey.
    
  