
    
      Caregivers (CGs) often experience significant psychological and physical distress leading to
      marked reductions in caregivers' health and quality of life (QOL). Reducing CG distress has
      the potential to improve CG mental and physical health, improve overall QOL, and lead to
      improvements in the care they provide.

      However, few effective interventions that can be widely delivered and easily adhered to have
      been rigorously evaluated. Qigong is an increasingly popular multi-modal mind-body exercise
      that shows promise in addressing a broad range of psychosocial and physical factors highly
      relevant to CGs. Sharing many characteristics with Tai Chi, Qigong incorporates elements of
      slow gentle movement, breath training, and number of cognitive skills including heightened
      body awareness, focused mental attention, and imagery-which collectively may afford greater
      benefits to health compared to unimodal therapies. A robust evidence base supports that
      Qigong and Tai Chi training in groups can improve multiple domains of physical and emotional
      health, QOL, and selfefficacy in diverse populations. Of note, recent national surveys
      indicate that a significant proportion of the US population that report using Qigong and Tai
      Chi for health preferred self-directed learning from DVDs and internet resources. While a
      handful of studies support the potential for web-based or DVD-based learning of mind-body
      practices, evaluations of such programs have not been well-tested, especially in CGs.

      Using cancer caregivers (CCGs) as a representative population of the larger CG population,
      the longterm goal is to conduct a definitive trial evaluating a widely accessible and
      previously studied Qigong regimen (Eight Brocades, Baduanjin Qigong). Interventions will be
      delivered either in community-based groups led by instructors or via internet to individuals
      learning through recorded guided instruction supplemented with intermittent virtual live
      feedback from instructors. Outcomes will include QOL, fatigue, sleep disturbances,
      psychological distress, caregiver burden, and physical function. The short-term goals of this
      R34 are to conduct a mixed-methods pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) to inform the
      feasibility and design of a definitive trial. The investigators will address these goals by
      randomizing (1:1:1) 54 CCGs to one of three conditions: (1) a community-based qigong program;
      (2) an internet-based qigong program; or (3) a self-care control group.

      Specific Aim 1 is to finalize Qigong intervention content and delivery protocols. Specific
      Aim 2 will assess the 'learnability' of Qigong delivered in community-based group classes and
      via a web-based protocol using a novel proficiency instrument. Specific Aim 3 will evaluate
      the feasibility of recruiting and retaining CCGs into a 12-week clinical trial, and
      completing all outcomes testing protocols. Study feasibility and merit will be further
      informed by formal qualitative analysis of exit interviews of study completers, participants
      that withdraw, and Qigong instructors.
    
  