
    
      Background: Neonatal hypothermia is an important challenge associated with morbidity and
      mortality. Preventing neonatal hypothermia is important in high resource countries, but is of
      fundamental importance in low resource settings where supportive care is limited.

      Kangaroo mother care (KMC) is a low-cost intervention that, whenever possible, is strongly
      recommended for temperature maintenance. During KMC, the World Health Organization (WHO)
      guidelines recommend the use of a cap/hat, but its effect temperature control during KMC
      remains to be established.

      In the hospitals participating to the projects of the non-governmental organization CUAMM,
      KMC represents a standard of care, but the head of the babies often remains uncovered due to
      local habits or to the unavailability of a cap.

      Objective: The aim of the present study will be to assess the effectiveness and the safety of
      a woolen cap in maintaining normothermia in low birth weight infants (LBWI) during KMC.

      Methods: This is a multicenter (three hospitals), multi country (three countries),
      prospective, unblinded, randomized clinical trial of KMC treatment with and without a woolen
      cap in LBWI. After obtaining parental consent, all infants with a birth weight <2500 g and
      candidate to KMC will be assigned to KMC with woolen cap or to KMC without cap group in a 1:1
      ratio according to a computer-generated randomized sequence. The primary outcome measure will
      be the temperature in the normal range (36.5-37.5°C) in course of KMC during the first week
      of life. In all participants, axillary temperature will be measured with a digital
      thermometer 4 times per day. In addition, maternal and room temperature will be recorded.
      Secondary outcome measures will be: episodes of apnea; sepsis; mortality before hospital
      discharge; in-hospital growth; age at discharge.
    
  