
    
      Vision loss has become a major public health problem due to the growth and aging of the
      population. Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the most common cause of vision loss in
      people over 50 years of age. In the United States, over 10 million people have AMD and over
      1.6 million people age 50 and older have late-stage advanced AMD. It is well established that
      AMD patients with central vision loss use preferred retinal loci (PRL) which are peripheral
      retinal areas adjacent to the fovea for performing daily activities, such as reading.
      However, even in healthy eyes, peripheral vision is limited due to reduced neural sampling
      density compared to the fovea. Additionally, the function of the peripheral retina can be
      further reduced in patients, owing to degenerative disease processes. These neural substrate
      losses are coupled with losses in the quality of the optical image on the retina. Optical
      imperfections increase with age and off-axis viewing, compared to viewing along the optical
      axis of the eye. The combination of these factors plays a significant role in reducing visual
      performance of patients with eccentric fixation. The long term goal of the project is to
      improve the visual performance of veterans with central vision loss by development of
      innovative approaches that will optimize the benefit of vision rehabilitation techniques. In
      the current proposal, optical and neural losses will be assessed in AMD patients with central
      vision loss using novel techniques. Increased optical losses due to age and viewing off the
      optical axis of the eye will be established with wavefront analysis technology. Increased
      neural losses due to retinal dysfunction at PRL will be determined based on measurement of
      visual acuity with blurred stimuli. Improvement in reading speed will be evaluated,
      conditional on neural losses at PRL and/or the stability of PRL, after compensating for
      optical losses with our adaptive optics system. The findings will provide knowledge of PRL
      function and stability that is beneficial for improving the outcome of available vision
      rehabilitation methods that train patients to better use their PRLs. Also, customized
      correction of optical imperfections of the eye for effectively improving visual performance
      can be developed as an approach for better vision rehabilitation of patients. Optimizing
      vision rehabilitation of our veterans will allow them to maintain function and productivity.
    
  