
    
      In this study the investigators will respect current practice in the use of NAA in the
      diagnosis of pulmonary TB. Clinicians may have ordered NAA as the initial diagnostic test in
      adults suspected of having pulmonary TB (group A, Immediate NAA by clinician), and the
      investigators will not intervene. For patients who do not have NAA as the initial diagnostic
      test, the investigators will use random permuted blocks to randomize these participants into
      two groups. One group will have immediate Xpert test (intervention group) as the initial
      diagnostic test and another group will continue usual care without immediate Xpert test
      (control group).

      Group A (Immediate NAA by clinician): NAA as the initial diagnostic test for pulmonary TB
      requested by clinicians.

      Group B (Immediate NAA as intervention): NAA as the initial diagnostic test for pulmonary TB
      not requested by clinicians, but is performed as intervention in this study (intervention
      group).

      Group C (No immediate NAA): NAA as the initial diagnostic test for pulmonary TB not requested
      by clinicians, and is not performed as the initial diagnostic test in this study (control
      group). NAA may be ordered at a later point in time by clinicians as an add-on test after
      sputum smear microscopy.

      The investigators will assess pulmonary TB cases detected in all groups regarding

        1. The interval between sputum examinations and initiation of ant-TB treatment.

        2. The proportion of culture confirmed pulmonary TB among all pulmonary TB cases notified.

        3. The proportion of TB patients who are advised to stop anti-TB treatment before
           completion of a treatment course.

        4. Outcome of tuberculosis treatment, including patients who die before anti-TB treatment.

      Among patients with NAA as the initial diagnostic test (Group A and Group B), the
      investigators will investigate

        1. Performance (sensitivity, specificity and predictive values) of NAA in the diagnosis of
           culture positive pulmonary TB.

        2. The incremental yield of the second and third smear in patients who have both NAA test
           and smear microscopy as the initial diagnostic test, aiming to determine the
           contribution of the second and third smear in the diagnosis of pulmonary TB.

        3. The proportion of NAA positive cases who were culture negative.
    
  