
    
      Despite the high relevance of ageing/immunosenescence and frailty in oncogeriatric practice,
      immuno-senescence markers have so far not been considered in concert with clinical tumor
      characteristics and the profile of tumor infiltrating leukocytes. In the proposed project,
      the investigators will examine immunosenescence markers in blood and characterize the
      leukocyte infiltrate in the tumor microenvironment in the setting of elderly breast cancer.

      The main goal of this project is thus to investigate the relation and interaction between the
      following 3 aspects:

      (i) immune status of the host: chronological age and immunosenescence in peripheral blood;
      (ii) tumor microenvironment: local immune response (evaluated via assessment of the amount
      and nature of tumor infiltrating leukocytes [TIL]); (iii) clinical tumor characteristics:
      tumor size, grade, receptor status, lymph node involvement.

      To realize this project, the investigators will set up a prospective clinical study
      comprising three distinct age categories of breast cancer patients and integrating a variety
      of immunosenescence markers. Different specific manifestations of immune system ageing will
      be studied : age-related pro-inflammatory status (inflammageing), increased expression of the
      senescence marker p16INK4a in T lymphocytes, shifts in subset composition of the PBMC pool,
      age-associated changes in expression of immune-related genes in PBMC and altered abundance of
      specific ageing-related plasma microRNAs.

      At the tumor microenvironmental level, the leukocyte infiltrate will be studied in detail.
      The profile of tumor-infiltrating immune cells will be compared between the distinct age
      groups and will be correlated to systemic markers of ageing/immunosenescence (in blood) and
      tumor biology, most particularly lymph node involvement.

      Concrete research questions:

        -  How are the different immunosenescence markers (i.e. subset profile of PBMC,
           pro-inflammatory markers in plasma, lymphocyte senescence as evidenced by p16INK4a
           expession in T lymphocytes, expression of immune-related genes in PBMC and abundance of
           ageing-related circulating microRNAs) correlated with each other and with the patient's
           calendar age?

        -  Does the local immune response in the tumor (amount and nature of TIL) correlate with
           the different immunosenescence markers?

        -  Is there a relationship between tumor biology, most particularly lymph node involvement,
           and the local immune response in the tumor ?

      With this study, the investigators intend to improve our fundamental understanding of
      age-related changes in general immune status and tumor-specific immune responses and their
      impact on tumor progression. This may add to recent advances in newly emerging therapeutic
      strategies, such as immune-related approaches. Due to recent advances in biology and
      genomics, it has become possible to personalize an individual's cancer treatment based on
      molecular tumor characteristics. In the elderly, however, host factors also become
      increasingly important and may influence both tumor behavior/progression and therapy
      tolerance/response. Therefore, a better understanding of the biological mechanisms underlying
      ageing/immunosenescence, its association with cancer and the potential prognostic/predictive
      information that the patient's ageing/immunosenescence profile can provide is mandatory.
    
  