
    
      The investigators conducted a prospective study to investigate the performance of 18F-choline
      (FCH) PET/CT and 18F-NaF PET in the patients with prostate adenocarcinoma.

      18F-NaF PET imaging protocol: Fasting is not needed before radiotracer injection. No specific
      drug restriction is needed. Scan will be conduced by using a PET/CT unit (Discovery ST; GE
      Medical Systems, Milwaukee,Wis), and scans will be interpreted on a work station with the use
      of compatible software (Xeleris).

      An indwelling intravenous catheter connected to an infusion line and an saline syringe will
      be set on each patient. 18F-NaF (148 +/- 10% MBq) will be injected intravenously through the
      infusion line and will be flushed by saline. NaF PET/CT scan acquisition is to be taken 30
      minutes after radiotracer injection. The PET/CT (120 mA, 120 kVp) scan field will cover from
      vertex to toe.

      Image analysis: Two nuclear medicine physicians assess the NaF PET/CT images. The
      investigators have access to the patients' history and interpreted individually by each
      reader, with disagreements to be resolved by consensus. Uptake in the focus will be evaluated
      of the likelihood of cancer in 5-graded scale. 0. No cancer or definitely no pathologic
      aspect; 1. Probably benign lesion; 2. Equivocal lesion; 3. Probably cancer; 4. Most probably
      cancer. For the determination of a diagnosis, score 0 and 1 are considered a negative result
      and 2 to 4 a positive result.

      18F-FCH PET imaging protocol: The 18F-FCH PET will be arranged within 6 weeks after NaF PET.
      Fasting is not needed before radiotracer injection. No specific drug restriction is needed.
      Scan will be conduced by using a PET/CT unit (Discovery ST; GE Medical Systems,
      Milwaukee,Wis), and scans will be interpreted on a work station with the use of compatible
      software (Xeleris).

      An indwelling intravenous catheter connected to an infusion line and an saline syringe will
      be set on each patient. 18F-FCH (185 +/- 10% MBq) will be injected intravenously through the
      infusion line and will be flushed by saline. The injected 18F-FCH dose, injection time,
      post-injection residual activity, time of start imaging and time of end imaging will be
      recorded on case report form. 18F-FCH PET/CT scan acquisition is to be taken 5 to 10 minutes
      after radiotracer injection. The PET/CT (80-120 mA, 120 kVp) scan field will cover from skull
      to mid-thigh. The 18F-FCH PET/CT scan time will require 35-40 minutes.

      Image analysis: Two nuclear medicine physicians assess the 18F-FCH PET/CT images. The
      investigators have access to the patients' history and interpreted individually by each
      reader, with disagreements to be resolved by consensus. Uptake in the focus will be evaluated
      of the likelihood of cancer in 5-graded scale. 0. No cancer or definitely no pathologic
      aspect; 1. Probably benign lesion; 2. Equivocal lesion; 3. Probably cancer; 4. Most probably
      cancer. For the determination of a diagnosis, score 0 and 1 are considered a negative result
      and 2 to 4 a positive result.

      Reference standard: The skeletal lesion will be evaluated by both 18F-FCH PET/CT and NaF
      PET/CT findings. Congruent positive lesion and congruent negative will be defined as true
      positive and true negative, respectively. A third image study (MRI or CT) will be introduced
      for those with incongruent and ambiguous PET features. Biopsy will be reserved for those
      lesions with undetermined results after third image study.

      The extra-skeletal cancerous lesions are theoretically be detected on 18F-FCH PET/CT only,
      thus, the reference modality will not include NaF PET/CT. The prostate bed in patients with
      either positive or negative imaging studies will be investigated with pelvic MRI. Patients
      with abnormal foci in pelvic and abdominal extraprostatic tissue at imaging will be
      investigated by using pelvic MRI as well. If lesions on MRI and 18F-FCH PET/CT are both
      positive, the lesions will be treated as malignancy. Patients with lesions on 18F-FCH PET/CT
      along will be evaluated by the investigator and co-investigators to decide if the patient
      will receive biopsy or not. The lesion will be confirmed to be malignant if positive biopsy
      results. The patient will receive further follow-up by MRI and serum PSA after 6 and 12
      months if the patient is not suitable for biopsy. The lesion will be confirmed to be
      malignant if substantial growth in lesion size or increase serum PSA. Patients with both
      negative MRI and negative 18F-FCH PET/CT will be evaluated by the aforementioned follow-up
      schedule as well. If the initial pelvic MRI is positive for malignancy and the 18F-FCH PET/CT
      is negative, the lesion will be treated as positive for malignancy. However, the patient
      still need the 6 and 12 months of follow-up to confirm the nature of the lesion. Biopsy will
      be reserved for those patients with undetermined results despite vigorous image studies.
    
  