
    
      Study design

        1. Caries risk assessment The investigators developed a questionnaire to understand the
           patient's overall health status, to collect demographic and socio-economic information,
           to assess their oral health habits. The questionnaire consists of 3 parts; first part
           includes questions about general health such as chronic diseases, drugs and allergies,
           second part includes questions about income and education level of parents, and last
           part includes questions about oral health knowledge, habits, diet contents and
           frequency, fluoride exposure. the investigators allowed the parents to fill the
           questionnaire.

           After the questionnaire was filled, the investigators performed the oral examination
           using DMFT, DMFS, dft and dfs indices according to WHO. Then, the investigators
           determined the oral hygiene status with Sillness&Löe Index (Silness ve Loe, 1964). the
           investigators estimated paraffin-stimulated salivary flow rate, buffer capacity, mutans
           streptococci and lactobacilli counts using CRT chairside kits (Ivoclar Vivadent, Schaan,
           Liechtenstein).

           In addition to initial questionnaire and oral examination, the investigators asked the
           patients to record their nutritional takings of 2 weekdays and 1 weekend day. the
           investigators estimated the caries risk profiles of all children using the Cariogram
           which is a computer-based program. Cariogram identifies three risk groups low, medium
           and high caries risk according the scores.

        2. Taste evaluation the investigators prepared aqueous basic taste solutions of sucrose
           (Merck, Germany, purity >99.5%), sodium chloride (Sigma-Aldrich, USA, purity >99%),
           caffeine (Merck, Germany, purity >99.5%), citric acid monohydrate (Sigma-Aldrich, USA,
           purity >99%), at two levels (1.0 ISO, 2.0 ISO) (ISO 3972:1991, 8586-1:1993) (Table 1).
           the investigators formulated all the solutions by using spring water in the same day of
           measurement at room temperature (25 ± 2°C). Each solution was coded randomly.
    
  