
    
      The project will investigate the acute effects on human cognitive behaviour and mood of a
      single consumption of 3 fruit drinks versus a placebo. Drinks will be matched for volume,
      taste, appearance and sugars but will differ in the amount of total polyphenols. The 3 active
      treatment drinks contain a natural berry fruit grown in New Zealand by Plant and Food
      Research from commercial cultivars.

      The study will follow a double-blind, counterbalanced, placebo controlled, repeated measures,
      crossover design with 36 healthy participants aged between 18 and 35 completing four study
      day sessions as well as one training/screening visit (five visits in total). On one occasion
      participants will receive a placebo, on another fruit drink 1, on another fruit drink 2 and
      on another fruit drink 3. Study days will be spaced one week apart to accommodate a wash out
      period. Fruit drinks will be made to include 500mg, 250mg or 125mg of polyphenols/60kg of
      body weight. Sucralose (artificial sweetener) will be added to make the drinks palatable.
      Participants will be screened for any intolerance or allergies to the drinks during the
      training/screening session . Trait anxiety will also be assessed during the screening visit
      using the State-Trait Anxiety inventory (STAI - Spielberger, 1966).

      Psychometric tasks and mood scales will be delivered using the Computerised Mental
      Performance Assessment System (COMPASS), a purpose designed software application for the
      flexible delivery of randomly generated parallel versions of standard and novel cognitive
      assessment tasks that has previously been shown to be sensitive to nutritional interventions.
      .

      Baseline cognitive testing will involve the dual task, Digit vigilance, Digit vigilance fast,
      Visual analogue scales, 3-back, corsi blocks, simple reaction time, telephone number task,
      word recognition, word recall, Bond-Lader mood scales and the state anxiety questionnaire
      (STAI).

      Baseline On all 3 testing days participants will arrive at the lab in the morning (8:00 am),
      after an overnight fast, and firstly give a 10 mL venous blood sample taken by a trained
      phlebotomist. Participants will then complete one repetition of the COMPASS computerised
      cognitive assessment battery (baseline). Participants will then be orally supplemented with
      treatment in the form of a single serve juice drink (200ml per 60kg weight).

      Post Supplementation 60 minutes after supplementation, the first post dose state anxiety
      questionnaire will be completed. Participants will then complete the first post dose COMPASS
      assessment. After completion of the assessment participants will immediately give a second 10
      ml venous blood sample. Participants will then have a 20 minute break before completing the
      second post dose COMPASS assessment and complete a final post dose state anxiety
      questionnaire.
    
  