
    
      Background: Hope is important for palliative home care patients (Duggleby, 2000; Duggleby, et
      al., 2012; Duggleby & Wright, 2004, 2005). Our research team has developed a program (Living
      with Hope) that has been found to increase hope and quality of life of palliative home care
      patients (Duggleby et al., 2007). The Living with Hope Program (LWHP) involves seeing a 15
      minute film on hope and choosing a hope activity to begin over a one week time frame.
      Participants choose to begin: a) a hope collection, b) a story about themselves, and c) to
      write a letter to someone.

      Aims: The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility of study procedures and
      collect preliminary data on the effectiveness and processes of the Living with Hope Program
      for persons receiving palliative home care in Alberta and Saskatchewan.

      Sample: Palliative home care teams in Alberta and Saskatchewan will identify potential
      participants based on the inclusion criteria. They will make contact and ask if the potential
      participants are willing to talk with a research nurse about the study. If they agree the
      research nurse will contact potential participants. Inclusion criterion for the patients are:
      a) 18 years of age and older, b) English speaking, c) receiving palliative home care services
      and d) able to complete the study as determined by their palliative care coordinator/manager.
      Inclusion criterion for the care partner participants are: a) identified by a palliative home
      care patient as being their primary source of physical and/or emotional support, b) 18 years
      of age and c) English speaking.

      The research nurse will contact potential participants and ask them when it will be a
      convenient time to meet with and obtain written informed consent.

      Design: Using a mixed-methods randomized control trial (Quant +qual) design, 30 dyads
      (palliative care patient and their care partner) will be randomly assigned to one of three
      groups: 1) treatment (Watching a film on hope and beginning a hope activity), 2) low dose
      group (Film only) or 3) usual care group. In all groups, demographic information, and
      baseline, day 7 and 14 measures of hope, quality of life and anxiety will be collected by
      trained research nurses. On day 14 all participants will be interviewed using open ended
      audiotaped questions to help evaluate the study procedures and those in group 1 and 2 the
      LWHP program. Participants in group 1 (treatment group) will also be asked to describe what
      they were thinking about when doing the hope activities. Care partners' levels of hope and
      their evaluation of the study procedures (using open ended qualitative interview questions)
      will also be collected.
    
  