
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive the study drugs
      in 28-day study cycles.

      You will take pazopanib every day for 28 days. You will take topotecan at about the same time
      every day on Days 1-21, but not take it on Days 22-28.

      You should not take pazopanib 1 hour before or within 2 hours after eating. The pazopanib
      tablets should be swallowed whole with about a cup (8 ounces) of water.

      You should not chew, crush, dissolve, or divide either the topotecan or the pazopanib
      tablets.

      You will be given a study drug diary in which you will write information about when you take
      the study drug each time and how much you took. You will bring this diary to every study
      visit.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam. This will include a pelvic exam every 2 cycles.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be collected for biomarker testing (Cycles 1 and 2
           only), including genetic biomarkers. Biomarkers are found in the blood/tissue and may be
           related to your reaction to the study drug.

        -  If you can become pregnant, you will have a urine pregnancy test.

      If you are taking warfarin, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn to check your blood's
      ability to clot. This will be done weekly during Cycle 1 and on any cycle after which you
      change your dose of warfarin or one of the study drugs.

      On Day 1 of every even-numbered cycle (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on), you will have a CT scan or
      MRI of your abdomen and pelvis to check the status of the disease. You will also have an
      x-ray or CT scan of the chest to check the status of the disease as needed.

      If the disease appears to be getting better at any time while you are taking the study drug,
      blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

      If the study doctor thinks you are responding to the study drugs, blood (about 2 tablespoons)
      will be drawn on Day 1 of Cycle 6. If you leave the study before then, this sample will be
      drawn at that time.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within 4 weeks after your last dose of study drugs:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 ½ teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray and either a CT scan or an MRI to check the status of
           disease.

      If you are taking warfarin, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn to check your blood's
      ability to clot.

      ° If you stopped taking the study drug before Cycle 6 because the disease got worse, blood
      (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      If you came off study for a reason other than the disease getting worse, you will be asked to
      return to the clinic for follow-up testing every 3 months. At these visits:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a CT scan, MRI, or x-ray to check
           the status of the disease.

      If the disease did get worse, you will be called every 3 months and asked about how you are
      doing. Each call should last about 5 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Pazopanib is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of advanced kidney cancer and certain types of advanced soft tissue sarcoma
      such as bone, cartilage, fat, or muscle. Topotecan is FDA approved and commercially available
      for the treatment of metastatic ovarian cancer that has returned after treatment and for the
      treatment of small cell lung cancer that has returned after first-line treatment. Topotecan
      is also FDA approved to treat advanced, recurrent or persistent carcinoma of the cervix in
      combination with cisplatin. The use of these drugs in combination is investigational. The
      study doctor can explain how the drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 40 participants will be enrolled in this multicenter study. Up to 30 will take part at
      MD Anderson. Up to 10 will be enrolled at the Harris Health System.
    
  