
    
      Multidrug-resistant (MDR) Gram-negative 'superbugs' are rapidly spreading around the world,
      and polymyxin B and colistin (polymyxin E) are often the only effective antibiotics. Since
      polymyxin B was released in the 1950s, its pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, toxicodynamics
      (PK/PD/TD) have never been defined. Recent pharmacological research on polymyxins has
      predominantly focused on colistin methanesulfonate (CMS, an inactive prodrug of colistin) and
      demonstrates that CMS has significant limitations. Thus, polymyxin B is increasingly being
      viewed as the preferred polymyxin. Unfortunately, recently developed scientifically-based
      dosing recommendations for CMS cannot and should not be applied to polymyxin B, as the latter
      is administered as its active entity. Therefore, it is essential to determine the PK/PD/TD of
      polymyxin B in critically-ill patients, refine optimal dosage regimens, and develop the
      user-friendly adaptive feedback control (AFC) clinical tool.

      The Specific Aims are:

        1. To develop a population PK model for polymyxin B;

        2. To investigate relationships between the PK of polymyxin B, duration of therapy and
           patient characteristics, with the development and timing of nephrotoxicity; and to use
           next-generation proteomics to identify the most predictive biomarker(s) of polymyxin B
           associated nephrotoxicity; and to develop the population PK/TD model;

        3. To establish the relationships between polymyxin B PK, bacterial susceptibility and
           patient characteristics, with the probability of attaining and time to achieving
           clinical and bacteriological outcomes; and

        4. To employ the models from Aims 1-3 and Monte Carlo simulation to develop
           scientifically-based dosage regimens of polymyxin B and to develop an AFC algorithm for
           future individual patients.

      Research Design: Patients being treated with intravenous polymyxin B will be identified at
      three clinical sites in the USA and one in Singapore. Patients (n = 250) will have blood
      collected at various times surrounding a dose of polymyxin B between days 1 and 5 of therapy.
      Development of nephrotoxicity, clinical response, and bacteriological response will be
      examined. Total and free plasma concentrations of polymyxin B will be determined. Bacterial
      isolates will be examined for the emergence of polymyxin resistance. The relationships
      between polymyxin B PK, PD and TD end-points (e.g. clinical and bacteriological responses,
      development of toxicity and resistance) will be assessed using pharmacometric analyses.
      Finally, the obtained information will be used to apply Monte Carlo simulation to examine the
      impact of various patient characteristics and other factors on polymyxin B PK, PD and TD, in
      order to establish optimal dosage regimens and AFC algorithms for individual critically-ill
      patients.

      Significance: No new antibiotics will be available for Gram-negative 'superbugs' for many
      years. This landmark multicenter study will provide essential information for optimizing
      polymyxin B use in critically-ill patients, while minimizing resistance and toxicity. This
      proposal aligns perfectly with the NIAID priority "To teach old drugs new tricks" and the
      recent Executive Order of the White House to combat antibiotic resistance.
    
  