
    
      We propose a double blind, randomized crossover trial of a realignment therapy for patients
      with medial knee osteoarthritis with the primary outcome being knee pain and function as
      assessed by the WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index (VAS Version). Because of the possibility that the
      therapy may provide proprioceptive input and improve symptoms on that basis, we will test two
      different treatments: 1. CONTROL TREATMENT A) a neutral brace that does not have any
      varus/valgus angulation, control foot orthotic and shoes with flexible midsole and 2. ACTIVE
      TREATMENT B) an valgus brace, customized functional orthotic for neutral foot position and
      motion control footwear. A run-in design will be used to maximize the likelihood of
      recruiting subjects who will remain in the trial. Subjects will be randomized to treatment A
      or B for 12 weeks. We will then remove the realignment therapy of treatment period 1, and
      they will have no realignment therapy for 6 weeks, after which they will receive the other
      treatment. For each subject, the trial will last 34 weeks. Study evaluation will take place
      at the Boston University Medical Center GCRC. The trial will be followed by a 6-month
      open-label follow up. Trial Schedule. We plan a study lasting a total of 30 weeks from the
      time of randomization for all subjects. There will be 4 weeks pre-randomization for run-in; a
      phone call at -4weeks and a visit at -2 weeks. The schedule of visits is shown in the
      protocol as is the timeline. Intervention The active treatment brace will be the DonJoy OA
      valgus brace. The active treatment orthosis will consist of a customized functional orthosis
      to achieve neutral foot position. The active treatment shoewear will be a motion control shoe
      with an appropriate (based upon foot posture examination) density midsole and heel counter.
      The control treatment brace will consist of an identical brace with a loosened screw at the
      hinge allowing varus-valgus laxity. The control treatment orthosis will be flat 1/8" thick
      inserts of an identical material to the active treatment arm. The control treatment shoe will
      be identical in appearance with a low density midsole to limit motion control. Treatment
      shoes will be worn on both feet during each treatment period. Recruitment One key element
      ensuring success in recruitment for the proposed clinical trial for osteoarthritis is
      experience with and history of success in recruitment for previous studies. We have
      successfully recruited targeted number of subjects for 2 recent OA clinical trials and a
      natural history study of OA all of which have more subjects than are targeted here. We are
      currently completing an NIH-funded heel wedge study which uses a similar design and study
      population to the one being employed here and both the clinical trial experience obtained,
      and the continuing recruitment for that study will facilitate recruitment for this trial. The
      efficacy of a clinical trial is maximized if subjects comply with assigned treatment and come
      to scheduled visits. One way to increase the likelihood of subject compliance with a trial is
      to perform a run-in test, a period of observation prior to randomization during which
      subjects get experience with major components of the study protocol. Those subjects who have
      trouble complying with the protocol are excluded before being randomized. Despite the
      exclusion of potential subjects, trial run-ins have been shown to enhance a trial's
      statistical power by limiting its results to those who were especially likely to actually
      receive treatment. A recent test of a run-in in an osteoarthritis trial reported that roughly
      10% failed a 4-week run-in and that the exclusion of these subjects from the trial increased
      efficiency and lowered the number of subjects needed and was highly beneficial. We propose a
      run in period in which there will be a screening phone call, a visit two weeks later
      (prerandomization visit), with the randomization visit 2 weeks after the initial visit. This
      will be a placebo run-in with administration of the control shoe and orthotic for this 2-week
      period. The run in serves several purposes in addition to the efficiency and adherence
      reasons noted above. It permits us to obtain radiographs, assess and custom manufacture knee
      brace, orthotics and shoewear, and review them prior to randomization. It also allows us to
      assess pain status twice so as to get an average of knee pain scores prior to the trial. One
      concern of a run-in is that it may limit generalizability by excluding some subjects who fail
      the run-in test. In this trial we will be assessing efficacy so we need to maximize internal
      validity. Moreover losing subjects in crossover trial is a major concern and we would like to
      minimize this. We will preserve allocation concealment by having the randomization codes held
      by the Data Coordinating Center at Boston University, School of Public Health that is
      external to the Clinical Epidemiology and Research Training Unit. We will stratify patients
      into those with end stage (Kellgren & Lawrence Grade 4-specifically bone on bone in the
      weight bearing knee film in the medial compartment) versus those with disease that is
      moderate or mild yet still affecting the medial joint. We will then perform blocked
      stratified randomization ensuring that we randomize roughly equal numbers of patients with
      severe disease and those with mild to moderate diseases into each of the two treatment arms.
      We will incorporate a blocked randomization scheme so as to permit roughly equal numbers of
      subjects to be randomized to each treatment within each of the strata of interest. Blinding
      We will attempt to conduct a blinded trial. Ideally, a blinded trial presents identical
      appearing treatments to the patients, and obviously, we cannot accomplish this. Nonetheless,
      our description of the treatments to the patients will be that we will be comparing two types
      of treatment for their knee arthritis without specifying which therapy constitutes active
      treatment. The physician responsible for observations during the study visits will also be
      blind to subject interventions during each phase. Outcomes to be assessed -Primary Outcome
      -WOMAC Pain and Function Subscales (Most symptomatic treated Knee) -Secondary Outcomes WOMAC
      Stiffness Subscale Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score Patient Global Assessment
      Overall Knee Pain V.A.S. (Knee specific) SF36 Analgesic Use (Medication log) Blinded knee
      exam by physician Physician Global Assessment Functional performance measures (timed gait and
      chair stand) Gait analysis (see further description below) Knee malalignment (Measured from
      long limb films) Proprioception (Ability to reproduce passive positioning of the knee). Open
      Label Follow-up At the end of their participation in the trial, subjects will be allowed to
      keep the therapy they used. We will ask them which therapy helped them most, and we will
      strongly encourage continued use. We will continue to follow these subjects for an additional
      6 months. We will schedule open label study follow-up visits at 2, 4 and 6 months during
      which subjects' realignment therapy will be re-examined. Replacements will be provided if
      necessary. We will also administer the WOMAC at these visits to asses whether treatment
      effects remain. At these visits, subjects will be queried about adherence; whether they
      continue to use the realignment therapy, how many days per week (from an adherence diary)
      they have worn them. This data will enable an assessment of long term adherence, and also
      enable us to ascertain if response is contingent on adherence. During all phases of the study
      participation, subjects will receive educational materials that have been approved by the IRB
      either during their visits or via the mail. These are intended to keep subjects engaged and
      thereby help with retention in the study.
    
  