
    
      This study will evaluate participants with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM) for whom
      hematopoietic stem cell transplant is not planned as initial therapy. The data available from
      other available studies suggests that addition of daratumumab with Velcade (bortezomib),
      lenalidomide, and dexamethasone [VRd] is anticipated to improve the response rates and the
      depth of response and may lead to improved long-term outcomes in newly diagnosed participants
      with MM. Daratumumab targets CD38, a protein expressed on the surface of MM cells and other
      hematopoietic cells. Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor, which plays a critical role in the
      pathogenesis of MM. Lenalidomide has cytotoxic effects on myeloma cells and is capable of
      inducing apoptosis, or programmed cell death and dexamethasone induces apoptosis in MM cells.
      The rationale for the study is to utilize the subcutaneous (SC) formulation of daratumumab
      instead of the intravenous (IV) formulation, which is expected to provide similar exposure
      and is expected to limit additional toxicity to participants, treated with this quadruplet
      regimen. The study will consist of 3 phases: Screening (up to 28 days before randomization),
      Treatment phase (from Cycle 1 [21 days] Day 1 and continues until disease progression) and
      Follow up (Postintervention). Efficacy evaluations will include measurements of tumor
      burden/residual disease, myeloma proteins, bone marrow examinations, skeletal surveys,
      extramedullary plasmacytomas, and serum calcium corrected for albumin. Participants will
      undergo procedures like electrocardiogram (ECG), chest x-rays or full dose chest CT scans,
      Pulmonary function test (PFT), spirometry etc. during the course of study. Participants will
      also be monitored closely for adverse events (AEs), laboratory abnormalities, and clinical
      response. The duration of the study will be approximately 6.5 years.
    
  