
    
      In the face of exogenous surfactant and use of antenatal steroids, respiratory distress
      syndrome (RDS) remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in premature infants. RDS
      is the result of a series of complex, interrelated events, including atelectasis,
      ventilation-perfusion mismatching, and lung inflammation/injury (1). The cascade of events
      which typifies RDS and its long-term counterpart, chronic lung disease (CLD), is rooted in
      the intrinsic deficits of the premature lung as well as exacerbated by mechanical
      ventilation, a mainstay of therapy. For this reason, scientists and clinicians alike continue
      to search for treatment modalities which will not only treat RDS but also decrease the
      incidence of chronic lung disease.

      The use of non-invasive ventilatory strategies, such as nasal continuous positive airway
      pressure (NCPAP), in the treatment of RDS is thought to provide positive distending pressure
      while minimize lung inflammation and injury associated with mechanical ventilation (2).
      Avoidance of intubation and increased use of NCPAP to treat respiratory distress syndrome has
      been shown to decrease the incidence of chronic lung disease (3,4). However, NCPAP does have
      some common clinical limitations. First, the administration of NCPAP has inherent mechanical
      difficulties in appropriately maintaining the nasal prong apparatus within the small neonatal
      nose. Secondly, the nasal prongs used to deliver NCPAP can cause nasal septal trauma. Lastly,
      some premature infants do not tolerate the NCPAP apparatus which must be tightly affixed to
      their nose and face. This intolerance is often demonstrated by increased patient movement,
      and subsequently, the risk of mechanical difficulties and septal trauma increase during these
      times. Although NCPAP continues to be used in most neonatal intensive care units (NICUs), due
      to its aforementioned drawbacks, we continue to look for other effective, non-invasive modes
      of ventilation to provide support to premature infants with respiratory distress.

      Humidified high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) has recently been introduced into neonatal
      respiratory care as a means of providing positive distending pressure to the neonate with
      respiratory distress. HFNC aims to maximize patient tolerance by employing heated, humidified
      gas flow through the standard neonatal nasal cannula that is used routinely in neonatal
      intensive care units. HFNC provides positive distending pressure by using high gas flow (>1
      liter per minute) (5). Although numerous neonatal intensive care units are using HFNC,
      including both NICUs at Children's Hospitals of Minnesota, there are very few studies
      regarding its use in this population. Anecdotally, the premature babies tolerate the
      administration of HFNC quite well. However, like any new therapy, there are many unknowns.

      There is only one study to date which investigates HFNC versus NCPAP in the preterm neonate
      (6). Sreenan and colleagues found HFNC to be as effective as NCPAP in the management of apnea
      of prematurity and also demonstrated that the positive distending pressure provided by HFNC
      varied with the patient's weight. Sreenan's study as well as preliminary data presented in
      abstract form cite HFNC use with various amounts of gas flow, ranging from 1 liter per minute
      up to 6 liters per minute (6,7,8). The choice of how much gas flow to use with the HFNC
      system is unclear. This decision is actually a three-fold question: 1) the initial amount of
      liter flow to use, 2) what does a particular liter flow provide for positive distending
      pressure to that patient, and 3) are these values system-specific? We aim to evaluate these
      questions in our study. Until recently, NCPAP has been the mainstay of non-invasive
      ventilatory support for premature babies. However, as HFNC is better tolerated and uses a
      nasal cannula that is less prone to mechanical mishaps than NCPAP, it is clear that we need
      more information to accurately treat babies with HFNC. The results of this study will help
      guide the use of HFNC in preterm babies with respiratory insufficiency, as knowledge of the
      positive distending pressures derived from the HFNC system are crucial in minimizing
      barotrauma to the fragile, premature lung.
    
  