
    
      Background:

      77% of boys and 80% of girls aged 5-15 in the UK fall below the national physical activity
      guidelines of 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous activity per day.

      Research shows children with an Autism Spectrum Condition (ASC) are even less physically
      active than their neurotypical, age related peers and as a result are at increased risk of
      cardiovascular diseases, metabolic disorders, low self-esteem and depression. This physical
      activity gap has been shown to increase as children get older.

      If a gap between the activity levels of children with ASC and the so called 'normal
      population' exists, there are a number of possible explanations for why this might be.
      Research points to either some facet of the autism spectrum causing difficulties engaging
      with a certain feature of a physical activity i.e. the physical environment in which
      activities take place which is difficult from the sensory point of view (noisy, busy,
      brightly lit) or lack of specific provision tailored towards children with ASC readily
      available in the local community. With repeated negative experiences, children and adults
      with ASC may come to believe these opportunities are 'not for them'.

      To date, there has been limited research conducted on the attitudes of young people with ASC
      to sport and physical activity. The research that has been conducted has mainly focused on
      interviewing the young people themselves to gather their perspectives. However, little is
      known about their parent's perceptions of sports participation or if parents value being
      physically active themselves. This is of particular interest as parental modelling has been
      shown to be a predictor of children's PA behaviours with a positive correlation between adult
      and child PA levels. Furthermore, parents may offer additional insights into barriers of
      physical activity beyond that of their children and this information could help to advise the
      sports sector on how clubs and leisure centres could offer a better experience for children
      with ASC.

      In order to examine the experience of children with ASC in physical activity at home, at
      school, and in the local community, parents of children with ASC will be asked a number of
      open ended interview questions. To see if these experiences are unique to parents of children
      ASC, parents of non-ASC children will also be interviewed to allow for these perspectives to
      be compared and contrasted.
    
  