
    
      Background:

      Overweight and mild obesity are associated with insulin resistance and mild elevations in
      lipid risk factors which are not usually sufficiently abnormal to merit treatment. Such
      people are encouraged to lose weight to reduce their risk of progressing to type 2 diabetes
      and coronary heart disease, but there is clearly a potential role for dietary modifications
      to maximize any potential benefit of this weight loss. Flavonoids are known to have vascular
      effects which might enhance substrate delivery to metabolically active tissues, and thus
      improve insulin sensitivity. There are many different dietary sources of flavonoids, with
      fruits such as apples, berries and citrus being rich sources. However, some researchers have
      expressed concern that a high dietary intake of 100% juice may contribute to the development
      of insulin resistance, obesity and the Metabolic Syndrome (Bazzano, Li et al. 2008), although
      this is not universally accepted (Fujioka, Greenway et al. 2006; O'Neil and Nicklas 2008). To
      date, there have been no studies investigating the effects of citrus fruits on indices of
      cardio-metabolic health in people who are presently healthy but are at risk of developing
      some features of the Metabolic Syndrome.

      Aims:

      To investigate the effects of orange juice (OJ) intake on insulin sensitivity, appetite
      hormones, blood pressure and plasma lipids. In addition we aim to investigate any gene
      expression changes associated with OJ consumption, in particular in adipose tissue.

      Experimental protocol and methods:

      Overweight or obese women (BMI 27-35), who are otherwise healthy, will be recruited onto the
      study. They will attend the 'David Greenfield Human Physiology' laboratories on 5 convenient
      mornings, following an overnight fast. The 1st visit is a medical screening and will involve
      signing a consent form, completing medical screening, food frequency and activity
      questionnaires, having height, weight, and hip/waist circumference measurements taken and a
      sample of blood taken for CBC, urea, electrolytes, LFT, TFT, glucose and insulin analysis.
      Subjects will then be asked to complete a 3-day diet diary for macronutrient assessment and
      to consume a diet providing 50% of energy as carbohydrate for 3 days prior to the 2nd
      laboratory visit. This 2nd visit will involve having a DEXA body composition scan, an adipose
      tissue biopsy and a 3-hr hyperinsulinemic, euglycemic glucose clamp. Starting on the
      following morning, subjects will then consume an orange drink (either OJ or a carbohydrate
      matched orange flavoured drink) once a day for 12 wks. A 3-day diet diary for macronutrient
      assessment will be recorded during wks 3,7and 11 of taking the drink, and measurements made
      at screening will be repeated on visits 3 and 4 which will take place in weeks 4 and 8. A
      standardized diet will be consumed for 3 days prior to the final laboratory visit, as before.
      This 5th visit will be identical to visit 2.
    
  