
    
      Participants There about 4000 peoples (aged 7-60 years) were enrolled from three Shehias in
      Pemba island Zanzibar. Urine will be collected and tested on April 2017. Eligible people will
      be enrolled based on the criteria of inclusion and exclusion. A series of meetings will be
      held at Shehias and schools to explain the objectives, procedures, and potential risks of the
      study.

      Randomization Participants were randomly assigned (1:1) to receive Chinese-made versus WHO-PQ
      praziquantel. The randomization sequence was computer generated by the study sponsor. The
      staff of NTD office will give the assigned study drug after confirming the treatment
      allocation from the randomisation sequence. The NTD staff and and study participants will be
      unmasked to treatment assignment, but the laboratory technicians will be masked to treatment
      assignment throughout the study.

      Procedures Firstly, every participant provided a fresh urine sample, which was used to detect
      the presence of S. haematobium. The NTD staff will do a physical examination, and checked the
      eligibility of every participant.

      Participants whose urines tested positive for S. haematobium eggs and who met all eligibility
      criteria were invited to participate in the study.

      Chines-made and WHO-PQ praziquantel will be give the participants one dose of 40 mg/kg per
      day. All study drugs were given orally, and the NTD staff will also record the exact time of
      drug ingestion.

      Participants will be observed for 2 h after taking the drug to ensure retention and check for
      any immediate adverse events. If vomiting occurred within 2 h of drug ingestion, a second
      full dose was given.

      After one month after enrolment, the follow-up visit will be provided, and urine will be
      collected and tested for S. haematobium eggs. As a quality control measure for inter-observer
      variability, a third technician reread a random selection of 10% of slides.

      An adverse event is defined as a sign, symptom, intercurrent illness, or abnormal laboratory
      finding that just occurred during follow-up.

      At the end of the study, all participants who have still excreting S. haematobium eggs (ie,
      not cured) will be treated with praziquantel again.

      Statistical analysis There serial report forms will be used to data collection from
      participants, and Epi Info will be used to data enter.

      The cure rate, the mean egg count and economic benefits will be analysed between the
      different group.
    
  