
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse (POP), the herniation of the bladder, uterus, or rectum, into and often
      beyond, the vaginal opening, affects 40% of postmenopausal women and significantly impairs
      quality of life. POP is often managed surgically, and currently, one in every eight women
      will undergo POP surgery during her lifetime.

      A commonly performed procedure for POP is a sacrospinous ligament fixation (SSLF), which is a
      vaginal surgery that involves suspending the vaginal apex to the sacrospinous ligament
      suspension with sutures. Beyond routine postoperative pain, a sacrospinous ligament fixation
      may result in significant gluteal pain as a result of the vaginal sutures affecting/impinging
      on the sacral nerve roots. Unfortunately, postoperative gluteal pain is not uncommon with 12%
      of patients reporting significant gluteal pain and 4% having persistent pain 6 weeks after
      surgery.

      This study aims to compare the impact of gabapentin versus placebo on postoperative pain
      after SSLF. The rationale is that studies have shown that preoperative gabapentin, a
      non-opioid analgesic, resulted in a lower narcotic use postoperatively. Decreasing the use of
      standard of care postoperative narcotic pain medications would also decrease adverse events
      due to narcotics such as nausea, vomiting, and constipation, and potentially decrease the
      long-term risk of opioid dependence. As an additional benefit, a careful assessment of actual
      opioid will help to inform best practices for prescribing, as we may be overprescribing
      narcotic medications for this type of surgery. This study will evaluate a longer two-week
      course of gabapentin because it is currently standard of care to use gabapentin to treat
      neuropathic pain after SSLF; thus, gabapentin may help to address overall pain as well as
      neuropathic gluteal pain that can occur after SSLF. Furthermore, gabapentin is a relatively
      safe medication with the primary adverse events being dizziness and sedation.

      Given the risk of overall postoperative pain and neuropathic gluteal pain after a
      sacrospinous ligament fixation for POP and the evidence that perioperative gabapentin may
      decrease acute pain and neuropathic pain, this study proposes a novel randomized trial to
      compare perioperative gabapentin versus placebo on postoperative pain after a vaginal SSLF
      surgery.
    
  