
    
      After consent patients will be randomized to one of the two groups: Control Group or the
      Experimental Group. Patients will be blinded to the group assignment.

      In the Control Group the patient will be given single shot interscalene block using
      ultrasound technique following established guidelines. The procedure will be done after
      starting intravenous access and placing standard anesthesia monitors (EKG, Blood Pressure
      Cuff and Pulse-Ox) on the patient. Following accepted aseptic guidelines the nerves will be
      visualized at the base of the neck using ultrasound machine. Once proper nerve roots or
      trunks visualized 3 mg/kg of 0.5 % bupivacaine will be injected in small blouses.

      In the Experimental Group, after placement of monitors, the nerves will be visualized using
      ultrasound machine. There after a catheter will be placed. They subjects will be dosed using
      0.5% bupivacaine 3 mg/kg for the surgery via the catheter.

      The extent of block before the surgery will be evaluated at 30 minutes post injection.
      Surgery will be done with sedation. Conversion of anesthetic technique to general anesthesia
      will be considered failure of the technique to provide adequate surgical anesthesia.

      At the end of the case the patient will be taken to recovery and will be evaluated for pain.
      If patient is having pain of 3 or more then they will be treated as follows.

      In single shot group will be offered to be blocked again or treated with oral narcotics.

      In the catheter group patient will be dosed with 10 ml 1% lidocaine. If it fails to provide
      any relief then the catheter will be pulled back and another 10 ml1% lidocaine will be given.
      If still not effective then it will be replaced. Refusal of patient to replace the catheter
      will result in patient dropping out of the study.

      Working catheter will be left in place for at least 48 hrs. Patients will be allowed to take
      oral pain medicines as prescribed by their surgeons. The patient will be sent home with pain
      pump to continuously give them 0.125% bupivacaine at 5 ml per hr with an option to get extra
      dose of 5 ml q hr if needed. The pain control will be monitored by phone daily till catheter
      comes out.
    
  