
    
      Moderate to severe Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) is a major public health problem,
      significantly affecting 1.5 to 3% of adult Americans (3 - 7 million), resulting in profound
      sleep loss and an urge to move during sitting or resting in the later part of the day. Work
      productivity is decreased by 20%, quality of life is as bad or worse than that for other
      chronic diseases, e.g. arthritis and diabetes, and there is increased cardio-vascular disease
      risk. Current approved dopaminergic treatments fail to improve sleep time, engender impulsive
      behaviors and may make RLS worse. New treatments and new research directions to find them are
      needed. The current research focus on the sensory features has failed to address an important
      aspect of RLS; i.e. a 'hyperarousal' or profound chronic sleep loss without significant
      excessive daytime sleepiness. This hyperarousal produces RLS symptoms by overwhelming the
      normal inhibitory processes needed to decrease sensory and motor cortical activity for
      resting and sleep. Thus the hyperarousal produces both the RLS need to move when trying to
      rest and the inability to maintain sleep. The biological consequences of this hyperarousal
      process on sleep (increased wake time) and cortical excitability (as demonstrated by
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)) are postulated to reflect increased degree of
      excitatory glutamatergic activity, and therefore affected brain regions will show relatively
      increased glutamate (Glu) and glutamine (Gln) on MR spectroscopy (MRS). Changes in inhibitory
      activity and GABA may also occur, but less significantly than the increase in Glu/Gln. Our
      pilot MRS data discovered a new abnormality in RLS: increased Thalamic Glx (Glu + Gln) that
      correlated well with sleep measures of hyperarousal. Glx levels are not specific for the
      neurotransmitter role of Glu. In this project RLS and matching controls subjects will be
      studied using polysomnograms (PSG) and TMS and 7T MRI for MRS that provides accurate
      measurement of Gln levels, which reflect mostly neurotransmitter Glu activity. The first aim
      is to confirm that Gln is increased in the thalamus and to determine if this also occurs in
      the motor and sensory cortices. The relation between Glu, Gln and GABA will also be
      evaluated. Second, assessments will be made of the degree of relation between Gln increase
      and the hyperarousal effects on sleep and cortical excitability (TMS). This would demonstrate
      that abnormally increased Glu activity is primary to RLS hyperarousal and radically changes
      the emphasis in RLS to be less on dopamine and more on Glu-hyperarousal as a major feature of
      RLS. This is an entirely new direction for RLS research and treatment development. The new
      concept of hyperarousal adds a missing dimension to understanding RLS, namely the discovery
      of the Glu abnormality and its central relation to the other hyperarousal features. It opens
      the opportunity to develop new animal and cell RLS research. It provides new directions for
      medication treatment development, changes the emphasis for primary treatment toward Glu drugs
      and the MRS provides a useful and accessible measure for evaluating medication treatment
      benefits.
    
  