
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete 4 questionnaires at each of your
      regularly scheduled doctor's visits (about every 6 months). Someone will help you to go
      through the questionnaires when you are given your first packet. If you are unable to
      complete the questionnaires while at your study visit, you may choose to take some or all of
      the questionnaires home. If you take the questionnaires home, you will be given a
      self-addressed stamped envelope so that you can return them to the study coordinator. If you
      choose, you may also complete the questionnaires over the phone.

      The questionnaires will ask you about how you feel about the cancer treatment, how treatment
      for rectal cancer has affected your health and lifestyle, what you expect during and after
      your treatment, and about any pain you are experiencing and if the pain management is working
      for you. It should take about 30-60 minutes to complete the questionnaires each time.

      If you will not be in the clinic for more than 6 months, the questionnaires will be mailed to
      you. You will return them in a self-addressed stamped envelope. If you have not completed the
      questionnaires within 2 weeks of receiving them, a research staff member will call you to
      remind you to complete the questionnaires, and to assist you with completing them (if
      necessary). If you have not completed the questionnaires by the time you come for your next
      follow-up visit, a research staff member will assist you with completing them at your visit
      (if necessary).

      If your questionnaire responses show that you may be having emotional difficulties or
      depression, you will be provided with names of mental health providers in case you would like
      to receive mental health screening.

      At each of your appointments or between your appointments (if needed) researchers will
      collect study related information for your medical record.

      Researchers will also review the images of the positron emission tomography (PET) scans or
      other diagnostic tests that you take as part of your standard of care. By viewing PET scan
      images or diagnostic tests, researchers hope to be able to discover whether there is any
      connection between the images on the PET scan or diagnostic tests and the symptoms that you
      are having. The PET scan or other diagnostic tests is are part of your standard treatment for
      your recurrent rectal cancer, and you will not have to have any special tests or scans just
      to participate in this study.

      The data researchers collect will also be used to form a database of patients with recurrent
      rectal cancer. The database will be located on a password protected Surgical Oncology
      computer and it will be available only to the study doctor and the research staff that need
      to complete the study. The database will include information about each participant on the
      study. It will include information about the participant's name, medical record number, age,
      gender, diagnosis, the study questionnaires, and information about the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for up to 5 years.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 164 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  