
    
      Background:

      Difficult-to-treat hypertension is characterized by uncontrolled blood pressure despite 2 or
      more antihypertensive drugs. In many cases, abnormal renal Na and volume handling plays a
      central role. Arterial vasoconstriction and renal function are regulated by the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) and its effector hormones angiotensin II and
      aldosterone. Both control renal tubular function and Na excretion. Blocking the
      renin-angiotensin-system pharmacologically is therefore a current standard approach to treat
      hypertension. However, there is great clinical need to improve the classification of
      hypertensive patients and to predict patient sensitivity to different therapeutic strategies
      more precisely by new biomarkers that take into account tubular function and the various
      bioactive angiotensin fragments.

      Ang fragments generated by non-canonical enzymatic pathways such as Ang III co-exist with Ang
      I and Ang II in plasma. Their profile could help classify hypertensive patients with greater
      precision than plasma renin and aldosterone alone. Furthermore, urinary exosomes are small
      membrane vesicles (<0.1 μm) shed into the urine by tubular epithelial cells. They contain
      tubular Na channels known as targets of furosemide and thiazide drugs used to treat volume
      overload and arterial hypertension. Na channel concentrations in the tubules are regulated by
      Ang II and aldosterone. Exosomal Na channel abundance could thus give valuable extra
      information on the actual tubular functional status not provided by standard laboratory tests
      of plasma renin and aldosterone or urinary electrolytes alone. Plasma Ang peptide profiles
      and urinary exosomal Na channels could improve the classification of patients with
      difficult-to-control hypertension and inform antihypertensive treatment decisions. The usual
      concentrations and variabilities of these biomarkers are a prerequisite for the planning of
      future validation studies. However, data are still lacking in this population.

      Study aim:

      This study aims to determine the concentration and interindividual variability of urinary
      exosomal sodium channels and of plasma angiotensins (candidate biomarkers) in patients with
      difficult-to-treat arterial hypertension and to determine their dependency on sampling
      conditions, dietary salt intake, and plasma renin and aldosterone concentrations.

      Candidate biomarker definition:

        -  Plasma Ang peptides planned for determination in the study are Ang I and II and its
           metabolites Ang 2-10, 2-8, 3-8, 1-7, 2-7, 3-7, 1-5 (Ang peptide profile).

        -  Urinary exosomal Na channel proteins planned for determination are Na+-Cl- cotransporter
           (NCC), epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) subunits and Na-K-Cl cotransporter type 2 (NKCC
           2).

      Study type:

      This is an investigator initiated, monocentric observational pilot study in 24 ambulatory
      patients with difficult-to-treat hypertension who meet the inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusion criteria.

      Setting:

      The study is performed at the outpatient hypertension clinic of the University clinic for
      nephrology, hypertension and clinical pharmacology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital,
      Bern, Switzerland.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective of the study is to determine the concentration and interindividual
           variability of urinary exosomal Na channels and of plasma angiotensin peptides under
           standardized clinical sampling conditions in patients with difficult-to-treat
           hypertension.

        -  The secondary objectives of the study are

             1. to determine the association of these candidate biomarkers with urinary Na
                excretion, plasma renin and aldosterone concentrations, and aldosterone-to-renin
                ratios on clinical visit 2,

             2. to assess the repeatability of biomarker determinations under spontaneous (visit 1)
                compared to standardized sampling conditions (visit 2).

      Study plan and procedures:

      The concentrations of the candidate biomarkers are determined in blood and spot urinary
      samples obtained on the first clinical visit (visit 1) and again under standardized
      laboratory conditions on the second clinical visit (visit 2) scheduled 5-31 days later and
      after stopping RAAS inhibitory drugs, beta-adrenoceptor blockers, centrally acting
      antihypertensives and diuretics for an appropriate period, as necessary. Ca-antagonists and
      alpha-adrenoceptor blockers are allowed to treat hypertension.

      Determinations of candidate biomarkers are made in parallel with clinical blood and urine
      tests performed routinely. On visit 2, these tests include supine and standing plasma renin
      and aldosterone measurements under standardized conditions in the morning after 1 h rest and
      again after 1 hour walking .

      Biological samples are processed according to standardized laboratory protocols. Plasma Ang
      peptides are determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Urinary exosomal proteins
      are determined by Western-Blot using specific antibodies. Blood concentrations of
      antihypertensive drugs are determined by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry to analyze
      medication use and adherence on visits 1 and 2. Clinical data and routine laboratory results
      for visits 1 and 2 are obtained from patient files.

      Recruitment of participants: consecutive ongoing participant recruitment is performed in
      daily clinic practice by the investigators who check referrals for potential eligibility.

      Participation: study participation begins with study inclusion on visit 1 and ends with
      completion of visit 2.
    
  