
    
      1. Decision support algorithm: The decision support algorithm is based on case-based
           reasoning (CBR). CBR is an artificial intelligence technique that tries to solve newly
           encountered problems by applying the solutions learned from solved problems encountered
           in the past. A combination of parameters makes up the case problem presented to the CBR
           algorithm. Using this information the algorithm will find a similar case scenario from
           the pool of previously encountered cases and recommend an improved solution (insulin
           dose) to achieve the best possible outcome (postprandial blood glucose). Each new case
           includes information about the problem (e.g. capillary blood glucose, meal information
           etc), solution (recommended insulin dose) and outcome (postprandial blood glucose).

           PEPPER offers a dual architecture for both Multiple Daily Injections (MDI) and
           Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion (CSII) therapy. In both cases, the user
           periodically wears a continuous glucose monitor (CGM) and an activity monitor.

           Handset CSII version: The handset is a portable touch-screen device, which communicates
           directly with the insulin pump with PEPPER application running.Its primary function in
           PEPPER is to allow the user to precisely manage insulin therapy by accepting or
           rejecting bolus insulin dose recommendations, calculated by the CBR based decision
           support algorithm, via a graphical interface. In addition, it automatically records
           glucose levels and allows logging of food intake and other parameters.

           MDI version: This handset is a commercially available Smartphone with the insulin
           recommendation application running locally on a standard operating system such as iPhone
           Operating System (iOS) or Android. It has the same functionality as Handset in CSII
           version, except that is not connected to insulin pump and patients have to administrate
           insulin by insulin pens.

           Secure web server revision: The handset wirelessly reports the user's case history to
           the secure portal, a web site which allows the clinician to add new patients, and review
           the cases to decide which ones should be kept. A case comprises multiple parameters such
           as carbohydrate intake, BG reading, meal composition, physical activity and hormone
           cycle.

           Personal Health Record on the secure portal allows patients and clinicians to view and
           update selected components of the detailed history.

           Insulin delivery system:

           MDI: it will be provide insulin pens with 0,5 IU of insulin CSII: will use Cellnovo
           insulin pump Continuous glucose monitoring system The glucose sensor that will be used
           throughout the clinical studies is the Dexcom sensor (CE marked, manufactured by
           Dexcom). This current is proportional to the glucose concentration in interstitial fluid
           and is calibrated against blood glucose a minimum of 12-hourly. The Dexcom CGM data is
           automatically transmitted to a secure web-based server and the secure PEPPER web-portal.
           Participants will be able to see their CGM data at all times and this will be used
           continuously throughout the studies.

           Safety features: Low and high glucose alarms will be incorporated to alert the user when
           hypo- and hyperglycaemia is detected to enable the user to act accordingly to bring the
           glucose levels back to target range.

           Glucose prediction algorithm for hypoglycaemia prediction. The hypoglycaemia prediction
           algorithm will enable the system to automatically activate the low glucose suspension
           feature in pump participants (suspension of insulin delivery until glucose levels are
           within the target range) and/or trigger an adaptive carbohydrate adviser, which will
           recommend a personalised carbohydrate snack.

           Insulin safety constraints. Personalised maximum insulin dose thresholds will be
           incorporated to prevent overdosing on insulin.

           Fault detection. Insulin pumps and CGMs are well-established technologies, but faults in
           these devices (e.g. pump occlusion, loss of sensor sensitivity) may occur. A fault
           detection system will identify such faults and alert the user to recommend a
           corresponding action to revert to the normal state.

        2. Clinical study Recruitment. This is a multicentre study and recruiting for the clinical
           study will be undertaken in the diabetes clinics at the Institut d'Investigació
           Biomédica de Girona (IdIBGi) (Spain) and the Imperial College London (ICL) (UK) from
           registered research databases and from interested participants who contact us.

           Objective: To demonstrate safety, feasibility and usability of the PEPPER system
           compared to a standard bolus calculator.

           The standard bolus calculator system will include the standard RT-CGM low and high
           glucose alarms.

           Methodology: Randomised open-label cross-over study Population: 50 adults with T1DM (25
           on MDI and 25 on CSII) Randomisation: Participants who fit the inclusion criteria will
           be randomized to PEPPER/Control or Control/PEPPER in a 1:1 ratio. The groups will be
           stratified by pump or MDI. Both groups will be using CGM. After 3 months each group will
           revert to their standard therapy for 4 weeks (wash-out period) and then crossover to the
           other group.

           Timescale: Each participant will be in the study for 7 months. It is anticipated that it
           will take 12 months to complete this phase.

           2.1 Usability assessment during clinical trial

           Task-driven testing with users using standard metrics for effectiveness and
           satisfaction. Mixed methods will be used to collect usability and satisfaction data
           including:

           A. Structured validated and non-validated treatment satisfaction and acceptability
           questionnaires B. Semi-structured interviews C. Automatic collection of quantitative
           data from the PEPPER system on time taken to get insulin bolus advice for users and time
           taken to perform revisions by the clinical investigators.

           D. Audio recording E. Video recording -training session where the participant will be
           asked to perform tasks in PEPPER system. This process will be observed in order to
           determine common problems and misunderstandings as well as aspects that have worked
           successfully. The handset will be filmed during the training to see which aspect is
           being described.

        3. PEPPER case base revision. The PEPPER case base will be revised every 2 weeks throughout
           the intervention period (PEPPER with CBR) and this will be a semi-automatic process done
           remotely via the secure web-server. Any new cases will be approved by the study team
           prior to inclusion in the case base. This provides remote supervision and prevents any
           potential system faults despite safety measures. The participants will not need to
           attend the clinical research unit for the revisions. Usual care will be maintained for
           diabetes throughout the study. Support will be offered to any participants who have
           concerns about their diabetes management.

           Participants in both the intervention group and control group will have the opportunity
           to call a physician for medical support and an engineer for technical support 24 hours a
           day throughout the study.

        4. Statistics This is a 7-month randomised controlled cross-over pilot study to evaluate
           the safety and usability of the PEPPER system versus a standard bolus calculator. 50
           participants (25 participants on MDI and 25 participants on CSII) will be included in
           the study. To allow for a 10% drop-out rate we will screen 55 participants. The primary
           outcome is percentage time in target and secondary outcomes as outlined in section
           Outcomes Measures.

           With 50 participants a 0.57 SD difference can be demonstrated as significant with α of
           0.05 and 80% power (two-tailed). Based on a pilot study population mean (SD) % time in
           target (3.9-10mmol/l) of 61.6 (18.8) a 10.7 (=0.57x18.8) difference in % time in target
           can be demonstrated as significant between the intervention and control in this study.

           The sample size is comparable to other technology transfer studies, is a realistic
           number for recruitment and provides robust safety date of a new technology.

           The primary analysis in the randomized crossover study will follow the
           intention-to-treat principle. The change in the primary outcome between the two
           treatment arms will be compared using an Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). The ANOVA model
           will include period sequence and subject within sequence as fixed effects. Missing data
           will be imputed using Rubin's method if feasible. For all CGM outcomes, a multilevel
           model of repeated measures (MMRM) will be used. Similar analyses will be performed
           separately for daytime and nighttime. The CGM data will be pooled giving equal weight to
           each hour of the day.

           Safety analyses will include severe hypoglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, and all
           reported adverse events. Event rates will be computed per 100 person-years. The numbers
           of events will be compared between the two treatment groups using robust Poisson
           regression and the percentage of subjects with at least one event will be compared using
           Fisher's exact test. Treatment group comparisons for total daily insulin and weight,
           will be made using analysis of covariance models, adjusted for the corresponding
           baseline value.

           For each questionnaire, mean ± SD values or percentiles appropriate to the distribution
           will be given by randomization group for the total score and each subscale. Treatment
           group comparisons will be made using similar linear models as described above for the
           primary outcomes.

           The following tabulations will be performed according to treatment group without
           statistical testing: baseline demographics and clinical characteristics, flow chart
           accounting for all subjects for all visits, protocol deviations, device malfunctions and
           other reported device issues, bolus recommendations accepted, screen views, and App
           using time per day.

        5. Data During the course of the study visits some data will be stored on laptop computers,
           not connected to the Internet, for later statistical analysis. These data will be coded
           and non- identifiable. Laptop computers may be used during the visits for portability
           and convenience. At the end of each visit the anonymised data will be transferred
           immediately to a secure web-server (details below) and will be deleted from the laptop.

           Any identifiable participant data will be stored in a locked filing cabinet in a secure
           room in each investigation centre. Only clinical research team will have access to this
           participant identifiable data.

           5.1 Confidentiality of data collected during interviews To ensure security, data
           obtained during the course of the interviews will be encrypted and stored securely, with
           access limited solely to the researchers. Data will be de-identified such that only the
           researchers will be able to link the data to the participant involved using reversible
           codes. This is done purely for the purpose of comparison and evaluation across the
           separate interviews. Any resulting publications using the data will not identify the
           participants, and any quotes will kept anonymous should participants consent to this.
           All data will be kept securely for a period of 10 years following completion of the
           project.

           All audio or video recordings will avoid the use of names or other easily identifiable
           statements. Any recordings that violate this will be edited to omit the statement and
           the original destroyed. Audio and video recordings will be kept for 10 years.

           All data will be stored in an anonymised form by using study numbers for identification
           of participants.

           A data monitoring committee will be convened to assess the data collected throughout the
           study. This committee will comprise of the Chief Investigator at each site, a lay
           member, an independent diabetologist and an independent scientist.

           5.2 Electronic data storage on secure web-server Data security and privacy will be a
           priority whilst dealing with medical data such as that held in the PEPPER system. During
           the clinical trail anonymous clinical data will be entered and stored on a secure
           web-server. Anonymous data collected by the PEPPER handset (such as glucose, meal
           information, physical activity, alcohol, exercise) and the Dexcom CGM system will be
           automatically transmitted to the secure web-server. For this purpose, EU regulatory
           procedures (Directives 95/46/EC and 2002/58/EC) will be observed. Medical data will be
           stored and protected against non-authorised access; transmission of data will be
           secured; only authorised users will have access to services and stored data.
           Authentication will be required for application use and data synchronisation. PEPPER
           will operate according to standard interoperability guidelines (e.g. HL7), so that
           information can be exchanged seamlessly between the various components. Authorised users
           will include study team members from the PEPPER collaborators. Collaborators will only
           be able to view anonymous PEPPER handset data.

           The data generated by the study will be analysed by the collaborative PEPPER research
           team at their respective sites. The analysis will be on anonymised data which will be
           aggregated during joint meetings on either clinical site.

           Missing, unused, and spurious data will be assessed on an individual basis and may be
           ignored, withdrawn or the visit may be removed from the analysis with appropriate
           justification adjudicated by the Principal Investigator.

        6. Adverse Events (AEs) Reporting Procedures. All adverse events will be reported.
           Depending on the nature of the event the reporting procedures below will be followed.
           Any questions concerning adverse event reporting will be directed to the Chief
           Investigator in the first instance.

      Non serious AEs: All such events will be recorded. Serious Adverse Events (SAEs): An SAE form
      will be completed and faxed to the Chief Investigator within 24 hours. However,
      hospitalisations for elective treatment of a pre-existing condition do not need reporting as
      SAEs.

      Reports of related and unexpected SAEs will be submitted within 15 days of the Chief
      Investigator becoming aware of the event. The Chief Investigator will also notify the Sponsor
      of all SAEs, where in the opinion of the Chief Investigator, the event is:

        -  'related', i.e. resulted from the administration of any of the research procedures; and

        -  'unexpected', i.e. an event that is not listed in the protocol as an expected occurrence
           Local investigators will report any SAEs as required by their Local Research Ethics
           Committee, Sponsor and/or Research & Development Office.
    
  