
    
      Zanthozylum armatum (Z. armatum) is an perennial shrub found in India and across Southeast
      Asia. Preparations of the bark, fruit and seeds of Z. armatum have been extensively used in
      traditional Indian medicine. For example, the fruits and seeds have been employed as an
      aromatic tonic in fever and dyspepsia and the essential oil of the fruits has exhibited
      antibacterial, antifungal and anthelmintic properties. Furthermore, the dried fruits are used
      as spice, especially in Nepalese and Sichuan cuisine with increasing popularity across
      Europe. With regard to physiological effects relevant to brain function, Z. armatum has also
      been traditionally used as a cardio-depressant; these vasodilatory properties have recently
      being linked to its antagonistic effect on calcium ion channel function as demonstrated in
      isolated rabbit aorta tissue. In addition, the observed anti-inflammatory and antioxidant
      effects of preparations of Z. armatum may serve to beneficially impact cognition with chronic
      administration.

      Although direct effects of Z. armatum on brain function have yet to be assessed; Zanthozylum
      fruit comprises one constituent of the traditional Japanese herbal medicine Daikenchuto (DKT)
      where some data do exist. In a series of trials investigating the effects of DKT on learning
      and memory function in mice, it was established that the extract of Zanthozylum fruit
      contained in DKT alone that was associated with reductions in escape latency in the Morris
      Water Maze task. Interestingly, the authors also revealed that it was the amide
      hydroxy-ɑ-sanshool (HAS) isolated from the Zanthozylum fruit extract that was associated with
      these effects, speculating that the effect of HAS on escape latencies was due to a
      facilitation effect of HAS on acetylcholine release.

      Given the evidence of potentially relevant mechanisms of action and initial evidence of
      cognitive effects of HAS in murine models, the aim of this study is to assess the acute and
      chronic effects of Z. armatum on cognitive function, mood, and cerebral blood flow in healthy
      adults aged 30 to 55 years.
    
  