
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Besides extending our understanding of the mechanisms of social support effects on health,
      the findings of this project helped in the design and development of more effective and
      efficient approaches to secondary prevention in coronary artery disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Social support was assessed in a large consecutive cohort of coronary disease patients
      referred for diagnostic catheterization (Group A) and in a subgroup of medically treated
      patients (Group B) with severe coronary artery disease and/or poor left ventricular function
      with an expected two year 'hard' cardiac event rate (death or nonfatal myocardial infarction)
      of 25 percent or more. A brief baseline questionnaire assessment of structural and functional
      aspects of social support as well as other aspects of quality of life was obtained on all
      coronary artery disease patients without prior revascularization who were referred to the
      Duke University Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory over a three year period (Group A).
      Detailed questionnaire and interview assessment of perceived and received social support and
      psychological traits, that is hostility, was obtained on a high risk subgroup (Group B) and a
      randomly selected 10 percent subgroup of other Group A patients. Potential behavioral
      mediators (including smoking behavior, physical activity, medical care utilization) and
      biological mediators,(including vagal tone, ambulatory ischemic burden) of the social support
      effects on outcomes were measured in Group B patients and the random subset of Group A. Group
      A patients were followed by mailed questionnaire at three months and one year and then
      annually. Group B and the random subset of Group A returned for a one month clinic visit. At
      that time, repeat social support interviews were administered and patients were sent home
      with a 48 hour ambulatory ECG monitor to allow measurement of total ischemic burden and heart
      rate variability (vagal tone).

      Group B patients and the random subset of Group A were then followed by telephone interview
      at one year and then annually. In addition, these patients had brief bimonthly telephone
      contacts to assess interval changes in social support as well as levels of environmental
      stress and mood states including depression and anger. All patients were followed for up to
      three years. Outcome events, including death and myocardial infarction, were ascertained at
      each point in follow-up. Multivariable analyses using the spline proportional hazards
      regression model tested the prognostic importance of the social support and psychological
      measures on outcome and evaluated the role of biological and behavioral variables as
      mediators, controlling for baseline disease severity.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  