
    
      All LIBERATE (NCT02428595) study participants who complete the 12 month visit will be invited
      to participate in the LIBERATE-PRO post market registry in an effort to obtain additional
      long term quality of life and economic data. Subjects will be sent an email with a link to
      the survey(s) or mailed printed surveys depending on chosen survey delivery option to be
      completed at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.Baseline will be defined as the baseline value in the
      LIBERATE study, prior to the insertion of the Eclipse System.

      The St. Mark's (Vaizey) Incontinence Severity Score will be used to assess the severity of
      accidental bowel leakage at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months in comparison to how it was prior to
      joining the LIBERATE study. The score is based on 7 questions and is a measure of severity of
      fecal incontinence (FI) symptoms, which has been shown to correlate with improvement in
      frequency of FI episodes and subjects' perceptions of relief. The composite score calculated
      from these questions reflects the severity of FI and ranges from 0 (complete continence) to
      24 (complete incontinence). The change from baseline score will be calculated at each time
      point. The average change from baseline score, computed as the mean change from baseline
      across all completed assessments, will be calculated.

      The Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) is a validated global index used to rate
      the response of a condition to a therapy on a scale from 1 (Very much better) to 7 (Very much
      worse). The PGI-I will be used to assess improvement of accidental bowel leakage at 3, 6, 9,
      and 12 months in comparison to how it was prior to joining the LIBERATE study. The average
      PGI-I score, computed as the mean score across all completed assessments, will be calculated.

      The FIQOL (Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life Questionnaire will be completed at 12 months.
      The Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life (FIQOL) scale is a 41-item, validated questionnaire
      completed by the subject. FIQOL has 4 subscales: lifestyle, coping/behavior,
      depression/self-perception and embarrassment. Each subscale score ranges from 1 to 5, with 1
      indicating a lower functional status of quality of life. FIQOL score will be used to assess
      the changes in quality of life in each of the subscales in comparison to the same scores
      prior to joining the LIBERATE study.The change from baseline in each of the 4 subscale scores
      (lifestyle, coping/behavior, depression/self-perception, embarrassment) will be calculated.

      The Eclipse Experience feedback (questions related to perceptions of device comfort,
      satisfaction with usage and features, and impact on daily activities) will be collected at 3,
      6, 9, and 12 months.

      All outcomes will be summarized descriptively at each time point.
    
  