
    
      Postextubation respiratory failure is not an uncommon condition after discontinuation of
      mechanical ventilation. Subsequently reintubation and mechanical ventilation for
      postextubation respiratory failure may lead to increasing of hospital morbidity and mortality
      and and prolonging intensive care and hospital stay. Several studies have demonstrated the
      efficacy of non-invasive ventilation to prevent the postextubation failure in patients with
      high risk for extubation failure.

      The variable generator whisper flow system ((Philips Respironics, Murrysville, PA, USA) is
      the one of widely used continuous positive airway pressure(CPAP) device in UK. This device
      employs an oxygen-driven venturi to entrain air and generates high fresh gas flow up to 140
      liter per minute. The oxygen/air mixture enters the breathing circuit and exits through a
      threshold resistor namely CPAP valve. Whisperflow is able to provide the flow into the
      breathing system via oronasal mask which exceeds the peak inspiratory flow rate of the
      patient and may improve work of breathing as well as gas exchange. In daily clinical
      practice, the investigators apply this device with humidifier in patients with weaning
      difficulty and patients who are at risk for postextubation failure.

      High-flow nasal oxygen therapy(HFNO) is a device which heated and humidified oxygen is
      distributed to the nose at high flow rates. With the high flow rate (up to 60 Liter per
      minute), it generates low level of positive airway pressure. Physiological benefits of HFNO
      comprises decreasing of the dead space, work of breathing and the low level of positive
      airway pressure associated with better lung recruitment. Furthermore, the fraction of
      inspired oxygen can be adjusted and measured by changing the fraction of oxygen in the
      driving gas.

      In the present randomized, controlled trial, the investigators will compare two devices for
      oxygen therapy, with low levels of continuous positive airway pressure, nasal high-flow
      oxygen therapy and CPAP of 5 cmH2O delivered by the variable generator WhisperFlow System
      with oronasal mask , in critically ill patients who are at risk for postextubation failure.
      The investigators hypothesize that nasal high-flow is superior to CPAP the in terms of
      reintubation rate.
    
  