
    
      This is a two-part study with an initial diagnosis component followed by a treatment
      component. The number of subjects to be consented for the diagnosis component is 350, and 50
      for the treatment portion (25 on the observation arm, and 25 for enoxaparin treatment).

      Study Procedures:

      Patients diagnosed with cancer at the Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders will have a
      catheter inserted for cancer related treatment. After insertion, eligible patients who
      provide consent will be enrolled in the diagnosis component of the study. The principal
      investigator and research team will monitor for catheter complications (occlusion and
      bacteremia/fungemia). After two complications, participants will be screened for occult
      central venous catheter (CVC)-related DVT by contrast venography, ultrasonography, or
      magnetic resonance venography. If DVT is not diagnosed, participant will go off the study. If
      DVT is diagnosed, participant will be asked to consent to enroll in the treatment study.
      After enrollment, participant is randomized between the two arms of observation and
      enoxaparin treatment. After 6 weeks, patients will have another image; this represents the
      end of treatment period. After the follow-up imaging, patients will be monitored for 10 weeks
      to obtain primary outcomes. Once a primary outcome (progression to symptomatic DVT or
      pulmonary embolism (PE), blood stream infection or catheter removal) is achieved the
      participants can be treated with anticoagulation again if necessary, but primary oncologist
      will determine treatment.

      Analysis:

      The hypothesis is that the enoxaparin treatment group will have a median adverse catheter
      event free survival time of 12 weeks versus 4 weeks for the control group with a hazard
      ration of 0.4. A total sample size of 50 (25 in each arm) will detect such a difference with
      90% power at an α=0.05. If there is a drop out rate of 10% in each arm, a difference can
      still be detected with 80% power.

      Approximately 200 to 250 patients are diagnosed with cancer each year at Children's Medical
      Center Dallas, and based on prior institutional experience, two-thirds will have catheters
      inserted to facilitate chemotherapy. However, one-quarter of these patients have brain tumors
      and are not eligible due to the potential increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage with
      anticoagulation. There will be 100 patients each year who are at risk for CVC-related DVT.
      Based on previous studies, up to 50% of patients should develop occult DVT; however, only 35%
      of patients will likely be screened with radiographic imaging. Approximately 17 patients a
      year enrolled in the diagnosis study may be diagnosed with DVT and eligible for
      randomization. Therefore, total enrollment will be completed in approximately 3 years with an
      additional 4 months necessary to complete the follow-up period.
    
  