
    
      Squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva is a rare cancer accounting for less than 1% of female
      cancers. The disease predominantly affects women over the age of 65 although the incidence in
      younger women is rising, a finding that has been attributed to the effect of increasing human
      papillomavirus (HPV) infection .

      The standard treatment for the primary tumour is surgical excision with the aim of achieving
      a 1 cm clear margin on histopathology. This requires the surgeon to remove 1.5-2 cm of
      surrounding normal tissue to allow for shrinkage after tissue fixation. Depending on the size
      and location of the tumour, the surgical procedure could vary from a wide local excision to a
      radical vulvectomy, including excision of adjacent structures such as the clitoris, lower
      urethra or anus, and/or reconstructive surgery. Wound infection and breakdown are common
      short-term complications of radical vulva surgery. Long term consequences include functional,
      cosmetic, psychological and psychosexual sequelae, which can have a significant negative
      impact on quality of life.

      Recurrence rates for vulva squamous cell carcinomas range from 15% to 33%. Local recurrence
      in the vulva is the most common site of relapse (70%) with the groin nodes affected in 24%,
      pelvic nodes in 16% and distant metastases in 19%. The treatment of choice for local
      recurrence is surgical excision and 5-year survival rates of up to 45% have been reported.
      However, patients can develop multiple recurrences over a period of time and the feasibility
      of surgery becomes increasingly more limited as more and more tissue is removed.

      Brachytherapy is a form of radiotherapy where radiation sources are placed directly in
      contact with or into (interstitial) cancerous tissue. The radiation emitted has a short range
      in tissue and the brachytherapy dose distribution conforms tightly to the location of the
      sources with minimal dose to the surrounding healthy tissues.

      Alpha Tau Medical Ltd. proposes a novel treatment for malignant tumours using intra-tumoural
      alpha radiation, which is delivered using the Alpha DaRT Device (Alpha DaRT applicator +
      Alpha DaRT seeds). The technique, known as Diffusing Alpha-emitters Radiation Therapy (DaRT),
      combines the advantages of conventional interstitial brachytherapy with the destructive power
      of alpha particles.
    
  