
    
      Abnormal facial sensation has a negative impact on patients' oral behaviors and may adversely
      affect a patient's quality of life if the altered sensation persists. Many patients with
      abnormal sensations retain some sensory function and do not develop chronic pain, and for
      those individuals there are currently no evidence-based noninvasive therapies. The goal of
      this project is to evaluate sensory re-training, a rehabilitative therapy that offers
      significant potential for patients who experience impaired sensory function regardless of the
      cause. This behavioral therapy approach has been used with substantial clinical success with
      hand injury patients since the 1970s. Re-training appears to enhance central reorganization
      of impulses from an injured sensory nerve to the cerebral cortex so that the altered sensory
      signals can be interpreted and translated into functionally meaningful motor functions.

      Sensory re-training will be compared to a placebo jaw-opening exercise in a single blind,
      randomized two-arm parallel group stratified block clinical trial, using orthognathic surgery
      patients as subjects. Orthognathic surgery patients offer an uncompromised model for the
      evaluation of new rehabilitative therapies. These healthy individuals, treated to correct
      dentofacial deformity, present for surgery with no neurosensory impairment, but yet routinely
      experience substantial alterations in facial sensation following the surgical procedure. The
      effects of sensory re-training will be evaluated using three types of outcomes:
      patient-centered measures to assess the magnitude of the negative effect of altered sensation
      after surgery and the recovery time needed to reach little or no negative effect;
      neurosensory behavior measures to assess the patient's ability to learn alternate cues for
      touch perception and discrimination; and a conventional neurosensory contact threshold
      measure to assess the actual deficit. Our primary focus will be on the patient's perception
      of the negative impact of altered sensation on daily life.
    
  