
    
      The main specific aim of this study will be to determine the efficiency of odd-chain MCT:
      TRIHEPTANOIN (Tri-C7) and its metabolites, BETA-HYDROXYPENTANOATE (BHP) and
      BETA-KETOPENTANOATE (BKP), as potential treatments by orale or enteral routes. These
      compounds are efficiently used for energy production, despite long-chain FAO enzyme defects.
      They use alternative metabolic pathways and have anaplerotic effects due to propionyl-CoA
      production by the thiolytic cleavage of odd carbon ketone bodies.

      The efficiency of these compounds will be compared with conventional diet (MCT) for each
      patient. Because of frequent phenotypic variations observed for each of these diseases, each
      patient will be his own control.

      The same protocol study will be followed in 2 centers: Dallas, USA (main investigator: Dr CR
      Roe) and Paris, France (main investigator: Dr G TOUATI). It is planned to include 80 patients
      (60 in Dallas, 20 in Paris), during the next 2 years. The patients will be affected with 6
      proven defects that are specific defects of long-chain FAO: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1
      (CPT1), carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase (CAT), carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 (CPT2),
      very-long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD), L-3-hydroxy-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCHAD) or
      trifunctional protein (MTP).

      The used methodology will be a control randomized study to compare the efficiency of 2 diet
      therapies: TRIHEPTANOIN versus conventional MCT. The studied parameters will depend on each
      disease and will depend on the affected organs in each patient. Main studied clinical
      parameters will be: survival rate, number of metabolic acute decompensation, frequency and
      severity of hypoglycemias, frequency and severity of rhabdomyolyses, evolution of cardiac or
      hepatic manifestations, muscular strength, and quality of life. Main studied biological
      parameters will be: TRIHEPTANOIN use during meal tests, modifications of plasma
      acylcarnitines profile, modifications of urinary organic acids, blood measurements of CPK and
      transaminases. Cardiac echographies will be performed for the follow-up of cardiomyopathies,
      ergometric testing and strength tests will be performed for disorders that affect muscular
      function.
    
  