
    
      The primary aim of this is project intends to evaluate the effect of Norwegian psychomotor
      physiotherapy (NPMP) on Health related Quality of Life measured by Short-form Health Survey
      (SF-36). The secondary aims are to evaluate the effect of Norwegian psychomotor physiotherapy
      (NPMP) on the variables Subjective Health Complaints Inventory (SHC); Hopkins 's Symptom
      Check List , Örebro Screening for musculo-skeletal pain ,Numeric Pain Rating Scale , Oslo
      Social Support Scale , Coping and The self-esteem scale"

      The study design is based on the guidelines for randomized controlled trials presented in the
      CONSORT statement. The study will address to people who have had NPMP treatment approach, and
      they will be asked to consider what effect the treatment has given, measured by separate
      registrations of quality of life, pain, physical, mental and social functioning.

      Participants Power calculation based on the primary outcome Short-form Health Survey (SF-36)
      proved that minimum 170 participants must be recruited. The participants will be recruited
      among patients on the waiting list for NPMP by all psychomotor physiotherapists who are
      members of the Norwegian Physiotherapists Association. If patients want to participate in the
      study, they will be randomized to an intervention group and a control group by drawing lots.

      The intervention group will have NPMP as usual in 6 months. The control group remains on the
      waiting list for 6 months. Participants in both groups will be asked to fill out the
      self-assessment questionnaire at the start of the project and at the completion of the
      project after six months. Participants in the intervention group will receive the same form
      after 12 months, to examine whether there have been any subsequent change after completion
      NPMF.

      Timing of surveys:

      Participants will be given questionnaires by the NPMP physiotherapist at

        -  Baseline - 2 weeks before NPMF (both groups)

        -  After 6 months (both groups)

        -  After 12 months (intervention group).
    
  