
    
      PRP is not just an additional tool for physicians to use, but a potential treatment for
      underlying joint pathology. PRP is one of the closest treatments that exists for a definitive
      solution for inflammatory and degenerative joint disease. PRP is currently being used for
      dysfunction of the shoulder joint, knee joint, sacroiliac joint, facet joints, intervertebral
      discs, rotator cuff, hamstrings, and others. It has been extensively researched for
      osteoarthritis, tendon, and ligament injury of the knee, but little research has documented
      the short or long-term effects on the sacroiliac joint. A brief search on PubMed provides
      only two articles, one of which is a case study, and neither were performed in the United
      States. PRP is the future of orthopedics and physical medicine as well as a gateway to curing
      degenerative and inflammatory joint disease.

      Furthermore, the use of ultrasound guided injections has helped increase the success rate
      because it provides a method for visualizing the path of the needle to a precise location. In
      recent studies, authors have indicated the use of a curvilinear transducer to be the most
      successful, as well as injections administered to the lower one third of the sacroiliac
      joint, to be adequately effective in diagnosing and treating sacroiliac joint pain.
      Disadvantages surrounding fluoroscopy include inconvenience, cost, radiation, and exposure to
      contrast media. Arranging the procedure can take extensive time and resources. The procedure
      can be costly for the patient, especially if it does not produce long-term results, and
      radiation exposure can have long-term consequences for the patient's health, rendering it a
      questionable treatment for chronic low back pain. As ultrasound guided and fluoroscopic
      sacroiliac joint injections present themselves as front-runners for diagnosis and treatment
      of sacroiliac joint-induced low back pain, the benefits and downsides to both are heavily
      weighed and compared. The next step moving forward in the treatment of the SI joint is
      administering PRP injections while utilizing ultrasonography for image guidance. The
      investigators believe this combination will provide the most immediate and long term benefit
      to patients as well as fewer risks from medications, corticosteroids, and fewer risks and
      downsides from fluoroscopy, such as radiation and cost.

      Experimental design will be a nonrandomized trial (or quasi-experiment). The specific study
      design to be used is pretest-posttest design. The independent variable will be the PRP
      injection. The dependent variables of interest include the NRS and Oswestry Disability Index
      (ODI) recording pre-injection, immediately post-injection, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 3 months, 6
      months, 9 months, and 1 year post-injection.

      Most studies in the past look at short-term and moderate-term results up to approximately six
      months to one year. Many studies state a limitation to their data is the lack of long-term
      investigation into pain, disability, and function more than 12 months. This is partly due to
      losing patients to follow up. Patients whose pain resolved have no reason to return for
      further evaluation.

      The investigators will take measures to avoid study bias and confounding by ensuring patients
      have been correctly diagnosed with sacroiliitis via special tests and physical examination as
      well as PMT. Additionally, to avoid confounding, the investigators will not administer PRP
      injections to patients who have had a corticosteroid injection in the SI joint within the
      last three months or received significant benefit from a corticosteroid injection. The
      efficacy of corticosteroids in the joint begin to dwindle starting at approximately three
      months.

      This information will be recorded in each patient's chart as well as an Excel file only
      accessible to key personnel working on the study. The following data will be recorded form
      each patient: current pain scale using the NRS and their functionality using the ODI. The
      data collected in regards to each patient's pain and function will be analyzed using summary
      statistics to include mean, median, and mode, basic T-test, and P-value.

      The proposed analytic approach utilizes basic statistical analysis to include a t-test in
      order to calculate p-values. This study will require a p-value of less than .05 to be
      considered statistically significant. Statistical procedures will also include summary
      statistics such as mean, median, mode, standard error of mean, and standard deviation. Sample
      size will be approximately 50 injections per arm. This is the amount the investigators
      calculated that is required to demonstrate statistical significance. Variables that are
      missing will not be used for data collection and will be thrown out.
    
  