
    
      Background General anaesthesia reduces blood pressure, but cerebral autoregulation is
      considered to maintain its blood flow if mean arterial pressure (MAP) is between 60-150 mmHg.
      Thus, vasoactive medication is administered to treat anaesthesia-induced hypotension if MAP
      decreases to below approximately 60 mmHg. In young healthy adults, propofol anaesthesia, with
      limited reduction in blood pressure, decreases cerebral blood flow by approximately 50% by a
      decrease in neuronal activity. However, it is unknown whether the anaesthesia-induced
      reduction in cerebral blood flow is affected by a marked decrease in MAP and whether propofol
      anaesthesia affects the lower level of cerebral autoregulation.

      If central blood volume is maintained, cerebral oxygenation may be unaffected by a decrease
      in MAP to ~40 mmHg whereas a reduction in central blood volume and cardiac output (CO) during
      orthostasis or bleeding, reduces cerebral oxygenation when MAP is lower than approximately 80
      mmHg. Thus, CO may affect cerebral blood flow and the ability to increase CO is likely of
      importance for maintaining a sufficient cerebral blood flow.

      During anaesthesia, cerebral blood flow and MAP may be affected by various factors including
      release of vasoactive substances. Manipulation of the abdominal organs may induce a so-called
      mesenteric traction syndrome (MTS) encompassing a triad of flushing, hypotension, and
      tachycardia in about half of the patients who undergo major abdominal surgery. MTS typically
      develops 15-20 min after the start of surgery and the haemodynamic manifestations, that
      appear to be mediated by prostaglandin I2, last for approximately 30 min. The effect of MTS
      on cerebral blood flow is unknown. Prostaglandin I2 dilates cerebral arteries in vitro but
      does not affect cerebral blood flow when administered to healthy subjects. In a previous
      study we found that MTS increases near-infrared spectroscopy determined frontal lobe
      oxygenation possibly due to an increase in extracranial circulation while there was no effect
      on middle cerebral artery mean flow velocity as an index of changes in cerebral blood flow.

      Propofol anaesthesia appears not to affect the CO2 reactivity of the middle cerebral artery
      as determined by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, but the CO2 reactivity of the internal
      carotid artery during propofol anaesthesia is unknown.

      Objective The purpose of this study is to evaluate how internal carotid artery blood flow is
      affected by propofol anaesthesia and related hypotension, and by administration of
      phenylephrine as standard care to treat anaesthesia-induced hypotension. Further, the study
      will assess whether internal carotid artery blood flow is affected by development of MTS and
      whether propofol anaesthesia affects the CO2 reactivity of the internal carotid artery.

      Hypotheses

        1. Propofol anaesthesia and related anaesthesia-induced hypotension (MAP < 65 mmHg) reduces
           internal carotid artery blood flow

        2. Treatment of anaesthesia-induced hypotension by administration of phenylephrine
           increases internal carotid artery blood flow

        3. Development of MTS increases near-infrared spectroscopy determined frontal lobe
           oxygenation due to an increase in forehead skin blood flow and oxygenation with no
           effect on internal carotid artery blood flow

        4. Propofol anaesthesia lowers the CO2 reactivity of the internal carotid artery

      Methods The study will include thirty patients undergoing oesophageal- or ventricular
      resection. The study lasts from when the patient arrives to the operating room and until two
      hours after the start of surgery. As part of standard care all patients will be instrumented
      with arterial and central venous catheters. Anaesthesia will be induced by propofol and
      maintained by propofol and remifentanil combined with epidural anaesthesia. Development of
      MTS is defined by flushing within the first 60 min of surgery. Measurements include
      unilateral internal carotid artery blood flow evaluated by duplex ultrasound, MAP and heart
      rate as recorded by a transducer connected to the arterial line, central haemodynamics
      (stroke volume, CO, and total peripheral resistance) evaluated by pulse contour analysis of
      the arterial pressure curve, frontal lobe and muscle oxygenation as determined by
      near-infrared spectroscopy, forehead skin blood flow, haemoglobin concentrations, and
      oxygenation assessed by laser Doppler flowmetry, and depth of anaesthesia determined by
      Bispectral Index. At each time point 2 measurements of internal carotid artery blood flow are
      collected and the mean is taken. Arterial blood will be drawn for analysis of the arterial
      CO2 tension (PaCO2).

      During the study PaCO2 will be maintained at the value before induction of anaesthesia by
      ventilator adjustments. Internal carotid artery CO2 reactivity before induction of
      anaesthesia will be determined by evaluations of blood flow and PaCO2 during normoventilation
      and during hyperventilation to reduce PaCO2 by 1.5 kPa as guided by end-tidal CO2 tension
      (PetCO2) and measurements will be conducted when PetCO2 has been stable for 5 min. The CO2
      reactivity during anaesthesia will be determined by evaluations of internal carotid artery
      blood flow and PaCO2 at a PaCO2 at the value before induction of anaesthesia and 1.5 kPa
      above and below that value as guided by PetCO2 and measurements will be conducted when PetCO2
      has been stable for 5 min. The CO2 reactivity before and during anaesthesia is calculated as
      the percentage change in internal carotid artery blood flow per kPa change in PaCO2. Analysis
      of internal carotid blood flow will be after correction for CO2 reactivity.

      Blood samples for analysis of markers of MTS (6-keto-prostaglandin-F1, pro-ANP, ACTH,
      cortisone, IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-α) will be drawn before induction of anaesthesia and 20 and 60
      min after the start of surgery. Total amount of blood samples will be no more than 75 ml.
      Patients will be excluded if the planned surgery is cancelled and excluded patients will be
      replaced.

      Measurements will be conducted and arterial blood drawn at the following time points:

        -  Before induction of anaesthesia during normoventilation and hyperventilation

        -  After induction of anaesthesia

        -  During anaesthesia-induced hypotension (MAP < 65 mmHg)

        -  After treatment of anaesthesia-induced hypotension by administration of phenylephrine

        -  5 min before and after incision and 0, 20, 40 and 70 min after development of MTS and
           20, 40, 60 and 90 min after the start of surgery in patients who did not develop MTS

        -  During normo-, hyper-, and hypocapnia during anaesthesia in random order

      Statistics Trial size: The minimal clinically important difference in internal carotid artery
      blood flow by treatment of anaesthesia-induced hypotension is considered to be 10%,
      corresponding to approximately 24 ml/min, and twenty-seven patients were considered required
      assuming a 42 ml/min SD with a 5% significance level and a power of 80%.
    
  