
    
      The health of teeth, their supporting tissues and maintaining their integrity is the primary
      goal of pulp therapy. Conservative pulp therapy for primary teeth aims to maintain pulp
      vitality, reduce the need for a pulpectomy, and promote the integrity and retention of such
      teeth until appropriate exfoliation.(51) A pulpotomy is usually performed for carious
      exposures of primary teeth with normal pulp or reversible coronal pulpitis, or primary teeth
      pulpally exposed by trauma (AAPD 2009). A pulpotomy requires healthy radicular pulp capable
      of healing after amputation of inflamed or infected coronal pulp [Fuks and Eidelman, 1991].
      After the coronal pulp is amputated, the remaining vital radicular pulp tissue surface is
      treated with a long-term clinically successful medicament such as Buckley's Solution of
      formocresol. (46-52) Electrosurgery has also demonstrated success. (53) The coronal pulp
      chamber is filled with zinc/oxide, eugenol, or other suitable base, and the tooth is restored
      with a restoration that seals the tooth from microleakage. The most effective long-term
      restoration has been shown to be a stainless steel crown.

      When the coronal tissue is amputated, the remaining radicular tissue is judged to be vital
      without suppuration, purulence, necrosis, or excessive hemorrhage that cannot be controlled
      with a damp cotton pellet after several minutes. In addition to this, if there are no
      radiographic signs of infection or pathologic resorption then a pulpotomy procedure is
      indicated. (Camp JH, Fuks AB) Despite concerns of toxicity, mutagenicity and carcinogenicity
      [Swenberg et al., 1980; Goldmacher and Thilly, 1983; Ranly and Horn, 1987], formocresol (FC)
      remains a commonly used primary tooth pulpotomy medicament [Hingston et al., 2007]. Various
      clinical and radiographic success rates (59-100%) have been reported [Mejare, 1979; Naik and
      Hegde, 2005], attributed to intra-patient variations, clinician and assessor factors, FC
      concentrations and application times, coronal seal, and study durations.

      As technology continues to improve, it allows dentists to treat patients with greater
      precision, meaning less pain and quicker healing. The diode laser is used in many different
      dental procedures. It is most commonly used to perform soft-tissue surgery in the mouth. The
      diode laser's high-energy beam kills bacteria, thus it is often used to sterilize areas of
      the mouth before or during root canal procedures. (Laser-dentistry/diode-laser) The diode
      laser represents a whole new way of thinking about dental care. Laser treatment is less
      painful, more convenient, and more effective than many traditional dental treatments. A study
      by Bahrololoomi Z, Moeintaghavi A, comparing FC and electrosurgery pulpotomy after nine
      months of follow up found that clinical and radiographical success rates were 96% and 84%
      respectively in the electrosurgical group and 100% and 96.8% respectively in the formocresol
      group. There was no statistical significance and the results showed that the failure rates
      for electrosurgery pulpotomy were equal to those of formocresol pulpotomy.

      Purpose:

      Dental care has recently been identified as the most prevalent unmet health need amongst US
      children (AAPD 2009). This research study investigates another treatment method to help
      provide dental care to these children by evaluating the success rate of a laser (electrical)
      pulpotomy compared to formocresol pulpotomy in primary molars with carious pulp exposure.
      There is a need to study and assess the laser pulpotomy method in order to help create a more
      efficient and painless treatment.

      Study Design and Procedures:

      We will perform a prospective study and clinical evaluation of patients ranging from ages 3-8
      years old treated under general anesthesia from June, 2010 to June, 2014. The review and
      analysis will be completed over a four year time period. The patients participating in this
      study will include those presenting themselves as patients to the Tapper Pediatric Dentistry
      clinic at Rainbow Babies Children's Hospital. These patients will only be scheduled to be
      treated in the operating room when it is indicated as the best treatment option. Treatment
      under General Anesthesia is indicated when: 1. Patient is uncooperative due to a lack of
      psychological or emotional maturity and/or mental, physical, or medical disability. 2.
      Patients for whom local anesthesia is ineffective because of acute infection, anatomic
      variations, or allergy. 3. Extremely uncooperative, fearful, anxious, or uncommunicative
      child or adolescent. 4. Patients requiring significant surgical procedures. 5. Patients for
      whom the use of GA may protect the developing psyche and/or reduce medical risk. 6. Patients
      requiring immediate, comprehensive oral/dental care (AAPD 2009). The patients will then be
      consented and informed on the same day of the OR appointment. They will be given specific
      post-op instructions both verbally and in written form. They will be scheduled for a two-week
      follow-up appointment in the clinic following dental treatment. Informed consent must be
      obtained by the parent/guardian of the patients that will participate in the study and
      receive pulpotomy treatment with the laser technique. Other patients, regardless of the
      study, will have pulpotomy treatment using the traditional formocresol technique.

      All patients will receive general endotracheal anesthesia while receiving comprehensive
      dental treatment. General anesthesia will be provided using a combination of inhaled
      anesthetics and propofol intravenously. General anesthesia will be supplemented with
      intravenous opioid analgesics, ketorolac unless contraindicated, and anti-mimetics. The
      anesthetic approach will not be influenced by participation or non-participation of patients
      in the study.

      The patient's name, date of birth, and medical history will be obtained from each patient
      chart. This PHI will be utilized to keep track of patient demographics for the study.
      Patients scheduled for the operating room will be seen for a post-op two week follow up
      appointment and regular dental visits regardless of whether or not they are participating in
      the study.

      Of the eligible subjects a randomized clinical trial will be performed on 90 primary molars
      in children aged 3-8 years. Two preoperative bite wing radiographs will be taken. The teeth
      will be treated for pulp therapy using either a conventional formocresol (30 controls and 30
      study teeth) or GENTLEray 980 Soft Tissue diode laser (30 study teeth) technique. 30
      Controls: The procedure for these 30 subjects is conducted using a #8 round diamond bur to
      remove occlusal tooth structure for pulp chamber access and removal of coronal pulp. Cotton
      pellets are saturated with conventional 1:5 dilution of Buckley's formocresol into the canal
      orifice for 5 minutes for complete hemostasis. After this, a Chlorhexidine Gluconate 0.12%
      rinse will be applied to decrease the bacterial level. Then, placement of 35% Phosphoric Acid
      Etch for 15-30 seconds is rinsed off and dried until the tooth has a white, chalky
      appearance. One layer of Optibond Solo is placed into the pulp chamber and light cured for 10
      seconds with a 3M ESPE Elipar S10 light curing device. IRM (Zinc Oxide Eugenol) cement will
      then be placed to seal the pulp chamber. A stainless steel crown will be cemented with Ketac
      Cement that was triturated for 10 seconds to complete the pulpotomy procedure and final
      restoration. 30 Conventional Formocresol: The procedure for these 30 subjects is conducted
      using a #8 round diamond bur to remove occlusal tooth structure for pulp chamber access and
      removal of coronal pulp. Cotton pellets are saturated with conventional 1:5 dilution of
      Buckley's formocresol into the canal orifice for 5 minutes for complete hemostasis. After
      this, a Chlorhexidine Gluconate 0.12% rinse will be applied to decrease the bacterial level.
      Then, placement of 35% Phosphoric Acid Etch for 15-30 seconds is rinsed off and dried until
      the tooth has a white, chalky appearance. One layer of Optibond Solo is placed into the pulp
      chamber and light cured for 10 seconds with a 3M ESPE Elipar S10 light curing device. Dyract
      compomer will then be placed to seal the pulp chamber. A stainless steel crown is cemented
      with Ketac Cement that was triturated for 10 seconds to complete the pulpotomy procedure and
      final restoration. 30 Laser Diode: The procedure for these 30 subjects is conducted using a
      #8 round diamond bur to remove occlusal tooth structure for pulp chamber access and removal
      of coronal pulp. Then a GENTLEray 980 Soft Tissue diode laser (Power: 3.0W, Mode: PW, Fiber:
      300µm, Ton: 100ms, Toff: 100ms, Timer: cont) will be used to vaporize the residual pulp
      tissue and complete hemostasis. After completion of hemostasis, a Chlorhexidine Gluconate
      0.12% rinse will be applied to decrease the bacterial presence. Subjects will then receive
      placement of 35% Phosphoric Acid Etch for 15-30 seconds followed by 10 second light cured
      optibond solo. IRM (Zinc Oxide Eugenol) cement is then placed to seal the pulp chamber. A
      stainless steel crown cemented with Ketac Cement for the full coverage final restoration
      completes the pulpotomy procedure.

      Following the pulpotomy procedures, the teeth will be evaluated for clinical and radiographic
      success at 6 months post-op and 12 months post-op appointments at the Tapper Pediatric Dental
      Clinic at Rainbow Babies Children's Hospital. The study teeth treated will be evaluated
      clinically based on the presence of the following: (1) pain (2) abscess (3) mobility.
      Radiographic success will be determined by evaluating a bite wing x-ray taken at the two
      post-op appointments for the presence of the following: (1) internal resorption (2) external
      resorption and (3) furcation radiolucency.

      Risks:

      The only physical risk in laser therapy is the risk of eye damage. While eye damage has not
      been reported to date, we must still consider it as a possible risk. Because these study
      subjects will be under General Anesthesia their eyes will already be closed and covered.
      Suitable protective goggles should be worn by the investigator and assistants. Other possible
      risks associated with this study include risks from anesthesia- (Nausea, vomiting, epistaxis,
      fever, discomfort/pain). There are minimal to no risks involved in this research study.

      Benefits:

      Pulpotomy treatment maintains the vitality of the tooth as well as the supporting tissues.
      The longevity and prognosis of having a laser pulpotomy versus a formocresol pulpotomy
      treatment has been considered to be just as beneficial. Through this research study, we can
      further prove this new finding. Maintaining your primary dentition is extremely important and
      this study will provide insight on how advances in dental technology can help better treat
      carious teeth in more efficient and painless ways.

      Alternatives:

      Due to the nature of this research the only alternative is to not participate in this study.
    
  