
    
      Despite its FDA approval there is very limited data on its clinical effectiveness in PM and
      DM. There was a recent study published in the peer-review journal Drug Design, Development
      and Therapy on a retrospective case series evaluating Acthar in the treatment of PM and DM.
      Acthar was administered to five patients who had previously failed multiple steroid and
      immunosuppressant treatment regimens. The patients received injections of Acthar over the
      course of 12 weeks or more. Improvement in PM and DM symptoms related to disease
      exacerbations was seen in all five patients. Symptom improvements included increased muscle
      strength, resolution of disease-related skin manifestations and improvements in the ability
      to perform tasks associated with daily living. All of these patients tolerated the treatment
      well with no significant side effects reported. The paper, "Treating refractory
      dermatomyositis or polymyositis with adrenocorticotropic hormone gel: a retrospective case
      series," was authored by Dr. Todd Levine, M.D., Co-Director of the Neurophysiology Department
      at Banner Good Samaritan Medical Center, Assistant Professor at the University of Arizona in
      Neurology, and Member of Phoenix Neurological Associates.

      H.P. Acthar® Gel, or Acthar, is a prescription medication containing the hormone
      adrenocorticotropin (hormone produced and secreted by the anterior pituitary gland), also
      known as ACTH. H.P. Acthar Gel is a highly purified preparation of adrenocorticotropic
      hormone (ACTH) in a gel that is designed to provide extended release of the ACTH following
      injection. Acthar was originally approved by the FDA in 1952. It is approved for use in 19
      different conditions including dermatomyositis and polymyositis.

      Acthar is designed to provide a prolonged release of the medication after it is injected.
      Acthar is not a steroid; it works by helping your body produce its own natural steroid
      hormones, such as cortisol, corticosterone, and aldosterone. Acthar is an injection that is
      given intramuscularly (into the muscle). Subjects enrolled in the study will be asked to self
      administer Acthar two times per week. Subjects will be provided training by the principal
      investigator on how to perform the self injections.
    
  