
    
      Adequate management of post-surgical pain (PSP) may contribute to improved clinical and
      socioeconomic outcomes. Facilitating an adequate level of PSP relief is a challenging
      problem: the analgesics that are most frequently used, for example, opioids and non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), often come with side effects and do not always provide
      sufficient pain relief. Therefore, pain management is increasingly focusing on (additional)
      non-pharmacological analgesics, including Virtual Reality (VR).

      VR immerses the user in a virtual world through a head mounted device (HMD). VR is, among
      other things, taught to be effective through distraction: it diverts attention away from the
      nociceptive input, resulting in less available attention for pain perception. In both
      clinical and experimental studies, VR has shown to be effective in reducing pain, anxiety and
      stress.

      Although this distraction method is increasingly studied in the past years, VR pain relief
      has mostly been investigated as an intervention during painful procedures in specific
      research populations. For example, VR has been studied during wound dressing changes in burn
      wound patients in children and adolescents, during venipuncture in children or during dental
      treatments. Furthermore, most VR studies used VR as a single intervention, measuring pre-post
      differences in pain scores or used a cross over design with one VR session and one control
      session. It is interesting to know whether VR is effective in reducing postoperative pain
      during more than one VR session. More research is needed in larger trials evaluating a broad
      sample of the general population including elderly, as the common hospitalized patient is of
      an older age nowadays. Finally, it is important to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability
      of VR in postoperative patients and to know whether there are predictive factors to select
      patients who can mostly benefit from VR interventions.
    
  