
    
      It has been suggested that chemotherapy administration may be synergistic with the effects of
      an antiangiogenic agent such as Avastin. A "Proof of Principal" of the concept of the
      synergistic effects of chemotherapy and antiangiogenic therapy has been shown in the
      favorable results reported with temozolomide administered in combination with thalidomide in
      melanoma, the favorable results reported for the use of FOLFOX4 in combination with Avastin
      in previously treated patients with advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer, and the
      approval of the combination of Avastin with 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy in the
      treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum.

      A number of lines of evidence suggest that the combination of Abraxane and Avastin may be
      effective as first-line therapy for melanoma:

        -  Taxanes are active agents in melanoma:

             1. In a clinical trial in patients who had failed combination chemotherapy (the
                Dartmouth regimen, there was a 24% response rate in patients treated with
                paclitaxel (in combination with tamoxifen).

             2. Paclitaxel is being used in a Phase III trial with carboplatin and Sorafenib in
                patients with metastatic melanoma who have failed no more than one previous
                systemic chemotherapeutic treatment.

             3. In a phase II trial of docetaxel in patients with metastatic melanoma, objective
                responses lasting more than 2 years were observed.

        -  Abraxane is a taxane that has efficacy superior to that of Taxol for the treatment of
           metastatic breast cancer. Abraxane was evaluated as first- and second-line therapy for
           patients with metastatic melanoma. Results were encouraging. In this study, Abraxane
           will be combined with Avastin in an effort to improve the clinical benefit and prolong
           the time to disease progression.

      The primary end-point of the study is progression-free survival (PFS) at 4 months. Secondary
      end-points include progression-free survival, overall survival (OS), objective Response Rate
      (RR) in patients with measurable lesions, time to objective response, duration of objective
      response in patients with measurable lesions, and safety and tolerability of this
      combination.
    
  