
    
      Background:

      Helicobacter pylori (HP) play an important role in the pathogenesis of chronic gastritis,
      peptic ulcer diseases as well as gastric cancer. Helicobacter pylori eradication is a
      critical strategy to reduce aforementioned conditions. Proton-pump inhibitor (PPI)-based
      triple therapy (Standard dose PPIs+ Clarithromycin 1g/D + Amoxycillin 2g/D or Metronidazole
      800 mg/D) is recommended as a frontline treatment in current guidelines for HP eradication,
      both from Thai and Second Asia-Pacific Consensus Guideline for H.pylori 2009. Unfortunately,
      it has been reported an unacceptably low eradication rate (<85%) of this regimen in a
      tertiary care hospital in Thailand. This occurrence is not surprised as the worldwide
      efficacy of this regimen had decreased to 50-75%. Of this, Clarithromycin resistance has been
      a major cause of the treatment failure.

      Sequential therapy (ST) which consists of standard dose PPIs + amoxycillin 2 g/D for 5 days
      with 5 additional days of clarithromycin 1g/D + metronidazole 800 mg/D has been proposed to
      increase an efficacy in HP eradication. A recent meta-analysis of over three thousand
      population revealed a higher eradication rate over PPI-based triple therapy (TT). A
      consistent finding from Thailand was reported an impressive success rate of ST in HP
      eradication up to 95%. Therefore, more updated guidelines recommend using ST, not TT, as the
      first line regimen. However, ST is a complicated regimen for the patients to be followed.
      This might cause a low adherence rate in clinical practice as well as development of drug
      resistance in near future.

      Interestingly, PPI is a pivotal in all regimens in HP eradication. There is evidence that the
      sustained higher intragastric pH is a major therapeutic determinant of HP eradication. Other
      factors including inflammatory cytokine polymorphisms, especially the IL-1B-511 T/T genotype
      and PPIs metabolizer, are the determinants of eradication by affecting gastric acid secretion
      and mucosal inflammation. Hence, higher dosage of PPIs is justified to eradicate HP. This has
      been shown in a recent meta-analysis that high dose PPI is better than standard dose PPI
      triple therapy in HP eradication of HP. Our study aims to compare the efficacy of ST to high
      dose PPI TT. Secondary outcomes include comparisons in the adherence and adverse events
      between both regimens, to determine the prevalence of clarithromycin resistance HP and
      determine improvement of dyspeptic symptoms after HP eradication

      Primary Aim/Objective:

      To evaluate eradication rates of Helicobacter pylori infection in functional dyspepsia
      patients amongst Thai population, compare between a 10-day sequential regimen (lansoprazole
      30 mg b.d. plus amoxicillin 1000 mg b.d. for 5 days then lansoprazole 30 mg b.d.,
      metronidazole 400 mg b.d. and clarithromycin 500 mg b.d. for the remaining 5 days) with a
      10-day high dose PPI-based triple regimen (lansoprazole 60 mg b.d. plus clarithromycin 500 mg
      b.d. and amoxycillin 1000 mg b.d. for 10 days)
    
  