
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer in the world and the second leading
      cause of cancer death in the United States and the European Union. In the last decade,
      substantial advances in the treatment of the metastatic disease (mCRC) have more than doubled
      overall survival (OS) from 12 months to 30 months due to the refinement of
      fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy and the introduction of antiangiogenics and targeted
      therapies.

      Pharmacologic blockade of the epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) with specific
      monoclonal antibodies, namely, cetuximab and panitumumab, represents the mainstay of tumour
      targeted therapy for mCRC in patients with tumors not harboring extended RAS pathway
      mutations (KRAS, NRAS, or BRAF). Such alterations, which constitutively activate typical EGFR
      downstream transducers, have been shown to trigger substitute survival pathways that bypass
      therapeutic blockade of EGFR signalling, thus abating the efficacy of anti-EGFR antibodies
      ("primary resistance"). Unfortunately even when response to anti-EGFR therapy occurs in the
      context of appropriate molecular selection, acquired ("secondary") resistance inevitably
      arises in all cases. Investigators has extensively studied this phenomenon and has shown that
      extended-RAS alterations are the principal culprit of anti EGFR acquired resistance, and that
      altered RAS clones decay upon anti-EGFR treatment withdrawal, while tumor cells regain
      sensitivity to anti EGFR treatment. Investigators also documented that ctDNA profiles of
      individuals who benefit from multiple challenges with anti-EGFR antibodies, exhibit pulsatile
      levels of mutant KRAS. Collectively, these results indicate that the CRC genome adapts
      dynamically to intermittent anti-EGFR drug schedules, and provide a molecular explanation for
      the efficacy of re-challenge therapies based on EGFR blockade. These results also give
      experimental support to the empirical-based clinical benefit observed, following cetuximab or
      panitumumab rechallenge in two small series of originally KRAS exon 2 wild type mCRC
      patients.

      Study purpose is to assess the efficacy and safety of re-challenging with panitumumab
      RAS-extend wild type mCRC patients with ctDNA-confirmed secondary resistance to anti EGFR
      treatment, after progression on second line chemotherapy. As proof-of-concept, patients will
      be blood monitored throughout their therapeutic itinerary for the presence of extended-RAS
      alterations by ctDNA determination (liquid biopsy).
    
  