
    
      It is a investigator-initiated, compassionate use, prospective, phase 2b, non randomized,
      open-label, proof of concept study in which the investigators will evaluate the effects of
      compassionate-use treatment with IV tirofiban, associated with acetylsalicylic acid PO,
      clopidogrel PO and fondaparinux 2.5 mg s/c, in patients affected by severe respiratory
      failure in Covid-19 associated pneumonia who underwent treatment with continuous positive
      airway pressure (CPAP).

      Patients will be treated with:

        1. 25 microgram per kilogram of body weight tirofiban as bolus IV injection (3 minutes)
           followed by continuous infusion at a rate of 0,15 microgram/kg/minute for 48 hours.

        2. acetylsalicylic acid 250 mg IV before starting tirofiban, and this will be continued at
           a dose of 75mg daily for 30 days.

        3. a loading dose of clopidogrel 300 mg PO, followed by 75mg daily for 30 days

        4. concurrent fondaparinux 2.5 mg s/c per day for the duration of the in hospital stay.

      1) Demographics, body mass index, comorbidities, SOFA score, APACHE II score, Glasgow Coma
      Scale will be assessed the day the patient is admitted to the IRCU.

      2) Blood gas analysis parameters (PaO2, PaCO2, HCO3-, lactates, SaO2, pH), Alveolar-arterial
      gradient, P/F ratio, respiratory rate, arterial blood pressure, heart rate and Chest X ray or
      Chest CT scan will be collected at admittance following the standard operating procedures of
      the IRCU for COVID-19 patients. The same measurement as detailed in 2) will be repeated 1
      hour before and 1, 24, 48 and 168 hours after the loading bolus of tirofiban.

      Moreover, at admittance, participating patients will undergo a complete blood count, serum
      dosage of: creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), procalcitonin, c-reactive protein,
      Prothrombin Time (PT), Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT), D-Dimer, fibrinogen, bilirubin,
      lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate transaminase (AST). The same assessment will be
      repeated the same morning and 24, 48 and 168 hours after the loading dose of tirofiban.

      During hospital stay patients will receive continuous vital sign monitoring including:
      electrocardiogram tracing, blood arterial pressure, peripheral oxygen saturation and heart
      rate. Neurological status, signs of active bleeding or the occurrence of adverse effects will
      be monitored during the whole hospital stay.
    
  