
    
      ABI-011 is a novel, albumin-bound formulation of a potent thiocolchicine analog, IDN 5404,
      with a mean particle size of approximately 100 nanometers (nm). The active drug, IDN 5404, is
      related to the colchicine family of tubulin-binding compounds that have been found to have
      vascular-disrupting activity in vivo. Studies are ongoing to determine whether IDN 5404 has
      vascular-disrupting activity. As a dimer, IDN 5404 has an additional activity as an inhibitor
      of topoisomerase I, a critical enzyme in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair mechanisms.
      Although the active compound has limited solubility, IDN 5404 formulated as ABI-011 is
      soluble in saline, facilitating IV dosing and delivery of the active agent to tumors and the
      tumor vasculature.

      The primary objective of study CA601.2 is to determine the MTD or RP2D of ABI-011 when
      administered by IV infusion on Days 1, 8, and 15, followed by a week of rest, in patients
      with advanced solid tumor malignancies or lymphomas. The MTD will be determined using a
      standard 3+3 design. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the safety and toxicity
      profile, to evaluate the plasma PK (elimination rate constant, elimination half-life, volume
      of distribution, maximum serum concentration (Cmax), time to maximum concentration (tmax),
      and area under the time-concentration curve to time infinity (AUCinf), to assess the
      biological activity and pharmacodynamics, and to make a preliminary assessment of tumor
      response in patients with advanced solid tumors or lymphomas. The exploratory objectives are
      to determine the genomic and proteomic profile of patients' tumors to identify gene
      mutations, gene amplifications, levels of protein expression, and pinpoint oncoproteins.
      Correlations between genomic/proteomic profiles and efficacy outcomes will be assessed and
      principal metabolites of ABI-011 will be determined, if possible.

      Approximately 45-60 patients will be treated to determine DLTs, the MTD, and/or RP2D of
      ABI-011. Once the RP2D is identified, expansion of this cohort (up to 10 patients) will
      occur.

      Patients with cytologically or histologically confirmed solid tumor malignancies or lymphoma
      for which no curative standard approved therapy is available with an Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status ≤ 2 will be included. In the dose-escalation phase
      of the study, patients can have measurable or non-measurable disease as defined by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Version 1.1, criteria. In the dose-expansion
      phase of the study, only patients with measurable disease will be enrolled. No anti-cancer
      therapies (inclusive of investigational therapies) are allowed 5 half-lives/4 weeks
      (whichever is longer) prior to study drug administration (6 weeks for nitrosoureas or
      mitomycin C).

      ABI-011 will be administered via IV infusion for 30 minutes weekly on Days 1, 8, and 15 of a
      28-Day cycle. The starting dose will be 2 mg/m2. Patients will be allowed to continue
      treatment until they experience progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity, withdraw
      consent, or their physician feels it is no longer in their best interest to continue on
      treatment.
    
  