
    
      Specific Aim 1: We hypothesize that a proliferative marker Ki-67 is reduced in patients with
      preinvasive Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS) and very early breast cancer treated with
      anastrozole. To establish reduction in Ki-67 as a primary surrogate endpoint to breast cancer
      risk reduction in patients treated with anastrozole we will measure Ki-67 before and after
      treatment with anastrozole. Consistent with this, it has been demonstrated by Geisler et al
      that patients with advanced breast cancer show a decrease in Ki-67 on lumpectomy/mastectomy
      samples when anastrozole is administered for few weeks prior to definitive surgery. In
      addition, there is a trend for a more profound suppression in those achieving an objective
      response. Ki-67 will be measured by routine immunohistochemistry.

      Specific Aim 2: We hypothesize that histopathological tumor response will be demonstrated in
      30-40 percent of patients with preinvasive (DCIS) and early invasive (less than 2 cm) breast
      cancer treated with anastrozole. The percent ability to reverse early breast cancer lesions
      in patients treated with anastrozole will be qualified as a secondary surrogate endpoint to
      breast cancer risk reduction. Consistent with this, it has been demonstrated that 30-40
      percent of patients with advanced breast cancer show an infiltration of foamy macrophages and
      fibrosis on lumpectomy/mastectomy samples when chemotherapy is administered for few months
      prior to definitive surgery. Further, there is a trend for a more profound change in those
      achieving a complete clinical response. Importantly, a complete pathological response in
      these advanced breast cancer has been shown to correlate with improved disease free survival
      and overall survival in breast cancer patients. A corollary is that if reversibility of early
      carcinogenic lesions is reliably demonstrated in our present proposal, it would translate
      into chemoprevention of breast cancer.

      Specific Aim 3: To compare the pretreatment MRI with post treatment MRI (as a secondary
      surrogate endpoint to breast cancer risk reduction). We hypothesize that tumor response can
      be measured by contrast washout characteristic in patients with preinvasive and very early
      breast cancer treated with aromatase inhibitor. Consistent with this, we have previously
      demonstrated that patients with advanced breast cancer show a reduction in vascularity in
      response to chemotherapy. Further, there is a trend for a more profound suppression in those
      achieving a pathological response on lumpectomy/mastectomy specimen.

      Specific Aim 4: To compare the pretreatment markers of angiogenesis with post treatment
      markers of angiogenesis (as a secondary surrogate endpoint to breast cancer risk reduction).
      We hypothesize that tumor response can be measured by reduction in CD31 (microvessel count),
      CD105 (endoglin) and VEGF in response to hormonal therapy. There may be upregulation of
      TSP-1, an angiogenesis inhibitor in response to anastrozole. Angiogenic activity has been
      reported for ligands of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily such as estrogens.
      Inhibition of the proangiogenic effects of estrogens could underlie the chemopreventive
      action of hormone modulators on mammary carcinogenesis. A group of investigators have indeed
      coined the word angioprevention as a mechanism of chemoprevention that reverses the
      angiogenic switch from preinvasive to invasive cancer. Additionally, it has been demonstrated
      that patients with various cancers whose tumor vascularity is targeted with VEGF inhibitor
      show higher response than patients who are treated with chemotherapy alone. Our present
      proposal capitalizes on the data obtained in advanced breast cancer as to the efficacy of
      antiangiogenesis mechanism as an option in treatment and prevention .
    
  