
    
      With a long-range goal of reducing crashes and related injuries among teen drivers, this
      project will assess the influence of a parent-focused intervention on teens' driving and
      safety behaviors. This randomized controlled trial will evaluate an intervention that
      integrates an in-vehicle video feedback system with parent-based communication techniques to
      improve teen driving. This will be the first rigorous evaluation of this technology, as well
      as the first to integrate a parent component. The in-vehicle video system records a video
      clip whenever an abrupt change in speed or steering direction is detected. These
      event-triggered video clips will be coded to identify safety-relevant events like driving
      errors and safety behaviors. A randomized group of parents will receive a weekly "driving
      report card" that summarizes driving errors, safety behaviors, and crashes or near-crashes
      recorded by the in-vehicle system. A second group of randomized parents will receive the
      report card plus training in communication strategies specifically designed to improve
      parent-teen communication about safe driving (based on Motivational Interviewing). Driving
      errors and safety behaviors will be compared to a control group that receives no feedback
      from the in-vehicle video system.

      The specific aims of this proposed project are:

      Specific Aim 1: Identify if giving parents feedback about their teen's driving performance
      and skills to better communicate with their teen driver increases the quality and quantity of
      parental involvement in teen driving.

      Hypothesis: The intervention groups will report more frequent and higher-quality
      communication about safe driving than the control group.

      Specific Aim 2: Identify if giving parents feedback about their teen's driving performance
      and skills to better communicate with their teen driver decreases the frequency of driving
      errors, unsafe driving behaviors, crashes, and near crashes.

      Hypothesis: The intervention groups will have significantly reduced risky driving events
      (driving errors, crashes, and near crashes) and significantly increased safety behaviors
      (such as safety belt use and driving without distractions) than the control group.
    
  