
    
      30 healthy participants of both genders, with 18 to 35 years-of-age, with the necessity of
      inferior bilateral third molar removal will be selected. Inclusion criteria will consider the
      presence of upper central incisive and same surgical difficulty for third molar extraction.
      Participants that present chronic TMJ pain, neurological or psychiatric disorders,
      pericoronitis, anti-inflammatory or analgesic use for the last 15 days, bisphosphonates usage
      history at any time, tabagism, pregnancy or a family history of photosensitivity and
      hypersensibility to analgesics, anti-inflammatory or antibiotics will not be included. The
      surgical procedures will be randomized for the group to be assigned respecting the interval
      of one month between the surgeries.

      Intra-oral group (IO) will be that in whose participant will receive the LLLT (Photon Lase
      III DMC equipment) with 660 nm wavelength, 100 mW of power, 107J / cm2 of power density,
      during 30 seconds, positioning the tip of the laser device in straight contact with each of
      the four points in the surgical area:

        1. corresponding to the occlusal surface of the tooth surgically extracted,

        2. in the middle third of the lingual surface, point

        3. the middle third of the buccal surface and point

        4. retro molar triangle region. Each point will receive energy 3J (Et= 12J).

      The extra-oral group (EO) will receive phototherapy with the 808nm of wavelength following
      the same above protocol although positioning the laser point over the skin in straight
      contact with four points on the masseter muscle:

        1. next jaw insert,

        2. lower middle region,

        3. upper middle region

        4. near the insertion of the zygomatic arch.

      In the IO group the extra-oral region will not be irradiated (the laser tip will be put in
      place without energy) in the EO group it will be done the opposite, so as the same patient
      will be the control because the participant will not be capable to identify which group he
      belongs to. The same investigator will perform surgical procedures and laser therapy. All
      participants will receive the same postoperative medication. Three distances will evaluate
      the range of edema: from tragus to the corner of the mouth, from gonial angle to the corner
      of the mouth and from gonial angle to the corner of the eye using a malleable millimeter
      rule. Trismus will be evaluated by the maximum range of mouth opening considering the
      inter-incisal distance between the edges of upper and lower right central incisors by a
      caliper in three moments: before surgery, 24 hours and 8 days after surgery. Participants
      will be asked to fill in a diary to assess the severity of postoperative pain on a visual
      analogue pain scale after the end of anesthetic effect: 4, 6, 8, 24, 48 hours
      postoperatively. The amount and time of medication will be also recorded. The quality of
      wound repair will be evaluated by two blinded calibrated observers, 24 hours and 8 days
      postoperatively in score from 0 to 3. The data will be submitted to appropriate statistical
      analysis for non-parametric samples.
    
  