
    
      This is an observational study comparing two methods - concept mapping and one-on-one
      interviews. The investigators will test the methods themselves by comparing the
      comprehensiveness of the lists of patient-important outcomes obtained through each method
      (primary outcome) as well as the efficiency, as measured by resource intensiveness, of the
      methods (secondary outcome). The aims of this study will be tested with adult patients with
      moderately to poorly controlled diabetes mellitus who receive care at a large, urban,
      academic health system. In order to allow comparisons of the comprehensiveness of the methods
      in producing patient-important outcomes regardless of the healthcare setting in which
      outcomes are elicited, the investigators will recruit patients for the interview group from 3
      different care settings: an acute care visit (in the emergency department), a post-acute care
      visit (within 1 week of a hospital discharge), and a routine primary care visit. Target
      sample size within each healthcare setting is 30 patients, which is the anticipated number
      needed for thematic saturation. The investigators will then recruit patient-participants from
      existing clinical and research databases for 3 separate concept mapping groups, each with a
      target of 20 patients. In Aim 2, the investigators will test the hypothesis that concept
      mapping in a research setting produces outcomes consistent with those elicited from patients
      in the "real-world" settings. In Aim 3, the investigators will assess the overall resource
      utilization, assessed primarily by time required from patients, the research team, and the
      advisory board, of qualitative interviews conducted to thematic saturation within a single
      healthcare setting compared to resources used for a single iteration of concept mapping.

      Findings from this work will improve patient-centered outcomes research methods by providing
      researchers with information about standardized scalable methods to identify
      patient-important outcomes for use in research studies, so that individual patients are able
      to select outcomes that are most useful to them. In addition to providing insight regarding
      methods for eliciting patient-centered outcomes, the study will also provide valuable
      information to stakeholders regarding how patients' priorities vary across the care
      continuum. The investigators will report how findings from concept mapping apply across
      healthcare settings, and the degree to which patient priorities (based on interviews) differ
      across healthcare settings. If concept mapping results (collected in the research setting)
      capture the priorities identified by patients across different healthcare settings, this
      finding would enhance researchers' ability to perform studies in different, or multiple,
      settings. If the findings do not generalize across settings, this will be a valuable finding
      demonstrating that patient priorities differ across interview settings and patient acuity and
      will validate researchers' needs to be specific about the setting in which they choose to
      perform research to ensure they are reaching their intended patient population.

      The work is being performed in close collaboration with the Patient and Key Stakeholder
      Advisory Board (PAKSAB) - equal partners with the research team who have been involved with
      the proposal from inception. PAKSAB members will be part of the research team throughout
      conducting the aims and assisting with all analysis and data interpretation.
    
  