
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most common cause of cancer-related death in male and
      the third in females in Western Countries accounting for more than 500,000 deaths in 2013
      worldwide.

      One of the most worrying postoperative complication in colorectal surgery is the anastomotic
      leak which can occur in about 10-15% of the cases.

      This complication severely impact clinical outcomes with increased risk of death or permanent
      stoma, higher risk of local recurrence) and relevant increase in hospital costs (length of
      hospital stay, admission to intensive care, re-interventions).

      The problem of anastomotic leak is particularly relevant in rectal surgery. The more distal
      the anastomosis, the higher the likelihood of failure, with resection of a distal rectal
      cancer having almost a five-fold increased risk of anastomotic leak compared with resection
      for colon cancer.

      In fact, anastomotic Leakage (AL) is the most severe complication after Low anterior
      resection of rectum for cancer, occurring between 3 and 24 % of patients.

      Many risk factors have been recognized in the onset of this complication, including gender
      (male patient have a higher anastomotic leak rate), malnutrition, obesity an diabet, american
      society anesthesiologists (ASA) score, tobacco use, cardiovascular disease,
      immunosuppression, use of NSAID, preoperative pelvis radiation.

      Other intraoperative risk factors considered are the splenic flexure mobilization with
      proximal ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery (IMA), positive intraoperative Air-Leak
      Test and the perfusion of the anastomosis.

      Temporary fecal diversion has also been suggested (although a diverting stoma mitigates the
      clinical consequences of an anastomotic leak but does not prevent it.

      Other intraoperative technical factors include the use of single or double stapled
      anastomotic techniques, with or without transanal reinforcing sutures.

      Therefore, preventing the anastomotic leak can bring benefits to the patient and the health
      system.

      All the risk factors described above represent the rationale that justifies the use of
      intraoperative procedures to prevent the anastomotic leak, such as additional manual stiches
      to the mechanical suture and / or patches of collagen (proper reinforcement or buttressing)
      or of sealants.

      Several attempts have been proposed to reduce the risk of AL in rectal cancer surgery
      including suture protection with omental flap and external suture reinforcement by biological
      glue or mesh.

      Some Authors have reported good results of reinforcement of the colon anastomosis with
      cyanoacrylate glue. in a porcine model.

      Cyanoacrylate is a synthetic glue with sealing, adhesive and haemostatic properties widely
      used in surgery. Furthermore the sealing effect creates an antiseptic barrier against
      bacteria.

      Several clinical studies have described the utility of cyanoacrylate glue mainly in vascular
      surgery, urology and bariatric surgery.

      Considering its mechanical, physical, biological properties and its safety, cyanoacrylate
      glue could facilitate the healing of the colorectal anastomosis reducing leak rate, without
      negative effects on perfusion.

      The hypothesis is that the application of nebulized cyanoacrylate to the colo-rectal
      anastomosis in open or laparoscopic/robotic rectal surgery can prevent the leakage
    
  