
    
      The study will involve acquiring ECG data in a cohort of up to 1,000 newborns and infants
      (500 controls (non-LQTS) and 500 LQTS newborns and infants) that are being seen in the Gonda
      SL ECG Lab (or Baldwin Building)and enrolled during their appointment for a clinically
      indicated 12-lead ECG. A second arm of Phase II of this study will include approaching 50
      healthy subjects at the Baldwin Building to seek interest in participation which will consist
      of (1) 30 second device recording to help further calibrate and test the device for optimal
      enhancement. These 50 subjects will not be required to have a clinical or research 12-lead
      ECG as the investigators will be simply testing the efficiency and accuracy of the device.
      LQTS will be studied in order to assess the ability of the LQTS screener to accurately detect
      a patient with established QT prolongation in the context of distinct and varied T wave
      morphologies The advanced prototype will be placed in the same manner as the device used in
      Phase I of the study by being lightly placed on the child as pictured below. Similarly, the
      investigators will use ultrasound gel to obtain a better reading, if applicable. Once
      completed, a photograph of the torso of the child will be taken from the same views as before
      (one aerial view and one side view) with neither the head nor the face in the picture. Coded
      ECG-tracings will be transmitted to the app and shared with Blue Ox Health Corporation and
      Minnesota Health Solutions as done previously in phase I. Additionally, coded tracings and
      data from the 12-lead ECG will be shared with Blue Ox Health Corporation and Minnesota Health
      Solutions to aid in comparison to device tracings and optimization of the algorithm. The
      12-lead ECG will be obtained from the subject's medical record and coded before being shared
      with collaborators. Study coordinators will also review the patient's medical record to
      determine whether the participants have been diagnosed with a genetic disease.
    
  