
    
      Subjects may be video-taped or photographed in any of the following sessions.

      Part A: Participation in this part of the study will include the following steps:

      1) Informed Consent: After arrival, subjects will review and sign the consent form with study
      personnel present.

      2a) Pre-Assessments: A member of the research team will evaluate the subjects' affected arm
      and assess their ability to use it. Subjects will be evaluated using a battery of assessments
      in order to determine their level of impairment such as the Upper Extremity Fugl-Meyer,
      Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Box in Block, and grip strength using a dynamometer, etc.

      2b) Break: Subjects will be given a 15 minute break.

      2c) Subjects will be asked to use the Bilateral Activities of Daily Living Exercise Robot
      (Bi-ADLER) for 60 minutes. All subjects will be seated on the Bi-ADLER and asked to perform a
      battery of bimanual evaluation tasks (drawing ovals, standard ADL tasks like pouring,
      reaching, drinking etc). A total of three trials (each 1 min or less) will be done for each
      evaluation task and a 5 min break will be given after two tasks. His/her kinematic data while
      performing the corresponding evaluation task will be compared against the healthy baseline to
      predict their level of impairment. During this portion of the experiment, the controller will
      provide no assistance to the patient. This will take a total of about 25-30 mins. After the
      the controller will be engaged and assistance will be provided to patients for performing the
      same battery of tasks completed in the first half of this session. This will take another
      25-30 mins.

      Part B: For subjects invited to participate in Part B of the study - only low to mid
      functioning Cerebral Palsy (CP) and stroke survivors are eligible -participation in this part
      of the study will include the following steps:

      1) Informed Consent: After arrival, subjects will review and sign the consent form with study
      personnel present.

      2a) Pre-Assessments: If subjects are only participating in Part B of the study, at their
      first visit, a member of the research team will evaluate their affected arm and assess their
      ability to use it. Subjects will be evaluated using a battery of assessments in order to
      determine their level of impairment such as the Upper Extremity Fugl-Meyer, Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment, Box in Block and grip strength using a dynamometer, etc. If a study
      subject participated in Part A, they will not be reevaluated by a therapist as long as
      evaluation was done within a month of Part B.

      2b) Break: Subjects will be given a 15 minute break. 2c) Bi-ADLER training with the robot for
      50-60 minutes. In this part of the protocol, the subject will come to the lab for about 10-12
      sessions. In each session, the subject performs different activities of daily Living tasks
      (like pouring, drinking etc) on the Bi-ADLER for about 50-60 mins with a 5 min break every15
      mins. This part is contingent on the subject having completed Part A of the protocol. During
      the final session (between 10th - 12th session), the same battery of tasks as in Part A will
      be performed by the subject. There will also be a clinical evaluation at the end of that
      session to evaluate clinical scores.

      3) Post-Study Assessment: After their last session, a certified therapist will evaluate the
      participants' affected arm and assess their ability to use it.
    
  