
    
      Cardiac output (CO) is a key variable when describing and treating the cardiovascular system.
      The ideal cardiac output (CO) monitor would be safe, non-invasive, low-cost, painless, easy
      to interpret and would allow for the continuous, hands-free acquisition of accurate data.
      Electrical cardiometry (EC), a more recent version of impedance cardiography (ICG), meets
      many of the criteria for an ideal monitor and previously published research suggests that EC
      successfully trends CO1-3, but its accuracy in measuring absolute values of stroke volume
      (SV) has been inconsistent in published research4-8. Electrical cardiometry works by sending
      an insensible high frequency alternating current through the thorax and measures changes in
      thoracic impedance that are attributed to systolic blood flow acceleration over the cardiac
      cycle. Using fiducial points in the tracing of the first derivative of impedance, EC
      calculates left ventricular ejection time (LVET) and mean velocity of blood during systole.
      By further estimating a patient constant that is primarily based on body mass ('volume of
      electrically participating tissue' (VEPT)), stroke volume is estimated in the following way:

      - SVEC = VEPT * Mean blood velocity * corrected Flow Time (FTc).

      Cardiac output monitors are typically validated against a reference standard, which has
      traditionally been thermodilution using a pulmonary artery catheter (PAC). Given the risks
      associated with the use of pulmonary artery catheters9 an alternative method, such as
      transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), lends itself as valuable substitute technique for
      measuring CO. Transthoracic echocardiography is safe, painless and non-invasive. Similarly to
      EC, SV estimate by TTE is based on a measurement of mean blood velocity and ejection time
      (mean blood velocity x ejection time = velocity time integral, VTI; (Figure 3)). However, in
      contrast to EC, the parameters for blood velocity and left ventricular ejection time are not
      multiplied with a normative patient constant, but with a measured parameter: the left
      ventricular outflow tract area (LVOT area):

      - SVTTE = LVOT area * mean blood velocity * ejection time. Main disadvantage of using TTE for
      CO-measurement is advanced training that is needed to obtain VTI measurements and that it is
      highly labor intense to obtain repeated VTIs for continuous or repeated CO measurements.
      Measurement of LVOT area, by contrast, is a one-time measurement obtained from parasternal
      long axis view, which necessitates only basic training of TTE.

      Recently Martin and colleagues10 compared SV parameters derived from EC and TTE in a sample
      of 44 healthy pregnant volunteers and found excellent agreement in mean left ventricular
      ejection time and heart rate. However, agreement in SV was poor with a percentage error of
      42% in Bland-Altman analysis. Hypothesizing that both methodologies in estimating SV, EC and
      TTE, use measures for blood velocity and systolic ejection time, Martin et al. hypothesized
      that agreement between both methods could be significantly improved by calibrating SV-EC with
      the LVOT area that is derived from one time TTE measurement. Based on a multiplicative linear
      regression model and following log-linear transformation Martin et al. derived the following
      formula for calibration:

      SVEC_Modified = 2.2 * LVOT_area(0.705) * SV_EC(0.388) * Weight(0.21) By applying this
      formula, agreement in SV measurements significantly improved and percentage error decreased
      to 22 %. However, data was derived from a very specific patient population (pregnant women)
      and accuracy of the modified SV-assessment was not validated in a prospective manner.

      Therefore, this study proposes to compare SV-estimates derived from EC and TTE in
      non-pregnant outpatients undergoing routine echocardiography assessment. Primary aim of this
      study is to evaluate if agreement between both methods can be improved by calibrating
      SV-measurements obtained from electrocardiometry with a one-time LVOT area measurement
      obtained from TTE.

      Secondary aim will be to perform passive leg raising test and compare sensitivity in both
      identifying fluid responsiveness between both monitoring methodologies.

      Third aim is to compare CO derived measurements from EC and TTE with gold standard
      measurements derived from patients undergoing routine right heart catheterisation for
      evaluation of cardiac and pulmonary function.
    
  