
    
      The study was planned as an open, prospective, randomized, single-blind study, and it was
      planned by the researchers to include 30 patients with stroke who applied to the Neurology
      outpatient clinic of Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Department of
      Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation. It was planned that the "Informed Consent Form" prepared
      before the study would be signed by the patient before being included in the study, and
      patient evaluation and follow-up forms would be filled in before and after the treatment.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria at the beginning of the study will be numbered
      according to the order of application and randomly divided into two groups with the computer
      program. Group number 1 Treadmill with Weight Support; Group number 2 will be determined as
      the Conventional Rehabilitation group. In addition to the traditional rehabilitation program
      and rehabilitation program to both groups, one group will be given body weight support and
      treadmill therapy. The treatment will be applied as 15 sessions 5 days a week.

      A traditional rehabilitation program will be applied to both groups. Posture and breathing
      exercises, lower extremity stretching, active auxiliary range of motion, and strengthening
      exercises will be applied. Electrical stimulation will not be delivered to the lower limb.
      Balance coordination exercises - sitting in a chair (individually shaped according to the
      patient's balance), holding it in a safe place if necessary; standing without support,
      standing quietly, heel tip, standing on one leg, and holding onto a chair). Patients will be
      asked to walk on a smooth surface in the company with a physiotherapist, using an assistive
      device, if any. The rehabilitation program is planned to last 30 minutes in total.

      In the group where the bodyweight supported treadmill will be applied, patients will be asked
      to walk on the treadmill as fast as possible without exceeding the medium intensity according
      to the Borg scale. - Perceived fatigue on the Borg scale is quite mild 10-12. (40-50% of the
      maximum heart rate). Care should be taken that the patient wears appropriate shoes and
      clothing during walking.

      In the beginning, 30% of the whole body weight will not be loaded. Bodyweight support will be
      reduced to 15% according to the tolerance of the patient. Later, when the patients can
      tolerate the speed of 2km / hour, they will not take more than two breaks during the
      30-minute session, and 0% support will be applied when they are able to perform optimal
      walking without the need for at least 5 minutes of surveillance support. In the treatment to
      be performed under the guidance of a physiotherapist, manual intervention to the pelvis,
      trunk, and/or paretic extremity will correct the gait pattern. At the same time, verbal
      stimulation will ensure that temporal characteristics of the gait such as step length and
      walking speed are appropriate and at the same time the patient is motivated.
    
  