
    
      Data for this study will be derived from the web-based National Registry for Pediatric IBD.
      The children (age: ≤ 18 years) who diagnosed with IBD according to international criteria
      will be eligible for enrollment. Data on demographic, clinical and laboratory characteristics
      at the time of diagnosis were extracted from the registry. All cases in the registry will be
      screened for eligibility criteria by principal investigator (senior gastroenterologist). The
      patients with other chronic disease known affect nutritional status will be excluded. The
      cases who had the missing major outcome variables including symptom duration, weight, height,
      disease activity, disease location and phenotype at the time of diagnosis will be excluded
      from the analysis, if they had all of these outcome variables, they were included.

      The nutritional status of participants will be evaluated based on anthropometric parameters.
      The weight status will be assessed by weight-for-length in children <2 years of age, and
      BMI-for-age in children 2 years of age and older. Height status will be evaluated by
      length/height-for-age in all cases. Age-and-sex specific percentile and the corresponding z
      score for all anthropometric parameters will be calculated in the WHOAnthro for under five
      years and WHOAnthroplus (WHO, Geneva, Switzerland) for those aged 5-18 years by using WHO
      standards and references. Z-scores between +2.0 and -2.0 for all parameters will be
      considered normal. Wasted/thinness and overweight will be defined by weight-for-length/BMI z
      score < -2.0, and > +2.0, respectively. Stunting (short stature) and tallness will be defined
      as length/height-for-age z score < -2.0 and > +2.0, respectively. Children will be stratified
      into two age groups for analysis: < 10 years of age and older. A p value of <0.05 was
      considered statistically significant.
    
  