
    
      Background Despite highly effective treatment options, adequate pain control is a persistent
      problem in oncology patients. As cancer treatment is shifted increasingly towards the
      outpatient setting, patients' self-management is vital for successful pain treatment.
      ANtiPain (Advanced Nursing Practice cancer pain self-management support) is a cancer pain
      self-management support intervention for patients with cancer that is already available and
      tested in a German speaking setting. So far, cancer pain self-management support
      interventions have only been tested in the rigorously controlled setting of a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) and thus evidence for its comparative effectiveness is lacking.

      Objective This study is unique in that it aims to evaluate the implementation of the ANtiPain
      intervention in routine clinical practice in view of its effectiveness for patients and
      nurses in realistic clinical settings.

      Methods Design, setting and sample In the context of routine quality improvement, AntiPain
      will be implemented on designated wards at three hospitals in Vienna. To evaluate the
      implementation, an accompanying multicenter cluster randomized trial with a stepped wedge
      design will be supplemented with embedded qualitative evaluations. The stepped wedge design
      will involve the sequential rollout of the intervention. The order in which ANtiPain will be
      implemented on the wards will be determined at random. By the end of the study, all wards
      will have implemented the intervention.

      Patients will be recruited on 17 wards. With an effect size of d=.77 and an expected drop-out
      rate of 20%, a sample size of 150 patients will be needed before and after implementation to
      demonstrate a difference at the 5% level with 90% power. With 17 wards and a study duration
      of 15 months, approximately 1.3 patients will be recruited per month on each of the
      participating wards.

      Objective and specific aims In congruence with the Reach Efficacy Adoption Implementation and
      Maintenance (RE-AIM) framework, the implementation of ANtiPain will be evaluated on two
      levels: (i) patient-related outcomes (e.g., pain interference with daily activities, pain
      intensity, patient related barriers to cancer pain management), and (ii) organization-related
      outcomes (e.g., nurses' self-rated perceived proficiency with pain management, application
      fidelity).

      The primary aim of this implementation project is to improve patient-related outcomes. The
      primary patient-related outcome will be pain interference with daily activities. Secondary
      patient-related outcomes will be pain intensity, patient-related barriers to cancer pain
      management, pain-related self-efficacy, and quality of life. The secondary aim is to explore
      the participation rate [Reach], to improve nurse-related outcomes [e.g. proficiency and
      satisfaction concerning pain self-management support (Adoption and Implementation)], to
      achieve high implementation fidelity in the clinical setting [Implementation], to evaluate
      the nursing managers' view on the implementation [Adoption], a crude cost and resource
      estimation of the implementation [Adoption], to explore how implementation fidelity will
      develop over time [Maintenance], and to explore the nursing managers views on maintaining the
      intervention in their organization [Maintenance]).

      Implementation of cancer pain self-management support Before the implementation, patients
      receive standard care without structured cancer pain self-management support. After
      implementation, patients will receive cancer pain self-management support by trained staff
      nurses who follow the ANtiPain protocol. ANtiPain is based on three key strategies: Provision
      of information, skills building and nurse coaching. It consists of an in-hospital baseline
      one-to-one session before discharge and a telephone follow up according to a structured
      clinical algorithm that is based on pain intensity, patient satisfaction with pain management
      and patient adherence. The implementation process will include training of the designated
      staff nurses, coaching activities based on case discussions on the ward, as well as measures
      to ensure sustainability of the implementation (e.g., training of ward managers and clinical
      nurse specialists).

      Variables and Measurement Data collection on patient level will include pain interference
      with daily activities, pain intensity, and analgesic intake from the Brief Pain Inventory. In
      addition, the self-developed item from a previous study will be used to measure pain-related
      activity hindrance, by asking patients to rate "The pain hindered me to do things that I
      wanted to do today" on a 0 (not at all) to 10 (completely) numeric rating scale.
      Patient-related barriers to cancer pain management will be measured with the German short
      version of the Barriers Questionnaire II (BQII-G-S); pain-related self-efficacy with the
      German version of the Pain Self-efficacy Questionnaire (FESS); HRQoL with two items from the
      EORTC-Quality of Life Questionnaire C30, functional status with the German version of the
      Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG-PS); Depression with the Patient
      Health Questionnaire (PHQ-2); demographic and clinical data will include age, gender, time
      since first cancer diagnosis, time since first pain onset, circadian rhythm of pain, and
      analgesic medication, reason for and day of hospitalization as well as the day of discharge.
      Full patient self-report data collection will include ~80 items. Because patient burden was a
      substantial issue in our last studies, patients who say that they cannot complete all
      questionnaires will be offered to complete a short version of the study questionnaires (49
      items).

      Data collection on nurse level will include 4 questions regarding self-rated proficiency with
      cancer pain self-management support and satisfaction with pain management on the ward. In
      addition, demographic data will be obtained (e.g., age, time on ward). Data collection on
      ward and hospital level will include the medical field, length of stay, and the number of
      patients (with cancer-related pain). Standard care will be explored by asking nurses about
      their role in cancer pain self-management support before the implementation.

      Qualitative substudy: The qualitative substudy will comprise interviews with head nurses and
      intervention nurses about their views of the implementation.

      Procedures Wards will be randomized according to the stepped wedge plan. Data collection will
      start January 2016. Eligible patients will be recruited by staff nurses who will be supported
      by a study assistant. After informed consent patients will be asked to complete
      questionnaires at admission (TP0), as well as 2 (TP1), 4 (TP2) and 8 weeks (TP3) after
      discharge. Nurse-level data will be collected one week before implementation (TN0) and 1
      (TN1) and 3 months after implementation (TN2). Data on ward and hospital level will be
      collected by a study assistant at the beginning of the study.

      The statistical analysis of the primary outcome (i.e., pain interference with daily
      activities) will be conducted based on mixed models, with a random intercept for the
      respective ward and time as a covariate to take potential time trends into account.

      Ethical considerations The study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of
      Helsinki. Within the clusters (wards), patients will be provided with tailored oral and
      written informed consent (i.e., pre- and post-implementation). During the informed consent
      procedure patients will be informed about the quality improvement project in general. As soon
      as the intervention has been implemented in routine clinical practice on the respective ward,
      patients will be offered the intervention. Consequently, the informed consent procedure will
      not involve consent for the intervention but only for the completion of questionnaires.
    
  