
    
      Biological agents represent the most advanced type of treatment for psoriasis. Secukinumab is
      a human monoclonal anti IL-17A antibody that binds to human IL-17A and neutralizes its
      bioactivity by inhibiting IL17A produced by both Th17 cells and those of the innate immune
      system, thus providing complete anti IL17A blockage. Targeting IL-17A has the potential to
      reduce autoimmune inflammation while leaving other immune functions undisturbed. While
      targeting of Th1-promoting or Th17-promoting cytokines affects critical mediators such as
      IFN-γ, IL-22 and IL-21, selective targeting of IL-17A leaves these Th1/17 activities, as well
      as certain protective functions of innate cells intact. Furthermore, as a fully human
      monoclonal antibody, secukinumab should reduce immunogenic risks compared to current or
      emerging antibody therapies that are not fully human.

      Many recent studies have shown that highly selective biologic drugs are not effective in
      every patient and that variations in the genome can be associated with different clinical
      responses or side effects to a given drug. The PSORS1 locus on chromosome 6p is generally
      understood to confer the most risk for psoriasis. A specific allele for this locus, HLA C*06,
      is present in about 60% of psoriatic patient cases. Data linking secukinumab efficacy to a
      particular genetic marker are lacking.

      Recent research has revealed a marked difference in the proportion of PASI 90 achievers at 12
      weeks between Cw6-positive and Cw6-negative patients (85.7% vs 56.5%) treated with
      ustekinumab (Talamonti M et al. 2013) and a greater efficacy of anti-TNFα drugs in CW6
      negative patients (Galli et al. 2013).Unlike anti-IL-12/23 agents, secukinumab inhibits IL-17
      produced by both Th17 cells after presentation by antigen presenting cells (in this case Cw6)
      and cells of the innate immune system whose activation does not require antigen presentation.
      Providing a drug that is equally effective on both Cw6-negative and Cw6-positive patients
      would be an important clinical accomplishment and would eliminate the need for costly HLA-Cw6
      tests. The choice of a cohort study would therefore seem appropriate for this clinical
      context.

      The purpose of this study was to explore the different efficacy and safety profile of
      secukinumab 300 mg in patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque-type psoriasis,
      stratified for the presence of HLA-C*06, whose determination was blinded for patients and
      investigators. The study was conducted both on anti-TNFα-naïve and anti-TNFα failure patients
      and also stratified for TNFα - 308 polymorphism, BMI, smoking and metabolic syndrome, among
      others.
    
  