
    
      A total of 80 subjects with psoriasis not currently using systemic treatment, with at least
      one psoriatic plaque on the trunk or proximal limbs and having also more resistant to treat
      psoriasis areas will be recruited. These subjects will be classified in the following 5
      groups according to the localization of resistant areas: scalp psoriasis (20 subjects),
      pustular palmo-plantar psoriasis (10 subjects), non-pustular palmo-plantar psoriasis (10
      subjects), elbow psoriasis (20 subjects) and lower leg psoriasis (20 subjects).

      At Day 0 visit, severity of psoriasis will be evaluated using the body surface area (BSA) and
      the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI).

      After appropriate washout periods, all 80 subjects will have two skin biopsies: one from a
      plaque located on the trunk or proximal limbs and one on a plaque located on an area more
      resistant to treatment (scalp, palms/soles, elbow or lower leg). Each biopsy will be split in
      half. One part will be used for a limited immunohistochemistry panel and additional staining
      will be performed on samples from the pustular palmo-plantar psoriasis and non-pustular
      palmo-plantar psoriasis subjects to localize IL-17A and IL-23 producing cells. The other half
      will be used for gene expression analysis using Reverse-Transcription-Polymerase Chain
      Reaction (RT-PCR) for all subjects including the following genes: IL-23 (p40 & p19), IL-17A
      and Human Acidic Ribosomal Protein (HARP). In addition, the expression of other specific
      genes of interest will be analyzed using RT-PCR for subjects with pustular palmo-plantar
      psoriasis and non-pustular palmo-plantar psoriasis. Moreover, four skin biopsies will be
      collected from 10 healthy volunteers for RT-PCR (IL-23 (p40 & p19), IL-17A and HARP). One
      biopsy will be collected from the trunk and another one from a palm or a sole. A third and a
      fourth biopsy will be collected on additional areas (scalp, elbow or lower limb). Gene
      expression in plaques from areas more resistant to treatment (scalp, palms, elbows, lower
      legs) will be compared to gene expression in plaques from the trunk or other areas of the
      upper and lower limbs.

      A total of 30 subjects out of 80 will also have one or two additional skin biopsies. The 10
      subjects with pustular palmo-plantar psoriasis and 10 subjects with non-pustular
      palmo-plantar psoriasis will have one additional biopsy of the involved skin of the palm and
      one of a plaque on the trunk or limbs for cell isolation and cell analysis in order to
      explore the mechanisms involved in the increased expression of IL-17A without concurrent
      increase in IL-23. Ten subjects with psoriasis vulgaris on the trunk or upper limbs but
      without pustular or non-pustular palmo-plantar psoriasis will also have an additional biopsy
      performed on lesional skin. Following inflammatory cells extraction, flow cytometry combining
      cell surface markers and intra-cytoplasmic staining will be used to study IL-17A and IL-23 in
      T cells, granulocytes/mastocytes/macrophages and Ag-presenting cells. If enough cells are
      harvested, three antibody panels will be analyzed in the following order using flow
      cytometry: a T cell panel, a granulocytes / mastocytes / macrophages panel and an antigen
      presenting cell (APC) panel. All panels with also be evaluated with an anti-CD45 (cluster of
      differentiation) antibody and a viability test (Aqua live/dead). Results from flow cytometry
      will be compared for biopsies from palms of subjects with pustular and non-pustular
      palmo-plantar psoriasis, trunk or proximal limbs of subjects with pustular and non-pustular
      palmo-plantar psoriasis and trunk or proximal limbs of subjects with psoriasis vulgaris.

      All skin biopsies will be performed at Day 0 visit and an optional study visit (Day 10) will
      be performed if suture removal from skin biopsies is necessary.

      In addition, circulating plasma levels of IL-17A will be measured for all subjects and
      healthy volunteers in order to compare IL-17A levels in the 5 groups of subjects with
      psoriasis and healthy subjects. Moreover, correlation between IL-17A levels and PASI will be
      explored.
    
  