
    
      This protocol will address the impact of three months of testosterone (T) therapy on all
      components of the metabolic syndrome and the mechanism underlying changes in insulin
      sensitivity by analyzing changes in body composition, and detailed studies of fat metabolism
      and skeletal muscle. In addition, this protocol will address the role of estradiol (E2) in
      mediating the effect of testosterone on insulin sensitivity.

      Seventy-two subjects will be enrolled. Study subjects will undergo a screening visit to
      assess eligibility after which a baseline metabolic assessment will be performed including a
      a fasting oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) to measure normal glucose and insulin
      metabolism, an intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) to measure insulin sensitivity, MRI
      and DEXA scan to assess muscle and body fat distribution, VO2 max test and resting metabolic
      rate, and a muscle biopsy to look at how the muscle is affected by insulin and testosterone
      (T).

      Subjects will then be randomized to one of three 12-week treatment arms, 1) Group 1
      (Placebo); 2) Group 2 (Depot GnRH agonist (Zoladex) + Testosterone + placebo); or 3) Group 3
      (Zoladex + Testosterone + aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole)). The rationale for this study
      design is as follows. Under normal physiological conditions, administration of T leads to a
      concomitant increase in estradiol (E2) levels due to endogenous conversion by the aromatase
      enzyme system. Therefore, in order to understand the relative roles of T and E2 on insulin
      sensitivity, one group of subjects will receive T in conjunction with the aromatase
      inhibitor, anastrozole.

      At 13 weeks, the entire baseline evaluation including OGTT, IVGTT, resting metabolic rate and
      VO2 max, body composition assessment by DEXA and MRI, and muscle biopsy will be repeated.
      Subjects will return for a follow up visit four weeks later to measure CBC, T and PSA levels,
      to ensure levels are within the normal range.
    
  