
    
      Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a common viral infection among men and women. Individuals with
      HPV are at risk for anal dysplasia, a condition that may lead to anal cancer. It has been
      observed that HIV progresses more rapidly in individuals coinfected with HPV and HIV,
      compared to people with either disease alone. Studies that have investigated the effect of
      highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) on the progression of anal dysplasia have been
      contradictory and inconclusive. The role of CD4 count and HIV suppression and their
      contributions to the progression of anal disease needs to be determined. This trial is a
      substudy of a study of management of antiretroviral therapy (SMART). In the SMART study,
      patients will participate in one of two strategies: a drug conservation (DC) strategy and a
      viral suppression (VS) strategy. Participants in the DC group will stop or defer HAART, then
      receive episodic HAART treatment for the minimum time needed to maintain a CD4 cell count of
      at least 250 cells/mm3. Participants in the VS group will receive HAART to maintain a viral
      load as low as possible, regardless of CD4 count. This study will compare the times to
      development of high-grade anal dysplasia or anal cancer in participants who are currently
      enrolled in the SMART study.

      Patients will participate in this substudy and the main SMART study at the same time. At the
      baseline visit, participants will undergo an anal swab; some female participants will have a
      cervical swab as well. Participants will provide a detailed sexual history including sexually
      transmitted infections, a history of anal-related conditions, and a history of alcohol and
      recreational drug use. These procedures will be repeated at each annual follow-up visit. Some
      participants may undergo additional anal cytology and high-resolution anoscopy with biopsy.
      Participants will be followed until they develop high-grade anal dysplasia or anal cancer or
      when the SMART study closes, whichever comes first.
    
  