
    
      Study design: The study was a double blind randomised clinical trial using zinc and placebo
      using multivitamin base.Study subjects: Fifty six children of both sex aged between 12-59
      months were studied in the study ward who attended the Dhaka Hospital of International Centre
      for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh with shigellosis. The patients were initially
      screened for the study. Stool samples were examined microscopically and stool was cultured
      for enteric bacterial pathogens. Children whose stool cultures were positive for shigella
      species were included in the study. Selection of the patients were based on the following
      criteria: age between 12-59 months, moderate malnutrition (61-75% Weight / Age - NCHS
      Median), duration of diarrhoea of 5 days, and culture confirmed shigella spp in stool on
      enrolment. Measurements of weight and length (height) were performed by using the WHO
      Manual28. The exclusion criteria were as follows: measles infection in the past six months;
      presence of obvious systemic illnesses, such as pneumonia, meningitis, septicaemia, leukemoid
      reaction, haemolytic uremic syndrome etc; zinc supplementation; severe malnutrition;
      residence in a location requiring a journey of > 2 hour from the Dhaka Hospital of the
      ICDDR,B ; and refusal to give consent. Signed informed consent was obtained from the guardian
      of each paediatric patients before enrolment according to the guidelines of the ethical
      review committee of the ICDDR,B. The study was conducted between January 1999 -December
      2002.Study Groups: There were two study groups, one received zinc acetate with multivitamin
      syrup and antibiotic i.e. pivmecillinum and the other with placebo and pivmecillinum .
      Composition of syrup: For both groups, the base syrup or multivitamin syrup was of the same
      composition. In addition to this, zinc acetate (20 mg elemental Zn/ 5 ml) was mixed in the
      multivitamin syrup for the zinc supplemented group to receive 20 mg elemental zinc per
      day.Composition of base/ multivitamin syrup: Every 5 ml of the multivitamin syrup contained
      the following: vitamin A (3000IU), vitamin D (600 IU), thiamin (1.2 mg), riboflavin (2.0 mg),
      nicotinamide (6.0 mg) and calcium pantothanate (6 mg).Dose of zinc: Subjects of zinc group
      received 20 mg elemental zinc as acetate per day in a twice-daily dose for a period of 2
      weeks. Methods: A block randomization procedure was performed by using a random table to
      assign a equal number of patients to the zinc supplemented and placebo group. Twenty eight in
      each group were allocated to zinc or placebo using block randomization. Double blinding was
      done by having identical coloured bottles of syrup labeled with serial numbers, which were
      allocated to the children of the 2 groups chronologically. The zinc syrup containing zinc and
      the multivitamin was masked for taste and flavor and was indistinguishable in consistency,
      appearance and taste from the control syrup containing the multivitamin only. The
      micronutrient supplements were prepared by Acme Laboratories, Dhaka Bangladesh. The
      experimental group received the zinc syrup containing the multivitamin (the vitamins were
      given at twice the recommended dietary allowance) in 2 divided doses daily for 2 weeks
      starting from the day of admission. The comparison group received the same multivitamin syrup
      alone. All the subjects received pivmecillinum in a dose of 60 mg/kg/day in 4 divided doses
      for 5 days. In both groups of patients, diarrhea subsided within 3-5 days. During
      hospitalization all the study children received a standard hospital diet of 100-125 kcal and
      3-5 g protein per kg body weight daily in mixed food. When discharged at day-7, their mothers
      were given the bottles of syrup and were instructed to feed the child with the supplement
      daily at home for rest 7 days. On the 14th day, a health assistant visited the household,
      measured the amount of syrup taken and also enquired the mothers about any problems
      encountered during feeding of syrups. Children were followed up fortnightly for up to 6
      months after the onset of diarrhoea to assess morbidity and growth. The following was
      investigated during the study period -Clinical evaluation: duration of illness, presence of
      blood in stool, tenesmus, and weight changes.Assessment of growth and growth velocity:
      Measurements included weight, height, triceps skinfold thickness (TSF) using standard
      technique (WHO)28. These were done before supplementation and at discharge. After
      supplementation, children were measured every two weeks at home. Weights were obtained to the
      nearest 10 g using an electronic digital scale (Secca model 770, Sweden) standarised with 5
      and 10 kg standard weights in everyday morning and evening. Recubent length was measured in
      children less than two years of age using a slide board infantometer (Harpenden, St. Albans,
      England). In older children, standing height was determined with a Stadiometer . Mean of two
      consecutive height measurements to the nearest 0.5 cm was recorded as the observe value.
      Measurements were compared to Median NCHS Standard. Health workers were extensively trained
      in anthropometric measurements, until minimum intra-individual and inter individual variation
      was attainted. Statistical Analysis:The data were checked daily at recording by the
      investigators, cleaned and then entered in microcomputer using SPSS/PC+ (Windows 10.0). Data
      analysis was performed using SPSS/PC+ (Windows 10.0) and EPI Info (Nutrition)version 3.2.2.
      The consistency check was done using logical programs. Student and paired t-tests were used
      when data were normally distributed and non- parametric Mann-Whitney U tests were used when
      the distribution were skewed. Time sequence of proportions of recovery was compared between
      two groups using Kaplan Meier survival analysis. Proportions were compared using chi-squared
      test. Repeated measure analyses of variance were also undertaken to evaluate the changes in
      weight gain and length gain over the follow-up periods. Statistical significance was accepted
      at 5 percent level.
    
  