
    
      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) induces a cerebral seizure by electrical stimulation under
      general anesthesia and muscle relaxation, is regarded as a highly efficient (for specific and
      severe psychiatric disorders) and extremely safe modern treatment option.

      Alzheimer´s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder which is characterized by
      progressive cognitive deterioration accompanied by declining activities of daily living, by a
      variety of behavioral disturbances and by neuropsychiatric symptoms. All currently available
      treatments remain palliative in nature. The clinical progression of disease can be delayed by
      pharmaceutical therapies like acetylcholinesterase inhibition (e.g. rivastigmine) for 6 to 12
      months at most.

      Along with the well-known biomarkers of AD (Aß- and tau-proteins) a lower brain-derived
      neurotrophic factor (BDNF) level is since recently being considered as a negative predictor
      for the further disease course. In animal experimental studies it was possible to arrest the
      disease progression with the aid of neurotrophic substances. Many single studies, but also a
      number of meta-analyses show primary gray matter atrophy in hippocampal, parahippocampal and
      medial temporal brain regions.

      Strikingly, ECT yields exact opposite effects to those caused by AD: an ECT series leads to
      an increase of serum BDNF-levels in patients. Parallel to this observation evidence exists
      for gray matter volume gain after an ECT series, especially for the hippocampus.

      There is sufficient clinical experience regarding the use of ECT in AD-patients, mainly on
      the basis of following indications: a) affective disorders and b) behavioral disturbances. A
      positive effect of ECT on the symptoms of agitation and aggression was assessed in AD
      patients alongside with a very good tolerability. A recent review on ECT treatment in
      patients with concomitant depression and AD pointed out that these patients have
      significantly better scores in cognitive tests 6 months after the ECT series.

      ECT as a psychiatric treatment for cognitive enhancement in AD is uncharted scientific
      territory.

      To investigate the potential salutary effects of ECT on AD the investigators designed a pilot
      study with the following concept: Patients with a confirmed AD diagnosis and preexisting
      stable antidementia medication over at least 6 months will receive a modified maintenance ECT
      over a total of 27 weeks.

      In the proposed pilot study, the investigators hypothesize that cognitive functioning of AD
      patients will improve significantly and independently from affective symptoms, when initial
      and final examinations are compared. The affirmation of the hypothesis would provide not only
      further insight into the mechanism of action of ECT but also a very important reference point
      for the development of new treatment options for a so-far incurable disease.
    
  