
    
      Investigators will prospectively enroll 200 adult participants referred to the Johns Hopkins
      Hospital for catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation (AF). Investigators will first enroll
      participants with paroxysmal AF (n=100) to complete sensitivity analysis of inflammatory fat
      and potential target identification before enrolling participants with persistent AF (n=100).
      All participants (n=200) will undergo pre-procedural CT using the ultra-high resolution CT
      scanner 3-4 days prior the ablation procedure to allow a sufficient amount of time for image
      processing. In all participants (n=200), blood specimens will be collected immediately prior
      to the ablation procedure. The participants with paroxysmal AF (n=100) will receive the
      standard of care, which is PVI, and the clinical outcome will be followed up to 12 months
      post-procedure. In this group, investigators will conduct a sensitivity analysis to define
      the range of peri-left atrial (LA) fat tissue (in HU) that is associated with AF recurrence.
      Investigators will also conduct computation of source-sink mismatch arising from wall
      thinning due to fat infiltration into the myocardium that favors functional block and local
      reentry. For participants with persistent AF (n=100), investigators will conduct an
      exploratory clinical trial where the participants will be randomly assigned to 1) PVI group
      (n=50), or 2) PVI + inflammatory fat-targeted ablation group (n=50). In the latter group,
      additional focal ablation will be performed beyond PVI to target the inflammatory fat tissue
      based on the result of the sensitivity analysis. Randomization will be performed with the use
      of an automated computer-generated randomization algorithm. The participants will be unaware
      of the group assignment, but the operators will not be blinded (single-blinded design). In
      all patients, no ablation strategies beyond PVI except cavotricuspid isthmus (CTI) ablation
      for typical atrial flutter (AFL) will be allowed, such as linear lesions (e.g. roof lines,
      mitral isthmus lines), and focal ablation to eliminate complex fractionated atrial
      electrograms (CFAE) and rotating drivers.
    
  