
    
      Surgical resection the only potentially curative therapeutic approach in patients with
      pancreatic cancer. Among the clinicopathologic factors that are associated with long-term
      survival, a complete (i.e. R0) tumor resection is of utmost significance. Numerous reports
      have already demonstrated detection of tumor cells at the resection margin on microscopic
      examination (i.e. R1 resection) is associated with poor long-term survival. However, studies
      using a standardized pathological work-up of operative specimen from patients with pancreatic
      cancer revealed that most pancreatic resections are R1 resections. Innovative surgical
      techniques that reduce the incidence of R1 resections may provide a promising approach to
      improve the outcome of patients with pancreatic cancer.

      For patients requiring a distal pancreatectomy, a laparoscopic pancreatic resection is
      increasingly performed, as it may enhance postoperative recovery without compromising
      oncological safety compared to the open approach. However, laparoscopic technique does not
      affect the proportion of patients with complete (R0) resections. Furthermore, the inability
      to control major vasculature frequently results in conversion to the open approach. The vast
      majority of R1 margins are located at the retroperitoneal dissection surface. Due to
      technical limitations, the open and the laparoscopic technique may not further reduce the
      incidence of positive resection margins at this location.

      The 3D visualization provided by the robotic approach together with improved dexterity of the
      surgeon are likely to enable a meticulous dissection at the posterior dissection margin. This
      may result in a significant reduction of patients with positive resection margins. However,
      to date there has been no randomized controlled trial that compared the robotic to the
      laparoscopic technique. As health-care interventions need to prove efficacy and safety in
      well-designed randomized controlled trials, the present randomized controlled trial was
      designed to test, if robotic distal pancreatectomy increases the incidence of patients with
      complete (R0) tumor resection for pancreatic cancer. Secondary endpoints include oncological
      parameters such as the number of harvested lymph nodes and factors of perioperative outcome
      such as perioperative complications (Clavien-Dindo classification), pancreatic fistula,
      in-hospital mortality, blood loss and conversion rates.
    
  