
    
      EZ-C's purpose is to determine the effectiveness of patient navigation services during
      treatment of hepatitis C compared to usual care among opioid substitution therapy (OST) and
      active injecting drug use (IDU) individuals.

      To recruit OST and active IDU patients, customized queries will be created to identify
      pharmaceutical (methadone, buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naltrexone, naloxone) and diagnostic
      (ICD-10 codes for heroin poisoning, history of heroin abuse, long term current use of opiate
      analgesic, opioid dependence, and potentially others) indicators of OST or active injecting
      drug use. These codes will be implemented into the Grady HCV registry to flag and identify
      OST or possible active injecting drug use individuals that are HCV positive at Grady Health
      Systems.

      Recruitment will consist of an initial letter describing the study and informing patients of
      their possible eligibility as well as informed consent documentation. This letter will be
      followed by up to three phone calls per patient from the patient navigator until a full
      sample of OST and active injecting drug users have been recruited. Once enrolled, patients
      will be randomly assigned into either the control or intervention group. Although there is no
      compensation for participating in the study, all patients that are recruited will receive
      treatment at no cost.

      Once the study begins enrolling, the researchers will create spreadsheet reports of patients
      in the intervention group (those who are receiving patient navigation services) containing
      their HCV care information, such as antibody results, viral load test results and
      prescription refill information. Based on this spreadsheet, the researchers will develop a
      monthly task list for the patient navigator with patient by patient care cascade and
      treatment milestones that need to be accomplished per patient in the intervention group. The
      researchers will then deliver the spreadsheet and the task list to the Grady Liver Clinic
      Director who will use it to direct and supervise the activities of the patient navigator. The
      patient navigator will actively engage with those in the intervention group throughout the
      study and send reminders of their next steps in the treatment process/care cascade. The
      patient navigator will not engage with those in the control group as they will receive only
      usual care.

      The intervention will last 12 months for each patient in both the case and control groups.
      After collecting data for the 80 patients at the end of the study, the researchers will
      analyze the data to determine the effectiveness of patient navigation services compared to
      those receiving usual care among IDU and OST individuals.
    
  