
    
      Total joint arthroplasty (TJA), is one of the most successful operations in modern medicine;
      however, it remains an expensive procedure in an era of constrained health care resources.
      Arthritis affects 49.9 million Americans with 21.1 million experiencing
      arthritis-attributable activity limitations. As these numbers are expected to increase
      significantly by 2030, the demand for primary total knee arthroplasties (TKA) by 673% to 3.48
      million procedures/year. Periprosthetic joint infection (PJI), with its disastrous
      implications, continues to challenge the orthopaedic community. Practicing orthopaedic
      surgeons continue to invest efforts to minimize surgical site infection (SSI). Kamath et al.
      evaluated characteristics and resource utilization associated with revision arthroplasty for
      PJI using the Nationwide Inpatient Sample. The authors found that PJI was the most common
      indication for revision total knee arthroplasty (TKA), and the third most common reason for
      revision total hip arthroplasty (THA). Prophylactic antibiotics aim to provide protection
      against bacteria most likely to gain access to the surgical site during the procedure and in
      the perioperative period. The two most common bacteria causing contamination and subsequent
      deep infection in TKA are Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci.

      While antibiotic regimens for antimicrobial prophylaxis might carry different risks and
      side-effect profiles, e.g., hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis), acute kidney
      injury, and Clostridium difficile infection, there are a number of studies which validate the
      importance of the preoperative dose of antibiotics in decreasing periprosthetic joint
      infection (PJI) and surgical site infection (SSI) in total joint arthroplasty (TJA). However,
      there are conflicting recommendations/guidelines as to the optimal timing and the optimal
      duration perioperative antibiotics. The American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS), the
      Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and SCIP guidelines recommend that prophylactic
      antibiotics be completely infused within one hour before the surgical incision. The US
      advisory statement recommends that antimicrobial prophylaxis be administered within one hour
      before incision and discontinued within 24 hours after the end of the operation, while
      European guidelines recommend a single dose within 30 minutes before incision.

      Recently, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) published its updated guidelines for
      prevention of SSI prevention that included a recommendation regarding peri-operative
      antibiotic prophylaxis. Based on their evaluation of the available literature, the CDC
      recommended that a single dose of peri-operative antibiotics be utilized for patients
      undergoing clean-contaminated surgical interventions, advocating for no prophylaxis after the
      incision is closed in the operating room. This guideline encompasses several surgeries where
      implants are utilized, including arthroplasty, spine fusion, and fracture fixation.
      Furthermore, it was classified as a category IA-strong recommendation with high quality
      evidence. However, much of the literature cited for this recommendation is based on
      cardiothoracic, vascular, and general surgeries, where few or no implants are utilized. It is
      important to recognize that these surgical cohort may behave differently from the orthopaedic
      patient population in terms of infection risk and severity of infection outcomes.

      This clinical research protocol seeks to address the lack of knowledge and Level I data
      around the optimal antimicrobial prophylaxis and to address the question if a single
      preoperative dose is enough compared to additional postoperative prophylaxis. Several smaller
      clinical studies have used pre- and post-intervention periods to assess the effect of
      antibiotic duration for surgical prophylaxis. Tang et al launched a surgical wound infection
      surveillance program to monitor all orthopaedic surgeries and changed the prophylactic
      antibiotic regimen from intravenous cefuroxime (one preoperative and 2 postoperative doses
      every 8 hours) to one single preoperative dose of intravenous cefazolin for all clean
      orthopaedic surgeries. The authors of this study found no significant difference in the
      superficial and deep wound infection rates in 1,367 primary arthroplasties performed with a
      single preoperative dose of cefazolin versus 3 doses of cefuroxime. The deep wound infection
      rate for THA was 1.1% (95% CI, 0%-3.3%) in the cefuroxime group and 1.1% (95% CI, 0%-2.2%) in
      the cefazolin group (p=1.0). The deep wound infection rate of TKA was 1.6% (95% CI, 0%-3.8%)
      in the cefuroxime group and 1.0% (95% CI, 0.3%-1.7%) in the cefazolin group (p=0.63).121 In a
      retrospective review of 1,341 TJAs, Williams and Gustilo found no difference in deep
      infection rates between a 3 day and 1 day course of prophylactic antibiotics, but emphasized
      the importance of the preoperative dose, which was 2g of cefazolin. Mauerhan compared the
      efficacy of a one-day regimen of cefuroxime with a 3-day regimen of cefazolin in a
      prospective, double-blinded, multicenter study of 1,354 patients treated with arthroplasty
      and concluded that there was no significant difference in the prevalence of wound infections
      between the two groups.[34] In the group treated with primary THA, the prevalence of deep
      wound infection was 0.5% (1/187) for those treated with cefuroxime compared with 1.2% (2/168)
      for those who had received cefazolin. In the group treated with a primary TKA, the rate of
      deep wound infection was 0.6% (1/178) for those treated with cefuroxime compared with 1.4%
      (3/207) for those who had received cefazolin. Heydemann and Nelson, in a study of hip and
      knee arthroplasty procedures, initially compared a 24-hour regimen of either nafcillin or
      cefazolin with a 7-day regimen of the same and found no difference in the prevalence of
      infection. They then compared a single preoperative dose with a 48-hour regimen and again
      found no difference in infection prevalence. A total of 466 procedures was performed during
      the 4-year study. No deep infections developed in either the one-dose or 48-hour antibiotic
      protocol group. A deep infection developed in one (0.8%) of the 127 patients in the 24-hour
      protocol group and in two (1.6%) of the 128 patients in the 7-day protocol group for an
      overall infection rate of 0.6% (3/466). The authors recognized that as a result of the small
      sample sizes, the study lacked the power to compare the one dose and the more than one dose
      categories. In two trials, a total of 1609 patients were randomly assigned to receive 1.5 g
      of cefuroxime intravenously every 8 hours for a total of 16 hours (n = 1511) or 24 hours (n =
      98) postoperatively versus 1600 patients given no postoperative prophylaxis. Both studies
      showed no difference between treatment groups suggesting that current available evidence may
      not support the efficacy of postoperative antibiotic prophylaxis for the prevention of
      surgical-site infections.

      Antibiotics have been a critical public health tool since the discovery of penicillin in
      1928, saving the lives of millions of people around the world. Today, however, the emergence
      of drug resistance in bacteria is reversing the miracles of the past eighty years, with drug
      choices for the treatment of many bacterial infections becoming increasingly limited,
      expensive, and, in some cases, nonexistent. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      (CDC) estimates that drug-resistant bacteria cause two million illnesses and approximately
      23,000 deaths each year in the United States alone. The Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) estimates that drug-resistant bacteria cause two million illnesses and
      approximately 23,000 deaths each year in the United States alone
      (https://www.cdc.gov/drugresistance/). The National Action Plan for Combating
      Antibiotic-resistant Bacteria provides a roadmap to guide the Nation in rising to this
      challenge. Developed in response to Executive Order 13676: Combating Antibiotic-Resistant
      Bacteria - issued by President Barack Obama on September 18, 2014 - the National Action Plan
      outlines steps for implementing the National Strategy for Combating Antibiotic-Resistant
      Bacteria and addressing the policy recommendations with regard to antibiotic stewardship as
      outlined by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST). One of the
      goals of the National Action Plan is the implementation of evidence-based infection control
      practices can prevent the spread of resistant pathogens and questions the way surgeons use
      prophylactic antibiotics in the preoperative period.

      The scientific rationale for antibiotic prophylaxis is to inhibit or eliminate contaminating
      microorganisms that gain access to the surgical site during the procedure. Thus, the goal of
      administering preoperative antibiotics is to allow for adequate tissue (blood, soft tissue,
      and bone) concentrations by the time of incision. Thus, these antibiotics should exceed the
      minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for the organisms most likely to be encountered for
      the duration of the operation. While the role of perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis is well
      established, controversy exists about best clinical practice guidelines with regard to
      antibiotic regimen and route of administration. The results of the proposed study will be
      used to establish a clinical practice guidelines for antimicrobial prophylaxis in elective
      total joint arthroplasty.
    
  