
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib when administered in combination with
           fluorouracil and external beam radiotherapy as preoperative or palliative treatment in
           patients with stage II-IV rectal adenocarcinoma.

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxicities of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the dose-effect relationship of bortezomib on NF-kappa B activation induced by
           chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Determine downstream events induced by NF-kappa B activation.

        -  Determine downstream events related to activation of p53 in response to treatment with
           chemoradiotherapy and bortezomib.

        -  Determine the rate of complete pathologic remission in patients who undergo surgical
           resection of their primary tumor.

        -  Determine the gene expression pattern of tumors by cDNA microarray analysis before and
           during treatment with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of bortezomib.

      Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25, 29, and 32 and fluorouracil IV
      continuously on days 2-38. Patients also undergo external beam radiotherapy 5 days a week for
      5½ weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bortezomib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients undergo tissue biopsy at baseline and on days 1 and 2. Samples are collected and
      evaluated by tissue microarray analysis for NF-kappa B pathway activation; cDNA analysis,
      RNase protection assay, and immunohistochemistry for analysis of downstream events induced by
      NF-kappa B activation; and modified TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end label for analysis of
      apoptosis by DNA fragmentation. NF-kappa B subunits are quantified by enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assay. Serum samples are collected at baseline and stored for future studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 2 years.
    
  