
    
      The long-range goal of my research is to test PED-based cessation interventions that are
      readily translated into practice in large, multi-center trials. However, before this can
      occur, preliminary data are needed, including analyses of: (1) the types of cessation
      intervention components that low-income parental smokers regard as essential to their
      cessation success; (2) perceived organizational barriers to the sustainability of the
      intervention after the study period ends which will impede translation into practice; (3)
      factors associated with parental cessation outcomes such as the presence of an acute
      SHSe-related chief complaint in the child; and (4) the effect size of the intervention. This
      data will be used to develop a parental cessation intervention that is tailored to low-income
      parents who are likely to quit. Data from the proposed project will be used in a RO1
      application to test the efficacy of this cessation intervention in a large, multi-center
      randomized trial.

      The proposed developmental study will be conducted in three phases. During Phase I, the
      investigators will conduct focused interviews of PED nurses, physicians, and hospital
      administrators to explore barriers to intervention sustainability that will assist in future
      intervention planning. During Phase II, The investigators will conduct a pilot prospective
      trial to examine the effectiveness of this screening, brief intervention, and assisted
      referral to treatment (SBIRT) intervention on parental smoking cessation. Equal numbers of
      parental smokers who bring their child to the PED for either a SHSe-related illness or non
      SHSe-related illness will be given a brief intervention using an adapted form of the Clinical
      Practice Guidelines: Treating Tobacco Use and Dependence. Intervention components may include
      brief cessation counseling using an "Advise, Assess, and Assist" approach; information on
      SHSe in children; direct connection to the Quitline (QL) in the ED; and/or free
      administration of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT). The Health Belief Model will be used to
      explore whether factors unique to this setting (e.g., child's acute illness) moderate the
      effect of the intervention on cessation outcomes. Outcomes will be assessed following the
      intervention via phone, email, or text messaging, based on parental preference. In Phase III
      we will explore the feasibility of a pilot study to collect, send, analyze, and store child
      saliva samples in twenty five children whose parents consent to the study. The same PED-based
      SBIRT cessation intervention will be given to these parental smokers as in Specific Aim 2,
      however, only English-speaking parents and parents of children who are 0-5 years of age who
      present to the PED with SHSe-related illnesses will be asked if they agree to have their
      child participate in this baseline and then 1-month after baseline, saliva sample collection.
      These saliva samples will be analyzed to assess child cotinine levels at baseline and again
      at 1 month after the SBIRT cessation intervention. Leftover saliva will be stored and frozen
      indefinitely for possible future research, if parents consent.
    
  