
    
      The clinical problem list is a cornerstone of the problem-oriented medical record. Problem
      lists are used in a variety of ways throughout the process of clinical care. In addition to
      its use by clinicians, the problem list is also critical for decision support and quality
      measurement.

      Patients with gaps in their problem list face significant risks. For example, if a
      hypothetical patient has diabetes properly documented, his clinician would receive
      appropriate alerts and reminders to guide care. Additionally, the patient might be included
      in special care management programs and the quality of care provided to him would be measured
      and tracked. Without diabetes on his problem list, he might receive none of these benefits.

      In this study, the investigators developed an clinical decision support intervention that
      will identify patients with problem lists gaps. The investigators will alert providers of
      these likely gaps and offer providers the opportunity to correct them.

      In the first aim, the investigators will design and validate a series of problem inference
      algorithms, using rule-based techniques on structured data in the electronic health record
      (EHR) and natural language processing on unstructured data. Both of these techniques will
      yield candidate problems that the patient is likely to have, and the results will be
      integrated. In Aim 2, the investigators will design clinical decision support interventions
      in the EHRs of the four study sites to alert physicians when a candidate problem is detected
      that is missing from the patient's problem list - the clinician will then be able to accept
      the alert and add the problem, override the alert, or ignore it entirely. In Aim 3, the
      investigators will conduct a randomized trial and evaluate the effect of the problem list
      alert on three endpoints: alert acceptance, problem list addition rate and clinical quality.
    
  