
    
      Patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) have associated atherosclerotic renal and
      cerebral disease making these organs especially vulnerable to ischemia during open heart
      surgery. At the Heart Center at Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen the investigators perform more
      than 1000 open heart surgery operations yearly. The primary indication is CAD with or without
      associated valvular disease.

      Surgical treatment of patients with CAD is performed as coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG) or off- pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB). CABG requires the use of
      extracorporeal circulation, while this is not the case for OPCAB.

      During extracorporeal circulation the heart is arrested and anticoagulated. Blood is exposed
      to artificial surfaces and mechanical stress potentially resulting in increased risk of a
      systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), arterial emboli and organ hypoperfusion with
      the potential for multi organ failure.

      The 30-day mortality following elective CABG is 1-2%, increasing to 7% if associated with
      valve surgery. The elderly patients with reduced renal function and more concomitant disease
      have a 30-day mortality as high as 20%. Patients dying following open heart surgery often
      have severe heart failure including cardiogenic shock, occlusion of grafts or native coronary
      arteries, renal failure, stroke/transient ischemic attack and severe inflammation prior to
      death.

      The incidence of renal failure requiring dialysis is dependent on renal function prior to
      surgery. With more elderly patients having surgery this incidence is increasing. Renal
      failure is often seen in conjunction with progression of heart failure or development of new
      onset heart failure. Factors associated with brain involvement in cardiac surgery are macro
      embolism, systemic hypotension, systemic venous hypertension and maldistribution of cerebral
      blood flow. The incidence of postoperative cognitive deficits are above 50% depending on when
      this is measured. After 12 months the figure is approximately 30%. Known factors associated
      with cognitive deficits are age and duration of bypass, however type of surgery (valve
      insertion), temperature, equipment (oxygenators, filters) and techniques of de-airing may be
      important. For the neuropsychological deficits micro embolism, altered brain flow and a
      systemic inflammatory response are probably involved. The incidence of these complications
      during OPCAB is unknown, but expected to be slightly lower.

      Many pharmacological interventions have been tested in order to protect the brain during
      surgery with varying degree of success (Ketamine vs. Remifentanil, Glucose, insulin,
      potassium solution; Platelet activate factor antagonist; Piracetam; Lidocaine; Ramacemide;
      Clomethiozole. None of these has made it into clinical practice.

      Glucagon-like-peptide-1 agonist - Background Exenatide has been proven effective in reducing
      infarct size in a model of acute myocardial infarcts and reperfusion in swine. Several animal
      studies and some clinical studies have been published demonstrating a beneficial effect of
      glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogs in the treatment of various degenerative neurological
      diseases. The fact that type-2 diabetes has been shown to be associated with the development
      of the development of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease has lead to the hypothesis
      that insulin signaling impairment could be involved in the disease process. By the
      introduction of incretins such as GLP-1 analogs as treatments options in type-2 diabetes,
      increased awareness of potential role in the amelioration of symptoms associated with
      neurodegenerative diseases have emerged. In fact GLP-1 analogs have beneficial effects on
      memory formation and on synaptic plasticity in the brain in animal models, and prevent
      detrimental effects of β-amyloid in a rat model. Clinical studies have yet to prove these
      associations in humans. In addition it is well known that GLP-1 and analogs crosses the
      blood-brain barrier. Regarding ischemic injury in stroke models GLP-1 analogs have also drawn
      some attention. Exenatide (also known as exentide-4) infused after focal brain ischemia has
      been shown to reduce infarct volume in mice.

      In clinical testing in humans a recent randomized clinical study investigated the effect of
      Exendin-4 (Exenatide) on final infarct size in myocardial infarction. Patients receiving
      Exenatide tended to have a lower final infarct size and a larger salvage index evaluated by
      cardiac magnetic resonance 3 months following index event. These findings have been confirmed
      in later trials. Importantly the investigational drug was administered in acutely ill
      patients, receiving acute revascularization for acute myocardial infarction, with no
      increased risk of adverse events, and no excess adverse events including hypoglycemia or
      pancreatitis were reported.

      Restrictive vs. liberal oxygen administration during weaning from circulatory by-pass -
      Background Weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass is a process completing the cardiac surgery
      procedure, during which, the heart has been stopped, and the function of the heart and lungs
      has been substituted by an extracorporeal blood pump and oxygenator. After completion of the
      surgical procedure the heart is allowed to start beating, and will gradually take over the
      function of the extracorporeal by-pass. Also the patient ventilated. During this process is
      standard procedure to administer 100% FiO2 during the weaning process to ensure sufficient
      oxygen supply to the heart and other organs. The FiO2 is often reduced according to the
      patients needs during transfer to the intensive care unit.

      This study hypothesize that a FiO2 of 50% is superior to the standard FiO2 of 100% in
      reducing the incidence of the primary and secondary endpoints as described below, based on
      the following background data.

      Preclinical data suggest that hyperoxia increase cerebral damage and neurological dysfunction
      following brain ischemia. Most data originates from cardiac arrest models in which a no-flow
      state is induced and cerebral injury or neurological dysfunction is assessed. Fairly small
      randomized controlled trials (RCT's) in humans have found increased levels of neuron-specific
      enolase (NSE) but not S-100B in patients randomized to FiO2=100% compared to FiO2=30%.

      Hyperoxia during and after ischemia has been investigated in several settings, and a final
      consensus of its benefits and hazards has yet to be established. In the following the term
      hyperoxia is used in situations where the FiO2 is increased to levels above 50% for
      simplicity.

      Hyperoxia may increase the risk of developing lung injury (hyperoxia-induced lung injury -
      HALI), which carries a high morbidity and mortality. However, this condition seems to require
      several days of extremely high FiO2 to be significant and various ventilation modes may have
      a significant impact as well. The risk of HALI associated with shorter periods of hyperoxia
      seems small.

      Ischemia reperfusion injury has been investigated in smaller studies only in relation to
      circulatory bypass with no significant impact on magnitude of increase in biomarkers related
      to cardiac injury according to a review by. Oxygen administration during transport for
      primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients with ST segment myocardial
      infarction has recently been associated with increased release of creatinine kinasis and
      larger final infarcts size on cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). The impact of shorter
      courses of oxygen supplement during weaning from circulatory bypass has yet to be
      investigated. A direct influence of hyperoxia with an increase in systemic vascular
      resistance has also been suggested, and hyperoxia may not be associated with improved tissue
      oxygenation, while the clinical effects of this finding remain to be understood.

      A recent systematic review and metaanalysis suggested that the risk of surgical site
      infections may be reduced with hyperoxia. However, a larger RCT in abdominal surgery found an
      increased mortality with hyperoxia, in particular in patients undergoing surgery for
      malignancies.

      In summary, hyperoxia may reduce risks associated with surgery with regards to surgical site
      infections and possibly reperfusion injury, whereas the effects on overall benefit in term of
      mortality may be detrimental. Further research is needed, and for the time being an equipoise
      with regards to the benefits of hyperoxia when weaning patients from circulatory bypass
      exits. Most patients will require some degree of oxygen supplement when lungs are ventilated
      after apnea during circulatory bypass, hence this study pragmatically studies a restrictive
      (FiO2=50%) vs. a liberal oxygenation strategy (FiO2=100%)

      Following open heart surgery damage to brain, kidneys and the myocardium is frequently seen
      due to organ ischemia. Animal experiments as well as small human studies suggest that a GLP-1
      agonist may be able to reduce ischemic damage. Currently, there is no protective treatment
      available.

      A GLP-1 agonist has the potential to protect the brain, the kidneys and the heart during open
      heart surgery. The treatment can easily be administered for a short time to a large
      population at risk. Thus, a large scale randomized study testing the efficacy of a GLP-1
      agonist against placebo can conclusively determine if patients will benefit from this
      treatment given pre-operatively.

      Restrictive vs. liberal oxygenation during weaning from circulatory bypass has not been
      tested in clinical trails and as seen above an equipoise for assessing the net clinical
      benefit of these strategies exists.

      Clinical Hypothesis

        1. A GLP-1 agonist started pre-operatively to patients undergoing coronary artery bypass
           grafting will reduce mortality and morbidity due to damage to the heart, brain and
           kidneys.

        2. Restrictive oxygenation (FiO2=50%) during weaning from circulatory bypass during the
           surgical procedure will reduce mortality and morbidity due to damage to the heart, brain
           and kidneys as well as reduce significant surgical site infection (requiring surgical
           debridement and/or prolonging hospitalization) compared to liberal oxygenation
           (FiO2=100%).
    
  