
    
      Femoral artery has been traditionally used as a standard route for coronary angiography (CAG)
      and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Recently, the frequency of use of transradial
      approach (TRA) is increasing. TRA has several advantages in terms of more comfortable
      feeling, immediate ambulation, less bleeding complication and decreased mortality rate
      compared to transfemoral approach (TFA). 2015 ESC guidelines recommend to use of radial
      artery in order to reduce bleeding complication and mortality. But, most operators tend to
      prefer right radial approach (RRA) for the access route, because they are usually
      right-handed and feel more comfortable in the use of right radial artery. Particularly when
      the patient is obese or the operator's height is short or has a herniated disc on neck or
      waist, the discomfort may become greater.

      In other hand, left radial approach (LRA) have several advantages. Left brachial artery or
      subclavian artery is less tortuous than right side. The manipulation of catheter is similar
      with femoral approach. Also, since most patients are right-handed, compression after LRA
      leads to greater comfort for the patient.

      In comparison to the convenience of the patient and procedure, comparative studies on
      clinical outcomes showed similar results for both RRA and LRA. But LRA may be more at risk
      for radiation. This is because the operator has to lean more toward the patient for the
      procedure, which can result in increased radiation exposure.

      Recently, the left distal radial artery approach (ldTRA) has been introduced as an
      alternative to feasibility and safety while satisfying both patient and operator convenience.
      The left palm is positioned facing the floor at the left groin. Left distal radial artery is
      punctured at the level of anatomical snuffbox. Ferdinand Kiemeneij reported that CAG and PCI
      were successfully performed in 70 patients.

      There are no nerve and vein in the anatomical snuffbox. And distal radial artery is located
      at superficial area. So, there may be potential advantage to reduce bleeding complication and
      nerve injury. Moreover, ldTRA can be an alternative method for the patient requiring
      arteriovenous fistula and for the patient preparing coronary artery bypass graft because
      there is no injury of left radial artery.

      The patients have potential bleeding risk because dual antiplatelet agents (aspirin 300mg and
      clopidogrel 300mg) and more than 3,000 units of unfractionated heparin should be loaded for
      CAG and PCI. The effective hemostasis method has not yet been established after ldTRA.
      Therefore, it is important to establish effective hemostasis method and timing. However, like
      TRA, ldTRA requires a learning curve to be mastered, and it cannot be performed if the pulse
      is not palpable. There are few studies related to ldTRA. The purpose of this prospective
      observational study is to assess the feasibility and safety of the ldTRA for CAG and PCI.
    
  