
    
      Patients Seven patients, three men; aged 21-50 years; average (std) 36.67 (±14.64), and four
      women; aged 28-46 years; average: 35.25 (±8.14), suffering from treatment-refractory
      obsessive compulsive disorder participated in this study. All patients scored 30 or higher in
      the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS). They were considered as candidates to DBS
      for OCD by two independent psychiatrists. An independent psychiatric surgery committee
      composed of one neurosurgeon, one psychiatrist and one legal medicine expert agreed surgery
      indication was appropriate. All patients provided written informed consent. The study had
      approval from the Hospital Clínico San Carlos ethics committee.

      Pre-surgical Neuroimaging Before surgery, all patients underwent 3T Siemens TRIO system
      (Siemens, Erlangen, Germany) MRI scanning. Patients also performed an OCD symptom provocation
      task during fMRI scanning using modified version of the MOCSS (Maudsley Obsessive-Compulsive
      Stimuli Set). During scanning, patients were presented with pictures of 4 classes of
      provocative stimuli, 50 of each type: 1) contamination/washing, 2) checking, 3) hoarding, 4)
      symmetry/order. The study comprised 4 'blocks' pertaining to the 4 classes of provocative
      stimuli. Each block consisted of ten 20-s alternating epochs in which subjects viewed either
      10 provocative or 10 neutral pictures (see Supplementary material for a full description).
      Post-operative computed tomography (CT) scanning was used to determine correct electrode
      positioning.

      Neurosurgical procedure The target was selected for the distal electrode contact (contact
      zero) to be placed at the NAcc close to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis: 1.5 mm
      rostral to the anterior border of the anterior commissure, 4 mm ventral to the AC-PC line and
      7 mm lateral to the mid-sagittal plane. Then, the striatum was segmented using the
      deterministic DTI projections of the three subdivisions of the prefrontal cortex
      (ventromedial vmPFC, orbitofrontal OFC, dorsolateral DLPFC) plus the anterior cingulate
      cortex (ACC). A trajectory was planned for placing the rest of the contacts of a Medtronic
      Model 3391 stimulating macroelectrode at several points along the striatum avoiding the
      ventricles in such a way that each of the electrode contacts (contacts 1, 2, and 3) was
      closest to each segment of the striatum corresponding to OFC, DLPFC and ACC.

      Deep-Brain Stimulation Protocol After surgery, a random sequence of contact activations (0
      [Nacc],1,2 and 3), including sham (-), was generated for each patient. Each contact was
      activated using 130 Hz, 60 ms, and 4.5 V for three months (the sham activation was 0 V)
      following the patient's individual sequence, separated by one month of washout with the
      generator turned off

      The study meets a double-blind, longitudinal design. Stimulation contact was set following a
      random series known only by the neurosurgeon, with patient, psychiatry and neuropsychology
      teams blind. Psychiatric assessment was conducted each month, and neuropsychological testing
      was performed after each activation and washout period

      Symptom-provocation fMRI analysis Functional imaging data were analyzed using statistical
      parametric mapping (SPM12; http://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/spm) employing an epoch-related
      model. The main symptom(s) for each patient was defined and used to construct a contrast of
      responses to provocation vs. neutral pictures. The ensuing contrasts were masked with an
      inclusive prefrontal mask and the statistical parametric map thresholded at P < 0.001
      uncorrected. Cluster extent was defined using AlphaSIM (threshold P < 0.05). Note that due to
      weak responses during symptom activation in patients 4 and 6, the SPMs for these patients
      were first thresholded at P < 0.01 and 0.005 uncorrected, respectively. After the clinical
      protocol had ended, the projections to the cortical activated areas on the MOCSS for each
      patient in their main symptomatic dimension from the striatum were calculated using
      probabilistic tractography. The connectivity between each of the contacts and the fMRI
      activations was calculated as the number of fibers of the projection of each contact (sphere
      of diameter 4 mm around the contact) to the cortical activated areas.
    
  