
    
      Currently, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART) is widely prescribed as an initial therapy for treatment naïve
      HIV-infected patients, particularly in many resource-constrained countries. However, in
      patients who have delayed detection of treatment failure in this setting, the virus is often
      resistant to most existing nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) and NNRTIs
      even failing from the first regimen. As a consequence, constructing the potent salvage
      regimens that combined 2 or 3 fully active drugs from existing drug classes is often
      impossible in many resource-constrained countries where new agents, such as integrase
      inhibitor and chemokine receptor antagonist, are neither available nor affordable.
      Nevertheless, the goal of attaining undetectable plasma HIV-1 RNA is remain mandatory. To
      date, several clinical studies derived from the western countries that included 2 or more
      active drugs clearly demonstrate effective therapeutic strategies for antiretroviral
      (ARV)-experienced HIV-1 infected patients. Hence, using ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor
      in a salvage therapy was considered to be an option in the resource-constrained countries and
      the limitations of remaining active NRTIs usually lead to ritonavir-boosted protease
      inhibitor monotherapy as a salvage regimen.

      Among several previous reports using ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor, ritonavir-boosted
      lopinavir monotherapy has been extensively studied so far. Different strategies of
      ritonavir-boosted lopinavir monotherapy have been explored; however, most related clinical
      trials studied this regimen as either a treatment simplification strategy or induction
      therapy in treatment-naïve patients. A strategy to use ritonavir-boosted lopinavir
      monotherapy as a salvage regimen is not available. On the other hand, previous studies showed
      that continuation of lamivudine after emerging of the M184V mutation had somewhat benefit on
      immunological response and clinical progression in patients who had limited options of
      salvage regimens. Moreover, there is neither additional any other mutation nor increase
      resistance to other antiretroviral drugs. Thus, this is the reason why we added lamivudine to
      decrease viral fitness in the study regimen. The objective of this study was to assess
      48-week treatment responses, tolerability, and steady-state minimum plasma concentrations of
      ritonavir-boosted lopinavir monotherapy for salvage therapy in HIV-1 infected patients who
      failed antiretroviral regimens containing NRTI and NNRTI.
    
  