
    
      60 Immunoglobulin E-mediated CMA children, consecutively observed at tertiary Centers for
      Food Allergy, who will meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to participate to the
      study. Anamnestic, demographic, anthropometric and clinical data, as well as information on
      socio-demographic factors, family and living conditions, parental history of allergic
      diseases, number of siblings, and pet ownership will be obtained from the parents of each
      infant and recorded in a clinical database.

      Then in all subjects an oral food challenge with EHCF + LGG will be performed. Only subjects
      with negative oral food challenge will be randomly allocated to one of the two groups of
      dietary interventions for a 12 months follow up period: group 1 received AAF , and group 2
      received EHCF + LGG.

      Effective use of the formula will be evaluated during the study by dieticians counselling
      parents about issues that could arise during the elimination diet. Parents or caregivers will
      be asked to keep a daily record of formula use. The amount prepared (millimetres of water and
      number of formula spoons) and amount left after each consumption will be recorded in a diary
      to assess the amount consumed by the child.

      At enrolment, after 6 and 12 months body growth will be assessed by body weight, body length
      and head circumference measured at enrolment, after 6 and 12 months of follow-up with
      reference to growth charts. Unscheduled visits will be made if necessary.

      In addition at enrolment, after 6 and 12 months, the investigators will perform:

        1. All Oral food challenge procedures will be performed in double blind fashion in 2
           consecutive days. Full emergency equipment and drugs (epinephrine, antihistamines,
           steroids) will be at hand. The challenge will be stopped upon the appearance of clinical
           symptoms or when the highest dose will be reached. The child will be observed for 2 h,
           and then discharged.

        2. Skin prick test (whole milk, casein, α-lactalbumin, β-lactoglobulin): allergens and
           fresh milk will be applied to the patients volar forearm: cow's milk (CM) containing
           3.5% fat. Skin prick tests were performed using a 1-mm single peak lancet (ALK,
           Copenhagen, Denmark), with histamine dihydrochloride (10 mg/ml) and isotonic saline
           solution (NaCl 0.9%) as positive and negative control, respectively. Reactions will be
           recorded on the basis of the largest diameter (in millimetres) of the wheal and flare at
           15 min. The SPT result will be considered "positive" if the wheal was 3 mm or larger,
           without reaction of the negative control.

        3. Total IgE and specific IgE and Immunoglobulin G 4 against proteins and epitopes of cow's
           milk: we will perform a venous blood sample; serum of the patients will be collected
           using tube serum separator tubes and was obtained by centrifugation for 10-15 minutes.
           Serum will be flash frozen and stored at -80 °C until further analysis. From serum,
           total IgE and specific IgE and IgG4 against proteins and epitopes of cow's milk will be
           analyzed with enzymatic immunoassay.

        4. Gut microbiota composition: a stool sample will be collect and immediately frozen to
           -80°C and stored until further analysis. Total genomic DNA (gDNA) will be isolated from
           fecal material using a specific DNA. Isolation kit and gut microbiota composition will
           be analysed using an approach for bacteria and an internal transcribed spacer region
           sequencing approach (High-throughput sequencing).

        5. Short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) fecal and serum production: a stool sample and serum
           will be collect. One gram of fecal samples will be weighed, diluted 1:2 in sterile
           phosphate-buffered saline solution, and homogenized. Supernatants will be then obtained
           by centrifugation (10 000g, 30 minutes, 4°C), filtered through 0.2-μm filters and stored
           at -80°C until analysis. Serum of the patients will be collected using tube serum
           separator tubes and was obtained by centrifugation for 10-15 minutes. Serum will be
           flash frozen and stored at -80 °C until further analysis. Analysis of SCFAs will be
           performed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (MS) to measure the concentrations
           of acetic, propionic, and butyric acid in fecal samples.

        6. Serum level of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-10, interferon (IFN)-γ: we will
           perform a venous blood sample; serum of the patients will be collected using tube serum
           separator tubes and was obtained by centrifugation for 10-15 minutes. Serum will be
           flash frozen and stored at -80 °C. From serum, IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-10, IFN-γ will be
           determined by ELISA (specific kit for each cytokine).

        7. Methylation status of the promoter region of genes involved in IgE-mediated allergy,
           IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-10 and IFN-γ and of FoxP3+: Venous blood will be obtained from the
           patients and DNA will be extracted from leukocytes using DNA Extraction Kit. Extracted
           DNA will be modified with sodium bisulfite using the Methylation Gold Kit (ZYMO Research
           Co.) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The converted DNA will be stored at
           -70°C until used. Methylation analyses will be performed using High resolution melting
           Real Time (LightCycler® 480, Roche Applied Science). The results will be confirmed by
           direct sequencing (Sanger method modified: ddNTPs labeled with four different
           fluorophores).
    
  