
    
      Automated insulin delivery (AID) technologies hold the promise of optimizing glycemic control
      and reducing the burden of diabetes care for patients with Type 1 Diabetes (T1D). However,
      clinical trials of lower burden AID technologies have not included older adults in sufficient
      numbers to allow for focused evaluation of efficacy and quality of life (QOL) impacts that
      may differ from those observed in younger age groups. Most notably, primary endpoints have
      focused on reducing hyperglycemia, while avoidance of hypoglycemia is of upmost concern for
      older adults with T1D. T1D Exchange clinic registry data have shown severe hypoglycemia (SH)
      occurs more commonly in older adults with longstanding T1D than in younger individuals with
      events occurring just as often with HbA1c levels >8.0% as with HbA1c levels <7.0%. These data
      do not support the strategy of "raising the HbA1c" as being an effective approach for
      hypoglycemia prevention in older adults with T1D. In addition to acutely altered mental
      status, hypoglycemia is associated with an increased risk for falls leading to fractures, car
      accidents, emergency room (ER) visits, hospitalizations, and mortality resulting in
      substantial societal costs. The occurrence of hypoglycemia, hypoglycemia unawareness and fear
      of hypoglycemia have adverse effects on overall QOL of both individuals with T1D and their
      families.

      While continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) technology alone has the potential to be beneficial
      in reducing hypoglycemia in older patients, our preliminary data from the Wireless
      Innovations for Seniors with Diabetes Mellitus (WISDM) trial shows a majority of patients
      still have frequent hypoglycemia even when using CGM. Thus, knowledge of CGM alone may not be
      sufficient to avoid hypoglycemia in this population. Predictive low-glucose suspend
      algorithms have particular promise when the primary goal is hypoglycemia avoidance rather
      than glucose reduction. Whether the added complexity of closed loop systems provides
      additional glycemic benefit is not known. There is a critical need to determine whether
      automated insulin delivery can reduce hypoglycemia in the older adult population with T1D.
    
  