
    
      This is a Phase 2, proof of principle study that explores the therapeutic window between
      diagnosis and surgery in patients with early stage invasive TNBC not being candidates for
      neo-adjuvant chemotherapy.

      The presence of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) within the tumors of patients with
      early invasive TNBC has been associated with improved prognosis. The hypothesis of this study
      is that pre-operative SBRT with or without CpG (CMP-001), a toll-like receptor (TLR) 9
      agonist will induce an increase in sTILs in the tumor in patients with early invasive TNBC,
      which theoretically should improve those patients' prognosis.

      There is growing evidence indicating that radiotherapy (RT) induces massive release of
      tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) during cancer cell death. RT enhances tumor immunogenicity
      and increases the presence of effector immune cells to the tumor site. It increases
      availability of tumor antigens and promotes antigen capture, cell migration to the lymph
      nodes, polarization towards a tolerogenic or immunogenic phenotype or migration of
      lymphocytes into the tumor. Doses of around 8 Gy induce more important immune infiltration.

      SBRT is a precise technique of irradiation within the tumor permiting high dose delivery in a
      safe manner with tight margins. In our study, the irradiated tissue will then be removed by
      surgery, allowing for standard of care irradiation to be administered postoperatively.
      However, the preoperative SBRT on the tumor might increase intratumoral or stromal TILs'
      presence.

      CMP-001 has already been shown to increase CD8+ T cell intratumoral infiltration in early
      clinical data, and ongoing data of a phase Ib clinical trial combining intratumoral (IT)
      injections of CMP-001 (3-10 mg) in melanoma lesions with Pembrolizumab show rapid abscopal
      responses in other skin lesions after 3 injections. The combination of IT CMP-001 and SBRT,
      through increased TAA release and immunologic enhancement due to the TLR9 agonist, might
      ultimately result in a clinically meaningful " in-situ vaccination " effect through
      enhancement of the host's antitumor immunity, promoting immune eradication of micrometastatic
      disease. The TNBC population is prone to micrometastatic disease, even at early stages;
      therefore any of these experimental treatments might result in increased TILs' infiltration,
      which theoretically would bring potential benefits in distant control of the disease and
      overall survival improvements.
    
  