
    
      Depression is the most common neuropsychiatric manifestation following stroke and current
      treatments are largely ineffective. Depression has both direct and indirect effects on
      response to rehabilitation, thus subjects with post-stroke depression (PSD) are routinely
      excluded from clinical trials and treatment options are extremely limited. The investigators
      propose to determine the impact of a novel, high-intensity resistance training program,
      Post-stroke Optimization of Walking using Explosive Resistance (POWER) training, on
      post-stroke depressive symptoms. Further, the investiators will determine if depression
      limits training-induced improvements in muscular and locomotor function. This project is
      based on the premise that depression negatively affects the potential for neuroplastic
      changes to occur in response to treatment such that rehabilitation may not produce the same
      adaptations that it does in non-depressed individuals. The investigators propose that
      effective treatment for PSD would result in a virtuous cycle where reducing depression
      enhances neuroplastic changes, thereby facilitating functional gains. That is, effectively
      treating depression will make the individual better able to recover from stroke. Furthermore,
      in addition to its beneficial effects on depression, POWER training is known to improve
      post-stroke walking, thus providing an attractive option for treating depression as well as
      an established vehicle to study the effects of PSD on response to rehabilitation. The
      experiments proposed as part of this project are designed to address critical questions
      related to 1) the effects of POWER training on depressive symptoms; 2) the potential for PSD
      to limit improvements following training; and 3) the interaction between improvements in
      depression and increases in walking function. Successful completion of this project will
      provide a foundation for larger scale trials to determine dosing parameters as well as
      establish therapeutic effectiveness of POWER training on post-stroke depression as well as
      identify the mechanisms that may be responsible for the changes that occur in response to
      treatment.
    
  