
    
      The prospective randomized double blind study comprised 152 women who presented for the
      correction of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) in conjunction with anterior compartment
      pelvic organ prolapse stage II-III (POP-Q II-III) at the Departments of Obstetrics and
      Gynecology at the University of Szeged, Hungary, between June of 2016 and June 2017. After a
      block randomization method, the patients will divide into two arms, the study group which
      consist of 76 patients will undergo modified trans vaginal mesh operation (TVM), the rest 76
      patients as a control group will undergo a traditional TVM operation. Inclusion criteria in
      the study is coexisting SUI and POP Q St II-III and signature of the informed consent. The
      exclusion criteria are as follows: urge, mixed or neurogenic incontinence, occult SUI,
      previous mesh operations, anti-depressive medical therapy, cancer of the pelvic organs,
      urinary infections, any sign of voiding difficulties. The transobturator TVM operation
      (Sergent et al.) has been modofied by inserting a stabilizing suture, which fixing the
      anterior edge of the mesh to the para-urethral tissues at the level of the mid-urethra with
      two non-resolvable anchoring stitches thereby promoting the proper elevation and closure of
      the urethra. The hypothesis is the stabilizing suture treat the coexisting SUI as well. In
      all cases, urodynamic examinations were carried out before the surgery and urodynamic
      examinations comprising uroflowmetry, cystography and Valsalva leak point pressure tests and
      pelvic floor ultrasonography will be performed to determine the coexisting SUI. The efficacy
      of the POP repair is taken as a significant (>1 cm) improvement at points Aa, Ba, C and D
      according to the POP-Q system (International Continence Society) during the follow-up. The
      anti-incontinence efficacy is classified as no further SUI diagnosed by urodynamic
      examination and pelvic floor sonography. All patients will fill two validated Hungarian
      language questionnaires as "A short form of the Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence
      Sexual Questionnaire" (PISQ-12) and "Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory" PFDI. After a one-year
      application phase all patients will be followed for 36 months. During follow- up phase
      repeated urodynamic studies, pelvic floor sonography urine culturing will be done after 3,
      12, 24 and 36 months. The evaluation of the POP-Q system and Bonney's cough test and the
      PISQ-12 and PFDI questionnaires will be performed at every regular check-ups
    
  