
    
      1. Participants will be recruited from the Clare Foundation (CLARE|MATRIX), where they will
           be residing in a residential substance use disorder program. Potential participants
           recently admitted with stimulant use disorder will be given a flyer/research information
           sheet describing the study when they are admitted to the study. Interested parties will
           sign their name on the sheet to indicate their interest, and will meet with a UCLA
           research associate at Clare to discuss details of the protocol and undergo initial
           screening following verbal consent. Initial screening involves a one page screening
           sheet and discussing the information sheet with the research associate at Clare.

        2. If participants remain eligible following initial screening, they will enroll in the
           study and the UCLA research associate will set up an in person screening to sign the
           informed consent form and undergo additional screening. After completing informed
           consent and going through the informed consent quiz, a Nurse Practitioner or physician
           will take a medical history, take a personal and family health profile, perform a
           physical examination (History & Physical). Participants who provide written consent will
           complete questionnaires about their mood, medical, psychiatric and drug use history,
           personality and life experiences. The screening visit will also include a psychiatric
           diagnostic interview (MINI International Neuropsychiatric Interview M.I.N.I) completed
           by a trained diagnostician. Participants will also give a urine sample to determine what
           drugs they have recently used, a breath sample to determine the carbon monoxide levels
           in their system. Participants will travel to UCLA to give a blood sample to assess
           complete blood count, metabolic panel, screening for infectious diseases (Hepatitis B
           and C, HIV, syphilis) and tests of kidney function and receive an ECG
           (electrocardiogram). After all screening procedures have been completed, a study
           physician will collect and review ECG and laboratory tests to determine eligibility.

        3. After completing all screening procedures, eligible participants will complete the
           following baseline assessments:

           A) Visit 1:

           i. Prior to completing cognitive tasks behavioral testing, participants will will have
           their blood drawn by a London laboratory phlebotomist or will visit the Clinical and
           Translational Research Center (CTRC), where a registered nurse will draw approximately
           40mL of blood. Blood samples will be assayed for genetic markers associated with smoking
           and stimulant use. The purpose of the genetic analysis is to examine the relationship
           between genetic polymorphisms, treatment outcomes, circulating study drug, and measures
           of cognitive function.

           The DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) samples acquired from this protocol will be added to a
           larger database of DNA samples collected from participants in London Laboratory
           protocols. DNA samples will be stored for future use other than the aims and goals of
           this study. Participants will not receive their results because our laboratory is only
           qualified for genetic analyses associated with research purposes and is not certified
           for clinical assessment of genetic information.

           This blood sample will also be used to determine follicular and luteal phase in female
           participants.

           ii. Urine toxicology: Participants will provide urine to assess recent use of drugs.

           iii. Cognitive/behavioral testing: Participants will complete some of the following
           tasks to assess inhibitory control and decision-making: Working memory (N-back test),
           declarative memory (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Task), sustained attention (Rapid
           Visual Information Processing), inhibitory control (Stop Signal Test) reward-based
           decision-making (Monetary Delay Discounting and Reversal Learning, BART [Balloon
           Analogue Risk Task], ART [Angling Risk Task]), and impulsive and risk taking behavior
           (BIS [Barratt Impulsiveness Scale], Willingness-to-wait task, Domain-Specific
           Risk-Taking (DOSPERT) Scale, UPPS-P Impulsive Behavior Scale, TCI [Temperament Character
           Inventory]), Loss Aversion, the Risk and Ambiguity Task, craving (Brief Meth Craving
           Questionnaire), mindfulness (Multidimensional Assessment of Interoceptive Awareness
           [MAIA], Mindful Attention Awareness Scale [MAAS], Body Perception Questionnaire Body
           Awareness Very Short Form [BPQ]), and withdrawal from cigarettes (Shiffman-Jarvik
           Withdrawal Scale) and amphetamines (Amphetamine Cessation Symptom Assessment [ASCA]).

        4. Participants in the active medication pool will be assigned to Contrave or Bupropion
           treatment based on timing of entry into the study (the London laboratory will initially
           assess Contrave effects). Participants assigned to the convenience control group will
           complete treatment as usual and will not take medication. The medication conditions will
           require that participants take capsules as instructed over the course of 8 weeks.
           Medications for the upcoming week will be dispensed at the beginning of each week. At
           the end of each week, the participants will meet with the study physician for a check-up
           to monitor potential adverse events. After the 8-wk regimen, participants will undergo
           repeat testing cognitive and behavioral tests as described in section 3.

           Study Intervention and Procedures:

           All participants will receive inpatient treatment as usual, including cognitive
           behavioral therapy. Within 10 days of entering treatment, participants in Group 1
           (Bupropion Group) will begin receiving daily extended-release oral bupropion (Wellbutrin
           XL) at a dose of 450 mg, which was well tolerated by individuals with methamphetamine
           use disorder in a prior study. The dose will be titrated: 150 mg on Days 1 and 2, 300 mg
           on Days 3 and 4, and 450 mg on Day 5. Dosing will continue for a total of 4 weeks during
           inpatient treatment, and thereafter for another month, with compliance monitored by
           smartphone. A reduction to 300 mg will permitted to alleviate medication-related adverse
           effects if they occur. Participants in Group 2 (Contrave Group) will begin receiving
           daily oral Contrave at a dose of 360 mg (Naltrexone HCl 32mg, Bupropion HCl 360mg),
           which was well tolerated by individuals in a prior study The dose will be titrated: 8
           mg/90 mg on Week 1, 16 mg/180 mg on Week 2, 24 mg/270 mg on Week 3 and 32 mg/360 mg on
           Week 4. Dosing will continue for a total of 4 weeks during inpatient treatment, and
           thereafter for another month, with compliance monitored by smartphone.

        5. After completing medication treatment (active) or treatment as usual (control),
           participants will complete the following assessments:

           A) Blood draw at UCLA in the final week of drug treatment - a blood sample will be taken
           to assess plasma levels of drug.

           B) Visit 2:

           i. Prior to completing cognitive tasks behavioral testing, participants will will have
           their blood drawn by a London laboratory phlebotomist or will visit the Clinical and
           Translational Research Center (CTRC), where a registered nurse will draw approximately
           40mL of blood. Blood samples will be assayed for genetic markers associated with smoking
           and stimulant use. The purpose of the genetic analysis is to examine the relationship
           between genetic polymorphisms, treatment outcomes, circulating study drug, and measures
           of cognitive function.

           The DNA samples acquired from this protocol will be added to a larger database of DNA
           samples collected from participants in London Laboratory protocols. DNA samples will be
           stored for future use other than the aims and goals of this study. Participants will not
           receive their results because our laboratory is only qualified for genetic analyses
           associated with research purposes and is not certified for clinical assessment of
           genetic information.

           This blood sample will also be used to determine follicular and luteal phase in female
           participants.

           ii. Urine toxicology: Participants will provide urine to assess recent use of drugs.

           iii. Cognitive/behavioral testing: Participants will complete some of the following
           tasks to assess inhibitory control and decision-making: Working memory (N-back test),
           declarative memory (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Task), sustained attention (Rapid
           Visual Information Processing), inhibitory control (Stop Signal Test) reward-based
           decision-making (Monetary Delay Discounting and Reversal Learning, BART, ART), and
           impulsive and risk taking behavior (BIS, Willingness-to-wait task, Domain-Specific
           Risk-Taking (DOSPERT) Scale, UPPS-P Impulsive Behavior Scale, TCI), Loss Aversion, the
           Risk and Ambiguity Task, craving (Brief Meth Craving Questionnaire), mindfulness
           (Multidimensional Assessment of Interoceptive Awareness [MAIA], Mindful Attention
           Awareness Scale [MAAS], Body Perception Questionnaire Body Awareness Very Short Form
           [BPQ]), and withdrawal from cigarettes (Shiffman-Jarvik Withdrawal Scale) and
           amphetamines (Amphetamine Cessation Symptom Assessment [ASCA]).

        6. Follow-up visit - 1 month after exiting inpatient treatment, participants will return to
           UCLA to complete follow-up procedures assessing cognitive function and stimulant use.

      A) Visit 3:

      i. Prior to completing cognitive tasks behavioral testing, participants will will have their
      blood drawn by a London laboratory phlebotomist or will visit the Clinical and Translational
      Research Center (CTRC), where a registered nurse will draw approximately 40mL of blood. Blood
      samples will be assayed for genetic markers associated with smoking and stimulant use. The
      purpose of the genetic analysis is to examine the relationship between genetic polymorphisms,
      treatment outcomes, circulating study drug, and measures of cognitive function.

      The DNA samples acquired from this protocol will be added to a larger database of DNA samples
      collected from participants in London Laboratory protocols. DNA samples will be stored for
      future use other than the aims and goals of this study. Participants will not receive their
      results because our laboratory is only qualified for genetic analyses associated with
      research purposes and is not certified for clinical assessment of genetic information.

      This blood sample will also be used to determine follicular and luteal phase in female
      participants.

      ii. Urine toxicology: Participants will provide urine to assess recent use of drugs.

      iii. Cognitive/behavioral testing: Participants will complete some of the following tasks to
      assess inhibitory control and decision-making: Working memory (N-back test), declarative
      memory (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Task), sustained attention (Rapid Visual Information
      Processing), inhibitory control (Stop Signal Test) reward-based decision-making (Monetary
      Delay Discounting and Reversal Learning, BART, ART), and impulsive and risk taking behavior
      (BIS, Willingness-to-wait task, Domain-Specific Risk-Taking (DOSPERT) Scale, UPPS-P Impulsive
      Behavior Scale, TCI), Loss Aversion, the Risk and Ambiguity Task, craving (Brief Meth Craving
      Questionnaire), mindfulness (Multidimensional Assessment of Interoceptive Awareness [MAIA],
      Mindful Attention Awareness Scale [MAAS], Body Perception Questionnaire Body Awareness Very
      Short Form [BPQ]), and withdrawal from cigarettes (Shiffman-Jarvik Withdrawal Scale) and
      amphetamines (Amphetamine Cessation Symptom Assessment [ASCA]).

      iv. Stimulant use measurements: Participants will complete timeline followback and
      self-report assessments of their recent stimulant use.
    
  