
    
      According to the 2011/12 National Survey of Children's Health, 14.6 million children in the
      U.S. have special health care needs (e.g., learning disability, ADD/ADHD, developmental
      delays, chronic mental or physical health conditions); CSHCN comprise between 14.4%-25.6% of
      the child population in the United States. Having a child with special health care needs
      (CSHCN) is associated with an increased risk of problems with emotional and physical health
      and social well-being. Parents of CSHCN are also at an increased risk for not being employed,
      financial stress, and poor healthrelated quality of life (HRQoL). There is growing literature
      on the increased levels of parental stress associated with caring for CSHCN. One study found
      that chronic stress, as measured by the duration of having a CSHCN, was associated with an
      increase in clinical aging, determined by telomeres (caps at the end of each strand of DNA
      that protect chromosomes during aging) sequences. A review article provides a comprehensive
      overview of the links between high levels of parental stress among parents of children with
      intellectual and developmental disabilities and child health and well-being. Furthermore, a
      recent study documented that parents of SSHCN feel socially isolated. Therefore, having a
      child with special health care needs (CSHCN) is associated with an increased risk of problems
      with emotional and physical health and social well-being. Parents of CSHCN are also at an
      increased risk for not being employed, financial stress, and poor health-related quality of
      life (HRQoL). There is growing literature on the increased levels of parental stress
      associated with caring for CSHCN, and a recent review article provides a comprehensive
      overview of the links between high levels of parental stress among parents of children with
      intellectual and developmental disabilities and child health and well-being.

      Resiliency is a multidimensional construct that refers to the ability to maintain adaptation
      and effective functioning when faced with stressors. Resiliency provides a framework for
      understanding the adjustment to stress as a dynamic process. Allostasis refers to the
      capacity to maintain stability of physiological systems in the face of adversity. When the
      exposed to chronic stressors, such as care for a CSHCN, individuals expend a great deal of
      energy attempting to maintain allostasis; this can lead to the metabolic wear and tear
      described as allostatic load. Evidence is accumulating that this wear and tear is mediated by
      changes in basal stress system activity and by effects of these changes on dependent systems.
      Allostatic load and resilience can therefore be assessed by measuring basal stress system
      activity (HPA axis and salivary alpha-amylase). Thus, research to reduce these parents'
      exposure to stress and, moreover, improve parental responses to stress, may improve the
      well-being of both parents and their children. Yet, a treatment focused on the psychosocial
      needs of parents of CSHCN has not been developed. Thus, research is warranted to examine and
      intervene upon parental stress.

      Through focus group interviews with expert clinicians, leaders of organizations, and parents
      with children with special needs, this study aims to identify the psychosocial needs of
      parents of children with learning disabilities, specifically a) the types of concerns that
      parents find most difficult and stressful b) areas of concern that lack support and
      resources, and c) areas of need for education and skill training. This study also aims to
      gather feedback on the Benson-Henry Institute's Relaxation Response Resiliency Program (3RP)
      to advance our next objective to develop a resiliency intervention to provide support to
      parents of children with learning disabilities. This study aims to evaluate the virtual 3RP
      for Parents of SPLD in a wait-list control trial and determine a) its feasibility and
      acceptability and b) its effectiveness at decreasing stress and stress reactivity.
    
  