
    
      Today, an increasing number of patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) is treated with
      (on-line) hemodiafiltration (HDF). This practice is based on the assumption that the high
      incidence of cardiovascular (CV) disease, as observed in patients with CRF, is at least
      partially related to the retention of uremic toxins in the middle and large-middle molecular
      (MM) range. As HDF lowers these molecules more effectively than HD, it has been suggested
      that this treatment improves CV outcome, if compared to standard HD.

      Thus far, no definite data on the effects of HDF on CV parameters and/or clinical end-points
      are available. Promising data include a reduction of left ventricular mass index (LVMi) after
      one year of treatment with acetate free bio-filtration (AFB). Furthermore, relatively high
      survival rates were reported in a single center non-experimental study on patients who were
      treated with HDF, if compared to the EDTA registry data on HD-treated patients. Yet, these
      data are of observational nature, with the possibility of being biased by confounding by
      indication.

      As the accumulation of MMW substances has been implicated in increased oxidative stress and
      endothelial dysfunction, a reduction of these compounds might improve these derangements. In
      addition, cardiac dysfunction, atherosclerosis (as measured by left ventricular mass index
      [LVMi], carotid intima media thickness [CIMT]) and vascular stiffness (as measured by pulse
      wave velocity [PWV]) might be reduced during HDF, as compared to low-flux HD.

      Therefore, we propose a prospective, randomized multicenter trial, comparing (on-line) HDF
      with HD. After a stabilization period, an expected number of 700 chronic HD patients will be
      randomized to either HDF or low-flux HD and followed during 1-6 years. Primary end points are
      all cause mortality and combined CV events and mortality. In addition, LVMi, PWV, CIMT and
      various parameters of oxidative stress, acute phase reaction (APR) and endothelial function
      will be assessed and compared between treatment groups.

      This study will provide strong evidence on the efficacy of HDF compared to low flux HD on CV
      morbidity and mortality, which is currently lacking but urgently needed. It is highly likely
      that the outcome of this study will affect current clinical practice considerably, in the
      Netherlands as well as internationally. Moreover, the study will point towards the mechanisms
      underlying the effects of HDF.

      The following hypotheses will be tested:

        1. All-cause mortality and combined CV morbidity and mortality in patients treated with
           (on-line) HDF is lower than in patients treated with standard low-flux HD.

        2. A reduction in MMW uremic toxins by HDF leads to an improvement of the 'uremic profile'
           (as measured by AGE-levels, homocysteine levels, oxidative stress, and endothelial
           dysfunction), if compared to standard low-flux HD.

        3. The improvement of the 'uremic profile' in HDF-treated patients results in an
           improvement of endothelial function with a reduction in the progression of vascular
           injury (as measured by CIMT and PWV) and a reduction in LVMi, if compared to standard
           low-flux HD.
    
  