
    
      Aims

        1. Examine the structure and function of the left atrium, left atrial appendage and
           pulmonary veins before and after ablation.

        2. Compare the findings of transesophageal echo with those from intracardiac echo.

        3. Detect the incidence of pulmonary vein stenosis assessed by transesophageal echo
           compared to computed tomography.

        4. Assess for physiological predictors for recurrence of atrial fibrillation based on
           echocardiography.

        5. Determine whether biological markers such as B-type natriuretic peptide or C-reactive
           protein predict recurrence of atrial fibrillation.

        6. Assess if markers of coagulation such as D-dimer and prothrombin factor 1.2 are
           increased in atrial fibrillation and could predict thromboembolic risk.

      General Procedures Prior to ablation, blood will be drawn for measuring c-reactive protein,
      brain natriuretic polypeptide, D-dimer and prothrombin fragment 1.2. A transesopahegeal
      echocardiogram and an intracardiac echocardiogram will be performed. Then following sterile
      techniques, standard catheters will be passed through veins and positioned into the heart
      using X-ray guidance, and will cross the wall that divides the upper chambers of the heart so
      that the left atrium can be reached.The catheters will be used to trigger sites that
      originate the anomalous rhythm and once these are identified the generator will deliver
      radiofrequency energy to destroy the areas that cause irregular beats. After ablation
      follow-up visits will be done at one, three, six and twelve months. During that time several
      tests such as electrocardiograms, 24 hour Holter recording, computed tomography of the heart,
      transesophageal echocardiogram and repeated blood drawing to measure c-reactive protein,
      brain natriuretic peptide, D-dimer and prothrombin fragment 1.2 will be done.
    
  