
    
      Older people with disabilities who cannot leave their homes are at increased risk of
      depression or depressive symptoms. Short-term psychotherapy, without medications, has been
      found effective for treating this population of people. Problem-solving therapy (PST) is a
      brief, structured, cognitive-behavioral therapy that teaches people problem-solving and
      coping skills to deal with negative life events and daily problems. Previous research
      demonstrated that PST is an effective treatment for depression when delivered to older adults
      in their homes. The cost of service for these in-home visits, however, can be prohibitive for
      many older adults and social service providers. One way to extend treatment to more older
      adults is to deliver PST via teleconferencing (tele-PST). This study will test the
      feasibility and effectiveness of tele-PST in treating depression in homebound older adults.

      This study will have two phases. Phase 1 will examine the feasibility of delivering treatment
      via teleconference. Participants in this phase will receive six weekly sessions of tele-PST
      and then complete a 2-week follow-up visit in which their depression, disability, and
      resourcefulness will be assessed. Logistical and procedural problems and acceptability of the
      treatment to participants will be used to guide modifications or adaptations made to tele-PST
      before conducting a larger, randomized trial in Phase 2.

      Participation in Phase 2 will last 6 weeks, with follow-up visits lasting until 24 weeks
      after the conclusion of treatment. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three
      groups: tele-PST, in-person PST, and attention control. Participants in the tele-PST group
      will receive six weekly sessions of PST via teleconference, and participants in the in-person
      PST group will receive six weekly sessions of PST from a study therapist in person. Both
      these groups will also receive six monthly maintenance calls from their study therapist after
      the completion of treatment. Participants in the attention group will receive six weekly
      phone calls followed by six monthly phone calls to monitor their health. All participants in
      Phase 2 will complete assessments at 2, 12, and 24 weeks following their treatment. These
      assessments will measure the adequacy of recruitment, enrollment, and retention strategies;
      the compliance rates and service delivery costs of tele-PST and in-person PST; and
      participants' depression, disability, and resourcefulness.
    
  