
    
      Patients planned for open left heart surgery, mainly aortic valve replacement, will be
      included in the study. Patients with aortic valve replacement and concomitant coronary artery
      bypass with vein grafts only can also be included.

      Exclusion criteria are; significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease/emphysema,
      significant (>50%)carotid artery disease, need of concomitant internal mammary harvesting,
      prior cardiac or pulmonary surgery, pulmonary adhesions preventing pulmonary collapse,
      previous radiation to the chest and prior severe chest trauma. Intraoperative exclusion
      criteria are; failure to obtain adequate bilateral Trans-cranial Echo-Doppler signals from
      the medial cerebral arteries, finding of adherent pleurae and accidental opening of the
      pleurae.

      Twenty patients will be randomized to two groups:

      Group I: Intact pleura bilaterally, disconnection of the ventilator during cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CPB), followed by staged filling of the heart.

      Group II: Open pleura bilaterally, disconnection of the ventilator during cardiopulmonary
      bypass to ensure bilateral pulmonary collapse followed by conventional filling of the heart.

      Data will be compared to a third historical control group, consisting of ten patients with
      open pleurae with the ventilator disconnected followed by staged filling of the heart.

      Primary outcomes:

        -  Duration of the de-airing procedure from the release of the aortic cross clamp to
           finished de-airing.

        -  Air microemboli to the brain registered on-line as gaseous microembolic signals on
           Trans-cranial Echo-Doppler (TCD). The sum of signals from the right and left middle
           cerebral artery are registered during the following time periods; from the release of
           the aortic cross clamp to start of cardiac ejection, from cardiac ejection to finished
           de-airing, and during ten minutes after finished de-airing.

        -  Magnitude of residual air emboli in the heart after finished de-airing as monitored by
           Trans-esophageal Echocardiography (TEE) with a Three-chamber view. The severity of
           residual air is classified in four grades after the appearance of visible air on TEE in
           left atrium (LA), left ventricle (LV) and aortic root (AO)as follows; Grade 0: no
           residual air, grade I: gas emboli detected in one of three anatomic areas during one
           cardiac cycle, grade II: gas emboli detected simultaneously in two of three anatomic
           areas during one cardiac cycle; grade III: gas emboli detected in all three anatomic
           areas during one cardiac cycle.
    
  