
    
      The use of ultrasound by physician and non-physician health care staff for antenatal
      identification of complicated pregnancies is a potentially effective intervention; however,
      authoritative investigation in many low-resource settings is needed to establish its
      potential impact. The investigators propose to undertake a multi-country, cluster randomized
      trial to assess the impact of antenatal ultrasound screening performed by community physician
      and non-physician health care staff on a composite outcome consisting of maternal mortality
      and near miss maternal mortality, stillbirth and neonatal mortality in low-resource settings.
      Underpinning this objective are several assumptions. The first assumption is that
      ultrasound's introduction will increase antenatal attendance and improved outcomes due to the
      antenatal care alone, and greater rates of institutional delivery. The second assumption is
      that ultrasound use will lead to antenatal detection of complicated pregnancies and timely
      and appropriate referral for complicated pregnancies to comprehensive emergency obstetric and
      neonatal care (EmONC) facilities. Increases in antenatal care utilization and referral will
      result in a decrease in a composite outcome including maternal mortality and near miss
      mortality, stillbirth and neonatal death. Secondary outcomes to be evaluated include
      antenatal attendance rates, institutional delivery rates at basic EmONC facilities, referral
      rates to comprehensive EmONC facilities, cesarean section rates (both planned and emergent),
      an assessment of community physician and non-physician health care provider ultrasound
      training and competence and the cost-effectiveness of ultrasound in community health
      facilities. The investigators will also determine causes for non-compliance with
      recommendations for referral.

      In summary, this trial will evaluate whether training antenatal health care providers to
      perform basic obstetric ultrasonography, and using these trainees to provide routine
      ultrasounds in primary care clinics and to refer appropriately will improve pregnancy
      outcomes in low-resource settings.

      To assess the impact of ultrasound, the investigators propose to utilize an existing research
      infrastructure, the Global Network for Women's and Children's Health Research (Global
      Network), which currently includes 7 sites in 6 countries, India (2), Pakistan, Kenya,
      Zambia, DRC and Guatemala. The investigators of the Global Network have an ongoing maternal
      and newborn health registry to document all pregnancies and their outcomes to 6 weeks
      post-delivery in more than 100 communities. Thus, population-based rates of maternal
      mortality and morbidity, stillbirth, and neonatal mortality and morbidity, as well as health
      care utilization, are being obtained. A sub-set of these clusters will be utilized for the
      ultrasound trial.

      RTI International serves as the data coordinating center for the Global Network to help
      facilitate the design and conduct of the trial, manage the trial related data, and provide
      statistical analyses of the trial results. GE Healthcare will provide the ultrasound
      equipment, and will also fund the University of Washington to provide training and technical
      support on the implementation of ultrasound in community settings. Together, the Global
      Network with the support of the University of Washington and GE Healthcare will maximize the
      resources necessary to conduct a definitive trial on the potential impact of ultrasound to
      reduce maternal and newborn mortality and maternal morbidity in low-resource settings.
    
  