
    
      Acute lung injury (ALI) is common among critically ill patients and is associated with a high
      case fatality. Only one intervention has been shown to improve survival in a large clinical
      trial, and new therapies targeting the inflammatory response are needed. Nutrient
      interventions may provide benefit; specifically there is plausible biologic rationale for
      administering n-3 fatty acids (n-3 FAs) found in fish oil to patients with ALI, as n-3 FAs
      decrease formation of eicosanoid inflammatory mediators. However, although promising results
      have emerged from prior studies, fish oils have only been tested in ALI patients in a
      commercial enteral formula containing additional nutrients, and the control group received a
      high-fat enteral formula that may have been proinflammatory. Therefore, no conclusion can be
      drawn about the independent effect of fish oils. Furthermore, the inclusion of key
      pharmaconutrients in feeding formulas, instead of delivering them separately as
      pharmaceuticals, limits exposure to the agent, as intensive care unit (ICU) patients commonly
      receive less than 60% of prescribed caloric needs. Finally, specialized feeding formulas are
      very expensive, and it may be substantially cheaper to administer pharmaconutrients
      separately. We believe it is time to begin to approach nutrient trials in critically ill
      patients differently -- to move away from including them in feeding formulas and begin
      delivering them like pharmaceuticals. With appropriate scientific investigation and the use
      of non-nutrient placebos, this novel and innovative approach is a new paradigm of
      investigating nutrient delivery to critically ill patients.

      This study is a phase II randomized controlled trial to determine the effects of enteral
      eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexanoic acid (DHA), both n-3 FAs found in fish oil,
      versus placebo on the pulmonary and systemic environments, and on clinical outcomes, in
      patients with ALI. We will investigate the effect of fish oil administration on several
      biological markers of injury and inflammation in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and serum, on
      pulmonary physiologic outcomes, and on clinical outcomes.

      Comparison(s): Mechanically ventilated patients with acute lung injury randomized to receive
      enteral fish oil versus compared to mechanically ventilated patients with acute lung injury
      randomized to receive placebo.
    
  