
    
      Preterm birth is responsible for more than 70% of all neonatal and infant deaths. In
      addition, the risk of cerebral palsy among children born preterm is 10 times than those born
      at term. The risk of preterm birth is inversely related to cervical length at midgestation.
      Randomized-controlled trials involving singleton pregnancies with a short cervical length (
      less than 25 mm) have shown that the prophylactic use of progesterone significantly decrease
      the rate of preterm delivery and neonatal death. The relation of vaginal micobiota with
      preterm birth has been documented. Yet, impact of short cervical lenght and progesteron
      treatment on vaginal, neonatal and placental microbiota and mycobiota has not been evaluated.
      The objectives of present study are to adress the following points;

        1. Longitudinal maternal (vaginal), fetal (oral) and placental (basal plate and parenchyma)
           16S-based and 18S-based metagenomic profiling with inferred metagenomics will reveal
           distinct microbial communities in association with preterm birth.

        2. Comparison of vaginal, neonatal (buccal) and placental (basal plate and parenchyma) 16s
           rRNA with bacteria and 18s rRNA with fungi in pregnant women with a short cervical
           length with those with normal cervical length;

      2. Comparison of maternal (vaginal), neonatal(oral) and placental (basal plate and
      parenchyma)16s rRNA with bacteria and 18s rRNA with fungi in pregnant women with short
      cervical length who gave a preterm birth with those who gave birth at term; 3. The effect of
      progesterone on maternal (vaginal), neonatal (buccal) and placental (basal plate and
      parenchyma)16s rRNA with bacteria and 18s rRNA with fungi.

      The measurements of cervical length will be performed in two different periods of pregnancy
      (11-14 and 18-22 weeks of gestation) in singleton pregnancies. Firstly, the vaginal swabs
      will be collected from women who accept to participate in the study at 11-14th weeks of
      gestation just before the measurement of cervical length. Also, the vaginal swabs will be
      done again at 18-22 weeks of gestation as explained above. Micronized progesterone will be
      started in women with a cervical length equal or less than 25 mm (smaller than 3rd
      percentile) at 18-22 weeks of gestation. The medication (progesterone 200mg) will be
      administered intravaginally every night before bedtime and will continue until 36th
      gestational week unless the patient gives birth. Measurement of cervical length will be
      repeated transvaginally at 28th and 32nd gestational weeks, and samples will be obtained with
      a cervical swab before these measurements. In order to evaluate the presence of placental
      mycobiota and microbiota, 1 cm x 1 cm x 1 cm of the tissue sample from the placenta that is 3
      cm lateral of the cord insertion will be taken under sterile conditions after birth. In order
      to evaluate the amniotic compartment, a buccal mucosal swab will be collected from the
      neonates immediately after birth. All samples will be delivered to our Research Laboratory
      immediately and stored in -80 ℃ cabinet until the evaluation. The V3-V4 regions by the 16s
      ribosomal RNA sequencing method will be sequenced with the Illumina MiSeq device and the data
      will be analyzed according to the protocols standardized in the Human Microbiome Project.

      DNA samples that will be ranked from the data to be sequenced in accordance with the ITS1
      region metabiota protocol will be evaluated within the Human Microbiome Project.

      Pseudomonas, Escherichia, Neisseria, Streptococcus, Lactobacillus, Candida, Actinomyces will
      be used as positive controls and, V3-V4 and ITS regions will be matched for bacterial
      microbiota and Fungal microbiota. After the "Operational taxonomic units" of the amplicons
      are configured with the VSEARCH program, the analyzes will be carried out with GENBANK
      microbiota and micobiota data.
    
  