
    
      Bronchiectasis is an important chronic pulmonary disease that endangers the health of
      children. It is characterized by recurrent respiratory tract infection, cough, massive pus
      sputum, hemoptysis, etc. The chronic progression of bronchiectasis may affect the lung
      function of children. It affects the quality of life, growth and development, and even leads
      to the death of children, and brings great harm to children and their families. A New Zealand
      study of non-cystic fibrotic bronchiectasis found that overall forced expiratory volume at
      one second (FEV1) declined at an average annual rate of 1.6%. Other studies have shown a
      significant decline in lung function in children with bronchiectasis even after treatment.
      Some reports on the prognosis of children with bronchiectasis in China show that most of the
      children have remission in clinical symptoms, but there are still some cases of chronic
      recurrence and death. A non-controlled study showed that adult bronchiectasis patients who
      received long-term azithromycin had fewer acute exacerbations and improved symptoms, which
      might be associated with the antimicrobial activity and anti-inflammatory of macrolide
      antibiotics. In children, the effect of macrolide antibiotics on cystic fibrosis is positive.
      Studies have shown that macrolides can effectively improve pulmonary function and reduce the
      incidence of acute exacerbation of pulmonary lesions. The course of treatment is at least 6
      months. For non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis, recent studies have shown that long-term
      azithromycin treatment can reduce the exacerbation of pulmonary lesions. However, the
      treatment of bronchiectasis children in China is still lack of standard. The aim of this
      study was to explore the effect of macrolides on the long term prognosis of children with
      bronchiectasis in China, in order to standardize the treatment and improve the prognosis of
      the children with bronchiectasis.
    
  