
    
      Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) such as warfarin are very effective anticoagulants for the
      prevention of thrombosis. However, warfarin is also a leading cause of emergency room visits
      and hospitalizations for bleeding complications. A laboratory test of coagulation, the
      prothrombin time (PT), is used to monitor warfarin's anticoagulant effect on the hemostatic
      system. For warfarin monitoring the PT is expressed as an international normalized ratio
      (INR) to reduce the impact of interlaboratory PT variation. For individuals not on warfarin,
      the INR is about 1.0 while most patients on VKA require an INR between 2.0 and 3.0 to best
      balance the competing risks of thromboembolism and bleeding.

      The INR response to warfarin can fluctuate as a result of changes in health status,
      interactions with other drugs, changes in dietary vitamin K intake, alcohol consumption, as
      well as for no apparent reason. In addition, the response to a change in warfarin dose varies
      between patients as does the time required for the INR response to reach steady state. A
      substantial proportion of patients treated with warfarin have stable INRs and remain on the
      same weekly maintenance dose month after month. Patients with variable INRs resulting in a
      low proportion of time in therapeutic INR range (TTR) have a higher risk of both bleeding
      complications and thromboembolic events. Good TTR is generally considered to be over 60% and
      TTR above 72% is considered excellent. One quarter to one third of patients have unstable INR
      results and require more frequent monitoring and warfarin dosing adjustments. This is
      demanding for patients and also for health care systems. Many of these patients remain
      unstable even when drug interactions, irregular dietary vitamin K intake, and missed warfarin
      doses have been excluded indicating the need for improved approaches to adjusting VKA doses
      in response to out-of-range INRs.

      Interventions aimed at improving INR stability during warfarin therapy have been
      investigated. Using warfarin dosing algorithms is one intervention associated with improved
      INR stability and decreased risk for thromboembolic and bleeding complications and lower
      mortality. Patient self-management (PSM) of warfarin therapy using INRs obtained by patients
      in their home environment using point-of-care INR monitoring devices has also been shown to
      improve INR stability and decrease the risk of thromboembolic complications and mortality.
      Unfortunately, the US healthcare system lags behind other countries in widespread adoption of
      these evidence-based interventions for improving warfarin therapeutic outcomes.

      Potential explanations for the underutilization of warfarin dosing algorithms and PSM include
      mistrust of algorithms among anticoagulation providers, complexity associated with algorithm
      use, lack of algorithm validation, and the effort required to train patients in
      self-management. As most patients receiving warfarin therapy in the US are outside the
      targeted INR range approximately 40% of the time, there is a critical need for approaches
      that remove barriers to adopting proven interventions like using warfarin dosing algorithms
      and PSM.

      The Fearon Algorithm Mike Fearon, PhD has developed a patient-individualized warfarin dosing
      algorithm (the Fearon Algorithm [FA]) to predict INR results using parameters derived from
      the patient's prior warfarin dosing history. Key FA parameters not available with existing
      warfarin dosing algorithms include: 1) warfarin dose sensitivity (i.e. the likely change in
      INR from an increment change in warfarin dose), 2) optimal warfarin tablet strength for a
      given patient, 3) time required to reach INR steady state, and 4) inherent variability of the
      INR.

      Warfarin dosing algorithms generally suggest a fixed percentage change (e.g. 10% to 20%) to
      the weekly warfarin maintenance dose in response to out-of-range INR results. While seemingly
      straightforward, training patients to use such algorithms during PSM has proven challenging.
      In contrast, the FA includes a personalized dose-effect curve for each patient and predicts
      the optimum warfarin dose required to center the patient's expected INR in the therapeutic
      range. Patient warfarin dose sensitivity is used to compute an optimal tablet strength for
      dose changes; sensitive patients require lower tablet strengths to facilitate small step
      increments in warfarin dosing. The tablet strength is used to provide the closest
      approximation to the optimum warfarin dose in mg/week. The FA discourages warfarin dose
      adjustments for INRs moderately deviating from the therapeutic range and encourages instead
      earlier repeat INR testing to confirm a suspected trend or to demonstrate stabilization.
      Earlier repeat INR testing is best accomplished with patient testing using point-of-care INR
      monitors.

      Another unique feature of the FA is assigning likelihood probabilities expressed as the
      percentage of times the INR will fall in a range of INR values for each patient. This enables
      clinicians or patients to evaluate whether an extreme INR value requires immediate
      intervention or is simply to be expected occasionally.

      Rationale The FA provides an understanding of the individual dose-response to warfarin. With
      a personalized approach to warfarin dose adjustments, we may be able to improve TTR and on a
      larger scale reduce clinically-important adverse events. In addition, the simplicity of the
      FA may facilitate the use of PSM in more patients in the US.

      Despite the introduction of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) warfarin will be used by many
      patients in the US into the foreseeable future. DOACs are contraindicated in patients with
      mechanical heart valves and in patients with impaired renal function. Also, some patients
      prefer warfarin over DOACs and others are unable to afford DOACs.

      A previous FA pilot study showed promising results but also identified improvement
      opportunities. In this study, the stability of INRs improved in 7 out of 10 patients during
      the study period. It was also demonstrated that the management of some patients would improve
      by switching warfarin tablet strengths to allow better dose fine tuning. The study also
      showed that an INR retest before the warfarin dose is changed from the optimum dose may
      reduce INR instability arising from unnecessary warfarin dose changes. A major flaw of this
      study was the failure of anticoagulation providers to adhere to the algorithm following out
      of range INRs.

      Therefore, another study is necessary to demonstrate the feasibility of the FA. It is also
      important to demonstrate the ability of both anticoagulation providers and patients to use
      the FA in order to expand the use of PSM among US anticoagulated patients.

      Study Objectives Primary objective: Compare measures of INR control (TTR, percent INRs in
      range (PIR), and control error distribution) between patients managed by anticoagulation
      management service (AMS) providers without the FA (standard management phase), patients
      managed by AMS providers using the FA (FA AMS phase), and patients using the FA to support
      PSM (FA PSM phase).

      Secondary objectives: Compare 1) proportion of INRs associated with a warfarin dose change
      (DC), 2) inherent INR variability, 3) major bleeding events, 4) clinically relevant non-major
      bleeding events, 5) any bleeding event, and 6) thromboembolic events (TE) between the
      standard management, FA AMS, and FA PSM phases as defined previously.

      Study Design Open label single-center cross-over study
    
  