
    
      In this study, investigators aim to lower liver fat content in obese patients with NAFLD by
      increasing the hepatic levels of pivotal metabolic cofactors via simultaneous dietary
      supplementation of serine, L-carnitine, N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and nicotinamide riboside
      (NR).

      The study is based on a three-step strategy to increase the amount of fat oxidization in
      liver: (1) First, the investigators will include L-carnitine to enhance the transport of
      fatty acids across the mitochondrial membrane (by forming a long chain acetylcarnitine ester
      and being transported by carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT) I and CPT II). Carnitine also
      plays a role in stabilizing coenzyme A (CoA) and acetyl-CoA levels through the ability to
      receive or give an acetyl group. (2) Second, the investigators will include nicotinamide
      riboside, precursor of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) to boost the level of hepatic
      β-oxidation of fatty acids in mitochondria. Decreased electron transport chain function
      combined with impaired rates of fatty acid β-oxidation leads to the accumulation of
      incomplete products of β-oxidation, which combined with increased levels of reactive oxygen
      species (ROS) contribute to insulin resistance. Furthermore, as L-carnitine, nicotinamide

      riboside stimulate the transfer of fatty acids from cytosol to mitochondria.(3) Finally, they
      will include the two glutathione precursors serine and N-acetylcysteine to increase
      glutathione levels in the hepatocytes. Increased glutathione levels will also protect against
      free radical-mediated oxidative stress generated by the increased β-oxidation of fatty acids
      in mitochondria.

      Previous studies showed that each agent is able to decrease liver fat amount separately and a
      proof-of-concept study using serine supplementation, and a phase I study using this
      three-step approach resulted in a significant decrease in plasma metabolites associated with
      liver fat without significant side effect. Concomitant use of pivotal metabolic cofactors via
      simultaneous dietary supplementation will stimulate three different pathways to enhance
      hepatic β-oxidation. The novel design with this study is to give the L-carnitine, NR, serine
      and NAC as a cocktail. Based on investigators' hypothesis is that this will result in
      decreased amount of fat in the liver.

      The study population will consist of 45 male and female adult overweight and obese subjects
      diagnosed with NAFLD. Eligible subjects must have signed an informed consent, meet all
      inclusion criteria and have none of the exclusion criteria. Patients will be randomized on a
      2:1 basis to the cofactor mixture or placebo.

      The subjects will take a mixture of cofactors or matching placebo as powder dissolved in
      water by mouth. Subjects in active treatment will receive dietary supplementation with
      N-acetylcysteine, L-carnitine tartrate, nicotinamide riboside, and serine, administered as a
      mixture. Half dosage of the co-factors will be given for two weeks (one dose taken just after
      dinner), and full dosage for 8 weeks (two equal doses taken just after breakfast and dinner).
      Patients who can tolerate the study agents will start to take half dose of co-factors
      supplementation (i.e., 1 dosage daily just after dinner) for two weeks.

      The active treatment duration will be 10 weeks for each subject and the total study duration
      is estimated as 14 months. The study comprises seven clinical visits; (1) pre-screening
      visit, (2) screening visit, (2) randomization visit, (3) post-treatment visit (day 14); (4)
      post-treatment visit (day 28); (5) post-treatment visit (day 42) and (4) end of treatment
      visit (day 70). At visit 1 informed consent will be signed, all procedures including clinical
      and physical examination, assessment of inclusion and exclusion criteria, genetic analysis
      and transient elastography will be done. At visit 2 and visit 7, all procedures including
      review of 3-day diet records, clinical and physical examination; body composition analysis
      with Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (BIA), ECG evaluation, blood, urine and stool sampling
      for routine laboratory tests, lipidomics, metabolomics and gut microbiota analysis and
      magnetic resonance imaging and MR spectroscopy will be carried out. At visit 3, eligible
      study subjects will be randomized to active therapy or placebo groups and study agents will
      be dispensed as half-of therapy. At visit 4, and 6, clinical and physical examination, ECG
      evaluation, blood, urine and stool sampling for routine laboratory tests, lipidomics,
      metabolomics and gut microbiota analysis, magnetic resonance imaging and MR spectroscopy and
      initiation of full dose therapy (i.e. taking cocktails two times just after breakfast and
      dinner) will be realized. At visit 5, visit 4 and 6 will be repeated excluding magnetic
      resonance imaging and MR spectroscopy. After the visit 7, participants will stop taking study
      agents.

      A subject will be considered as having completed the study if he/she has completed all
      assessments at the End of Treatment Visit (Visit 7) and has been followed up until 10 weeks
      after initiation of the study drugs.

      Statistics for the primary outcome parameter will be tested by Mann-Whitney U test or t-test
      depending on the results of normality test. For the secondary and third outcome parameters
      one-way repeated measures ANOVA will be performed.
    
  