
    
      This protocol describes an exposure assessment study of farmers in North Carolina and Iowa
      who personally apply the fungicides captan, thiophanate-methyl, and benomyl to apple and
      peach orchards. The exposure assessment will include environmental measurements as well as
      biological monitoring data. The biomonitoring data will be based on 24-hour urinary
      metabolites of the three fungicides selected for study. The study is being done in
      collaboration with the Agricultural Health Study (AHS), a large prospective health study of
      licensed private (farmer) and commercial applicators, and the spouses of private applicators.
      The AHS is sponsored by the National Cancer Institute, the National Institute of
      Environmental Health Sciences and the Environmental Protection Agency. The study described
      here will be conducted by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health.

      Retinal degeneration among applicators in the AHS has been associated with cumulative days of
      use of five fungicides, including captan and benomyl, which are or have been heavily used in
      orchards. Minimal monitoring data are available on fungicide exposures among orchard
      applicators in the U.S. Agent-specific exposure classification in the AHS is based primarily
      on questionnaire data, supplemented by exposure monitoring data from non-cohort studies in
      the literature. An algorithm has been developed by AHS to estimate an individual's cumulative
      exposure using information on duration, frequency and intensity of exposure from
      questionnaires. The intensity piece of this algorithm identifies factors that either increase
      or decrease exposure and a "weight" is assigned to each factor to reflect the relative impact
      of that factor on exposure. Exposure data are need to validate these algorithms, to identify
      major exposure determinants, and to evaluate the appropriateness of the assigned weights.

      Fungicides are applied at regular intervals throughout the spring and summer in orchards.
      Captan is a frequently applied fungicide that will serve as the primary marker for fungicide
      exposures in orchards. Participants from the AHS will be selected based on planned use of
      captan. A benzimidazole fungicide, such as thiophanate-methyl or benomyl, is often applied
      with captan and exposure to thiophanate-methyl and benomyl will also be monitored. Applicator
      exposure will be measured using both environmental (air, dermal patch, hand) and biological
      monitoring methods. Captan is metabolized to tetrahydrophthalimide, which is excreted into
      the urine. Thiophanate-methyl an benomyl share a common metabolite, methyl
      (5-hydroxy-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl)-carbamate, which is also excreted into the urine. Dupont is
      voluntarily withdrawing its benomyl product from the market as of December 31, 2001; however,
      existing supplies of benomyl may be used in 2002. Due to this "carryover" use of benomyl and
      the presence of a metabolite in the urine common to thiophanate-methyl, it is prudent to
      monitor benomyl exposure among participating applicators. A repeated measures design has been
      proposed to address the likelihood of high within-worker variability for exposure measures.

      In summary, the objectives of this study are 1) to measure actual exposures to the target
      fungicides using both environmental and biological measures of exposure, 2) to identify and
      quantify major determinants of exposure, 3) to describe within- and between-worker exposure
      variability, and 4) to evaluate, to the extent possible, agreement between exposure estimates
      computed using the AHS exposure algorithms and exposure estimates based on actual
      measurements.
    
  