
    
      Endoscopic sinus surgery is commonly used to manage chronic inflammatory frontal sinus
      disease that is not adequately controlled with medical therapy alone. In recalcitrant cases,
      a more extensive procedure called the modified endoscopic Lothrop procedure or frontal
      drill-out (FDO) procedure is often performed. The frontal drill-out procedure is performed
      endoscopically and its goal is to create one large common cavity between the left and right
      frontal sinuses and nasal cavities to allow adequate drainage and communication for
      subsequent drug delivery through sinonasal irrigations if indicated. Failure of this
      procedure is most commonly the results of re-stenosis of the outflow tract due to scarring,
      adhesions, or progressive disease such as polyposis. One meta analysis assessing the
      long-term complications of frontal drillouts reported an overall failure rate to be 13.9%,
      defined as those individuals needing further surgery. Another clinical trial reported a
      failure rate for a 200-person study to be 30%.

      Placing a steroid-eluding biodegradable stent into the sinonasal cavities after surgery is
      thought to reduce the occurrence of re-stenosis, both by physically stenting the opening and
      by treating resultant inflammation with corticosteroid. Propel stents are made of synthetic
      dissolvable polymer that contains a corticosteroid (mometasone furoate) and has been
      FDA-approved to stent and reduce inflammation over 30 days. Similarly, Nasopore is an
      FDA-approved fragmentable nasal dressing that is used as a stent. Kenalog soaking the
      Nasopore is thought to act as the functional equivalent of the mometasone furoate found in
      the Propel stent, but this use is investigational. The effect of stenting and its
      consequences on the outcomes of FDO specifically has also not been well studied.Recent
      randomized-controlled trial of Propel stent placement after frontal sinusotomy (a less
      extensive form of frontal sinus surgery compared to FDO procedure) showed improvement in
      outcomes compared to no stent placement and no major complications.There are no known
      randomized-controlled trials to date of propel stent placement or Nasopore-soaked Kenalog
      placement after FDO procedure. We wish, therefore, to perform a randomized trial to compare
      the efficacy and outcomes of Nasopore-soaked kenalog versus propel stenting.
    
  