
    
      Traumatic spinal cord injury (TSCI) is devastating for the patient and costly to society.
      Currently, methylprednisolone (MP) administered according NASCIS (III) protocol is the only
      therapy which has minor benefits and is accompanied by dangerous side effects. Any new
      treatment of TSCI that allows major recovery of function would be a significant advance in
      clinical care. Much of the motor and sensory paralysis following TSCI occurs because of a
      delayed and widespread oligodendrocyte apoptosis and demyelination of long spinal tracts. We
      have recently reported that erythropoietin (EPO) administration significantly attenuates such
      delayed secondary degeneration and promotes functional recovery in TSCI animal models. The
      research proposed is a multicenter trial involving the Italian Spinal Units that have
      developed a multidisciplinary experience on the management of TSCI. Primary objective of the
      study is to assess the superiority of EPO compared to MP in improving the clinical outcome of
      SCI (ASIA Impairment Scale); secondary objectives are: to assess the safety of EPO compared
      to MP, the effects on the motor and sensory functions and on improving functional autonomy,
      the influence on spasticity and neurogenic pain, and, the impact on surrogate end-points
      (Somatosensory Evoked Potentials and Magnetic Resonance Imaging).The study population is
      characterized by all patients with TSCI (ASIA Impairment Scale A or B) admitted to Italian
      Spinal Units: we estimate an enrolment of 100 subjects , 50 in each therapeutic arm. The
      study proposed is a single-blind randomized phase III parallel group trial in which eligible
      patients are randomized to one of the following treatment modalities: MP according to NASCIS
      III protocol or EPO iv (500 UI/kg within 8 hours after the SCI, dosage repeated at 24 and 48
      hours). The duration of the study will be 24 months, with a 21-month maximum time to engage
      all the patients required by the power calculation.The primary end-point will be assessed
      using the Cochrane-Mantel-Haenzel test; the changes in the SEP (latency) and size of the MRI
      lesions using the Repeated Measures Analysis of Variance (ANOVA), the Ashworth, VAS, PENN,
      and SCIM scores with the parametric Wilcoxon's signed-ranks test. The effect of treatment on
      the primary end-point will be evaluated using a multivariate analysis model (binary logistic
      regression). The non-parametric alternative will be conducted if the assumption of normality
      will be not verified.
    
  