
    
      The optimal treatment for HIV infection and the prevention of CMV disease has not been
      identified. Currently available antiretroviral therapies are hampered by both significant
      toxicities and the development of resistance. In addition, agents for preventing CMV disease,
      such as oral ganciclovir, are complicated by poor bioavailability and decreased compliance
      secondary to toxicities. Moreover, discordant results have been reported regarding the
      effectiveness of oral ganciclovir for preventing CMV disease. There is a need for newer
      agents with anti-HIV and anti-herpesvirus activity that have good pharmacokinetic and safety
      profiles and that will be well tolerated by patients. Adefovir dipivoxil is an oral pro-drug
      of PMEA, a nucleoside analog with activity against a broad spectrum of retroviruses and
      herpesviruses, including important human pathogens, such as HIV-1, HIV-2 and CMV. Due to its
      anti-HIV and anti-herpesvirus activity, adefovir dipivoxil may be able to decrease the
      incidence of opportunistic herpesvirus infections and prolong survival in patients with
      advanced HIV infection.

      All patients will be enrolled within the first 18 months of the study. They will be
      randomized to 1 of 2 groups. Group 1 will be comprised of 1080 patients and will receive
      adefovir dipivoxil plus L-carnitine and group 2 will be comprised of 1080 patients and will
      receive a placebo plus L-carnitine. At least the first 400 patients enrolled (200 in each
      group) will comprise the safety-HIV virology cohort. These patients will have more frequent
      follow up visits, additional laboratory evaluations, and more intensive safety data
      information during the first 6 months. NOTE: At least 850 patients who are infected with CMV
      are followed for the development of CMV end-organ disease in a CMV prophylaxis substudy.

      AS PER AMENDMENT 8/7/97: All patients are enrolled in the primary study and randomized to the
      treatment or placebo regimen. Within the primary study, patients meeting specified criteria
      may be enrolled in one or more of the following cohorts:

        1. Safety-HIV virology cohort (at least the first 400 patients enrolled in the study
           regardless of CMV status).

        2. CMV bDNA cohort (those patients in the safety-HIV virology cohort who are CMV-positive).

        3. CMV-virology cohort (the first 400 patients in the CMV bDNA cohort enrolled at sites
           able to obtain CMV urine cultures).

      All patients who are CMV-positive are enrolled in the CMV prophylaxis substudy.
    
  