
    
      Epirubicin is an anthracycline that is widely used in breast cancer, stomach and esophageal
      cancer. Despite epirubicin being the 4'-epi-isomer of doxorubicin, epirubicin undergoes
      substantially different metabolism compared to doxorubicin. The majority of epirubicin is
      metabolized to glucuronides, 78.0% to epirubicin glucuronide and 19.3% to epirubicinol
      glucuronide and only 0.2% epirubicin is metabolized to epirubicinol. Doxorubicin is primarily
      metabolized to aglycones or doxorubicinol but not to glucuronides. There is substantial
      variability in epirubicin metabolism with the mean clearance of 84.6 L/h and a standard
      deviation of 63.5. A study by Hu et al showed epirubicin metabolism correlated with response.
      In this study they showed patients with nasopharyngeal cancer treated with epirubicin were
      more likely to relapse if they rapidly metabolized epirubicin. A study by Robert et al raises
      the possibility that the differences in epirubicin metabolism are determined by genetic
      differences. They showed a bimodal distribution in the ratio of epirubicin glucuronides to
      epirubicin. As well this study showed that low glucuronidation were more likely to respond to
      epirubicin than patients who had a high ratio of epirubicin glucuronides to epirubicin.
      Innocenti et al has shown that epirubicin is metabolized to its glucuronides by uridine
      glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UGT2B7). The same study showed a strong correlation between the
      formation of morphine-6-glucuronide and the glucuronidation of epirubicin in human liver
      microsomes. The researchers have recently discovered a single nucleotide polymorphism in the
      enhancer region of UGT 2B7. Patients who were homozygous for this polymorphism tended to have
      lower ratios of morphine-6-glucuronide to morphine. The researchers suspect that this T to C
      polymorphism decreases the transcription of UGT 2B7 and this is the basis of the decreased
      glucuronidation. Given the strong correlation between the metabolism of morphine and
      epirubicin in human liver microsomes the researchers suspect that this polymorphism may be
      responsible for the variability in epirubicin metabolism. Previous work has documented an
      overlapping bimodal distribution in the ratio of epirubicin glucuronides but they did not
      examine whether genetic polymorphisms were responsible for this. This study will examine the
      effect of this polymorphism on the metabolism of epirubicin. If a relationship exists between
      this polymorphism and epirubicin metabolism this may allow more accurate dosing of this
      important chemotherapeutic agent.

      Objectives:

      To determine in patients receiving adjuvant intravenous FEC chemotherapy (5-Fluoruracil 500
      mg/m2, epirubicin 100 mg/m2, Cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2) given every 3 weeks whether the
      newly discovered SNP at position -161 T to C is responsible for the variability in epirubicin
      metabolism.

      Participants:

      Patients receiving adjuvant FEC chemotherapy. Patients can not have pre-existing liver
      disease other than Gilbert's syndrome. In patients with a history of liver disease, liver
      transaminases must be less than 3 times the upper limit of normal and bilirubin less than the
      upper limit of normal. Patients must be >/= 18 years of age.

      Eligible patients will be enrolled into the study after written informed consent is obtained.
      Baseline characteristics including age, weight, renal function, liver function, concurrent
      medications and ethnic origin will be obtained from the medical chart or patient. The patient
      chart will be reviewed periodically for hematological and nonhematological toxicity. Outcome
      data such as recurrence and time of recurrence will be obtained from the chart.

      Sample Size:

      Medical oncologists consider a significant difference in drug clearance to be 15%.
      Epirubicin's clearance is 84.6 L/h with a standard deviation of 63.5. The researchers have
      calculated a sample size to have an 80% power to detect a 15% difference. Assuming
      epirubicin's average clearance is comprised of three separate groups, which is the
      hypothesis, the researchers would need 29 patients from each genotype to show a 15%
      difference between the mean clearance of different genotypes assuming a coefficient of
      variation of 20%. The known polymorphism at amino acid residue 268 has an allele frequency of
      50%. This allele was in complete linkage disequilibrium with the new SNP at position -160 in
      the previous study of morphine. Therefore the researchers would need approximately 120
      patients to produce 30 T/T, 60 T/C and 30 C/C.
    
  