
    
      Background - Ultrasound is now widely accepted as a diagnostic tool for use in the emergency
      department, as supported by the American College of Emergency Physicians position statement
      in 2001 (revised in 2008). Evidence-based guidelines for point-of-care lung ultrasound have
      recently been published (Volpicelli et al 2012). Lichtenstein et al (2004) performed bedside
      LUS on 117 critically ill patients to evaluate for alveolar consolidation and compared these
      findings with CT, the gold standard. Sensitivity of ultrasound was 90% and specificity 98%,
      indicating that US is a feasible imaging modality for the lungs. Copetti et al (2008)
      compared the diagnostic accuracy of LUS and CXR in children with suspected pneumonia. 79
      children underwent LUS and CXR. Lung ultrasound was positive for the diagnosis of pneumonia
      in 60 patients, whereas CXR was positive in 53. Copetti concluded that LUS is as reliable as
      CXR in diagnosing pneumonia plus it has the added benefit of no radiation exposure for
      patients. Shah et al (2009) found LUS to be superior to CXR in detecting pneumonia. 200
      patients with suspected pneumonia were enrolled and underwent LUS and CXR. LUS detected 49
      pneumonias whereas CXR detected 36. The 13 cases of radiographically occult pneumonia that
      were identified by LUS were all less than 1 centimeter in diameter, suggesting that LUS is
      superior in identifying early and/or small pulmonary consolidations. This particular study
      found that LUS was able to detect pneumonia with a Sensitivity of 86% and a Specificity of
      97%. Additionally, Tsung et all (2009) found that it is feasible to use ultrasound to
      distinguish viral from bacterial pneumonia, thus indicating another striking advantage to
      LUS. From these studies, it is clear that lung ultrasound plays a role in the diagnosis of
      pulmonary pathology and moreover it is possible that LUS may replace CXR as the imaging
      modality of choice. This study is designed as a comparative effectiveness randomized
      controlled trial between ultrasound and chest x-ray for diagnosing pneumonia. The study cited
      above performed by Shah et al 2009 forms the basis of our pilot data in planning this
      randomized controlled trial. In Dr. Shah's study, there were no missed pneumonias and no over
      or under treatment of pneumonia when pneumonia was diagnosed on lung ultrasound.

      Study Design - Currently CXR is the standard of care for the detection of pneumonia, however,
      there is published evidence that demonstrates LUS is as reliable as CXR and even surpasses
      CXR in detecting small and/or early pneumonias as well differentiating viral from bacterial
      processes as cited above (Lichtenstein et al 2004; Copetti et al 2008; Shah et al 2009; Tsung
      et al 2012).

      The motivation for conducting this study is that we have possibly identified an imaging
      modality that is better than our current standard of care. It is our primary aim to compare
      the two imaging modalities to clinical outcomes to see if subjects in the investigational arm
      have better outcomes than those in the control arm who receive the standard of care.

      The attending physician or fellow caring for the patient will determine if the patient is
      eligible. If the ED provider clearly identifies a pneumonia on the ultrasound then the
      patient will be diagnosed and treated for pneumonia without being subjected to the
      unnecessary radiation of a CXR. However, if the provider does not clearly identify a
      pneumonia on ultrasound or if the LUS fails to detect a pneumonia and the clinical suspicion
      remains high, then the provider has the option to proceed to the CXR to assist in the
      diagnosis of pneumonia. Alternatively, all subjects randomized to the control arm will under
      a CXR first followed by a LUS, because LUS can often provide additional information that CXR
      does not as noted above (e.g. the ability to differentiate between viral and pneumonia
      infections).
    
  