
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of escalating doses of bortezomib with or without total
      marrow irradiation (TMI) at a fixed dose of 900 cGy in combination with fludarabine (FLU) and
      melphalan (MEL) as preparative regimen for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant in
      patients with high risk multiple myeloma who have human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matched donor
      (sibling or matched unrelated donor).

      II. To describe toxicities, maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLT)
      of this preparative regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the frequency of clinical response, i.e., complete response [CR], partial
      response [PR], very good partial response [VGPR]) at 6 month and 1 year post transplant.

      II. To evaluate the frequency of primary and secondary engraftment failure.

      III. To evaluate the time to neutrophil and platelet engraftment.

      IV. To evaluate the incidence of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

      V. To evaluate progression-free survival.

      VI. To evaluate overall survival.

      VII. To evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) at 6 months and 1 year post transplant by
      flow cytometry in the bone marrow.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bortezomib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      treatment groups. GROUP I (patients eligible for TMI): Patients receive fludarabine phosphate
      intravenously (IV) on days -9 to -5 and melphalan IV on day -4. Patients also undergo TMI
      twice daily (BID) on days -9 to -7. If no DLT is observed in the first cohort, bortezomib IV
      will be added on days -6 and -3 for subsequent cohorts. GROUP II (patients ineligible for
      TMI): Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV and melphalan IV as in Group I. Patients also
      receive bortezomib IV on days -6, -3, 1, and 4.

      TRANSPLANT: All patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplant on
      day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: All patients receive tacrolimus IV or orally (PO) and sirolimus PO
      beginning on day -3.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 100, 6 months, and then
      annually thereafter for up to 4 years.
    
  