
    
      The first successful simulation validation study used a proficiency-based progression
      methodology. Since then the approach has been successfully deployed to produce superior
      technical skills but has not yet been validated for non-technical (communication) skills. The
      ISBAR (Identify, Situation, Background, Assessment and Recommendation) has been selected as
      the standardised tool for clinical communication in relation to an acutely deteriorating
      patient in many healthcare organisations worldwide, including Ireland.

      The aim of this study is to explore whether proficiency-based progression (PBP) could be
      applied to simulation-based training for ISBAR performance to produce a superior skill set.

      The study will compare performance outcomes of students, who receive the national e-learning
      programme only with those who receive it in combination with either standard simulation or
      proficiency-based progression (PBP) simulation.

      Participants will be prospectively randomized to one of three training groups within their
      professional cohort (medicine or nursing) before undertaking a performance assessment of an
      ISBAR communication relevant to a deteriorating patient in a high fidelity simulation
      laboratory:

        1. Online learning only (HSE) -the national e-learning programme only

        2. Standard simulation (S) -online learning plus simulation training

        3. Proficiency based progression (PBP) -online learning plus proficiency-based progression
           simulation.

      Main outcome and measures: A proficiency benchmark on the performance of ISBAR communication
      in the context of an acutely deteriorating patient.

      All participants will be required to demonstrate a certificate of successful completion on
      the national e-learning programme within the previous 4 weeks as well as supplying baseline
      demographic information before undertaking the training.

      Performance metrics have previously been identified, operationally defined and agreed upon at
      a modified Delphi panel meeting consisting of medical and nursing experts for a series of
      paper-based simulation cases and a standardised high fidelity simulation case used as the
      assessment case. The proficiency benchmark for each case has been set based on the
      performance of experienced nursing and medical personnel on each case as a series of steps,
      errors and critical errors.

      Outcome assessment will be scored by reviewing recordings of ISBAR performance by each
      participant on the standardised case in the high fidelity laboratory.
    
  