
    
      The study will be a matched-cohort study, in which twelve bridge sites will be matched to
      twelve comparison sites. The bridge sites have been defined and identified by B2P staff in
      conjunction with government officials through a systematic needs assessment carried out in
      2014. Of the twelve bridge sites that have been confirmed for the study, seven are located in
      the Southern Province, and five are located in the Western Province. Comparison sites were
      identified from a 2018 needs assessment carried out by B2P. As with the bridge sites, seven
      of the comparison sites are in the Southern Province and five are in the Western Province.
      The table of bridge and control sites with their respective districts and provinces can be
      found in Appendix A.

      The minimum detectable effect analysis for outcomes of interest determined that, with these
      24 sites, the investigators should survey representatives from 100 households in each
      treatment site (those receiving a bridge) and comparison site (those that will not). For both
      treatment sites and comparison sites, B2P will identify the impacted side - that which their
      assessment indicates would benefit the most from the bridge. Investigators will then obtain
      the administrative list of households from the umudugudu chief (village leader) or cell
      secretary for the village that is closest to the bridge on the impacted side. If the list
      consists of at least 100 households, investigators will randomly select the 100 households to
      visit from this list. If the village has fewer than 100 households, enumerators will visit
      all households in that village and then, from the list for the next closest village, randomly
      select the remaining number required to reach 100 households.

      As part of the pilot study, investigators are testing an experimental method to determine
      which households to sample within a community. This method involves tracing satellite imagery
      of the relevant communities to derive a vector dataset of all the households in the area,
      from which investigators randomly select certain ones based upon an algorithm. This approach
      is intended to make the sampling more robust by reducing the opportunity to introduce human
      bias. The tracing of homesteads will be done using freely available Bing aerial imagery and
      the data generated will be contributed to OpenStreetMap (OSM), in accordance with the Bing
      imagery license for OpenStreetMap. While all the households traced will be uploaded to OSM
      and be publicly available, all subsequent analysis of which households are to be surveyed and
      survey results themselves will be kept in private on password-protected devices and will only
      be used for the purposes of the study.

      The study will utilize a difference-in-difference empirical design. That is, it will compare
      changes over time in communities that receive a bridge against those that do not. This is
      recovered from a linear regression:

      y_vt = a + β*Bridge_vt + E_vt In this equation, y_vt is some outcome of interest in community
      v at time t and Bridge_vt is an indicator of community v has a bridge at time t. Under the
      identification procedure described above, the coefficient β estimated in the above regression
      identifies the causal effect of bridge construction.

      Based on the findings of Brooks and Donovan 2018, investigators are interested in exploring
      not only economic and agricultural outcomes but also using this larger opportunity to explore
      health and educational outcomes as well.

      To utilize the difference-in-difference method, data is required for at least two points in
      time from all households in the study. Therefore, baseline surveys will be conducted before
      any bridges are built, followed by a second round of data from the same households after
      bridges are built, and a third round of data collection a year after the baseline. This will
      take place in both treatment communities and comparison communities.

      The baseline survey will be conducted in February-March 2019. This corresponds with the main
      harvest period in Rwanda, allowing for the collection of specific information on agricultural
      outcomes while that information is still fresh in the minds of community members surveyed.
      The completion of bridges will begin in late February 2019 and continue through July 2019. A
      midline survey will be carried out in June-July 2019. And end-line data will be collected in
      February-March 2020. The same survey will be used at all three time points, thus allowing the
      testing of any differences that occur over time.

      The survey will be carried out by trained enumerators fluent in Kinyarwanda on tablet
      computers. Once completed, the surveys will be uploaded directly to a secure server in the
      United States for analysis. A detailed list of the questions can be found in the attached
      survey.

      As noted in the list of outcomes above, mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC) is one of the
      health outcomes of interest. MUAC is an easy body measurement that helps to monitor
      nutrition, and the nutritional status of children under five is a proxy indicator of the
      community's nutrition. However, MUAC is not used for children under six months of age because
      there are not established nutrition cutoff levels for this age group. With consent from the
      primary caregiver, MUAC will be measured for every child in the household who is between the
      ages of six months and five years. The instructions for this process are included in the
      survey.

      In June 2019, cameras will be installed at the entrance to bridge crossings that will take
      pictures as individuals cross the bridges. This data will be analyzed to estimate bridge
      uses, allowing us to investigate the potential correlation between bridge use and economic,
      agricultural, health and educational benefits. The data from the cameras will be stored on
      local digital storage devices. The cameras will be locked in place. The camera data will be
      collected by study staff periodically and uploaded to secure, password protected databases.
      The pictures will be analyzed by computer and by study team review to count the number of
      users of the bridge. No personally identifiable information will be published in any form.
    
  