
    
      Before enrollment of the patients into the study, the two investigators, EGHM and TAPF, will
      perform 10 complete cases each of ERCP (Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) +
      SPYGLASS + EHL, to get more experience with the methods.

      This will be a comparative study of methods, prospective, randomized study assessing the
      successful removal of bile duct stones considered to be difficult between the two proposed
      methods. A total of 100 patients will be recruited, according to the criteria for inclusion /
      exclusion of Appendix I. Randomization will be performed using a computer generated system.
      Fifty patients will be distributed in group 1 (Spyglass + electrohydraulic lithotripsy) and
      fifty in group 2 (with hydrostatic balloon dilation of the papilla with a extractor balloon
      sweep). Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) will be performed, and after
      the diagnosis of difficult stone, will be followed by randomization between the two proposed
      methods. In group 1, the examination with the Direct Visualization System of Bile Ducts
      ("Spyglass Direct Visualization System") will be held soon after the diagnosis of difficult
      stone and partial endoscopic papillotomy. After access to the biliary duct with the system
      described, and the visualization of the stone, it will be introduced gently through the
      working channel of a spyglass the probe to perform the electrohydraulic lithotripsy. When the
      fragmentation is complete the system spyglass will be removed and the pieces of stone are
      removed by conventional endoscopic methods. In group 2, after the diagnosis of difficult
      calculi and performing the partial endoscopic papillotomy, the papilla (as with papillotomy)
      will be dilated with a hydrostatic balloon until the maximum size allowed by the diameter of
      common bile duct, followed by scanning with extractor balloon. In both groups, the stone
      clearance will be confirmed using Spyglass cholangioscopic exploration of the bile duct. In
      case of failure in stone removal by some of the methods studied, it will be performed biliary
      drainage with plastic stent.
    
  