
    
      Methods: This will be a pragmatic randomized control trial with a 1:1 allocation ratio
      between cases and controls.

      Study Setting: This project will be implemented at the DM clinic of Nsambya Hospital in
      Kampala City. The clinic, which is staffed by three nurses, a medical officer and a
      specialist physician, is open once a week. The nurses provide most of the DM care including
      eliciting symptoms, providing medication refills, as well as referring complicated cases to
      the medical officer (MO) and specialist physician. The medical officer and specialist
      physician manage referrals and complications of DM.

      Identification of depressed patients to participate in a peer support feasibility study: In
      the first four weeks of the study, all clinic attendees will be screened for depression by a
      trained lay health care worker(TLHW) using the PHQ-2 at triage. Screen positive cases
      (PHQ-2≥3) will be sent to the MO who will conduct a depression diagnostic interview using the
      Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) till 10 depressed patients are
      identified. All depressed patients will be initiated on either Imipramine 75mg/day or
      Fluoxetine 20mg/day, and then reassessed at week 4 and week 6 for side effects and symptom
      remission using the Hamilton Depression Rating scale (HAM-D).

      Conducting qualitative interviews to assess feasibility of peer support: When the 10 patients
      are in remission (˜ 6-8 weeks) the investigators will conduct qualitative interviews with
      them, hospital administrators (n=2), and medical personel at the DM clinic (n=5). During the
      interview, the investigators will assess the participant's perceptions about the feasibility
      and acceptability of engaging experienced DM patients to provide peer support to patients
      newly diagnosed with depression. Informed consent will be sought from all participants.

      Interview procedure: Dr Elialilia Okello will conduct the qualitative interviews. The
      participants will be asked about whom in the DM clinic would be a suitable candidate to
      provide peer support to newly diagnosed depressed patients. The peer support model will be
      presented to participants so that they can internalize/appreciate the concept, Interview
      guide: The interviews will be based on a guide with detailed standard probes to ensure that
      key questions are addressed, and to allow comparisons across individuals and categories of
      respondents. Questions will be open-ended to allow not only the exploration of new leads but
      also generation of rich narratives. All interviews will be tape recorded, translated in
      English (in cases where Luganda, the local language is used) and transcribed verbatim.

      Qualitative data analysis: Data will be explored to identify key themes and relationships
      between themes and analyzed using Atlas.ti. The results from the qualitative interviews will
      help the investigators refine the peer support model before using it.

      After the depressed patients are in full clinical remission, the investigators will ask
      clinic staff to nominate from among them atleast 5 potential candidates to become peer
      support buddies. This number should be adequate for the investigators to pilot test atleast 5
      interview groups for the peer support process. Self-nominations will also be encouraged after
      the patients on treatment are made aware of the eligibility criteria. The eligibility
      criteria will be patients who are; (a) at least 18 years of age; (b) speak Luganda; (c)
      registered at the clinic for at least 6 months; (d) successful adherer, defined by staff as
      one who consistently keeps appointments and self-reports being able to adhere to treatment;
      (e) not currently suffering from any physical or co-morbid mental illness, or using
      substances of abuse ; (f) socially skilled as defined (albeit subjectively) by staff; (g),
      and have received antidepressants for at least 10 weeks (and in clinical remission for at
      least 4 weeks). The investigators will screen more clinic attendees to identify potential
      buddies if the number identified using the method above is less than 5. Patients who are
      depressed and are ineligible to become peer support buddies will be followed up for the
      duration of the study as controls.

      Buddy training: A 2-day training workshop of the peer support "buddies" will be conducted by
      the PI using the buddy training manual developed by Simoni. The workshop will include
      didactic content, and role-plays. Buddies will be taught strategies geared to address the
      four components of peer support (self-care, adherence, stigma, and social support). Buddies
      will meet in a group for supervision with the PI to seek for clarity in areas that were
      missed out earlier before they can be assigned newly diagnosed patients. Once trained, the
      buddies will be assigned no more than 5 patient peers at any one time.

      Content of peer support training: Buddies will be taught to strive toward the following goals
      with their assigned peers: (a) explain the purpose of the contacts as educational and
      supportive, aimed at helping the peer to adhere to both antidepressants and hypoglycaemic
      medications; (b) learn the peer's regimen and make suggestions on how to follow it, borrowing
      from their own experiences; (c) encourage peers to follow treatment regimens by praising them
      for adherence and by expressing confidence in their ability to adhere; (d) allow the peer to
      express worry, anxiety, and concerns so these can be dealt with, (e) be warm and friendly,
      (f) and refer frequently to themselves and their success with their own regimen to present a
      guide or model which the peer can follow. The peers and buddies will use the above goals to
      set achievable targets for each meeting. Buddies will be specifically instructed not to give
      any medical advice to the peers, but rather encourage the peers to discuss with their
      clinicians any questions of a medical nature.

      Sample size and power calculation for the peer support study objective: The sample size for
      the RCT component of the study was calculated to compare the primary outcomes as measured by
      HbA1c ≤ 7 and HAM-D ≤7 between the intervention and control arms at 48 weeks after initiation
      of antidepressant treatment. To calculate our sample size, the investigators used findings
      from an RCT by Safren et al,[61]. Using the standard deviations of the means from this study
      [61], the investigators estimated that 65 patients per arm (intervention vs. control) are
      required to have 80% chance to detect, as significant at the 5% level, a 1.4 [SD = 2] mean
      difference in the HbA1c levels and HAM-D depression scores, taking into account a 20% loss to
      follow-up at 48 weeks.

      Peer support process: Participants in the intervention arm will receive peer support every
      two weeks for 12 weeks, then monthly 'booster' sessions at weeks 16, 20, 24 and 28 after
      commencing treatment. However, the results from our qualitative interviews will guide the
      investigators about the feasibility of the number of meetings.

      Peer support will be provided to a group of patients rather than a one-to one session. A
      number of barriers (transport availability, distance from the clinic, work schedules) may
      make it difficult to pre-determine when the meetings will take place, but the investigators
      will ensure that the inclusion criteria for peers into the program includes their willingness
      to attend all sessions. Buddies will keep ongoing records of all their contacts with their
      peer clients as an assessment of the integrity of the intervention across buddies, across
      peers, and over time.

      Monitoring fidelity and supervision: In the first 4 weeks of implementation of the peer
      support intervention (17 weeks into the study), all sessions will be audio recorded to assess
      adherence to manual guidelines. The PI will then listen to the recordings, and then advise
      the buddies accordingly. The peers will complete an anonymous evaluation questionnaire
      following the first two sessions; information from these questionnaires will be used to
      improve the quality of peer support. A buddy log will be designed to capture the following
      information; a) which days the meetings occurred, b) duration of the meeting, c) members
      present, d) issues discussed, and e) any challenges encountered. The investigators will have
      a master's degree clinical psychologist sit in these meetings and also collect this data from
      each of the buddies at the end of the meeting, and relay this data to the PI. Over the entire
      duration of the intervention, the PI will also attend the sessions on a rotator basis; the PI
      will have the chance of attending sessions from each of the groups.

      The study participants from both arms will be followed up for 48 weeks after initiation on
      antidepressant treatment. The patients in both arms will be reviewed by the MO at weeks 2 and
      4 to address any challenges due to side effects, which are critical in preventing early
      discontinuation of treatment. At each visit, the research assistant will use the HAM-D to
      assess depression symptom severity, and the standardized side effect screening instrument the
      antidepressant side effect check-list (ASEC) [63] to assess tolerance to medications and any
      side effects. The HbA1c test will be performed at baseline, week 24 and 48. At these visits,
      the research assistant will also collect data from the participants. Research data will be
      collected at baseline, then weeks 12, 24, and 48 after initiation of patients into treatment.

      Quantitative data analysis: A trial profile shall be used to detail recruitment and follow-up
      of patients. Analyses will be conducted to compare the groups at baseline, weeks 12, 24, and
      48 to assess short- and long-term effects of the peer support intervention. The investigators
      shall analyze the data using the intention-to-treat approach. The dependent variables (HbA1c
      and HAM-D) will be presented as continuous variables. Predictor outcomes including adherence,
      mental illness stigma levels, social support and self-care will be presented as continuous
      and categorical variables. Baseline characteristics of the intervention and control arms will
      be compared at the 5% level to assess if successful randomization was achieved. Students
      t-tests (if continuous and normally distributed), Mann-Whitney U-test (if continuous but
      non-normally distributed), and Chi-squared tests (categorical) will be used. Data on
      potential confounders and effect modifiers, including variables that fail to achieve
      successful randomization (e.g. sociodemographic parameters) shall be used to control for
      confounding and effect modification. The investigators shall conduct both within-subjects
      (time) and between-subject (group) analyses. Between-subject analysis at 48 weeks will be
      used to assess the direct effect of the intervention by determining if there is a significant
      difference between the mean HAM-D and HbA1c scores in the intervention and control arms.
      Within-subject analysis will be performed among patients in the intervention arm by applying
      the Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) method on repeated measures data. To examine the
      role of social support and mental health stigma as mediating factors in the relationship
      between depression and both treatment adherence and levels of glycaemic control outcomes,
      three simple regression analyses each between i) the predictor (social support and mental
      illness stigma) and outcome (HbA1c and HAM-D scores), ii) predictor and mediator, and iii)
      mediator and outcome, will be conducted followed by a multiple regression analysis.
    
  