
    
      The number of people affected by cognitive decline continues to rise as the US population
      ages. A recent report indicates that this decline can be seen as early as age 45. Optimizing
      cognitive function during adulthood is a key mechanism to combat cognitive decline as one
      reaches older adulthood.

      Recent advances in cognitive wellness management have shown that tailored diet and lifestyle
      regimens that factor in various biomarkers and proclivities signaling cognitive decline (e.g.
      family genetics) can cause a person with a declining MOCA (measure of cognitive ability)
      score to restore or achieve an improved MOCA score.

      A number of clinical trials have studied nutraceutical ingredients for improved memory
      enhancement and/or cognitive performance. While the individual ingredients are already
      well-utilized in commerce globally, the Braini® formulation is unique and novel, harnessing
      synergistic effects seen in a new in vitro human neural cell challenge study carried out in
      South Korea by the study sponsor. In this study a series of independent in vitro (cell line)
      tests of the active nutraceutical constituents that comprise the Braini® dietary supplement
      product line were performed. The tests follow current peer-reviewed published methods for
      assessing the effects of biologically active compounds on human neuronal cells. The in vitro
      study showed a significant improvement in cell viability and reactive oxygen species (ROS)
      inhibition using the Braini® compounds.

      Based on existing published science supporting the neuroprotective role of the Braini®
      formulation, this supplement may be useful and to improve cognitive function and health.
      Based on studies conducted outside the United States, the research team hypothesizes that
      orally ingested Braini® taken as directed (2 x 525 mg powdered capsules per day), will
      demonstrate superior improvements in standardized cognitive performance assays and related
      MOCA scores. The research team aims to conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blinded dietary supplement study to evaluate this hypothesis among a diverse sample of
      healthy young adults
    
  