
    
      Primary Objective: To determine the safety of PBSC mobilization with G-CSF, with or without
      HU pretreatment in adults with beta thalassemia major.

      Secondary Objective: To determine the number of CD34+ stem/progenitor cells that are
      mobilized under these conditions, as well as the ability of these cells to be transduced with
      a recombinant lentivirus vector for beta-globin and engraft immunodeficient mice.

      Study Design: The ability of G-CSF to safely and effectively mobilize PBSC in adults with
      beta thalassemia major will be assessed in 12 splenectomized and 12 non-splenectomized
      patients. Of the 12 splenectomized patients, 6 will be treated with HU and G-CSF, and 6 will
      be treated only with G-CSF. Likewise, of the 12 non-splenectomized patients, 6 will be
      treated with HU and G-CSF, and 6 will be treated only with G-CSF. G-CSF mobilized
      participants will undergo leukapheresis on 2 consecutive days, with a target yield of 2
      million CD34+ cells per kg of body weight. Safety will be assessed by monitoring for
      study-related toxicity. Efficacy will be assessed by measuring the total number of CD34+
      cells, the ability of these cells to be transduced with a recombinant lentivirus vector for
      beta-globin, and the ability of these cells to engraft immunodeficient mice.

      Population: Adults with beta thalassemia major.

      Sample size: A total of 24 subjects will be enrolled: 12 splenectomized participants and 12
      non-splenectomized participants.

      End Points: This is a pilot study and no specific hypotheses are being tested. However, the
      study will allow for qualitative comparisons if outcomes between the various arms are
      markedly different. For example, the study will provide qualitative data on the safety and
      feasibility of utilizing HU and G-CSF to mobilize stem cells in individuals with beta
      thalassemia major. The study will be completed upon full enrollment, or when stopping
      criteria are met within specific study arms.
    
  