
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the extent by which INCB024360 (epacadostat) alters the number of cluster of
      differentiation (CD)8+ T cells by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the extent by which INCB024360 alters the number and character of tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes by IHC and gene signature by microarray analysis.

      II. To determine the extent to which INCB024360 alters the character of the cellular content
      of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and ascites fluid as determined by
      multiparameter flow cytometry.

      III. To determine the extent to which INCB024360 alters PBMC and ascites fluid
      transcriptomes.

      IV. To determine whether INCB024360 alters the ongoing and nascent anti-tumor responses
      antigens associated with ovarian cancer (e.g., cancer/testis antigen 1B [NY-ESO-1],
      preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma [PRAME] and mesothelin) as well as memory viral
      responses (influenza A), and chronic viral responses (cytomegalovirus).

      V. To assess the safety and tolerability of INCB024360. VI. To determine the extent to which
      a regimen of INCB024360 that normalizes serum kynurenine/tryptophan (Kyn/Trp) ratios will
      alter the tumor microenvironment by assessing the ascites and intra-tumor Kyn/Trp ratios at
      the time of surgery, one day after stopping INCB024360.

      VII. To associate any observed changes with the expression of IDO1 protein by IHC in tumor or
      tumor infiltrating cells.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive epacadostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 and undergo surgery
      on day 15. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. In circumstances where there are medical or administrative reasons for delaying
      surgery, treatment with epacadostat may continue for up to 3 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.
    
  