
    
      Intermittent caloric restricted or fasting has numerous health effects including the
      reduction in numerous cardiovascular and pulmonary disease risk factors. The cellular
      programs activated by caloric restriction are similarly regulated in preclinical and clinical
      studies in response to a 24-hour fast. We have found that a beneficial effect of a 24-hour
      fasting blunts the activation of a component of the innate immune system, termed the NLRP3
      inflammasome. This inflammasome, as a mediator of sterile inflammation, is associated with
      the development of diabetes, asthma and atherosclerosis. At the same time, we found that
      refeeding after the 24-hour fast significantly increased NLRP3 protein levels. As NLRP3 is
      increased in obesity, the nutrient intervention (24 hour fast and then refeeding) we studied
      may be useful to evaluate nutrient-overload effects on the immune system. Pertaining to this
      it has recently been found in a preclinical study that NLRP3 can also orchestrate
      differentiation of na(SqrRoot) ve T cells into T(H)2 cells. Interestingly both the NLRP3
      inflammasome and T(H)2 cell activation contribute to asthma. In this context we hypothesize
      that the assessment of the effect on refeeding on T(H)2 cell differentiation (polarity) may
      allow us to dissect out the mechanisms underpinning nutrient overload induced T(H)2 cell
      activation. To evaluate this blood samples to test T-cell biology will be collected in
      subjects, at baseline, after a fixed caloric meal and in response to a 24-hour fast (water
      intake will not be restricted). The objective of this pilot study is to identify if
      nutrient-load regulates T-Cell differentiation capacity and to test whether this pathway
      could be investigated as a therapeutic target to blunt/negate the inflammation associated
      with nutrient-excess associated diseases including asthma.
    
  