
    
      Despite significant progress in the reduction of perinatal transmission of HIV, there has
      been less attention to retaining women living with HIV (WLH) in care in the postpartum
      period. Retention in care particularly affects black and Hispanic women as they are
      disproportionately affected by the HIV epidemic in the United States (U.S.). In preliminary
      work, the investigators used HIV surveillance data from the Philadelphia Department of Public
      Health to examine the HIV care continuum of 561 women, 78% of whom were black, during
      pregnancy and up to two years postpartum (2005-2011). Only 38% of women received HIV care
      within 3 months after delivery, and retention remained poor at 1 (39%) and 2 (25%) years
      postpartum. Poor maternal retention in care also occurs in Mississippi, Georgia, and New
      York, demonstrating that this break in the HIV care continuum is widespread. Retaining WLH in
      care positively impacts their well-being and health postpartum and for years to come, which
      promotes not only their health but that of their newborns. Therefore, the long-term goal of
      this study is to decrease HIV disparities by increasing WLH's retention in care in the
      postpartum period.

      Presently, there are a limited number of evidence-based interventions aimed at improving
      retention in care for WLH. Through a critical review of research literature, the
      investigators found that interventions to improve retention in care have been implemented in
      low-resource countries, but studies in high-resource countries are lacking. In sub-Saharan
      Africa, the use of peers has resulted in significantly higher maternal retention and viral
      suppression compared to standard of care. Peers are WLH who remained engaged in HIV care
      postpartum, and provide education and support to WLH in the prenatal and postpartum periods.
      The investigators also conducted a series of qualitative interviews with WLH in the U.S. to
      evaluate factors contributing to poor retention in care postpartum, and to assess the
      acceptability and feasibility of a peer intervention in meeting women's needs. The results
      showed that women's primary motivation to engage in prenatal care is to keep their infant
      healthy, but that many of them experience significant life challenges that impede their
      ability to engage in care postpartum. However, they expressed great interest in receiving
      support from a peer to motivate sustained engagement in care postpartum.

      The investigators propose to test the efficacy of a theory-driven peer intervention, based on
      the integrated model of health behavior. The peer intervention, Women Involved in Supporting
      Health (WISH), is designed to increase self-efficacy, social support, self-regulatory
      behaviors, and outcome expectancy in order to improve retention in care and viral suppression
      postpartum. The intervention will consist of three face-to-face prenatal sessions, starting
      in early third trimester, and two face-to-face postpartum sessions scheduled up to three
      months postpartum. The prenatal sessions focus on knowledge that will address barriers to
      outcome expectancies and self-efficacy, and the postpartum sessions build on outcome
      expectancy and knowledge to develop skills tailored to adherence to antiretroviral therapy
      and engagement in HIV care. Between the sessions, the peer and the WLH will communicate via
      text messages, phone calls and/or video chat. The randomized controlled trial (RCT) will take
      place across Center for AIDS Research sites in Philadelphia, the District of Columbia,
      Atlanta, and Birmingham, where HIV infection rates remain disproportionally high among black
      and Hispanic women. A total of 260 pregnant WLH will be randomized to either WISH adherence
      or an attention-matched WISH parenting control group.

      The impact of this research will be the development of the first evidence-based peer
      intervention to address the pressing need to improve postpartum retention in HIV care and
      viral suppression of WLH in the U.S.
    
  