
    
      Procalcitonin (PCT), a soluble protein composed of 116 amino acids with a sequence identical
      to that of the calcitonin prohormone, has been considered as a reliable biomarker for
      evaluating of bacterial infection and sepsis. In healthy individuals, serum PCT
      concentrations are undetectable, however, in case of severe bacterial infections and sepsis,
      it increase rapidly released mainly in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and modulated by
      bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and sepsis-associated cytokines. An increase number of
      studies have demonstrated that PCT-guided strategy is a helpful approach to guide antibiotic
      administrations and clinical interventions in the intensive care unit (ICU).

      However, PCT is induced in the plasmas of patients not only at the presence of bacterial
      infection, but also in stress conditions such as severe trauma and surgery. In these
      conditions, the increases are moderate. The mechanism of the nonspecific increase is
      complicated. Other conditions with elevated PCT concentrations include medullary thyroid
      carcinoma , cancer, anaphylactic shock, heat shock , cardiac arrest, Kawasaki Disease, and so
      on. These findings suggest that elevated PCT levels lack the speciality to detect sepsis in
      critically ill patients.

      Tracheotomy is one of most performed surgical procedures to assure airway by making a hole in
      front of the trachea in ICU. There are studies in literature that show the surgical
      procedures to the neck area cause a surgical stress, an increase in thyroid hormones. The
      procedure may due to miscellaneous clinical signs by altering in hormone levels, even
      creating a thyroid storm. As far as we are aware, there is no study on the impact of
      tracheotomy on PCT concentration. The aim of the study was to evaluated whether tracheotomy
      affects PCT concentrations in patients without sepsis. Moreover, the investigators assessed
      whether operative duration and procedure were correlation with the peak PCT level.
    
  