
    
      Type of study : Prospective double blinded randomized control trial Sample population :
      patients with temporomandibular joint disorder pain who are currently undergoing treatment in
      Oral & Maxillofacial surgery unit, Prince Philip Dental Hospital Study Period : 2 year (1st
      may2015 to 1st may 2017)

      Data Collection All new cases or existing TMD patients treated in oral maxillofacial surgery
      department, Prince Philip Dental Hospital will be acquired and screened based on inclusion
      and exclusion criteria. Selected patients will be categorised based on TMD axis 1 diagnosis
      and divided into two groups - group 1(Vitamin B) and group 2(placebo) randomly . Allocation
      of patients into the group will be based on computer generated by random block sequence.

      Complete social demographic background of the patient will recorded according to the
      following format age, gender, race, education, and job.

      Clinical assessment will be done to check 1. Mouth opening 2. Lateral excursion (right and
      left) 3. Protrusion 4. Deviation of lower jaw on opening 5. Tenderness of muscle of
      mastication 6. Pain - based on 10cm visual analog score.

      After initial assessments, patients will be started on either vitamin B complex or placebo
      based on their group.

        -  Both group of patients will be also prescribed with Tab Ibuprofen 400mg to be taken
           during acute Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pain symptoms.

        -  These patients will be reviewed on week 0,2,4 and 6.

        -  All the patients will be reviewed by blinded assessor. Each patient will be given a log
           book to document frequency of TMJ pain attack, maximum pain score on each attack and
           amount of analgesics (Ibuprofen 400mg tabs) taken.

        -  Log book record will be checked on their review.

        -  Amount of analgesics recorded in log book and compliance of Vitamin B or placebo will be
           cross checked with remaining tablet count.

      Data Evaluation/ Statistical Analyses The statistical analysis of this study will use the
      standard version of Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 17.0 for
      windows. All the data will be gathered and entered in into this software.
    
  