
    
      Stroke is one of the leading causes of disability in the world. Research has shown that in
      the aftermath of a stroke, patients continue to experience various impairments even years
      after the stroke. For example, research has shown that stroke survivors continue to
      experience both cognitive impairments (e.g. executive dysfunction) and low mood (e.g.
      depression) even after more than 5 years since the stroke has passed. A further study was
      able to link low mood with reduced engagement in therapy, which has been found to lead
      patients to experience less benefits from the given therapy.

      Due to the lack of supporting evidence for pharmacological and psychological treatments,
      music intervention was introduced with positive results being reported in regards to
      patients' mood and cognitive abilities. For example, one study found that stroke patients who
      listened to self-selected music were likely to experience a significant improvement in their
      mood and cognitive abilities when compared to another group who listened to audiobooks.

      The current study aims to build on previous research by utilising a novel study design that
      has not been previously used to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of music
      intervention on the mood of patients located at an inpatient rehabilitation unit. The chosen
      design, single-case experimental design, allows researchers to take into account the
      individual differences of the patients, which cannot be considered when using an experimental
      design which needs a group of similar characteristics. In addition, by using a non-concurrent
      multiple baseline design, the researchers will be able to show that any changes occurring to
      the target behaviour (mood) will be due to the intervention itself rather than any other
      extraneous variables found in the environment, as three different time lengths will be used
      for the baseline phase (5, 10, and 15 days). The aim of the study is to provide data that
      support the feasibility and effectiveness of music intervention as an inexpensive and simple
      method for improving mood in stroke patients at an inpatient rehabilitation unit. It also
      aims to show similar effectiveness in increasing cognitive impairment and therapy engagement.
    
  