
    
      Obesity has a multi-causal origin in which participate, in a similar way, the individual
      behavior and family and community contexts and the social environment.

      Participation of primary care services is key to solve the problem. These services have the
      possibility to detect timely children with high body mass index, and to promote behavior to
      improve feeding practices and physical activity in both, the child and his family.

      The study is divided in two stages:

        1. Design of the intervention. The researchers will use qualitative methods to evaluate
           feeding practices, physical activity and the environment in which such behaviors are
           generated. In a similar way the care provided by health professionals to overweight and
           obese children it will be evaluated; this includes the perception that health providers
           have about this problem. The information will allow identifying risk behavior and
           healthy behavior, facilitators and obstacles to receive care. The results will serve to
           define the contents of the intervention.

        2. Intervention: The study will take place in four family medicine clinics belonging to the
           Mexican Institute of Social Security. Two clinics will receive the intervention and two
           will serve as control. In each clinic, fifty children and their mothers will be
           recruited. At the intervention clinics, the group of mothers will participate in seven
           weekly sessions and in two individual sessions at 3 and 6 months after the group
           sessions finish. During the sessions, the researchers will motivate the mothers to
           change feeding practices and encourage physical exercise of the children and family,
           this will improve the chance for their children for healthy growing. The control group
           will receive the usual care that consists only in the recommendations that the family
           doctor provides.

      The evaluation of the study comprise feasibility and acceptability of the intervention and
      its effect in the behavior of the mothers in terms of changing feeding practices and
      practicing physical exercise.
    
  