
    
      Effective solutions are needed to address the parallel persistence of a quality chasm and
      racial disparities in diabetes care. Many large health care systems are adopting components
      of the Chronic Care Model to achieve substantial gains in diabetes care, though few health
      systems have successfully incorporated elements specific to minority health. We have
      previously identified racial disparities in key diabetes outcomes measures within an
      integrated health care delivery system, Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates (HVMA). This
      project will use a randomized, controlled study design within HVMA to evaluate whether
      enhancements to the Chronic Care Model can produce significant improvement in the quality of
      diabetes care for black patients. Intervention clinicians will receive monthly panel-level
      disparities report cards, health navigation training, and cultural competency training, while
      control clinicians will function within the context of the generic Chronic Care Model. The
      study will occur over a 12 month period and involve 4,000 white patients and 2,500 black
      patients with diabetes receiving care at 8 health centers. The primary outcomes will include
      rates of glucose (HbA1c <7.0), LDL cholesterol (<100 mg/dL), and blood pressure (<130/80)
      control. We will use patient focus groups to identify significant barriers to care and guide
      health navigation training. We will survey clinicians pre- and post intervention to assess
      the effect of the intervention on knowledge and attitudes towards disparities. Patient
      experiences will be assessed pre- and post-intervention using a validated instrument to
      determine whether the intervention can reduce existing racial disparities in patient reports
      of quality. We will perform a cost analysis related to the intervention using a health system
      perspective. In summary, this project will provide health systems with a rigorous analysis of
      a defined set of tools to improve diabetes care for minority populations.
    
  