
    
      With the course of the years, became notorious the transformation in the epidemiological
      profile of the Brazilian population, with the progressive decline of infectious diseases and
      illness narratives and the gradual growth of the chronic degenerative diseases, particularly
      cardiovascular diseases of (ARAÚJO, 2012)

      According to statistics of the Ministry of health, in the year 2010 were recorded about 100
      thousand deaths due to cerebrovascular accident (AVE), a result of the sudden interruption of
      blood flow of the brain, which is currently responsible for leading cause death in Brazil
      (MINISTRY of health, 2012).

      The heterogeneity of the Brazilian population, would explain the current epidemiological
      transition, and as a result the high rates of mortality. The diseases of the circulatory
      system are as main cause death of Brazil, emphasizing the cerebrovascular disease,
      responsible for one third of deaths in the country.

      The cerebral arteries are responsible for giving the necessary nutrients as a source of
      energy to neurons, the brain requires intense blood flow to meet your high intake of
      nutrients. Being that the interruption of the flow of oxygen and glucose for a period in
      excess of five minutes can cause irreversible damage to the brain.

      Several pathological processes can cause the interruption of blood flow in certain brain
      areas. Between these processes include hemorrhages, embolisms, stroke and diseases that lead
      to suspension of blood flow, and therefore the deficit in the supply of nutrients.

      The blood deficit promotes changes in cellular metabolism, which can lead to injury and/or
      death of brain tissue. According to estimates, 80% of the incidence of BIRD arteriolar
      occlusion resulting from atheroma plates or secondary brain artery emboli that deprive the
      brain of blood supply.

      The likelihood of the AVE doubles every decade of life, from 55 years of age. Although
      leverage the ranking of deaths in the country, statistics from the Ministry of health in
      2010, showed decreased mortality rate in the age group up to 70 years, representing an annual
      average reduction of 3.2% (MINISTRY of health, 2012).

      As established earlier, the differences in the prevalence of risk factors among the
      population due to high heterogeneity, that is, different customs, habits and lifestyles. So
      in that, poor eating habits and physical youth population may reflect structural changes in
      adulthood, and may lead to vascular brain diseases. Among the risk factors associated with
      the AVE is hypertension, dyslipidemias, diabetes, smoking, alcoholism.

      In general the clinical picture presents itself with motor and sensory changes, that may be
      associated with deficits in cognitive and perceptual functions by damaging both physical and
      physiological functions of the patient (DIETZ; SINKJAER, 2007). Due to the AVE be associated
      with motor disability tables, resulting in physical limitations, mainly resulting from
      spasticity, is necessary to search for ways to minimise this damage. In this way, it is
      believed that with the help of biomedical instrumentation, which in addition to providing
      quantitative and reliable data on the functional capacity of the individual, allows the
      development and recruitment of equipment to help in the evaluation of the General State of
      the patient and so consequently best results before the practice of neurological
      rehabilitation. Therefore it is of utmost importance to biomedical resource utilization as
      surface electromyography that refers to a method of non-invasive monitoring, providing values
      for the square root of the mean squared Value (RMS - R Englishoot Mean Square), demonstrating
      this parameter the results of signal amplitude through the average power in the time interval
      analyzed, containing information about the amount of traction units fired at any given
      movement

      Isokinetic dynamometry bound that provides resistance to joint movement over a given range,
      enabling the analysis of muscle force-related parameters such as torque, power, and
      endurance. These two features combined will contribute to the determination of the time when
      the o muscle spastics had to fatigue muscles. On this information, the sessions can be
      reworded to the concrete limitations of patients and consequently the improvement of
      rehabilitation, which will automatically improves the quality of life of these individuals.
    
  