
    
      There is overwhelming evidence that sustained physical activity reduces the risk of many
      common diseases. Yet, data reveal low levels of physical activity among working age adults
      and their children in Singapore. One strategy that has been successfully employed to
      influence behaviours of parents is to use their children as an intermediary. This strategy
      has a successful track record in public health, where children have helped their parents quit
      smoking and wear seatbelts.

      In this study, the investigators propose to test whether children can promote increased
      physical activity of a working parent at the same time that they increase their own activity
      level. This proposal is an extension of a prior study where the investigators showed that
      modest financial incentives can increase physical activity levels among children. The
      investigators now propose to conduct a follow-on trial where the reward is tied not only to
      the child's own steps, but to that of a parent. Rewards will be based on step activity
      measured through a state-of-the-art wireless step counter worn on the wrist or hip. Just as
      children were motivated to increase their own activity levels in efforts to achieve the
      incentive, the investigators hypothesize that they will also be effective advocates for
      increasing the activity levels of their parents.

      Specifically, the investigators propose to conduct a 12 month two-arm randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) to evaluate the efficacy of the family based incentive scheme on working parents'
      physical activity as measured via accelerometry. The investigators hypothesize that parents
      in the family-based incentive arm (FBI) will show a greater number of daily steps at the
      interim 6 month assessment and the final 12 month assessment point compared to parents in the
      child based incentive (CBI) arm, as measured by accelerometry. Secondary aims test the
      effects of the intervention on parent's and child's MVPA bout minutes per week, MVPA minutes,
      and other physical activity endpoints measured by accelerometry, child's steps, parent's and
      child's activity levels throughout the intervention period measured by the pedometer, and on
      health outcomes and health-related quality of life of parents at follow-up.
    
  