
    
      Project Background:

      Secure Messaging is a VHA implementation priority to improve Veteran access to care.
      Successful deployment of Secure Messaging will support improved access to care, and improved
      healthcare outcomes in the Veteran population. To support these initiatives, and the
      successful implementation of this health informatics tools in the VHA, this project is
      exploring Veterans' perspectives' about adopting Secure Messaging and their experiences using
      Secure Messaging to inform systems improvements, educational approaches, and marketing
      strategies.

      Objectives:

      The primary aim of this project is to describe Veterans' experiences when using the Secure
      Messaging feature on My HealtheVet (MHV). This research is designed to explore why Veterans
      choose to, or not to, use the Secure Messaging feature on MHV, identify facilitators and
      barriers, and examine if experiences differ by health literacy or computer literacy. In
      addition to the interview data, findings from the usability testing provide user data about
      Veterans' skills and patterns when using Secure Messaging. This study was extended to conduct
      a mail-in quantitative survey evaluation of Veterans experiences, preferences, purposes and
      perceived facilitators and barriers for using, or not using Secure Messaging.

      Methods:

      This is a prospective mixed-methods descriptive study.

      In Phase One: A purposive sampling was used to identify the sample of Veterans who have been
      Personally Authenticated for the Secure Messaging feature on My HealtheVet. Participants were
      recruited from two sites (Tampa n=18, Boston n=15). Phase 1 data collection procedures
      included: (1) surveys; (2) In-person interviews; (3) usability testing; (4) Secure Messaging
      secondary data collection; and (5) telephone interviews to complete study objectives.

      In Phase Two: Random sampling was used to collect mail-in survey data from up to 1,000
      Veteran participants who have been personally authenticated to use secure messaging.
      Quantitative data will be summarized using descriptive statistics to describe sample
      characteristics, frequency counts and proportions.

      Study Status: The project team has completed data collection and analysis for Phase 1 and 2.
      Team is currently working on publications for dissemination.
    
  