
    
      Introduction

      The use of convalescent plasma in the treatment of infectious diseases has been empirically
      performed for more than a century. It is based upon the assumption that providing exogenous
      neutralizing antibodies may provide protection while affected patients mount their own immune
      response. This therapeutic approach appears of particular interest in the context of the
      current pandemic, in which there is no specific vaccine available nor adequately proven
      effective pharmacological treatments.

      Study purpose, hypothesis and general design

      Purpose of the study: evaluate the effectiveness and safety of convalescent plasma in the
      treatment of SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia (Covid-19) Hypothesis: Convalescent plasma significantly
      improves the clinical outcome in patients with Covid-19 pneumonia and severity criteria.

      Multicenter randomized, double-blind, placebo.controlled clinical trial. Placebo will be a
      saline solution.

      3. Methodological sustain for including a control arm with placebo Quality evidence about the
      effectiveness of convalescent plasma in the treatment of Covid-19 pneumonia is not yet
      available. Although case series and anecdotal reports appear encouraging, the implementation
      of its use in routine clinical practice requires the validation through controlled clinical
      trials. In addition the collection, administration and control of plasma is technically
      demanding and needs a clear support before broadly recommending it. Different scientific
      institutions and international organisms had clearly suggested to prioritize the application
      of novel therapeutic techniques with yet unproven efficacy within the context of clinical
      studies over its empirical use.

      On the other hand, for the present study, intervention strategy is proposed in "add-on"
      modality over the antiviral treatment that each participant may be already receiving, since
      they represent completely different therapeutic approaches. As such, participation in the
      present study will not condition the possibility of the participants to receive other
      treatments, either in intervention or control arms.

      4. Study objectives Primary objective Analyze the difference between arms on an ordinal score
      of six mutually exclusive categories at day 30 after study initiation. This score includes
      the following categories
    
  