
    
      Project Background/Rationale: Women Veterans are a rapidly growing proportion of VA patients.
      While entitled to receive care equivalent to their male counterparts, women Veterans may
      receive lower quality care, in part due to a VA primary care (PC) workforce that has limited
      experience caring for women, particularly their gender-specific conditions. This workforce
      may be especially challenged in community-based outpatient clinics (CBOCs), where access to
      women's health (WH) expertise may not be readily available. CBOC PC providers (PCPs)
      typically have small caseloads of women Veterans, making it difficult for these providers to
      maintain their WH knowledge and skills. To ensure quality care for women Veterans, VA
      mandated designated WH providers (DWHPs) in every VA facility, and instituted intensive
      training opportunities-"WH mini-residencies"-for these providers. Although highly valuable in
      delivering a standard level of specialized WH training, these one-time trainings are not
      sufficient, as knowledge attenuates over time. Serial education re-enforcement over time is
      needed to produce and maintain long-term gains in knowledge. Furthermore, additional
      supports, such as enhanced communication between PCPs and specialists, are necessary to
      achieve and sustain quality gains. To address these issues, VA is implementing a clinical
      operations innovation that is designed to improve CBOC-based DWHP delivery of comprehensive
      WH care. This innovation (entitled DWHP Support) combines: 1) advanced WH serial
      patient-based education that exposes DWHPs, over time, to a depth and breadth of WH cases and
      issues (SCAN-ECHO); and 2) interactive communication between CBOC DWHPs and VA Medical
      Center-based specialists for "just in time" support of DWHP WH care (electronic
      consultations). The intervention is technology-supported and delivered virtually. It is being
      implemented in a stepwise manner.

      Objectives: Facilitators and barriers to use of DWHP Support, and its effect on patient
      management are unknown. The investigators hypothesize that DWHP Support will improve the
      quality and efficiency of WH care in CBOCs. The specific aims are:

      Aim #1: To evaluate the effect of DWHP Support on WH care quality and efficiency, using a
      modified stepped wedge design; Aim #2: To explore the impact of DWHP Support in changing DWHP
      behavior and self-rated WH knowledge, skills, and self-efficacy; Aim #3: To assess attitudes
      about DWHP Support and its use, specialist time for its implementation, and other features
      that could influence DWHP Support's effectiveness, sustainability and spread; Aim #4: To
      develop tools to measure quality of WH care in VA.

      Methods: The investigators will conduct an observational study of DWHP Support for CBOC
      DWHPs. The investigators will use a mixed methods analytic approach (combining a modified
      stepped wedge quantitative analysis with provider surveys and interviews) to measure the
      intervention's effect after 1 year, while also evaluating the implementation process and use
      of the intervention. The investigators will use quality assessment methods to translate
      existing evidence-based WH performance guidelines into quality measurement tools applicable
      to VA WH care.

      Anticipated Impact: This proposal aims to evaluate an innovation to improve WH care in CBOCs
      that uses a technology-based educational and interactive communication intervention designed
      for WH providers. To measure the intervention's effectiveness, this project will develop WH
      quality measures that will be valuable tools for other VA efforts to improve WH care. The
      findings on effectiveness and implementation could influence VA's approach and use of
      technology-supported interventions for other clinical conditions and in other special
      populations.
    
  