
    
      This is a 1 year randomized crossover controlled trial study of the effect of supine exercise
      position (intervention arm) compared to the upright exercise position (control arm) within 4
      weeks. This is a single-center study conducted at St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario.

      The exercise will be performed at a constant work rate, individualized for each participant.
      Peak work rate will be calculated using results from the most recent room air 6-minute walk
      test (6MWT), within the past 6 months. The equation used to estimate peak work rate is: Peak
      Work Rate = 0.168 x 6MWD (m) - 4.085 (ref Kozu Respirology 2010). The individualized constant
      work rate will be set at 70-80% of this estimated peak work rate.

      The main stopping criterion will be the point at which, after standardized encouragement, the
      subject is unable to continue because of symptoms (i.e. patient does not wish to continue or
      cannot maintain a minimum peddling frequency of 40 rpm for ≥ 10 seconds). This is defined as
      the "tolerable limit" (tLIM). Additional safety-related stopping criteria will include: the
      appearance of life-threatening arrhythmias, a drop in systolic blood pressure by ≥ 10 mm Hg
      from baseline, or a desaturation below a set point for ≥ 30 s. The set saturation point will
      be chosen individually for each patient, as the lower of: 80% or the lowest saturation seen
      on room air 6MWT.

      Exercise tests in each position, for each subject, will be standardized with respect to the
      proper seat adjustment relative to leg length and pedaling cadence (50-60 rpm). Inspiratory
      capacity will be measured before and after the exercise maneuver.

      The cycle ergometer resistance will be set to the pre-determined constant work rate, as
      described above. There will be continuous monitoring of saturation, ECG, gas exchange, blood
      pressure, and subjective dyspnea/leg fatigue (Borg scale), with standardized verbal
      encouragement throughout. Participants will be asked to bring running shoes and comfortable
      exercise clothes, ensure that they have eaten before the test, to take all usual medications,
      and to avoid major exercise for 24 hours before the test.
    
  