
    
      Postoperative new-onset atrial fibrillation (PNAF) is a common complication after cardiac
      surgery, affecting up to 60% of patients. PNAF has been associated with a higher incidence of
      adverse postoperative outcomes including long-term mortality, and leads to an increased use
      of resources and higher social costs.

      Many studies have investigated potential determinants of PNAF. Established determinants can
      grossly be divided into inflammatory factors, cardiac functional (echographic) parameters,
      cardiac electrophysiologic properties and other (demographic) risk factors. Also, a
      substantial number of studies have investigated pharmacological prophylactic strategies. In
      these studies, the highest effectiveness has been shown for strategies involving either
      betablockers, statins and, more recently, corticosteroids.

      The DExamethasone for Cardiac Surgery - Postoperative New-onset Atrial Fibrillation
      (DECS-PNAF) project described in this protocol aims to elucidate how corticosteroids protect
      cardiac surgical patients from PNAF. The modulating effect of intraoperative prophylactic
      high-dose dexamethasone administration on the categories of perioperative determinants of
      PNAF mentioned above will be studied in 164 coronary artery bypass grafting surgery patients.
      For this, multiple perioperative assessments will be performed using, for example, repeated
      biochemical assessment of inflammation, genomic analysis of (mainly inflammatory) single
      nucleotide polymorphisms, continuous electrocardiographic (Holter) monitoring and
      transesophageal echocardiography.

      The DECS-PNAF project is one of the first prospective studies to combine a detailed
      assessment of multiple categories of PNAF determinants. Moreover, it is unique in studying
      the effect of prophylactic corticosteroid administration on every one of these determinants.
    
  