
    
      Aim. The aim of the current study is to investigate the feasibility of CPP for young children
      who have an increased risk of exposure to adverse and traumatic experiences with negative
      effects on their health and development. Feasibility will be conceptualized as acceptance of
      the method by therapists, caregivers, and children; practical applications of the method; any
      need for modifications; and observed outcomes.

      Research questions The main research question is: Is CPP feasible for children in foster
      care? Additional research questions are: 1) How do children in foster care experience
      participating in CPP? 2) How do foster parents experience participating in CPP? 3) How do
      clinicians experience using CPP with children in foster care and their caregivers? 4) What
      outcomes can be observed in treatment with children in foster care in terms of increased
      psychological health in children and foster parents; decrease in symptoms of post-traumatic
      stress in children and foster parents; and foster parents' experiences of their caregiving
      capacity and relationship with the child.

      Method Design. The project has a naturalistic mixed-methods study design. Qualitative and
      quantitative research methods will be used to collect and analyze data. Qualitative data
      concerning childrens', caregivers', and clinicians' experiences of the treatment method as
      well as quantitative data concerning practical applications of the method, any modifications
      made, and reported levels of symptoms will be studied.

      Participants. Nine agencies in different regions of Sweden offering CPP as part of their
      regular services have accepted to participate in the study. Participants are consecutively
      recruited at the participating agencies. Inclusion will be terminated when 20 children have
      been included (whereof at least 12 children aged 3-6 years).

      Procedure. At treatment start caregivers and custodians (this can include foster parents,
      social services, and biological parents) will be informed about the study and asked for
      consent to participate. Because of their low age children aged 3-6 will be informed and asked
      for consent to participate in connection to the interviews. Quantitative data will be
      collected by self-report instruments completed by the foster parents before treatment and
      after 20 sessions or at termination, if treatment if terminated earlier. Participation,
      fidelity, and modifications are registered by clinicians continuously. Foster parents and
      clinicians will be asked to schedule interviews by one of the researchers in the project
      after 20 sessions or at termination, if treatment if terminated earlier.

      Background information. Demographical and background data will be collected using a form
      designed for this purpose, before treatment and after 20 sessions or at termination, if
      treatment is terminated earlier.

      Instrument. Qualitative interviews focusing acceptance and experiences of the method will be
      conducted with children, foster parents, and clinicians. The interviews will be conducted by
      child psychologists experienced in clinical treatment as well as in research with families
      with young children in in difficult life situations. The interviews will be recorded and
      transcribed verbatim. Clinicians will register participation, fidelity, and any modifications
      after each treatment session in a log-book. Quantitative data on outcome concerning exposure,
      symptoms of post-traumatic stress, psychological health, and caregiving experiences will be
      collected by self-report instruments completed by foster parents before treatment and after
      20 sessions or at termination, if treatment is terminated earlier.

      Analyses. The interviews will be analyzed by thematic analysis or interpretative
      phenomenological analysis, according to the applicability in relation to the research
      questions and data collected. Descriptive statistical methods will be used to describe
      exposure, symptoms pre- and post-treatment, and treatment modifications made. Non-parametric
      statistical methods will be used to analyze and describe indications concerning outcome.
    
  