
    
      This is a multi-centre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study to
      evaluate the efficacy of two oral doses of GSK1605786A (500 mg once daily, 500 mg twice
      daily) as compared to placebo in the induction of clinical response over a 12-week treatment
      period in subjects with moderately-to-severely active Crohn's disease. Secondary objectives
      will include assessment of the safety and evaluation of the efficacy in induction of
      remission.

      The study is planned to randomise approximately 600 subjects (200 subjects/group) with active
      Crohn's disease, diagnosed for at least 4 months with a documented history of disease in the
      small and/or large intestine, and characterised by a Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI)
      score between 220 to and 450, inclusive. Subjects must have reported an inadequate response
      or intolerance to Crohn's disease treatment with corticosteroids or immunosuppressants.
      Inclusion of subjects who received prior treatment with a biologic anti-tumour necrosis
      factor (TNF) agent will be limited to approximately 50% of the study population. All subjects
      are required to have a diagnosis with identification of anatomic location of Crohn's disease,
      which has been established by visualisation of the gastrointestinal tract within 12 months of
      screening. Subjects who have not had a visualisation of the gastrointestinal tract within 12
      months are required to undergo an endoscopic assessment during the screening period. Subjects
      will be required to have evidence of current active inflammation at the time of randomisation
      either by endoscopy or by inflammatory biomarkers [elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) greater
      than the upper limit of normal (ULN) plus a positive faecal calprotectin test]. Subjects who
      do not meet the requirements based on inflammatory biomarker test results will be required to
      qualify based on endoscopic assessment during screening. Subjects will be allowed to
      participate in the study while continuing on stable doses of agents typically used to treat
      Crohn's disease. Following the screening period, subjects will be randomised at baseline to
      receive blinded treatment with one of two doses of GSK1605786A (500 mg once daily or twice
      daily) or placebo for 12 weeks. Response and remission endpoints, using the CDAI, will be
      evaluated at Weeks 4, 8 and 12.
    
  