
    
      Covid-19 patients under mechanical ventilation are currently managed with a lung protective
      strategy derived from ARDSnet recommendations. In order to minimize the risk of spread of
      coronavirus, filters and associated respiratory tubing are incorporated to the breathing
      circuit, thus increasing apparatus dead space with subsequent increase in dead space
      ventilation. Considering the already often compromised ability for these patients to
      adequately clear carbon dioxide (VCO2), adding an external dead space can potentially have a
      substantial impact on CO2 homeostasis. The study will use volumetric capnography (Vcap) to
      investigate the influence of external dead space on VCO2 and calculated alveolar dead space.

      Objective: 1) To investigate the efficacy of Vcap to detect changes in dead space, VCO2 and
      shape factor parameters before and after disconnection of external dead space.

      2) To register the external dead space impact on arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2).

      3) To calculate the alveolar dead space based on Vcap data and arterial blood gas analysis
      results.

      Design and setting: Prospective observational study in an intensive care center for Covid-19
      patients in a university hospital.

      Patients: Covid-19 positive patients of all age groups under mechanical ventilation.
      Exclusion criteria is ongoing ECMO treatment

      Measurements and results: Vcap and Tcap parameters will be registered during mechanical
      ventilation and correlated to an arterial blood gas sample. Part of the apparatus dead space
      will then be reduced via removal of the heat and moister exchange filter (HME) with added
      tubing resulting in a reduction in volume of approximately 80 ml (i.e. the known volume of
      the HME filter and associated tubing). After the apparatus dead space is removed, the Vcap
      will be recorded for approximately 15 minutes and an arterial blood gas will be drawn at the
      end of the period. The HME and associated tubing will then be reattached to the breathing
      circuit and Vcap and Tcap parameters will be recorded for approximately 30 minutes and an
      arterial blood gas will be drawn. Vcap data will be analyzed for dead space, slope of phase
      III, VCO2 and associated shape factor parameters and compared with Tcap parameters. Changes
      in Vcap parameters will be tested for statistical significance using one and two-way ANOVA
      for repeated measures and Bland-Altman analysis will be used for comparison.
    
  