
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of patients with advanced non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC) treated with pevonedistat (MLN4924 [pevonedistat]) in combination with
      carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with advanced NSCLC treated
      with MLN4924 (pevonedistat) in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      II. To estimate the overall survival (OS) of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with
      MLN4924 (pevonedistat) in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      III. To evaluate the safety profile of MLN4924 (pevonedistat) in combination with carboplatin
      and paclitaxel.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate expression of nuclear factor-erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2 (NRF2) target
      genes NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase1 (NQO1) and the cysteine/glutamate antiporter solute
      carrier family 7 member 11 (SCL7A11).

      II. To determine expression of pharmacodynamic markers induced by neural precursor cell
      expressed developmentally downregulated protein 8 (NEDD-8) activating enzyme (NAE)
      inhibition: cyclic AMP-dependent transcription factor (ATF3), beta 2 microglobulin (B2M),
      glutamate-cysteine ligase regulatory subunit (GCLM), glutathione-disulfide reductase (GSR),
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)-3-methyladenine (MAG1), ribosomal protein lateral stalk subunit
      P0 (RPLPO), sulfiredoxin-1 (SRXN1), thioredoxin reductase 1 (TXNRD1), and
      ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (UBC).

      III. To perform qualitative assessment of tumor NAE1 and ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 M
      (UBC12) protein expression at baseline.

      IV. To assess circulating tumor cells (CTCs) for DNA damage repair pathway alterations (i.e.,
      gamma H2AX induction, RAD51).

      V. To evaluate pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of MLN4924 (pevonedistat) when given in
      combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours on day 1, carboplatin IV over
      30-60 minutes on day 1, and pevonedistat IV over 1 hour on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for at least 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, all patients without disease progression are followed up
      at 30 days, every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months until 5 years from end of study
      treatment.
    
  