
    
      This is a prospective, observational study to compare the measurement accuracies of a
      wearable loupe-based device and the large microscope against the gold standards of
      postoperative histopathological analysis on tumor tissues.

      At the induction of anesthesia, patients will receive 5 mg/kg of intravenous sodium
      5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) or fluorescein. Surgery will be performed under the guidance of
      the operative fluorescence microscope (PENTERO with fluorescence kit + YELLOW 560, Carl
      Zeiss) or (PENTERO 900 + BLUE 400, Carl Zeiss). The operating room light will be dimmed for
      optimum reproduction of the fluorescent light. Tumor removal will be continued until no
      fluorescent area is visualized. To evaluate the accuracy of the device in the identification
      of tumor tissue, six samples will be biopsied from the tumor resection margin for each
      patient; three in the fluorescent area and three in the non-fluorescent area for the
      assessment of positive and negative predictive values of the devices, respectively. These
      biopsied tissues will be taken to the clinical pathology laboratory for the standard
      histological analysis.

      To compare the accuracy of the two imaging systems in identifying tumor tissues, the tumor
      resection area will be visually observed by the surgeon and video recorded using the new
      loupe-based device at two time points (at least): immediately before and immediately after
      tumor removal. Additional fluorescence images may be taken during surgery as long as the
      surgical workflow is not impacted. Moreover, the four fresh biopsies (2 in the fluorescent
      area and 2 in the non-fluorescent area) taken from the tumor margin based on the operative
      microscope diagnosis will also be examined intraoperatively by the loupe-based device to
      determine whether they are fluorescent or non-fluorescent.

      To discriminate between clear tumor tissue and the peritumoral areas, the postoperative
      histological analysis of the biopsied samples taken from the tumor margins will be classified
      on the basis of the current 2016 WHO classification. The neuropathologist will be blinded to
      the fluorescence characteristics of the biopsied samples.
    
  