
    
      It is well-known that inpatient status is a risk factor of inadequate bowel preparation.
      However this is a very mixed group, coexisting multiple factors containing several risk
      factors, such as elderly, comorbidities, a variety of medications, physical inactivity…
      Predictive factors in this population are probably different to those identified in
      outpatients. There is no strong evidence about the influence of these factors on inpatient
      bowel cleansing.

      The researchers will offer to participate in the study to inpatients scheduled for
      colonoscopy who meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria. The
      researchers will explain the purpose of the study and will ask to sign the informed consent.
      They will give verbal and written information on the diet and the bowel cleansing solution to
      be taken. A questionnaire will be administered about predictors of inadequate bowel
      cleansing. Activity will be measured by using a pedometer and a physical performance test.

      Patients will take a liquid diet the day before the examination and they will be prepared
      with 4 liters of polyethylene glycol in split-dose regimen: 2 liters the evening before the
      examination (at 19.00 hours) and 2 liters 5 hours before colonoscopy The bowel cleansing
      quality following Boston Bowel Preparation Scale will be assessed by the endoscopist during
      the colonoscopy.

      The aim of this study is to figure out the risk factors of bowel cleansing of inadequate
      bowel preparation in inpatients.

      The inclusion of a maximum of 10 variables in the multivariate analysis will be considered:
      age, sex, short test of physical performance, Charlson index, indication (urgent or
      scheduled), polymedication (≥ 5 drugs), exposure to tricyclic antidepressants, calcium
      antagonists or opioids, constipation (<3 deposits per week and one of the following
      defecatory efforts), number of steps. For a predetermined percentage of 25% of patients with
      inadequate preparation, the inclusion of 400 inpatients who undergo a colonoscopy will be
      required. If we estimate an inclusion of about 10 patients per week, an inclusion period of
      about 10 months would be required.
    
  