
    
      This is a pilot or feasibility study (designated as UG3 by the Department of Defense) which
      will be a randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm, human subjects pilot
      study with two Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1 (UG3): To determine the feasibility and optimize the protocol of the
      Implementation Phase (UH3) multicenter clinical trial that will compare percutaneous PNS with
      usual and customary opioid-based analgesia following moderate-to-severely painful ambulatory
      surgery.

      Specific Aim 2 (UG3): To estimate the treatment effect of percutaneous PNS on pain and opioid
      consumption following moderate-to-severely painful ambulatory surgery compared with usual and
      customary opioid-based analgesia. This will allow determination of the required sample size
      of the definitive multicenter clinical trial of the Implementation Phase (UH3).

      Anthropomorphic and demographic characteristics as well as baseline end points will be
      recorded/measured, including a pain score at the surgical site using the Numeric Rating Scale
      (NRS, 0-10), sensory deficits (measured with von Frey filaments within the cutaneous
      distribution of the target nerve), and muscle strength (measured with a pressure transducer).

      Shoulder • Rotator cuff repair Brachial plexus trunks (lead & interscalene nerve block)

      Knee • Anterior cruciate ligament repair with a patellar autograph Femoral lead & Adductor
      canal nerve block

      Foot or ankle • Hallux valgus correction or Ankle arthrodesis/ arthroplasty Subgluteal
      sciatic lead and Popliteal sciatic nerve block

      Insulated leads will be inserted prior to peripheral nerve block administration. The lead
      insertion sites will be cleansed with chlorhexidine gluconate and isopropyl alcohol, and a
      sterile, fenestrated drape applied. A portable ultrasound paired with either a linear or
      curved array transducer within a sterile sleeve will be used for lead insertion. The target
      nerve will be imaged in a transverse cross-sectional (short axis) view and a local anesthetic
      skin wheal raised lateral to the ultrasound transducer.

      A needle and a pre-loaded, monopolar, helically-coiled, insulated lead (SPR Therapeutics,
      Cleveland, OH) will be inserted. Using an in-plane ultrasound approach, the needle tip will
      be advanced to the target nerve. The lead will be subsequently attached to an external
      stimulator (SPR Therapeutics). Accurate lead placement will be confirmed with subject reports
      of comfortable sensations over the surgical site without eliciting muscle contractions.

      Stimulation parameters will be adjusted to improve stimulation coverage and comfort. Once
      optimum parameters have been determined, the needle will be withdrawn over the lead. The lead
      will be affixed to the skin with a sterile occlusive dressing. The stimulator will be set to
      deliver a range of currents. During their treatment, subjects can control these levels.
      Muscle strength will again be tested with the stimulator set for the optimal setting. The
      stimulator will be removed until after surgery.

      Preoperatively, day of surgery. Subjects will continue to receive usual and customary local
      anesthetic-based analgesia. Because percutaneous PNS does not induce a sensory block and
      therefore does not provide anesthesia for the surgical procedure itself, we will continue to
      provide subjects with a preoperative single-injection local anesthetic-based peripheral nerve
      block (20 mL of ropivacaine 0.5% with epinephrine 1:400,000). In addition, surgeons will be
      permitted to infiltrate the surgical area with local anesthetic.

      Treatment group assignment (randomization). Subjects will be allocated to a treatment only
      after confirmation of successfully-inserted electrical leads and surgical procedure
      initiation; and will be randomized to one of two possible treatment groups:

        1. Current delivered via the electrical lead(s) [Experimental group]

        2. No current delivered via the electrical lead(s) [Control group]

      Randomization will be stratified by institution and anatomic lead location in a 1:1 ratio and
      in randomly chosen block sizes. Treatment group assignment will be conveyed to the enrolling
      sites via the same secure web-based system (RedCap) used to collect and collate all
      post-intervention endpoints. Stimulators are capable of programming to either (1) pass
      electrical current; or, (2) not pass electrical current. Importantly, these 2 modes (active
      and sham) are indistinguishable in appearance, and therefore investigators, subjects, and all
      clinical staff will be masked to treatment group assignment, with the only exception being
      the unmasked individual who programs the stimulator who will not have contact with the
      subject following randomization.

      Subjects will be informed that often during postoperative active treatment with electrical
      current patients do not always have the sensations experienced during preoperative lead
      placement and once proper placement is confirmed with comfortable sensations, therapeutic
      levels of stimulation may be delivered sub-threshold (below the intensity required for
      sensation and still provide relief, which is factual/accurate). This protocol will ensure a
      randomized, double/triple-masked, sham/placebo-controlled trial. For the feasibility study
      (UG3), unmasking will occur 2 weeks following surgery to allow for protocol revisions, as
      necessary ("double masked" during initial data collection). In contrast, for the definitive
      pragmatic clinical trial (UH3) unmasking will not occur until statistical analysis for the
      entire investigation is complete (termed "triple masked").

      Intraoperative course. The primary surgical anesthetic will be a general anesthetic, spinal
      anesthetic (bupivacaine) or exclusively the preoperative single-injection peripheral nerve
      block. Anesthetics that are also analgesics such as ketamine will not be used: the only
      permitted analgesic will be intravenous fentanyl, which will be minimal since all subjects
      will receive a single-injection peripheral nerve block immediately prior to surgery.

      Postoperative course. Within the recovery room following surgery, the stimulators will be
      attached to the leads and activated, followed by end point assessment. Subjects who had a
      spinal anesthetic will have end points recorded following spinal resolution. Operating and
      recovery room pharmacologic analgesic requirements will be recorded.

      Prior to discharge, subjects and their caretakers will be provided with verbal and written
      stimulator/lead instructions and the telephone and pager numbers of a local investigator
      available at all times. Subjects will be discharged home with their leads in situ. Subjects
      will be also be discharged with a prescription for an immediate-release oral opioid. Subjects
      will be contacted by telephone for end point collection (pain and analgesic consumption will
      be reported by phone on postoperative days 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 11, and 15 as well as months 1 and
      4). Lead removal will occur on postoperative day 14 (+/- 2 days) by healthcare providers. If
      the lead is removed following Day 14, the stimulator will be turned off on Day 14, and
      removed subsequently. Following study completion, the results will be mailed electronically
      or by the United States Postal Service to all enrolled subjects in written form using
      non-technical language.

      Outcome measurements (end points). We have selected outcome measures that have established
      reliability and validity, with minimal inter-rater discordance, and are recommended for
      pain-related clinical trials by the World Health Organization and the Initiative on Methods,
      Measurement, and Pain Assessment in Clinical Trials (IMMPACT) consensus statement.
      Importantly, nearly all outcome measures are common data elements from the National Institute
      of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS). End points will be evaluated on postoperative
      days 0 (baseline), 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 11, and 15 as well as months 1 and 4).

      Demographic and medical history. Subjects will have demographic and anthropomorphic data
      collected based on NINDS case report form General Core and Demographics Modules and
      Guidelines, including age, sex, height, weight, educational level, employment status, marital
      status, and U.S. military service (e.g., none, discharged, active). In addition, the medical
      history based on the common data elements of the NINDS Medical, Family, Behavioral History,
      History of Disease/Injury Event, and Prior and Concomitant Medications Sub-Domains will be
      collected, and include the mechanism of original injury, medications (including analgesics),
      previous surgical procedures, comorbidities, existing sensory deficits of the target nerve
      distribution, preoperative pain levels measured on a Numeric Rating Scale for pain (including
      daily least, average, worst and current), and muscle strength if applicable (measured with a
      pressure transducer). In addition, since post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may be
      associated with the severity of pain, at baseline we will apply the PTSD Checklist (PCL-C), a
      20-item self-report measure reflecting symptoms of PTSD validated in military, Veteran, and
      civilian populations.

      Data collection. Much of the surgical data from the day of surgery will be extracted from
      electronic health records to leverage data collection that occurs in health care delivery
      rather than requiring independent research data collection. Subject demographic, surgical and
      percutaneous PNS administration data will be uploaded from each enrolling center via the
      Internet to a secure, password-protected, encrypted central server (RedCap, Department of
      Outcomes Research, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio). All data collection following the day
      of enrollment (postoperative day 0)-regardless of enrolling center-will be collected by
      telephone from the University of California San Diego. Staff masked to treatment group
      assignment will perform all assessments.

      UG3 Planning Phase Specific Aims. The investigation described above will accomplish the two
      Specific Aims of the UG3 Planning Phase:

      Specific Aim 1 (UG3): To determine the feasibility and optimize the protocol of the
      Implementation Phase (UH3) multicenter clinical trial that will compare percutaneous PNS with
      usual and customary opioid-based analgesia following moderate-to-severely painful ambulatory
      surgery.

      Specific Aim 2 (UG3): To estimate the treatment effect of percutaneous PNS on pain and opioid
      consumption following moderate-to-severely painful ambulatory surgery compared with usual and
      customary opioid-based analgesia. This will allow determination of the required sample size
      of the definitive multicenter clinical trial of the Implementation Phase (UH3).

      ** The primary end points will be cumulative opioid consumption and the mean value of the
      "average" daily surgical pain scores (measured with a Numeric Rating Scale) within the first
      7 days following surgery (data collected Days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7). In order to claim that
      percutaneous PNS is superior to usual and customary analgesia, at least one of Hypotheses 1
      and 2 above must be superior while the other either superior or at least noninferior.
    
  