
    
      Hysteroscopic examination is currently the most informative investigation for patients with
      abnormal uterine bleeding and infertility. Outpatient hysteroscopy involves the use of
      miniaturized endoscopic equipment to directly visualise the endometrial cavity, without the
      need of formal theatre facilities, general or regional anaesthesia.

      Outpatient hysteroscopy is increasingly being used as a cost-effective alternative to
      in-patient hysteroscopy under general anaesthesia. Like other outpatient gynaecological
      procedures, however, it has the potential to cause pain severe enough for the procedure to be
      abandoned.

      Several drugs have been used to reduce pain during the procedure. Celecoxib is a highly
      selective Cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor (COX-2 inhibitor) whereas other Non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) like Ibuprofen, Diclofenac, and Naproxen inhibit both COX-1
      and COX-2. COX-1 is the only isoenzyme found in platelets, and plays a role in the protection
      of the gastrointestinal mucosa, renal hemodynamics, and platelet thrombogenesis. In theory,
      this selectivity allows celecoxib and other COX-2 inhibitors to reduce inflammation and pain
      while minimizing gastrointestinal adverse drug reactions. COX-1 is involved in synthesis of
      prostaglandins and thromboxane, but COX-2 is only involved in the synthesis of prostaglandin.
      Therefore, inhibition of COX-2 inhibits only prostaglandin synthesis without affecting
      thromboxane, so offers no cardioprotective effects of nonselective NSAIDs .

      Opioid analgesics are widely used for the control of moderate to severe pain. Tramadol
      hydrochloride, a synthetic opioid is an orally active, clinically effective centrally acting
      analgesic having a lower incidence of respiratory depression, cardiac depression, side
      effects on smooth muscle and abuse potential as compared to typical opioid agents.

      The study will be conducted in the outpatient hysteroscopy clinic in Cairo university
      hospitals. All patients attending the outpatient hysteroscopy clinic will be invited to
      participate in the study. The invitation will include a clear full explanation of the study
      and patients will provide oral consent. Written informed consent is not needed since the
      procedure and intervention carries almost no risk to the patient and the patient will not
      receive anesthesia and will be fully conscious. Only patients consenting verbally to
      participate will be included in the trial.

      Tramadol, celecoxib and placebo will be enclosed in sealed envelopes which will be numbered
      using computer generated random table. Neither the patient nor the physician will be aware of
      the drug used. 210 women will be categorized into 3 groups: Group I who will receive Tramadol
      100mg (Trama SR®, Global Napi) orally 1 hour before the procedure, group II who will receive
      Celecoxib 200mg (Celebrex® 200, Pfizer) 1 hour before the procedure, and group III who will
      receive placebo acting as the control group.

      Full history will be taken followed by general and local examination. The procedure will be
      done in the lithotomy position. Hysteroscopy will be done using a 5mm outer diameter
      continuous flow hysteroscope with a French working channel and a 30 degrees direction of view
      provided by Techno GmbH and CO. The hysteroscope will be introduced using the vaginoscopy
      technique, in which no speculum will be used. The cervix will be detected and the external os
      will be identified using the hysteroscope. The hysteroscope will be introduced in the uterine
      cavity. Saline will be used as the distension medium and the pressure will be set at 100mm
      Hg. The anterior wall, posterior wall and tubal ostea will be visualized, any polyps,
      adhesions septa, congenital malformations or submucous fibroids will be noted.

      Base line characteristics and perception of pain will be compared.
    
  