
    
      SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening form
      of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure that develops rapidly (12-48 hours), in the setting of
      an acute severe illness complicated by systemic inflammation.

      Overall mortality in ARDS is 35-60%, with most nonsurvivors dying within two weeks of disease
      development. While a regulated inflammatory response is critical to survival, a major
      predictor of poor outcome in ARDS patients is persistence of pulmonary and systemic
      inflammation after one week of lung injury. Innate or treatment-induced downregulation of
      systemic inflammation is important to the resolution of ARDS.Failure to downregulate the
      production of inflammatory mediators (dysregulated inflammation) is associated with
      maladaptive lung repair and inability to improve ACM permeability, gas exchange, and lung
      mechanics over time.

      In a phase II randomized controlled trial, Meduri and collaborators tested the hypothesis
      that prolonged administration of low dose methylprednisolone (1mg/Kg/day) initiated in early
      severe ARDS (within 72 h of diagnosis) downregulates systemic inflammation and leads to
      earlier resolution of pulmonary organ dysfunction and a reduction in duration of mechanical
      ventilation and ICU stay. The pre-defined primary end point to terminate the trial was a
      1-point reduction in Lung Injury Score (LIS) or successful extubation by day 7. The duration
      of treatment was up to 28 days. In intention-to-treat analysis, the response of the two
      groups (63 treated and 28 control) clearly diverged by day 7 with twice the proportion of
      treated patients achieving a 1-point reduction in LIS (69.8% vs. 35.7%; P = 0.002) and
      breathing without assistance (53.9% vs. 25.0%; P = 0.01). Improvement by day 7 correlated
      with survival by day 7 (R = 0.41; P < 0.001) and hospital survival (R = 0.59; P < 0.001).
      Treatment was associated with a reduction in the duration of mechanical ventilation (5 vs.
      9.5; P = 0.002), ICU stay (7 vs. 14.5; P = 0.007), and ICU mortality (79.4% vs. 57.4%; P =
      0.03). At one year, the absolute difference in mortality was 17% (63.5% vs. 46.4%; P = 0.13).

      The primary objective of the trial was to test the effect of treatment on lung function; a
      new larger trial is therefore needed to evaluate the effect of methylprednisolone treatment
      on survival. The primary aim of the proposed randomized trial is to determine if low-dose
      methylprednisolone infusion, compared to placebo, will reduce all cause 28-day mortality.
      Among patients admitted to the ICU with ALI/ARDS, we hypothesize that methylprednisolone
      infusion will reduce 28-day all cause mortality from 50% to 33% (aggregate data from five
      randomized studies).

      SPECIFICS. In patients with ARDS, the administration of prolonged methylprednisolone
      treatment will decrease (in comparison to placebo):

        -  All causes 28-day mortality (primary variable).

        -  Laboratory indices of systemic inflammation (i.e., C-reactive protein, etc.).

        -  Physiological and laboratory indices of organ dysfunction.

        -  Duration of mechanical ventilation and ICU stay. ADDITIONAL SURVIVAL ANALYSIS. - ICU and
           hospital all cause mortality, defined as the proportion of patients alive in each group
           at first ICU discharge and hospital discharge.

      All patients with ALI/ARDS of less than 72 hrs will be enrolled.

      EXIT CRITERIA

        1. Development of serious complications attributable to glucocorticoid therapy.

             -  Gastrointestinal bleeding requiring transfusion

             -  Perforated viscus

             -  Fungal infection at more than 2 sites

        2. Development of life-threatening conditions (i.e. immune thrombocytopenia, vasculitis,
           etc.) that necessitate glucocorticoid treatment.

      PROTECTION OF RECRUITED SUBJECTS: PREVENTION OF COMPLICATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH GLUCOCORTICOID
      TREATMENT.In conformity with ethical principles that guide clinical critical care research,
      the protocol incorporates steps to maximize benefits and to minimize risks (i.e., to
      secondary prevention of potential complications associated with glucocorticoid treatment) to
      participants.

      A. Treatment-induced blunting of the febrile response. Failed or delayed recognition of
      nosocomial infections in the presence of a blunted febrile response represents a serious
      threat to the recovery of patients receiving prolonged glucocorticoid treatment. In
      conducting a RCT investigating prolonged glucocorticoid treatment, infection surveillance is
      essential to minimize bias generated by the effect of undiagnosed infections on
      morbidity/mortality. The study protocol incorporates:

        1. Surveillance bronchoscopic or non-bronchoscopic BAL sampling at 5- to 7-day intervals in
           intubated patients (without contraindication), and

        2. Previously described systematic diagnostic protocol if a patient develops:

             -  Change in temperature (fever or hypothermia),

             -  Increase in immature neutrophil count (≥ 3%)

             -  Unexplained increase in minute ventilation (≥ 30%)

             -  Unexplained worsening in organ dysfunction (increase in MODS score). The diagnostic
                protocol includes bronchoscopy, abdominal CT scan, change of central line over wire
                with cultures of the tip of the catheter, urine and blood cultures. If bilirubin is
                elevated obtain ultrasound of the gallbladder.

      B. Treatment-induced neuromuscular weakness.The combination of prolonged glucocorticoid
      administration in conjunction with neuromuscular blocking agents may lead to prolonged
      neuromuscular weakness and delayed weaning. The use of neuromuscular blocking agents is
      strongly discouraged in this trial.

      C. Treatment-induced downregulation of glucocorticoid receptors and rebound inflammation with
      premature discontinuation of glucocorticoid treatment.Ample experimental and clinical
      literature support the concept that duration of exposure to glucocorticoids is critical to
      achieving regulation of cytokine production and demonstrable therapeutic benefits. In
      experimental ALI, glucocorticoid administration was shown to be effective in decreasing lung
      collagen and edema formation with prolonged treatment, while premature withdrawal rapidly
      negated the positive effects of therapy. In patients with unresolving ARDS, premature
      discontinuation of methylprednisolone administration was associated with physiological
      deterioration that responded favorably to reinstitution of treatment. Study drug is tapered
      slowly over time. Since rebound inflammation may occur after termination of treatment,
      physician use of methylprednisolone is not restricted after completion of treatment with
      blind study drug.

      D. Per os absorption of methylprednisolone is compromised for days after extubation. Yates
      and collaborators have previously shown undetectable methylprednisolone blood levels when
      ARDS patients were switched from IV to per os intake of the drug. Although the mechanisms of
      poor GI absorption following extubation of patients with ARDS are unclear, this factor is
      clinically relevant and may affect response to treatment. Enteral intake of study drug is
      postponed to day 5 after extubation.

      E. Treatment-induced Hyperglycemia. Hyperglycemia is a known complication of glucocorticoid
      therapy. An European open randomized clinical trial reported that in surgical patients in the
      ICU for greater than 5 days, ICU outcome is improved if near-normal glucose control is
      maintained with insulin therapy. This observation was confirmed in a large observational
      study of elderly patients admitted to a general ICU. Practice consensus guidelines recommend
      tight glycemic (< 150 mg/dl) control for septic ICU patients. Glycemia will be monitored
      every 4-to-6 hours and insulin infusion will be used following recent guidelines- The use of
      insulin to control glycemia in non-diabetic patients will be recorded .

      CONCOMITANT THERAPY. The following concomitant medications are strongly discouraged:

        -  Neuromuscular blocking agents should be completely avoided,

        -  Etomidate, especially within the first 24 hours,

        -  Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents.

      RANDOMIZATION AND STRATIFICATION. Block randomization stratified according to site is used,
      and all assignments are made through a central randomization center that generated
      randomization lists according to the algorithm of Moses-Oakford (RND, Genova, Italy). The
      randomization ratio will be one active treatment versus one placebo (1:1), with a block size
      of 3, to receive methylprednisolone infusion or placebo. Patients are prospectively
      stratified prior to randomization as:

        -  Intubated versus NPPV treated

        -  ARDS versus severe ARDS. The purpose of stratification is to distribute equally in both
           arms intubated versus NPPV treated, and ARDS versus severe ARDS.

      ASSIGNMENT OF PATIENTS. A random number generator (a die) will be used to randomize patients.
      A dynamic allocation scheme is used to stratify patients by

        -  Initial mode of mechanical ventilation to have an equal distribution in each arm of
           patients on invasive and noninvasive ventilation,

        -  Severity of ARDS based on the PaO2:FiO2 response after a 30 min on a standardized
           ventilator setting with a PEEP of 10.

      Study medication will be randomly assigned to numbers in advance. Corticosteroids and placebo
      will be randomized on a 1:1:1 basis. The random scheme will be prepared in blocks of three.
      Each patient's eligibility to be entered into the study will be established prior to
      randomization.

      ALLOCATION CONCEALMENT.Only the clinical coordinator is in possession of the sequenced list
      of treatment assignment for each center. The patients and the investigators are unaware of
      the patients' treatment assignments. The clinical investigator at each center only assigned a
      sequential number to each enrolled patient. Assignments for methylprednisolone or placebo
      infusion are contained in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes that are in
      possession of the recruiting investigator at each center. The recruiting investigator sends
      the sealed envelopes to the independent pharmacist in charge (or ICU manager) only after the
      participant's name is written on the appropriately sequenced envelope. The signed sealed
      envelope are opened and read only by the pharmacists in charge in a separate place.

      UNBLINDING. The investigator may unblind the randomization code for a specific patient in
      case of an emergency and if the proposed therapy to be given to the patient depends on the
      identification of the treatment given. This possibility is most unlikely and is discouraged,
      as patients will usually be treated the same way whether the code is broken or not. If the
      code is broken (by opening a provided sealed envelope), the investigator must communicate via
      internet or fax a letter within two working days to the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee
      (DSMC) stating the date, time and reasons for breaking the blinded code. All envelopes will
      be returned at the end of the study.

      SAMPLE SIZE. The sample size depends on the magnitude of the difference in mortality that is
      considered important. The study is designed to detect an absolute difference in all cause
      28-day mortality of 17%, expecting a mortality of 33% and 50% for prolonged
      methylprednisolone treatment and placebo, respectively. A sample size of at least 400
      patients would be required for this clinical trial to detect an improvement data significance
      level of 0.05 and a power of 0.90, considering an attrition rate of 10%.

      ANALYSIS. This study is analyzed as intention-to-treat for patients that receive at least 24
      hours of study drug and had no exclusion criteria recognized after study entry.
    
  