
    
      Assessment of the cardiovascular status and haemodynamics comprise directly or indirectly
      cardiac output, which is determined by left ventricular preload, contractility, afterload and
      heart rate. Various haemodynamic monitors have been introduced in anaesthesia and ICU
      practice, providing cardiac output either non-invasively or invasively. The combined use of
      arterial pressure monitoring with these devices provides insight not only in cardiac output
      but offers bedside assessment of most determinants of cardiovascular function. Both pulse
      pressure variation (PPV) and stroke volume variation (SVV) have been described as dynamic
      descriptors of fluid responsiveness, a measure allowing optimization of preloading conditions
      if haemodynamics show signals of insufficient perfusion.

      Arterial load can be assessed based on a two-element Windkessel model with a static and
      dynamic component. The static part consists of a resistive element (systemic vascular
      resistance: SVR = (MAP/C0)*80, with MAP, mean arterial pressure; CO, cardiac output) and a
      pulsatile component (net arterial compliance C = SV/arterial pulse pressure with SV, stroke
      volume). Arterial elastance is considered being an integrative variable, associating both
      steady elements and heart rate (Ea = .9*SAP/SV with EA, arterial elastance; SAP, systolic
      arterial pressure). The dynamic component Eadyn is the ratio of PPV and SVV during a
      mechanical ventilator cycle, providing a functional assessment of ventriculo-arterial
      coupling.

      Combined use of arterial pressure tracing (or its non-invasive surrogate) and (non-) invasive
      stroke volume actually may provide an interesting framework for haemodynamic monitoring and
      subsequent optimization in many surgical, postoperative or ICU patients. This study aims to
      copy as good as possible the handling and the way of management as in a clinical setting.
    
  