
    
      Study design and setting Single-center prospective observational cohort study in patients
      undergoing minimally invasive cardiac surgery with peripheral arterial cannulation. This is
      the standard of care in the institution of the investigators.

      Population All consecutive patients presenting for minimally invasive cardiac surgery will be
      screened for participation to the study. Eligible participants fulfill all inclusion criteria
      and no exclusion criteria.

      Inclusion criteria

      1. Patients undergoing minimally invasive cardiac surgery older than 18 years .

      Exclusion criteria

        1. History of leg amputation.

        2. Calf muscle atrophy due to neuromuscular disorder or muscle diseases.

        3. Stanford type A aortic dissection.

        4. BMI > 40.

        5. Allergy for NIRS electrode.

        6. Revision surgery < 72h after primary surgery.

        7. Postoperative need for intra-aortic balloon pump and/or ECMO.

      NIRS Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is currently accepted as the golden standard
      monitoring tool for tissue oxygenation and for early detection of ischemia. The NIRS measures
      and displays a percent tissue oxygenation (StO2). This value quantifies the percentage of
      regional hemoglobin oxygen saturation. It is measured by an electrode placed on the skin, and
      is therefore totally non-invasive. NIRS originally has been used to measure brain saturation,
      but its indications have been extended to any region of interest. Multiple studies validated
      NIRS as a useful monitor for detection of ischemia of the lower extremities in various
      settings (ECMO patients, patients with peripherally vascular disease). Patton-Rivera at al.
      showed StO2 differentials > 15% had a 100% sensitivity and specificity for the detection of
      clinically markable hypoperfusion of the cannulated leg in ECMO patients.

      Data collection NIRS values will be coded and anonymously recorded onto a Universal Serial
      Bus (USB) device and saved on a pc with limited access. Tissue oxygenation (StO2)
      differentials between the cannulated and non-cannulated leg and StO2 differentials from
      baseline in the cannulated leg will be noted (%). After completion and publication of the
      study all data will be deleted from the device.

      Data for analyses of variables will be extracted from the anesthetic and perfusion charts.
      These charts are stored in the patients individual record.

      Interventions On arrival in the operating room, oximeter pads of a NIRO-200NX
      (NIRO,Hamamatsu® , Japan) NIRS monitor will be placed on the muscles of the calf bilaterally.
      Lower extremity NIRS is an added monitoring tool as it is currently not being used in our
      institutional clinical management. Neither anesthetic nor surgical plans will be altered by
      the study and are left to the discretion of the attending consultant. Also, perfusion goals
      may not be altered to the results of the leg NIRS. Therefore, the NIRS display will be
      covered in the operating room throughout the surgery.
    
  