
    
      Dementia is considered a severely disabling illness for those who suffer from it and is
      usually devastating for their family and caregivers. It is a syndrome mainly of a chronic or
      progressive nature, caused by a series of brain diseases that affect memory, behavior,
      thinking and ability to perform activities of daily living (WHO, 2013).

      This study aims to know the efficacy of a biodanza program in adults diagnosed with
      Alzheimer's.

      This is a randomized controlled trial where the control group, which maintains its usual
      treatment, will form a waiting list to perform any of the treatments outside the follow-up
      period. There will also be a group that will carry out intervention with biodanza.

      In this study, adults with Alzheimer's disease will participate voluntarily, regardless of
      race or sex. For the selection of the sample, there will be the participation of different
      Alzheimer associations and geriatric centers in the province of Almeria. The inclusion
      criteria will be between 60 and 75 years old, with a primary diagnosis of Alzheimer's
      disease, and who have never participated in any biodanza session or have knowledge about it.
      Those whose diagnosis is different from Alzheimer's disease or who suffers from a physical or
      psychological illness that prevents the execution of the sessions and all who do not
      participate in at least 75% (9 sessions) of the sessions will be excluded from the study.

      In accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki (2013), before the start of
      the investigation, participants will be informed and sign consent. Subjects will have the
      right to refuse to participate as well as to withdraw at any time during the study. They will
      also be assured of complete confidentiality of the data.

      The biodanza program will consist of 12 sessions, one per week, during three months. Each
      session will last approximately 60 minutes and an introductory phase (10-15 minutes) and an
      experience phase (45 minutes) will be divided. It involves moving / dancing according to the
      suggestions of the monitor and the rhythm of the music. The control group will continue with
      its usual treatment and activities, without suffering any alteration. A measurement of the
      groups (control group and biodanza group) will be carried out before the start and after the
      end of the sessions. The questionnaires and scales administered to the participants are
      classified according to the variables to be measured:

      DEMOGRAPHICAL AND CLINICAL VARIABLES, including age, sex, family situation, economic level,
      nationality, employment status, year of diagnosis of the disease, history of the disease and
      pharmacological treatment. PHYSICAL STATE VARIABLES, including anthropometric measures such
      as weight, size, and body mass index (BMI) and physical tests through the 6-minute walk test
      and Tinetti scale. COGNITIVE VARIABLES, through Mini Mental Status Examination (MMSE), Daily
      Living Activities Index Barthel, and Pfeiffer Short Portable Mental Status Questionnaire.
      EMOTIONAL AND BEHAVIORAL VARIABLES, using Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, and Pittsburg
      Sleep Quality Index.

      Finally, statistical analyzes will be performed using SPSS version 23. In the case of
      quantitative variables, they will be expressed as mean and standard deviation and, when the
      variables are of qualitative type, they will be represented by frequency and percentages.
    
  