
    
      INTRODUCTION Hemorrhoids are normal vascular structures in the anal canal, arising from a
      cushion of dilated arteriovenous channels and connective tissues, that drains into the
      superior and inferior hemorrhoidal veins. Their main function is to maintain anal continence,
      serve as a protection for the anal sphincters during the act of defecation and have a sensory
      function, allowing to differentiate liquids, solids or gases and to signal defecation.

      The hemorrhoidal disease develops when the supporting tissues of hemorrhoidal cushions
      deteriorate due to various processes: abnormal venous dilation, vascular thrombosis,
      degenerative processes of collagen and fibroelastic tissue, distortion and rupture of anal
      subepithelial muscle, hyperperfusion of the hemorrhoidal plexus, inflammatory phenomena and
      hormonal changes (typical of pregnancy).

      Hemorrhoidal disease occurs frequently in the adult population and a considerable number of
      patients are asymptomatic. Both sexes are similarly affected. The peak incidence occurs
      between 45-65 years, being rare before the age of 20.

      Classification of hemorrhoidal disease corresponds to its position relative to the dentate
      line. External hemorrhoids are located below the dentate line and are covered by modified
      squamous epithelium, being richly innervated and therefore painful when there is associated
      thrombosis. On the contrary, internal hemorrhoids lie above the dentate line. Internal
      hemorrhoids are further classified based on their appearance and degree of prolapse according
      to the Goligher classification: grade I, without prolapse (they have the potential to bleed
      but are not visualized without the aid of an anoscope); grade II, prolapsed with defecation,
      but reduced spontaneously; grade III, prolapse with defecation requiring manual reduction and
      grade IV, prolapsed and non-reducible.

      Since hemorrhoidal disease is a benign pathology, its treatment should be guided by the
      symptoms and the impact of the disease on quality of life. A prospective study by Pucher et
      al. developed and validated the Sodergren scale, which is based on a set of symptoms to
      assess the severity of hemorrhoidal disease. This scale can be used to assess the efficacy of
      treatment of haemorrhoids and the comparison of trials, consequently it is helpful in the
      choice of the best therapeutic option.

      Treatment of hemorrhoidal disease can be divided into conservative measures, office-based
      procedures and surgical treatments.

      First line therapy should be conservative and includes a set of lifestyle changes, dietary
      changes, laxative medication and phlebotonic and/or topical anti-inflammatory drugs. These
      measures produce beneficial effects and should be implemented in every grades of hemorrhoidal
      disease or in patients undergoing instrumental or surgical treatment.

      The instrumental office-based treatment is usually indicated for hemorrhoidal disease grade I
      and II, thought it can also be used in grade III hemorrhoidal disease. It is aimed at
      decreasing hemorrhoidal vascularization, reducing redundant tissue and increasing
      hemorrhoidal rectal wall fixation to minimize prolapse. It includes rubber band ligation,
      sclerotherapy (liquid and foam agents), infrared photocoagulation, cryotherapy and
      radiofrequency ablation.

      Rubber band ligation is the most commonly performed procedure in the office and is indicated
      for grade II and III internal hemorrhoids and works by causing hemorrhoid tissue necrosis and
      its fixation to the rectal mucosa. Complications associated with rubber band ligation include
      bleeding (ranging from mild to severe), pain, urinary symptoms, priapism, vagal symptoms,
      hemorrhoidal thrombosis, sepsis, fistulation or even death. Hemorrhage and pain are among the
      most frequent. Cumulatively, a success rate of 80% is observed with rubber band ligation.

      Hemorrhoidal sclerosis is a procedure commonly used to treat grade I and II hemorrhoidal
      disease. It has also been used in internal grade III hemorrhoids, although in these cases
      there is little scientific evidence supporting its efficacy. In this technique a needle is
      introduced through an endoscope or anoscope and the sclerosing agent is injected into the
      hemorrhoid above the dentated line - Blanchard technique.

      There are a variety of sclerosing agents such as 5% phenol in vegetable oil, quinine,
      tetradecyl sodium sulfate, sodium morphate or potassium aluminum sulfate and tannic acid
      (ALTA). More recently, a new sclerosing substance, polidocanol, a non-ionic detergent
      consisting of two components, a polar hydrophilic chain and a non-polar hydrophobic, started
      to be employed in the treatment of hemorrhoidal disease. The experience of its use in
      sclerotherapy comes mainly from the treatment of varicose veins and it can be used in its
      liquid or foam form. Several studies reported the efficacy of the use of sclerotherapy with
      liquid polidocanol in hemorrhoidal disease; it is considered a sclerosing agent with
      anesthetic properties, well tolerated, with low necrotic potential and a very promising agent
      for the treatment of grade I hemorrhoidal disease. The foam formation is based on the Tessari
      technique which uses a device that combines two syringes and a three-way tap in which the
      polidocanol is mixed with air under mechanical force ("Tourbillon technique"). This
      formulation allows for greater efficacy and use of lower doses of sclerosing agent since the
      volume will be greatly increased and hence also the area of contact with the vascular
      endothelium where the drug will exert its sclerosing action. The use of polidocanol foam in
      the treatment of varicose veins is safe and effective and has been shown to be superior to
      the use of liquid polidocanol. Its use is not indicated in cases of acute thromboembolism and
      allergy to polidocanol.

      There is only one study showing the superiority of polidocanol foam compared to its liquid
      formulation in the treatment of grade I hemorrhoidal disease. In a recently published
      non-controlled study, 2000 patients with hemorrhoidal disease grades I to IV were treated
      with polidocanol foam and the authors concluded that this therapy was very successful, with
      98% of the patients reporting satisfaction regarding bleeding control and prolapse reduction.
      Complications were rare and usually minor. There's a lack of studies comparing it with other
      ablative techniques.

      The most common complications of sclerotherapy include mild anal discomfort and bleeding.
      However, the bleeding risk is lower compared to that observed with rubber band ligation. Rare
      complications include erectile dysfunction, mucosal ulceration, necrosis, prostatic abscess,
      retroperitoneal sepsis and transient bacteremia. Sclerotherapy is a valid alternative for the
      treatment of patients whose hemorrhage is the main symptom and where conservative therapy has
      not been effective, as well as for patients on anticoagulant medication, and for cirrhotic or
      immunocompromised patients.

      There have been no comparative studies between polidocanol foam sclerotherapy and rubber band
      ligation.

      With the present study, the investigators aim to fill a gap in the literature by evaluating
      the safety and efficacy in the treatment of hemorrhoidal disease with the seemingly most
      effective non-surgical office-based methods (rubber band ligation and sclerotherapy with
      polidocanol foam).

      METHODS PARTICIPANTS AND ETHICAL ASPECTS Are included patients referred to proctologic
      consultation of Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Porto (CHUP) older than 18 years with
      symptomatic hemorrhoidal disease grade I, II and III (Goligher's classification) refractory
      to conservative management (dietary modification, intestinal transit modifiers, topical and
      phlebotonic medications) for a period of no less than 4 weeks. All participants must have
      prior endoscopic study, at least recto-sigmoidoscopy, or complete colonoscopy if they are
      older than 50 years or younger with family history of colorectal cancer, colon adenomas, or
      suspected inflammatory bowel disease.

      The study was approved by the ethics committee of CHUP. All the participants enrolled sign an
      informed consent.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Sample size was determined considering a power of 80% (type II error ß
      of 20%) and significance level α of 5% (type I error). The required number in each treatment
      was 44 patients. In order to safeguard against potential drop-outs, a sample size of 120
      (60+60) patients was considered.

      It was generated a 1:1 randomization sequence, stratified by for the degree of hemorrhoidal
      disease (Goligher's classification), to assign participants to each one of the therapeutic
      arms either sclerotherapy with polidocanol foam or rubber band ligation.

      Since the two office-based therapies under study have completely different techniques and
      procedures, it is not possible to blind either the patient or the clinician who apply the
      treatment. Therefore, an open label study is being conducted.

      VISITS AND DATA COLLECTION Demographic data such as age, sex, body mass index (BMI) are
      collected. In the first visit informed consent and an information brochure explaining the
      study and adequate dietary and behavioral care is provided.

      For purposes of evaluating efficacy and safety, two distinct periods were considered:
      intervention and follow-up.

      During the intervention period, when office-based treatments are performed, patients are
      observed at 3-week intervals (minimum of 3 weeks and maximum of 9 weeks depending on the
      number of instrumental treatments performed) and, during follow-up period, every 3 months, 3
      weeks after the last session of treatment to evaluate recurrence of hemorrhoidal disease
      (maximum 1 year; 4 visits).

      At all visits, a proctologic examination with anoscopy is performed and clinical evaluation
      is carried out by filling the Sodergren's scale of symptoms. The severity of bleeding is also
      evaluated.

      INTERVENTION PERIOD AND TECHNICAL ASPECTS The required number of sessions of any of the
      office-based treatments (maximum of 3 sessions) is determined by clinical and anoscopy
      response i.e., if 3 weeks after the previous treatment the participant scores zero points in
      the Sodergren scale and has bleeding grade ≤1 or the anoscopy doesn't reveal significant
      hemorrhoidal disease, there is no place for additional instrumental therapy and the patient
      starts the follow-up period.

      If there is therapeutic failure (participants that, at the end of three sessions of
      instrumental treatment, aggravate or maintain the initial Sodergren score and bleeding grade)
      or if there is a significant complication (moderate or severe) the patient's participation in
      the study ends and he is referred for treatment with other type of office-based procedure or
      surgery.
    
  