
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common health concern among Veterans. Although
      empirically-supported approaches are widely available, engagement rates are low and
      partial/non response is common. There has been considerable interest in the role of
      complementary and alternative interventions for PTSD, but little research is available to
      guide decisions about care. Compassion meditation (CM), a contemplative practice that is
      intended to foster connectedness with others, shows promise for the treatment of PTSD in
      Veterans. In healthy populations, CM fosters positive emotion and social connectedness, both
      of which are known to enhance coping and resilience in the face of extreme stress. Based on
      this theoretical rationale, the investigators' recently completed a two-phase proof of
      concept trial of CM for Veterans with PTSD. The first phase employed qualitative and
      quantitative procedures to iteratively refine an existing CM protocol for Veterans with PTSD.
      The second phase utilized a pilot randomized controlled trial to establish the feasibility
      and acceptability of a randomized trial of CM for Veterans with PTSD and to examine potential
      clinical impact. On the basis of promising results, this project will evaluate the
      feasibility of a future multi-site efficacy trial of CM for PTSD.

      Although the investigators' prior work is an encouraging first step, key questions remain.
      First, the investigators' data come from a single site in Southern California. It is possible
      that there are regional differences in the acceptability of CM, so the investigators plan to
      examine the feasibility of recruiting and retaining a diverse group of Veterans residing in
      other areas as well as confirming the acceptability of the approach to this broader group of
      Veterans. Second, the investigators' previous trial relied on a single therapist, who was
      actively engaged in the development process. It is important to demonstrate that others can
      be trained to deliver the approach with fidelity and to have some confidence that results are
      attributable to the protocol rather than to an individual. Finally, in the interest of
      ultimately understanding the way in which these interventions lead to symptom change, the
      investigators' will continue to refine their assessment strategy. If successful, this project
      will lay the necessary groundwork for an efficacy trial of CM, which ultimately could provide
      an additional evidence-based treatment option for Veterans with PTSD.
    
  