
    
      In order to identify possible participants, the project will be promoted in the outpatient
      waiting rooms for family medicine and specialties of the General Hospital of Zone # 1 of the
      Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS) in Cuernavaca, Morelos.

      People interested in participating will be asked to go to the clinical research office so
      that the supporting physician will perform a medical history in addition to a physical
      examination, in this way the clinical diagnosis of knee osteoarthritis will be made and it
      will be defined if the patient meets the clinical criteria necessary to be included in the
      study. Once it is determined that the patient is a possible candidate and the diagnostic,
      treatment and follow-up procedures can be continued, the patient will need to sign an
      informed consent letter, duly completed and authorized by the Ethics Committee. Otherwise, if
      patient decide not to participate, an interconsultation with the corresponding family doctor
      will be given.

      To make the radiological diagnosis, the patient will be submitted to X-ray office, in order
      to take a front to back and lateral knee (s) radiograph. Once the diagnosis is corroborated,
      the participants will prepare a file that will contain a questionnaire with questions related
      to sociodemographic, personal, family and condition history, in addition, treatment will be
      assigned with the corresponding folio number upon admission. Each of the patients will be
      given oral and written instructions on how the treatment should be administered and the
      hygienic measures that must be followed during their participation in the study. The first
      administration of the treatment will be in the research office, in order to teach the
      participant how to do it; later, instructions about how the medication should be administered
      three times a day in the affected knee (s), for four weeks will be given.

      Patients will be cited every week for four weeks where their evolution will be assessed; in
      each of the appointments. Patients will undergo a complete evaluation of their condition,
      there will be a format in which each of the data that is collected will be recorded, either
      at the interrogation or on the physical examination.

      The patients will be summoned every week in order to evaluate the evolution of the disease,
      and consequently the therapeutic efficacy by means of the Visual Analogue Scale of pain and
      the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) of function, a
      scale used to evaluate function of the knee. The presence of adverse effects (Therapeutic
      tolerability) and the adherence to the treatment (based on the days of administration) will
      be evaluated. A concentrate related to tolerability and adherence to treatment will be filled
      in each of the patients.
    
  