
    
      Open inguinal and umbilical hernia repair are two of the most performed interventions in
      day-care surgery. Fast-track surgery implies a swift and effective form of anesthesia which
      is easy to carry out, has few side-effects and is quickly reversed.

      Spinal anesthesia has proven to be a safe method to ensure adequate analgesia for patients
      undergoing elective open abdominal wall surgery as the need and side-effects of general
      anesthesia are avoided. During many years, a variety of intrathecal products alongside a
      plethora of adjuvants have been evaluated.

      Three different types of spinal anesthetic products already used in routine care were
      compared: hyperbaric 9-chloroprocaïne (Ampres®, Nordic Pharma), bupivacaine (Marcaine®,
      AstraZeneca) and prilocaine (Tachipri®, Nordic Pharma).

      Between 1/8/2015 and 1/1/2016, a total of 101 patients attending the surgeon's practice with
      an umbilical or unilateral inguinal hernia and no contra-indications for surgery were
      included in this study. Local ethical committee approval (EC0G099 - AZ Sint Dimpna, Geel,
      Belgium) and individual written informed consent was obtained. Surgical procedures were
      performed by 2 surgeons (TL and TG). The hernia was diagnosed clinically and/or by
      ultrasonography. Patients were preoperatively informed about the details concerning surgery
      and anesthesiology.

      All patients were hospitalized on the day of surgery following standard preoperative
      instructions. Spinal anesthesia was performed by 6 different anesthesiologists. Patients with
      contraindications for spinal anesthesia were excluded: INR (international normalized ratio) >
      1.2, thrombocytopenia (<75.000/µl), symptomatic neurological disease and proven allergy for
      local anesthetic. All patients received 1g of cefazolin (following standard guidelines for
      antibiotic prophylaxis of surgical wounds).

      Patient's baseline features were listed: gender, age, Body Mass Index (BMI),
      Anesthesiologists Physical Status classification (ASA classification), their position at the
      moment of intrathecal infusion (sitting up or lateral decubitus) and type and length of
      surgery. Open inguinal herniorrhaphy was performed following the Liechtenstein technique as
      described by Chastan. For the treatment of an umbilical hernia, a polypropylene-ePTFE hernia
      patch (Ventralex™, BARD®) was used .

      Patients were given 10.5mg bupivacaine (B-group), 40.0mg of hyperbaric 2-chloroprocaïne
      (C-group) or 60.0mg prilocaïne (P-group), each in combination with sufentanil (2.0µg).

      All patients with pre-existing hypotension (<120/80) were administered 5.0mg of ephedrine and
      0.2mg of glycopyrroniumbromide IV upon entering the operation theater through a standard
      peripheral catheter. Regular monitoring was used during the procedure: electronic blood
      pressure monitoring, pulse oximetry and 3-lead electrocardiogram. Hemodynamic anomalies were
      listed: hypotension (systolic pressure <75% of baseline value), bradycardia (pulse <60/min)
      and desaturation (<92% without oxygen).

      Under sterile conditions, local anesthesia of the skin of the lower back was performed (using
      1% 3cc lidocaine). Afterwards, puncture of the arachnoid mater (using a 25G Sprottle Needle)
      was performed at the L2-L3 interspace and the predetermined product instilled. This procedure
      was performed sitting-up or in dorsolateral decubitus (in inguinal hernia repair lying on the
      ipsilateral side when using prilocaine or bupivacaine and on the contralateral side when
      using hyperbaric 2-chloroprocaine). Patients who received their spinal block in the sitting
      up position were instantly put in the dorsolateral position after the injection (side again
      depending on the product and type of surgery as described above). Regardless of these
      proceedings, all patients receiving 9-chloroprocaine were put in the reverse Trendelenburg
      position (approximately 20°) for 2 minutes immediately after infusion.

      After injection, sensory and motor block assessment was performed and listed on predetermined
      moments: 1, 3, 30 minutes after infusion and from then on every 15 minutes until spontaneous
      voiding (>200ml) was achieved. Sensory block was evaluated from toe to head at the surgical
      side using the loss of sensation to cold fluids (ether). Motor block was assessed using the
      Bromage scale.

      During surgery, hypotension (systolic pressure <75% of baseline value) was treated with
      ephedrine and bradycardia with atropine or ephedrine. Patients who suffered from desaturation
      (blood oxygen saturation <92%) received oxygen through a standard face mask starting at
      2l/min. Fentanyl 25 to 100µg was given when pain was felt by the patient. If insufficient
      analgesia was achieved (insufficient sensory block), general anesthesia was initiated.
      Intraoperative IV analgesia consisted of standard postoperative pain medication (taradyl and
      perfusalgan). If there was a history of duodenal ulcus, kidney insufficiency and/or
      intolerance for NSAIDs, taradyl was replaced with dynastat.

      Postoperatively, all patients were transferred to the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU), where
      they received standard postoperative analgesia (paracetamol 1g IV and/or taradyl 30mg IV). If
      insufficient, fentanyl was administered. Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) was treated
      with alizapride and ondansetron. After a minimum stay of 90 minutes, signs of regression of
      the motor block (Bromage scale) and normal hemodynamic parameters, patients were transferred
      to the day-care hospital for further recovery.

      Resolution of sensory and motor blockage, time to void and home readiness (spontaneous
      voiding, ability to walk without assistance, the absence of nausea or vomiting and stable
      hemodynamic parameters) were defined as clinical endpoints. Pain experienced at the day-care
      hospital was managed with oral paracetamol (500mg) and/or ibuprofen (600mg), after
      determination of a Visual Analog Scale for Pain (VAS).

      All data was analyzed using IBM SPSS statistical software version 23 and Microsoft Excel
      2010. Comparison of continuous variables was performed using the F-test and posthoc analysis
      . Categorical variables were compared by means of a chi-square test. A P-value < 0.05 was
      considered statistically significant.
    
  