
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and feasibility of multiple courses of high dose carboplatin,
      paclitaxel, and topotecan as initial chemotherapy combined with autologous peripheral blood
      stem cell transplantation in patients with optimally debulked stage III ovarian or primary
      peritoneal carcinoma.

      II. Determine the pathological complete response rate, disease free survival, and overall
      survival in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Mobilization and harvest: Within 8 weeks of surgical debulking, patients receive
      cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour, followed 4 hours later by paclitaxel IV over 24 hours.
      Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SQ) daily beginning 24 hours after
      completion of paclitaxel infusion and continuing until blood counts recover and autologous
      peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested and selected for CD34+ cells.

      High dose chemotherapy and transplantation (3 weeks after PBSC harvest): Patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 24 hours beginning on day 1, immediately followed by carboplatin IV over 2
      hours, immediately followed by topotecan IV over 24 hours. Patients receive G-CSF
      sub-cutaneously (SQ) daily beginning 24 hours after completion of topotecan infusion and
      continuing until blood counts have recovered for 2 days. One quarter of the PBSC are
      reinfused beginning 2 days after completion of topotecan infusion. Treatment repeats every 4
      weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      with radiographic and biochemical complete response undergo laparoscopy as second look
      surgery within 8 weeks of the last course of chemotherapy. If no evidence of disease is found
      during laparoscopy, then exploratory laparotomy must also be performed.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter or at time of recurrence until death.
    
  