
    
      1. Clinical examination and preoperative evaluation using CBCT:

             1. Evaluation of the patient's general condition of the oral cavity, to make sure it
                complies with the criteria required to be enrolled in the study in terms of oral
                hygiene, pathological conditions, occlusion and inter-arch space.

             2. A preoperative CBCT will be performed for each patient prior to the surgery.
                Evaluation of available bone height and bucco-palatal bone width. Suitable implant
                length and diameter will be determined as well.

        2. Random allocation: The patients will be divided into two groups with random allocation.
           Allocation ratio is 1:1. Randomization list will be provided using computerized excel
           sheet and will be concealed to the principle investigator till the time of the surgery,
           and will be kept with a contributor (Ingy Kastour) a clinician in IDCE who is not
           involved in the trial procedures. A phone call will be done after administration of
           anesthesia to reveal the randomization sequence for each case.

        3. Blinding: The outcome assessors will be blinded, the outcome assessor (CoI-II) for the
           implant stability and the outcome assessor (CoI-V) for the vertical bone height
           difference obtained from blinded CBCTs, outcome assessor (CoI-III) of the other
           variables will be also blinded. Blinding of the principle investigator and participants
           cannot be achieved due to different surgical procedures

        4. Surgical procedure:

           After administration of local anesthesia, the allocation will be revealed, for the test
           group, a Full thickness flap will be elevated at the edentulous site with two vertical
           releasing incision and then the preparation of osteotomy will be prepared following
           standard implant system protocol preparation of the osteotomy. Drilling will be done
           gently till reaching 0-1mm from the sinus floor, then implant placement will take place
           and the implant itself will be used to gently elevate the sinus up to 3-5mm. For the
           control group, a full-thickness flap will be elevated at the edentulous site with two
           vertical releasing incisions extending to the vestibule for better reflection and
           exposure to the lateral wall of the sinus. The lateral antrostomy will be prepared in
           the lateral sinus wall using rotary bur no. 8 to provide adequate access to remove the
           thin to thick cortical bone and to expose the thin sinus membrane. The membrane will be
           elevated across the sinus floor and up the medial wall and this elevation must extend
           anteriorly-posteriorly to provide the exposed sinus floor. Drilling will be done gently
           till reaching 0-1mm from the sinus floor, then implant placement will take place.
           Primary stability of the implant will be measured by rotational insertion torque value,
           to be ≥30Ncm(25). A resorbable collagen membrane will be placed over the window
           preparation in the lateral approach to prevent the flap tissue in cooperating inside the
           antrostomy and the osseointegration process. Primary closure of the flap will be
           achieved.

        5. Postoperative Care:

             1. Antibiotics (Amoxicillin 1g orally- twice daily for 5 days).

             2. Anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS; Ibuprofen 600mg three times daily for 5 days).

             3. Antiseptic mouth rinse (0.12% Chlorhexidine oral rinse) will be prescribed starting
                from the second day for 60 seconds, 15 ml each time, two times a day for 14 days.

             4. Patient self-care instructions:

                  -  Application of an ice bag to the treated area for the first 24 hours will be
                     instructed.

                  -  The patients will be instructed to gently brush the operated area after two
                     weeks with a soft brush.

                  -  In case of emergency; severe pain and bleeding, the patient will call the
                     co-investigator and will be presented to the clinic.

                  -  Patients will be recalled after two weeks for suture removal and every month
                     for supportive periodontal therapy and recording of outcome variables at
                     three, six and twelve months.

      After 3 months of the implant placement, stage II will be performed, 2 weeks later,
      impressions will be taken as regular for the prosthetic crowns fabrication. All crowns will
      be temporary cemented to allow an easy access to the implant platform for the follow-up RFA
      measurements.
    
  