
    
      Cardiac arrest is associated with a high morbidity and mortality in children and hypothermia
      therapy has the potential to be beneficial in children following cardiac arrest. We have a
      track record of both clinical and laboratory research of hypothermia therapy following
      cardiac arrest at the Hospital for Sick Children and have begun a 3-site randomized
      controlled pilot study of hypothermia therapy following cardiac arrest in children funded by
      The Hospital for Sick Children Research Institute and the Heart and Stroke Foundation of
      Ontario. We are currently expanding the study to an 11 site pilot study with bridge funding
      from the American Heart Association.

      Recently two trials were published in the New England Journal of Medicine demonstrating the
      efficacy of 12 hours and 24 hours of hypothermia therapy following ventricular
      arrhythmia-induced cardiac arrest in adults. The results of these important studies suggest
      that hypothermia therapy will be beneficial in children following cardiac arrest. There are
      however important differences in the etiology, pathophysiology, neuropathology, therapy and
      outcome of cardiac arrest in children compared to adults.

      We need to conduct a pilot study of hypothermia therapy following cardiac arrest at 11
      Children's Hospitals to test the feasibility of recruitment and to test the appropriateness
      of our inclusion/exclusion criteria prior to proceeding to a large multi-centre trial. We
      chose 11 large children's hospitals with large cardiac arrest populations with a track record
      of resuscitation research to improve the feasibility of patient recruitment into this pilot
      study. The pilot data will be used to do a sample size calculation for the larger randomized
      controlled study. It will also be important to demonstrate enrolment in an important
      sub-group of patients, those being placed on ECMO post-arrest. Patients randomized to cooling
      on ECMO will have rapid core cooling via the extracorporeal circuit and this rapid cooling
      may lead to a more pronounced therapeutic effect.
    
  