
    
      Despite recent advances in medicine, rehabilitation of the paralyzed larynx remains a complex
      clinical problem. Based on national health statistics, it is anticipated approximately 7,000
      patients will be diagnosed with BVFP in the United States each year. BVFP is a serious and
      often life-threatening clinical condition. The recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) carries motor
      fibers that innervate both the abductor muscle (posterior cricoarytenoid muscle) and adductor
      muscles of the vocal folds. Damage to the nerve compromises both of these functions and
      arrests the vocal folds in a near-closed position. With BVFP, voice tends to be functional,
      but airway compromise is often severe enough to warrant tracheotomy to relieve inspiratory
      stridor and dyspnea. If spontaneous recovery does not occur within one year, it is likely
      that the patient's vocal folds will be chronically paralyzed. In such instances, long-term
      tracheostomy can be considered. Unfortunately, permanent tracheostomy is associated with
      complications such as tracheal stenosis, chronic infection, and psycho-social impairment. For
      this reason, laryngeal surgery is usually recommended to enlarge the airway and restore
      breathing through the mouth. Procedures such as arytenoidectomy, cordotomy, or repeated Botox
      injections, regarded as the standard of care for enlarging the airway, also have inherent
      complications. Specifically, they impair voice and compromise airway protection during
      swallowing. The limitations associated with these current treatments have prompted
      investigation into a more physiologic, dynamic approach to rehabilitation: reanimation of the
      paralyzed PCA muscle by functional electrical stimulation (FES). Ideally, stimulation should
      be applied during the inspiratory phase of respiration to abduct the vocal folds. This has
      been termed "laryngeal pacing". During non-inspiratory phases, stimulation would cease, and
      the vocal folds would passively relax to the midline to allow for normal voice production and
      airway protection. Previously, our clinical trial of unilateral pacing demonstrated a
      significantly greater return of ventilation without any compromise of voice or swallowing.
      However, the level of ventilation was only marginally better than that associated with
      cordotomy.

      In the current project, we will investigate the safety of a novel intervention (laryngeal
      pacing) for BVFP (Aim 1). The overarching hypothesis is that neuromuscular activation of the
      PCA muscles bilaterally reestablishes bilateral glottal opening and ventilation through the
      mouth without alteration of voice or swallowing, compared to a sham-operated control (Aim 2).
      The ventilation from bilateral pacing should be significantly greater than from unilateral
      pacing and allow the patient to engage in a normal pre-paralysis activity level (Aim 3).
    
  