
    
      Peripherally inserted central catheters, or PICC lines, are clinically used for many years in
      the treatment of patients, whereby the implantation occurs under x-ray/fluoroscopy. Female
      and male patients of legal age that have the medical indication for Power-PICC-Line catheter
      implantation can be screened for the study. These medical indications include the necessity
      of chemotherapy in the course of an oncological treatment or parenteral nutrition. The study
      objective is to test the efficacy and safety of the SHERLOCK system, evaluated by a
      monocentric, randomized-controlled study. The advantage for the participating patients lies
      in a reduced radiation exposure due to the discontinued final chest x-ray examination
      (fluoroscopy). Furthermore, the SHERLOCK system can be deployed directly on ward, at the
      patient's bedside leading to a cost and time saving. Recruited in- and outpatients (of legal
      age) with indication for Power-PICC-Line catheter implantation will be randomly assigned to
      one of the two arms (fluoroscopy or SHERLOCK). Depending on randomization, the Power-PICC
      implantation occurs either under fluoroscopy or with the SHERLOCK system. All related
      substances, measures or procedures are performed according to the clinical routine. The
      medical device is a fully integrated magnetic tracking and ECG-based peripherally inserted
      central catheter (PICC) tip confirmation technology applied on patients with normal sinus
      rhythm and placed through a peripheral vein. The Sherlock system is CE-certified since
      December 2011.

      The referral of patients with indication to PICC-Line implantation at the institute of
      diagnostic and interventional radiology occurs through different departments of the
      University Hospital Jena. The patients are registered for radiological treatment and checked
      again by a radiologist if a PICC-Line implantation is indicated. If this is the case, the
      radiologist conducts an informed consent discussion with the patient about possible
      complications and risks during intervention and informs him also about a possible study.
      After signature of the written informed consent, the patient is included. On the intervention
      day, the patient is randomly assigned to one of the two study arms through RandomTool
      (Sherlock vs. fluoroscopy). According to randomization group, the PICC catheter is implanted
      (duration: 30 minutes) and eventually a chest x-ray (fluoroscopy) is performed to assess
      safety and efficacy.The intervention time from puncture to catheter placement is documented.
      After intervention, the patient is transferred back to the ward or sent home in
      hemodynamically stable conditions. The examination of the puncture site before discharge is
      performed by a ward physician or by the family doctor. 24 h after PICC-Line implantation, the
      treating physician is contacted and questioned about possible complications (catheter
      occlusion, haematoma, infection of the puncture site, arm vein thrombosis, pain, etc.), that
      are then thoroughly documented.
    
  