
    
      This study has a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized parallel (2 x 2 factorial)
      design with 3 experimental treatments and one control treatment. A two week run-in period
      will be observed during which all subjects will be given placebos for plant sterols.
      Thereafter the subjects will be randomly allocated to the 4 treatment groups for the
      intervention period of 4 weeks and will undergo baseline assessment of blood lipids,
      inflammatory and coagulation markers, anthropometry, lifestyle and dietary habits. The
      intervention period will be closed by repeating measurements of lipids, inflammatory and
      coagulation markers, anthropometry, lifestyle and diet. Participants are mildly
      hypercholesterolemic adult males (TC between 5.0-8.0 mmol/L), aged between 35-55 years who
      are employees of NTPC, Badarpur, New Delhi will be enrolled in the study.

      The subjects will be randomly allocated to the four treatment groups (1 control and 3
      experimental, 50 subjects per group) with the help of computer generated random number
      tables. In case of a surplus of volunteers, a lottery method of selection will be applied.

      The active and control products will be almost identical with respect to taste and appearance
      and will only differ in coding. During the study, the treatment code of the products will be
      blinded and only known by a person not directly involved in the study. The subjects will only
      be identified by a unique identification code given to them at the time of filling their
      interview-schedules. All the information obtained from the subjects will be coded using this
      unique identification code. During the intervention period the key linking subject's names
      and codes will only be accessible to authorized staff.

      For each subject the Investigator and Sponsor will each receive a blinded code envelope with
      details of treatment. In case of an emergency (e.g. Serious Adverse Event possibly related to
      treatments, or unexpected Adverse Events), the envelope can be opened to identify the
      treatment given to a subject. The Investigator and Sponsor will immediately inform each other
      about such de-blinding.

      Randomization data are kept strictly confidential until the time of unblinding. Only after
      the blind review meeting of PI, Investigator and Sponsor, the randomization codes will be
      broken and made available for data analysis.
    
  