
    
      Review question: What non-invasive cardiovascular imaging tests (SPECT, Stress Echo [SE],
      Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance [CMR], CT Perfusion [CTP] and PET myocardial perfusion)
      have the best diagnostic accuracy to detect obstructive coronary artery disease using four
      different cutoffs, two anatomic (invasive coronary angiography) and two functional (invasive
      fractional flow reserve)? Which non-invasive cardiovascular imaging tests (SPECT, Stress
      Echo, CMR, CTP and PET myocardial perfusion) have the least bias and heterogeneity in their
      published data?

      Searches: Search in MEDLINE, EMBASE and SCOPUS databases for the literature published in
      English or Spanish from January 1970 to December 2015 of all prospective and retrospective
      studies performed with Stress Echo, SPECT, PET, CMR and CTP in patients with suspicion or
      known CAD compared against the reference standard of ICA (two cutoffs: lesions >50% and >70%)
      and/or invasive FFR (two cutoffs: <0.80 and <0.75).

      Condition being studied: Obstructive coronary artery disease. Non-invasive imaging modalities
      (SPECT, Stress Echo, CMR, CTP and PET) to evaluate myocardial perfusion as indicative of
      obstructive coronary artery disease.

      Intervention: There was no intervention or exposure, since it was an evaluation of diagnostic
      accuracy of worldwide current non-invasive cardiovascular imaging modalities compared to the
      accepted standard of reference.

      Comparator: No control group used.

      Context: Studies in English and Spanish were included to avoid missing any relevant, high
      quality contributions in different languages. Other languages different from English and
      Spanish were not included due to language barriers and limitations regarding understanding
      the full text document and to obtaining the necessary data, since those papers generally only
      have the abstract in English. There were no restrictions in country of origin, type of
      technique or equipment used, since we made performed a sub-analysis for those minor variables
      not reported in all papers.

      Data extraction: After study planning, we decided to decided to included all published
      studies and decided not to include data that hadn't been formally published. Our search
      strategy with three terms related to the research question considering: patient population,
      intervention types of the different imaging modalities and the design type; we decided to
      include two types of search terms, free words and standardized words such as those use in
      Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) for PubMed and for EMBASE we used EMTREE terms; we also used
      a combination of thematic terms selected by a controlled vocabulary, the Thesaurus, open when
      necessary and with broad range of free text terms. As we described in detail as follows, the
      data extraction was always with more than two researchers. The team was divided into a
      searcher, a search advisor, and five junior and four senior reviewers. Four senior reviewers
      gathered together to define the MeSH terms necessary for the literature search. The searcher
      and the search advisor (one senior reviewer) worked together to build up the corresponding
      search algorithms as follows: for prospective or retrospective clinical trials, case series,
      abstracts and gray literature in English or Spanish for PubMed, for EMBASE, and for Scopus;
      also for meta-analysis and systemic reviews for PubMed, for EMBASE and for Scopus for the
      period comprised between January 1970 to December 2015. One senior author (first author) was
      designed as "administrator", then all retrievals from the searcher went directly and only to
      the administrator to avoid duplications or gaps in the review process. First the
      administrator received a search with titles and abstracts, which s/he distributed equally to
      the four senior reviewers (including the administrator) to make an initial selection and to
      eliminate all titles and abstracts that did not meet the inclusion or exclusion criteria,
      which was then gathered together by the administrator and sent back to the searcher, whose
      used the list of selected documents (titles and abstracts) to send a second package of
      searches to the administrator with all documents in full text version, who again equally
      distributed these documents to all four senior reviewers, who then validated the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria, which may have been missed in the abstract alone; the resulting
      package was again returned to the administrator who equally distributed the documents to all
      junior and senior reviewers to score each study according to the STARD checklist for this
      type of project. We previously established a minimum of 60% of points in the STARD checklist
      for a study to be approved and be included in the next stage of the review. All scoring
      sheets were sent back to the administrator within the timeline period. All disagreements were
      solved during our research meetings by a consensus of the senior reviewers. The administrator
      then selected the studies to be included in the meta-analysis based on the STARD score and
      distributed them equally to all junior and senior reviewers (including the administrator) to
      extract data in a pre- designed data capture sheet. At the deadline, the administrator
      gathered together all data capture sheets and then re-distributed equally with the original
      papers to the four senior reviewers who did a second review of each study to assure quality
      of the extracted data. All disagreements were solved during extra research meetings of the
      senior reviewers by consensus. After the data were accepted by the four senior reviewers, the
      administrator provided another senior reviewer, acting as a "statistician" with all captured
      data to start the statistical analysis. At the same time, all studies included in the
      meta-analysis were again distributed by the administrator to two senior reviewers (the
      administrator and the statistician) who did the data extraction for the sub-analysis, each
      senior reviewer took two imaging modalities for review, and after completion those
      sub-analysis data were gather together by the statistician to be included in the
      meta-analysis.

      Risk of bias: In the selection process bias risk was managed by using a double check of the
      selection criteria by senior reviewers, by scoring each study by STARD methodology using its
      checklist and a rigid criteria of >60% to be considered for further analysis, any
      disagreements between the junior and/ senior review authors over the risk of bias in
      particular studies were solved by discussion during an extra research meeting of two senior
      authors, with involvement of a third reviewer when necessary. The publication bias was
      evaluated in graphic manner using Funnel plots and in mathematical form with Begg and Egger
      tests. A value of p<0.05 was defined as significant.

      Strategy for data synthesis: We performed Forrest plots for each test and HSROC curves with
      the Moses-Littenberg method. We calculated AUC and Q* for each test. Total values of
      sensitivity, specificity, DOR, LR+ and LR-, as well as 95% CI were calculated using the
      bivariate model of Teitsma and the models of HSROC (hierarchical summary ROC) of Rutter and
      Gatsonis. The differences between the tests were evaluated using meta-regression comparing
      different models with the likelihood ratio test. The analysis of heterogeneity between
      studies was evaluated in graphic form in the HSROC curves, and in mathematical manner with
      meta-regression and the calculation of Higgins' I2; this last test, Higgins' I2, was not
      reported within the results, since in diagnostic test accuracy studies, this I2 statistic
      alone may not be informative as they do not consider threshold effect; in comparison to this
      same statistical test when it is used for the analysis of heterogeneity between therapeutic
      and or interventional studies, since a threshold effect can be considered. In our study the
      publication bias was evaluated in graphic manner using Funnel plots and in mathematical form
      with Begg and Egger tests. A value of p<0.05 was defined as significant.

      Analysis of subgroups: To analyze statistical differences in diagnostic accuracy between
      modalities, we based the analyses on mathematical combinations and used the term "certainty"
      to refer to diagnostic accuracy that one imaging modality has over the other one; then we
      performed the meta-regression analysis for comparison of "certainty" between two imaging
      modalities at the same time. We used a graphic representation for the results. We did a
      post-hoc analysis by sub-groups to all other variables, common to every technique and/or
      specific for each imaging modality studied.

      Dissemination plans: A paper will be submitted to a leading journal in this field. The
      findings of the review produced solid evidence that can change current worldwide practice for
      the benefit of patients, institutions and public health services by obtaining higher accuracy
      in the diagnosis of significant coronary artery disease in terms of myocardial ischemia, thus
      avoiding extra unnecessary tests, less harm to the patients and less unnecessary expenses.

      Current review status: Completed but not published.
    
  