
    
      Nonthyroidal illness syndrome (NTIS), also known as euthyroid sick syndrome or low
      triiodothyronine (T3) syndrome, is a condition characterized by decreased serum
      concentrations of T3 and low or normal plasma concentrations of thyroxine (T4) without a
      compensatory increase in the serum levels of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). However, such
      typical changes differ from those in primary or secondary thyroid disorders. NTIS refers to
      distortions in thyroid function without thyroid disease caused by various critical illnesses.
      This condition has been described in different acute and chronic disease states over the past
      30 years, including sepsis, starvation, trauma, burns, myocardial infarction, Crohn's
      disease, enterocutaneous fistulas, chronic kidney disease, and major surgery.

      Short bowel syndrome (SBS), the most common form of intestinal failure, is a rare condition
      resulting from the loss of portions of the intestine, typically because of extensive surgical
      resection or loss of intestinal function. Patients with SBS often stuffer from intestinal
      insufficiency or intestinal failure because they are unable to maintain fluid and nutrient
      balances on a normal diet. Therefore, SBS can cause various metabolic and physiologic
      disturbances, many of which are associated with growth, intestinal adaptation, and hormone
      secretion. Many previous studies of SBS have evaluated growth hormone, glucagon-like
      peptide-1, glucagon-like peptide-2, vitamin D and parathyroid hormone, peptide YY, and
      ghrelin. However, few studies have reported the association between SBS and the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis and its balance.

      The present study was performed to evaluate the association of thyroid hormone disturbance
      and SBS in adult patients. Because NTIS is the main type of thyroid hormone disturbance, we
      further investigated the incidence, underlying mechanisms, and correlation with clinical
      variables and prognosis of NTIS in adult patients with SBS.
    
  