
    
      This is a single-centre, pilot randomized trial study that includes 42 patients with gastric
      varices that will be classified according to the Sarin and Kumar classification into GOV II
      or IGV I with recently bleeding GV & high-risk GV (defined by Baveno VI consensus for primary
      prophylaxis).

      Eligible patients will be randomized in 2 groups using computer-generated random number
      sequences using excel software in concealed envelopes with block randomization design. Group
      I will undergo EUS-guided CYA injection at entrance of perforator veins. Group II will
      undergo DEI of CYA.

      Each patient will be subjected to :

        -  Written informed consent will be obtained from each patient, including a discussion on
           the procedure.

        -  Clinical assessment including history taking and physical examination

        -  Routine laboratory investigations including complete blood picture and serum creatinine.

        -  Liver function profile (serum bilirubin, AST, ALT , albumin and prothrombin time).

        -  The severity of underlying disease will be assessed by the Child-Turcotte-Pugh score
           (CTP) based on serum albumin, bilirubin, prothrombin time, the presence of ascites and
           encephalopathy.

        -  All procedures will be performed under deep sedation or general anesthesia in the left
           lateral position.

        -  Intravenous antibiotics will be administered to all patients prior to the endoscopic
           procedure to minimize the risk of secondary bacterial infection. Oral or intravenous
           antibiotics will be continued for at least 3 days following variceal injection.

             -  Endoscopic procedure and technique:

        -  Standard diagnostic upper endoscopy will be performed in order to classify the varices
           according to the classification of Sarin and Kumar. Only high risk GOV II and IGV I
           varices (>10 mm) will be included.

        -  EUS examination will be done in all patients with a Pentax linear Echoendoscope
           EG3870UTK (PENTAX medical, Tokyo, Japan) attached to a Hitachi Avius ultrasound system
           (Hitachi Medical Systems, Tokyo, Japan). All EUS examinations will be done by two
           endosonographers. The echoendoscope will be positioned in the distal esophagus at the
           level of the cardia to visualize the gastric fundus and intramural varices.

        -  EUS will be used to display the vascular anatomy, in particular the feeding vein. GVs
           will be classified endosonographically according to Boustière et al which considered
           size of GVs and gastric wall abnormalities :

           1: Size of GVs:

        -  Grade 0 (none)

        -  Grade 1 (small or non-confluent varies < 5 mm)

        -  Grade 2 (large or confluent varices ≥ 5 mm) 2: Abnormalities of gastric wall:

             1. Grade 0 (none)

             2. Grade 1 (thickening and brilliance of the third hyperechogenic layer with or
                without fine internal anechogenic structures).

             3. Grade 2 (visible vessels in the third layer which deform the entire wall, with
                penetrating varices).

        -  EUS-guided injection of CYA will be done at entrance of of the varix or the perforator
           veins when identifiable using a mixture (1:1) of 2-octyl-cyanoacrylate & lipidol using
           19G EUS-FNA needle in Group I, or DEI of CYA in Group II.

             -  Follow-up after endoscopy:

      After the procedure, patients will be observed for 2 hours in the recovery room before being
      discharged. Endoscopic examination and Doppler EUS will be repeated in all patients at 3, and
      6 months post-procedure (or sooner with recurrent bleeding) to confirm eradication.
      Hemostasis, early post treatment bleeding and late post treatment bleeding will be recorded
      according to Baveno VI concensus.

      GVs will be considered obliterated by direct endoscopy when not visible and/or hardened to
      catheter palpation. Obliteration by Doppler EUS will be considered by visualization of clot
      and absence of Doppler flow within the gastric wall. Repeat injection will be performed in
      the absence of obliteration. Direct endoscopic and Doppler EUS examinations will be repeated
      again at 3, and 6 months after each injection.
    
  