
    
      The study has 2 parts:

      • Part A (Dose-Escalation Cohorts): Consecutive cohorts of patients will receive escalating
      doses of oral palbociclib in combination with intravenous nab-P in 28-day cycles, in order to
      estimate the MTD(s) of the combination. The starting doses will be 75 mg palbociclib, and 100
      mg/m2 nab-P. The observation period for dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) will be from Day 1 to
      Day 28. Pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) properties of palbociclib and nab-P
      will also be assessed. Up to approximately 30 patients will be enrolled. The criteria for
      dose escalation will be based on a modified toxicity probability interval (mTPI) method.

      • Part B [MTD Expansion Cohort(s)]: When the MTD(s) of palbociclib plus nab-P has been
      estimated with confidence, enrollment will proceed into 1 or 2 MTD expansion cohort(s) of up
      to 20 patients each at the MTD(s). The objective of the MTD expansion cohort(s) will be to
      provide additional information on safety, tolerability, biomarkers, PD activity, and PK/PD
      relationship for the combination regimen in order to determine the RP2D. The MTD expansion
      cohort(s) will only enroll patients who have not received previous treatment for their
      metastatic disease in order to evaluate preliminary activity of the combination in the target
      patient population.

      All patients (in Part A and B) will receive nab-P intravenously once weekly for 3 weeks out
      of each 28-day cycle. Palbociclib oral dosing will be once daily on Days 1-21 of each 28-day
      cycle. To allow for PK evaluation of nab-P administered alone, nab-P will be administered on
      Day -2 for Cycle 1 only. Subsequent cycles will administer both nab-P and palbociclib on Day
      1. Alternate dosing schedules for palbociclib may be explored based on emerging PK, PD, and
      safety data.

      Patients will be treated as long as they are clinically benefiting from investigational
      product without unacceptable toxicity, objective disease progression, or withdrawal of
      consent. A modified visit schedule will be implemented for patients who are on
      investigational product for more than 2 years.
    
  