
    
      Ninety patients will Participate in this clinical study. The patients will be admitted to the
      Emergency Center of the School of Dentistry at the University of São Paulo with a clinical
      diagnosis of irreversible pulpitis, The study was approved by the Committee on the Ethics of
      Research on Human Beings of the School of Dentistry at the University of São Paulo (protocol
      95/07), and each patient will be informed to sing consent to participate in the study. The 90
      participants will be divided into 2 groups of 45 patients, who will receive the inferior
      alveolar nerve block injections of 1.8 mL (equivalent to 1 cartridge) of 4% articaine
      (Articaine 100; DFL, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil) with 1:100,000 epinephrine or 3.6mL
      (equivalent to 2 cartridges) of the same solution. Two consecutive negative responses to the
      maximum pulp stimulus (80 µA) at the electric stimulation were the criterion to determine a
      pulpal anesthesia as successful. Before the IAN block injections, the tooth with irreversible
      pulpitis, the adjacent tooth, and the contralateral canine will be tested for pulp vitality
      with an electric pulp test (Vitality Scanner 2006; SybronEndo, Orange, CA). The electric pulp
      stimulation of the contralateral canine, which will be not anesthetized, will be used as
      control to ensure that the equipment is working properly and that patients is responding
      adequately.

      The average injection time for each cartridge was approximately 2 minutes. Ten minutes after
      the IAN block, subjective lip anesthesia will be evaluated by asking the patient whether
      his/her lip was numb. Thereafter and immediately before the pulpectomy, the electric pulp
      stimulations will be repeated to determine pulpal anesthesia. During the pulpectomy
      procedure, the patients were instructed to report any painful discomfort. To evaluate the
      intensity of pain during the pulpectomy, a verbal analogue scale will be used: 0, no pain; 1,
      mild, bearable pain; 2, moderate, unbearable pain; 3, severe, intense, and unbearable pain.
      The anesthesia will be defined as successful when the dentist accessed the pulp chamber
      without pain being reported by the patient (pain scores 0 or 1). In these cases, the
      pulpectomy will be continued. Pain scores of 2 or 3 will classified the IAN block as
      unsuccessful.
    
  