
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if patient-reported neck and shoulder function and related quality of life
      (QOL) at 6 months after surgery using the Neck Dissection Impairment Index (NDII) is superior
      with sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy compared to elective neck dissection (END) for
      treatment of early-stage oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OCSCC) (cT1-2N0). (Phase II)
      II. To determine if disease-free survival (DFS) is non-inferior with SLN biopsy compared to
      END for treatment of early-stage OCSCC (cT1-2N0). (Phase III) III. To determine if
      patient-reported neck and shoulder function and related QOL at 6 months after surgery using
      NDII is superior with SLN biopsy compared to END for treatment of early-stage OCSCC
      (cT1-2N0). (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patterns of failure (local-regional relapse and distant metastasis) between
      surgical arms.

      II. To measure and compare overall survival (OS) between surgical arms. III. To measure and
      compare the toxicity of the two surgical arms.

      IV. To measure longitudinal patient-reported neck and shoulder function and related QOL
      between surgical arms, using the following instruments:

      IVa. Neck Dissection Impairment Index (NDII). IVb. Abbreviated Disabilities of the Arm,
      Shoulder and Hand (QuickDASH). IVc. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head and Neck
      (FACT-H&N). V. To assess the length of hospitalization, post-operative drain placement, and
      operative morbidity between arms.

      VI. To estimate the negative predictive rate of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission
      tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) for N0 neck in patients with T1 and T1-2 oral cavity
      squamous cell cancer (OCSCC) patients in the END arm.

      VII. To assess nodal metastases rates between arms. VIII. To assess the pathologic false
      omission rate (FOR) in the SLN biopsy arm. IX. To determine if patient-reported neck and
      shoulder function and related QOL at 6 months after surgery using the NDII is superior with
      the SLN biopsy compared to the END in low-risk patients.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare changes in patient-reported outcomes (European Quality of Life Five Dimension
      Five Level Scale Questionnaire [EQ-5D-5L]) between surgical arms.

      II. To collect biospecimens for future translational science studies. III. To assess the DFS
      between arms in low-risk patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive an imaging agent via injection and undergo planar imaging and
      single photo emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT) over 1-2 hours.
      Patients then undergo SLN biopsy.

      GROUP II: Patients undergo standard END.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 3 weeks after surgery, every 3
      months for year 1, every 4 months for year 2, every 6 months for year 3, then yearly
      thereafter.
    
  