
    
      Easy-to-use and service touch points allow patients/ users to realize the value and status of
      their physiological functions/ parameters based on their evidence is important. According to
      the U.S. survey, 90% of people can change their lifestyle behaviors, improve their personal
      health awareness, achieve holistic health care and improve their quality of life due to
      "Quantify Self". Therefore, a broader health care system, health consumption services or
      ecological system has been building to integrate health care resources, extend health care
      services from hospital to communities and individual' homes. When people consume in their
      daily life, immediate public health guidance or professional intervention can be offered at
      the same time, not only can effectively maintain individuals' health, early detection of
      possible physiological signs/ parameters, can also delay the progression of the disease and
      reduce the burden of first-line health care workers. Therefore, it is the era of smart
      healthcare that provides a health service platform with APPs(Applications) to provide
      personalized integrated medical services. However, in order to monitor or evaluate the effect
      of treatment (i.e., exercise training) still needs to be provided through the actual feedback
      of individual physiological data.

      Clothes with smart function which is able to connect with social media and APPs has been
      promoting and marketing as smart sports or lifestyle-monitor goods, such as exercise-related
      physical parameters and sleep quality quantifying. Sleep physiology information collected
      through the clothes including degree and quality of sleep can be recorded and transmitted to
      the remote health system via APP and cloud service platform. On this cloud platform, health
      information can exchange with clinician's physicians, offering advises for users to whether
      to go to the hospital for further examination.
    
  