
    
      1. Each patient will be anesthetized with the same solution, 40 mg articaine hydrochloride
           + 0.006 mg/mL epinephrine hydrochloride (Ultracaine DS; Aventis Pharma, Istanbul,
           Turkey).

        2. The standard procedure for each group at the first appointment included rubber dam
           isolation,removing of previous coronal restorations, and root canal filling materials.
           The removal of previous root canal fillings will be performed with one of these: Gates
           Glidden drills, hand files, heated pluggers, and Ni-Ti rotary instruments.

        3. After the removal of previous root canal fillings, the working lengths were determined
           by apex locator and periapical radiographs 1 mm from the apexes.

        4. Chemo-mechanical preparation of root canals will be made with the master apical files
           ranged from #25 to #70 depending on the initial diameter or preparation of the root
           canals.

           Irrigation was performed with 2.5% NaOCl after each instrument in all cases. At the end
           of instrumentation, the final irrigation was made by saline, and the root canals were
           dried with paper points.

        5. In the 1st group the root canals will be medicated with a calcium hydroxide paste for 7
           days.(calcium hydroxide injectable paste Metapex , 2.2g paste in a 1 syringe).

           In the 2nd group the root canals will be medicated with a calcium hydroxidechlorhexidine
           paste for 7 days. The paste consists of 1.2 g Ca(OH)2 powder per 1 mL 0.2% chlorhexidine
           in water. The teeth in both groups will be closed with a sterile dry cotton pellet and a
           minimum of 3 mm of temporary restorative material.

        6. In the next appointment, the tooth was reopened, the intra-canal paste will be removed
           and a patency file (size 08 Flexofile; Dentsply-Maillefer) was pushed through the
           foramen.

      Master apical file will be checked again and then master cones will be placed and
      radiographed. Obturation will be done using lateral compaction technique with AD seal resin
      sealer using spreader for placement of auxiliary cones.
    
  