
    
      During cancer treatment children are significantly less active than their healthy peers. This
      inactivity persists into survivorship, negatively influencing their health and quality of
      life. Physical activity may also improve fatigue, a near-universal and distressing symptom
      during treatment. Improving health behaviors during treatment can have lifelong benefit.

      The goal of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the Kids are Moving exercise
      program that is delivered by nurse practitioners (NP's) during outpatient care provided to a
      specific population of children. The study will be conducted at two pediatric cancer
      treatment sites and will translate the American College of Sports Medicine's program,
      Exercise is Medicine into practice. In this quasi-experimental design, children will receive
      the study intervention, which includes exercise coaching and prescription, that is be
      incorporated into the standard care they receive from the nurse practitioners during their
      outpatient visits. Outcomes will be compared to historical control measurements of children
      who received usual care. Study aims are to:

        1. To compare measurements of activity levels of children receiving exercise coaching over
           the first 6 months of cancer treatment as measured by self-report and the FitBit Flex
           tracker

        2. To compare activity levels of children receiving exercise coaching during cancer
           treatment as measured by self-report and the FitBit Flex tracker, to activity levels of
           children in the historical control group receiving usual care during cancer treatment.

        3. To evaluate the influence of activity levels on fatigue experience by children receiving
           cancer treatment

      Children ages 6 to 18, and their parents, will be invited to participate in study
      measurements which will be completed at the 2nd, 4th, and 6th months of cancer treatment.
      Patients will be included if recently diagnosed with cancer (excluding bone tumors and bone
      metastasis), and ambulatory. Validated self-report instruments will be used to measure
      activity and fatigue. Additionally, the FitBit Flex tracker, a device that measures steps/day
      and motion in three dimensions and an actigraph, will be worn by subjects over a 3 day period
      for each measurement point.

      Physical activity is a vital intervention for improving health and quality of life and for
      providing energy for engaging in positive life experiences that advance children along the
      developmental continuum to a long and healthy future. Outcomes of the study will provide a
      foundation for larger multi-site clinical trials.
    
  