
    
      Similarities in striatocortical pathway dysfunction have been noted for alcoholism and
      obesity. In prior studies we have demonstrated an inverse relationship between body mass
      index and response in the dorsal striatum (DS) during consumption of a palatable
      milkshake[1]. We have also shown that the magnitude of the reduced response predicts weight
      gain, especially in individuals who carry a copy of the A1 allele of the taq1A
      polymorphism[1]. Since the A1 allele is associated with reduced striatal D2 receptors [2-7],
      this finding implicates the dopamine system in the reduced blood oxygen level dependent
      (BOLD) response. Our results also indicate that this reduced response is a consequence,
      rather than a cause of obesity, since gaining weight [8], but not risk for obesity [9] (by
      virtue of parental obesity), is associated with reduced DS response to palatable food. Taken
      together the results indicate that increased adiposity is associated with blunted DS response
      to palatable food that may reflect altered dopamine signaling. More recently we determined
      that reduced DS responses in overweight and obese subjects are associated with increased
      impulsivity measured with the BIS-11 and a go no/no-go task [10]. Heavy drinkers are also
      more likely to be impulsive [11]. In preliminary analyses of data on over 300 individuals
      assessed with the clinical core battery in the Center for the Translational Neuroscience of
      Alcoholism (CTNA), we found that higher scores on the BIS-11 and other measures of
      impulsivity were associated with greater alcohol consumption.

      Related to these findings in humans, preliminary work in rodents shows that exogenous
      administration of N-Acylethanolamines, such as oleoylethanolamine (OEA) can normalize
      high-fat diet induced dopamine decreases in DS. Human testing of OEA supplementation is
      possible based on the availability of a dietary supplement containing the OEA precursor
      NOPE-EGCG ((PhosphoLEANtm, 85mg NOPE+50mg EGCG per capsule). PhosphoLEAN has been shown to
      enhance adherence to dietary advice in overweight healthy subjects [12-14]. We therefore
      propose a pilot study to test whether PhosphoLEAN will improve performance on impulsivity,
      go/no-go tasks and negative outcome learning. Specifically, we will recruit heavy drinkers
      because they are more likely to be impulsive [11]. Phospholean may improve negative
      reinforcement learning in this population. This may lead to reductions in drinking as well.
      We will also explore whether the supplement leads to reductions in alcohol consumption and
      preference for high fat foods.
    
  