
    
      The study is being done to test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug 20089
      TA that will be used in combination with Lucentis for the treatment of CNVM. In CNVM, tiny
      abnormal blood vessels grow through the retinal layers in the eye. These vessels are very
      fragile and can leak or bleed. The severity of the symptoms depends on the size of the CNVM
      and its proximity to the macula (the center of visual field). Symptoms may be mild such as a
      blurry or distorted area of vision, or more severe, like a central blind spot. Although
      Lucentis has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment
      of CNVM, the study drug 20089 TA has not yet been approved, and therefore is considered an
      investigational drug.

      Triamcinolone Acetonide (TA) is a corticosteroid (an anti-inflammatory drug) that is used to
      treat many eye diseases, such as: macular edema (where inflammation causes thickening of the
      macula), diabetic eye disease, and age-related macular degeneration. TA has also been shown
      to be effective in treating neovascular AMD (also known as "wet AMD") where there is an
      abnormal growth of blood vessels in the macula.

      Study drug 20089 is an experimental form of the corticosteroid, Triamcinolone Acetonide(TA).
      20089 is a new slow-release formula (longer lasting) for intravitreal (into the eye) delivery
      of TA. This drug releases the active agent TA over a period of approximately 6 months thereby
      allowing for the improvement of inflammation and/or complications following neovascular AMD.

      Although intravitreal Lucentis has been shown to prevent the loss of vision in most
      neovascular AMD patients and help gain visual acuity (how well we can see), results can only
      be assured if monthly injections are given. Since monthly injections are a burden on the
      patient and caregiver, attempts are being made to reduce the burden by combining available
      treatment options. We hope that by combining 20089 TA with Lucentis a decrease in retinal
      inflammation, closure of the leaky vessels with a decrease in the number of monthly
      injections could be achieved.
    
  