
    
      Vertebroplasty is a procedure used to stabilize broken vertebrae, the bones that form the
      spine. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of vertebroplasty for the treatment of
      acute vertebral fractures.

      The VITTA trial is a randomized, controlled, single-blinded, cross-over trial comparing
      percutaneous vertebroplasty with facet block in patients with acute (<1 month) and painful
      vertebral compression fractures.

      Vertebral compression fractures (VCFs) frequently result in debilitating pain, impaired
      functional status and bad quality of life. Percutaneous vertebroplasty (PV) is a treatment
      for VCFs originally developed in France in the late 1980s and first performed in America in
      the mid-1990s. The procedure involves percutaneous application of bone cement
      (polymethylmethacrylate) into collapsed vertebrae.

      VCFs are a significant public health problem with approximately 750,000 new fractures
      occurring in the United States each year, a number that is projected to rise as the
      population ages. In fact, one quarter of adults over the age of 50 will suffer at least one
      VCF in their lifetime. VCFs cause short term and occasionally long-term pain and disability,
      and although not immediately life threatening, they are associated with long term mortality.
      Before the advent of PV, the treatment for VCFs was limited to medical therapy- addressing
      the pain associated with the fracture but not the fracture itself thus making VCFs
      practically the only skeletal fracture not treated with orthopedic surgery. Since the
      introduction of vertebroplasty, over 800 papers, technical notes, and reviews that address
      this technique have been published with the overwhelming majority reporting significant pain
      relief and advocating the adoption of the procedure into common practice. Unfortunately, most
      of these studies had low evidence level and poor scientific design until randomized clinical
      trials were published in 2009.

      Vertebroplasty for refractory back pain (after a period of conservative management of 1
      month) constituted the main indication in the overwhelming majority of studies published so
      far. Although those studies have largely suggested that it does not offer significant
      improvement in pain or functional status relative to medical therapy or infusion of local
      anesthesia after this acute phase, the data remains inconclusive and of poor scientific
      quality. The present study proposes a different rationale: the benefits of vertebroplasty may
      be occurring in the acute phase (before 1 month) by providing immediate pain relief to the
      patient, hence allowing early mobilization and preventing medical complications associated
      with bed rest. In other terms, vertebroplasty may be a first line, acute phase treatment. If
      the investigators hypothesis holds true, an adequately powered clinical trial may provide
      sufficient evidence to change the medical indications for vertebroplasty.
    
  