
    
      If you are willing to participate in this study, you will be asked to undergo some screening
      tests and procedures that confirm you are eligible. Many of these tests and procedures are
      likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out taht you do not
      take part in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or procedures recently,
      they may or may not have to be repeated. The screening process may include the following: a
      medical history, mini-mental status exam, physical exam, performance status,
      electrocardiogram, blood tests, urine test. If these tests show that you are eligible to
      participate in the research study, you will begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the
      eligibility criteria, you will not be able to participate in this research study.

      If you take part in this research study, you will be given a study drug-dosing calendar for
      each treatment cycle. Each treatment cycle lasts 28 days (4 weeks) during which time you will
      be taking the study drug once daily for 3 weeks and then no study drug for the last week of
      each cycle. The diary will also include special instructions for taking the study drug.

      During all cycles you will have a physical exam and you will be asked questions about your
      general health and specific questions about any problems that you might be having and any
      medications you may be taking.

      Standard contrast-enhanced (CE) MRI scans will be done prior to all odd-numbered study
      cycles. Vascular MRI scans will be done prior to start of treatment, Day 1 of treatment and
      prior to all even-numbered cycles. These studies will be done in the Charlestown Navy Yard.

      We would like to keep track of your medical condition for up to 24 months after your last
      dose of study treatment. We would like to do this by calling you on the telephone once a year
      to see how you are doing. Keeping in touch with you and checking your condition every year
      helps us look at the long-term effects of the research study.
    
  