
    
      The proposed research will be undertaken as a double-blind randomized cross-over study
      according to a Latin Square design, with participants being subjected to 4 consecutive
      isocaloric diets in random order lasting 4 weeks each. No stratification is considered since
      the population recruited will be relatively homogeneous. The 4 experimental diets are: 1- a
      diet rich in ruminant TFA (8 g/day); 2- a diet moderately rich in ruminant TFA (4 g/day); 3-
      a diet rich in industrial TFA (8 g/d); 4- a control diet (minimal dietary TFA of industrial
      and ruminant sources). The source of ruminant TFA will come from butter and cream obtained
      after having modified the regimen of lactating cows in a fashion similar to the one used to
      increase the levels of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) in milk fat. Hydrogenated margarine
      will be used as the main source of industrial TFA. Finally, a butter obtained from cows
      producing the lowest levels of ruminant fat will be used to formulate the control diet
      (minimal dietary TFA). All diets will be identical in terms of menus, calories and
      macronutrient composition with the exception of TFA sources and levels. Minor differences in
      the levels of total saturated, monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids will be
      matched across diets by adding various vegetable and animal oils. The macronutrient
      composition of each meal and thus of the entire day is very similar across all 4 diets. Based
      on a 2500 kcal/day regimen, an intake of TFA of 8 g/d and 4 g/d will represent 72 kcal/day
      and 36 kcal/day respectively (3% and 1.5% of energy intake). The 4 experimental diets will be
      formulated so that the percentage of daily calories from fat (36%), carbohydrates (50%) and
      proteins (14%) will meet most of the dietary recommendations of the American Heart
      Association and the NCEP for primary prevention of CVD, with the exception of SAT (slight
      excess) and fibers (slight deficit). The slight excess in SAT fat cannot be avoided since we
      are using butter as the primary source of ruminant TFA. The cholesterol content of the
      experimental diet will not exceed 300 mg/day.
    
  