
    
      Anticipated Impacts on Veterans' Healthcare: This study aims to demonstrate that online
      interactive spaced education (ISE) can improve providers' care of patients with hypertension.
      ISE is the type of intervention that can be deployed across the VHA with content tailored to
      meet specific needs and can be implemented as a tool to improve performance measures and
      clinical outcomes.

      Project Background/Rationale: ISE is a novel educational methodology based on the "spacing
      effect", the psychological finding that repeated presentations of educational material over
      spaced intervals increase learning efficiency and improve knowledge retention. ISE is
      delivered using periodic emails that contain clinical case scenarios and multiple-choice
      questions. We recently completed a randomized trial involving 95 VISN 1 primary care
      providers (PCPs) which demonstrated that an ISE intervention can significantly improve
      clinician's practice patterns. Those clinicians randomized to the ISE intervention on
      prostate cancer screening demonstrated a 26% relative reduction in inappropriate screening.

      Project Objectives: Lowering blood pressure in hypertensive patients unequivocally decreases
      the incidence of stroke and cardiovascular events and is highly cost-effective. The majority
      of patients with blood pressure above the treatment target do not have their
      anti-hypertensive medications appropriately intensified at clinician visits. A reduced
      frequency of treatment intensification is alternatively termed 'clinical inertia'. Our
      preliminary results show that clinicians' knowledge of hypertension management guidelines is
      limited, and few clinicians report following the guidelines consistently. We propose to
      conduct a randomized controlled trial involving PCPs in VISN 1 to determine whether ISE can
      (1) increase knowledge of the appropriate treatment of hypertensive patients, (2) reduce
      clinical inertia in hypertension management, and (3) improve the blood pressure control in
      hypertensive patients.

      Project Methods: One hundred six VISN 1 primary care practitioners (physicians, nurse
      practitioners, and physician assistants) will be recruited via email to participate in the
      study. Participants will be randomized to one of two cohorts: (1) the intervention cohort
      will receive ISE over year 1, and (2) the control cohort will receive no intervention and
      will represent the "standard of education" on hypertension management. The ISE intervention
      will consist of an email every 4 days containing 1 multiple-choice questions based on a
      curriculum derived from clinical practice guidelines on appropriate hypertension management.
      Providers will submit answers to the questions online and immediately receive the correct
      answer and an explanation of the pertinent clinical issues. Using a new adaptive methodology,
      the spacing and content of the educational intervention will be individualized for each
      clinician based on their performance. The ISE intervention will be completed in 9-11 months.
      Hypertension knowledge will be assessed by a post-test at the end of year 1. Providers'
      clinical inertia and the blood pressures of their patients will be assessed over 2 years:
      initial changes attributable to ISE will be identified in year 1, while the retention of
      these changes will be monitored in year 2. Drawing on the interdisciplinary expertise of our
      investigator team, the study is positioned to enrich national debates about how best to
      improve the ways in which clinicians can meet their lifelong learning needs.
    
  