
    
      In recent years, DSEMSs have provided an attractive alternative to surgery for palliation of
      malignant gastric outlet obstruction. Several studies have assessed the clinical and
      technical success rates of DSEMS for malignant gastroduodenal obstruction. Technical success
      rates of 90% to 100% and clinical success of 80% to 95% was achieved.The procedure was
      associated with quicker recovery and reduced morbidities as compared to surgical
      gastrojejunostomies. However, the long-term patency of uncovered DSEMS is limited by the risk
      of tumor ingrowth that would lead to subsequent re-stenosis of the stents requiring
      re-intervention. Thus to palliate malignant gastric outlet obstruction, surgical
      gastrojejunostomy is preferred in patients that are fit for surgery with prolonged life
      expectancy whilst insertion of DSEMS is preferred in patients that are associated with
      high-risk for surgery and short life expectancy.

      Recently, EUS-guided gastrojejunostomies have become possible. In the early description, a
      common technical problem exists in the series. The target duodenum or jejunum needed for
      creation of a GJ is collapsed and it is difficult to identify the target organ by EUS from
      the stomach. Furthermore, the insertion of the stent for creation of the anastomosis may be
      difficult with a collapsed bowel and this may result in catastrophic outcomes. To overcome
      this difficulty, our group has published the results of using the double balloon occluder
      that allows distension of the duodenum in conjunction with the AXIOS stent for creation of a
      GJ in 20 patients (Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided double-balloon-occluded
      gastrojejunostomy bypass - EPASS). The technical success rate was 90% (18/20). The median
      intubation time from the double-balloon tube intubation to stent placement was 25.5 min
      (range 10-39 min). Post-treatment gastric outlet obstruction scoring system (GOOSS) score
      improved in all 18 cases in which EPASS was successfully performed.

      Thus, based on the above results, EUS-GJ may be associated with improved outcomes as compared
      with conventional procedures for management of malignant GOO. The aim of the current study is
      to compare the efficacies of EPASS in a prospective multicenter setting versus a historical
      cohort of uncovered DSEMS for patients suffering from unresectable malignant GOO.
    
  