
    
      The objectives of the study are to allow the physician to use the commercially available
      Magellan Robotic System and Magellan Robotic Catheters to navigate to the treatment targets
      in the peripheral vasculature to:

        -  Determine the number of endovascular procedures consecutively performed with the
           Magellan Robotic System to navigate to treatment targets in the peripheral vasculature
           and,

             -  Achieve stable and efficient system preparation and set-up times, navigation and
                cannulation times of target vessels during endovascular procedures, and placement
                of therapeutic equipment used to perform endovascular procedures.

             -  Achieve stable and reduced fluoroscopy time during the endovascular procedures.

        -  Determine the number of cases required to reach a "steady state," reduction or
           predictable time in conducting peripheral interventional procedures using descriptive
           (means, ranges) statistics to analyze the data.

      Design

      This is a prospective and retrospective, multi-center, single arm, non-blinded, sequentially
      enrolling data collection activity (for which Hansen Medical is providing funding). Only
      patients scheduled to undergo endovascular procedures using the Magellan Robotic System will
      be approached for enrollment.

      Methods

      Registry procedures will be conducted in accordance with the labeled indication for use of
      the Magellan™ Robotic System.

      Prior to the physician participating in the registry and prior to subject enrollment, all
      participating physicians will be required to complete Hansen Medical's Magellan Robotic
      System training.

      Participating registry sites must have a commercially available Magellan Robotic System for
      the treatment of patients.

      Data Management

      Participating sites will be assigned a specific site numeric identification code by the
      registry sponsor.

      The information collected into the registry will be data related to the procedure in which
      the Magellan System was used or planned to be used and may include patient follow-up data,
      minimally 14 days(± 5 days)post procedure but also may include 30 day follow-up to assess for
      the resolution of a procedural or post procedure adverse event.

      The database will be a repository for the collected registry data and the data will be made
      available (in extractable format) to the physician participants.

      Adverse Events

      The data submitted will be reviewed on a regular basis for safety issues and complaints.

      Adverse events and/or complaints deemed reportable will be submitted to the appropriate
      regulatory agency/agencies by Hansen Medical, Inc.
    
  