
    
      This is a randomized (patients will be assigned by chance to study treatments), double-blind
      (patients and study personnel will not know the identity of study treatments), placebo (an
      inactive substance that is compared with a drug to test whether the drug has a real effect in
      a clinical trial)-controlled study to determine the benefits and risks of combining ibrutinib
      with bendamustine and rituximab (BR) in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL
      following at least 1 line of prior systemic therapy. Approximately 580 patients will be
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either treatment arm A (placebo) or treatment arm B (ibrutinib
      420 mg).

      Study medication will be administered orally once daily on a continuous schedule. All
      patients will receive BR as the background therapy plus either ibrutinib or placebo for a
      maximum of 6 cycles, after which treatment with ibrutinib or placebo will continue until
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      A treatment cycle will be defined as 28 days. The study will include a screening phase, a
      treatment phase, and a follow-up phase. Study end is defined as when either 80% of the
      patients have died or 5 years after the last patient is randomized into the study, whichever
      occurs first.

      Patients in treatment arm A (placebo) who complete the treatment phase, with disease
      progression or (after interim analysis) meet International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic
      Leukemia (IWCLL) criteria for treatment, may crossover to ibrutinib treatment (as in
      treatment arm B), at the investigators discretion. This open-label, next-line treatment with
      ibrutinib will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal from
      study, or until the study end, whichever occurs earlier. One interim analysis is planned for
      the study. Efficacy evaluations will include computed tomography scans, laboratory testing,
      focused physical examinations, bone marrow biopsy and aspirate, and assessment of
      patient-reported outcomes. In both treatment arms, samples for the development of a
      population-based pharmacokinetic (PK; study of what the body does to a drug) approach will be
      collected. Safety will be assessed throughout the study.
    
  