
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To undertake a systematic review of the published effectiveness of investigations and
           treatments for patients with radiation-induced bowel injury after pelvic radiotherapy
           for cancer.

        -  To develop a diagnostic and treatment algorithm (based on evidence [where available] or
           on expert opinion [where there is no evidence]) for these patients.

        -  To examine each test in the algorithm for its usefulness in establishing precise
           diagnoses for these patients within the context of a randomized clinical trial.

        -  To examine whether use of the treatment algorithm in delivering treatment specifically
           targeted for each diagnosis improves symptoms and quality of life of these patients.

        -  To investigate whether the same level of care can be delivered to these patients by a
           nurse practitioner or by a specialist consultant gastroenterologist following the same
           algorithm.

        -  To identify other symptoms and healthcare needs experienced by these patients after
           pelvic radiotherapy and whether there are any other unmet needs in addition to their
           bowel injury.

        -  To determine the cost-effectiveness of the investigations and treatments developed for
           these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a two-part, multicenter study.

        -  Part 1: Researchers develop a diagnostic and treatment algorithm to guide health care
           practitioners in the management of patients with radiation-induced bowel injury. The
           algorithm, which is based on a systematic literature review or expert opinion, uses a
           series of simple tests to establish specific diagnoses and to target treatment for
           managing patient symptoms.

        -  Part 2: Patients are stratified according to tumor site (urological vs gynecological vs
           gastrointestinal) and degree of bowel dysfunction as measured by IBDQ-B score > 10
           points above normal [< 60 vs 60-70]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 intervention
           arms.

             -  Arm I (usual care): Patients receive an advice booklet on self-management of bowel
                symptoms. Patients whose symptoms continue 6 months after study enrollment may
                cross over to arm II.

             -  Arm II: Patients undergo diagnostic and treatment algorithm-led management of bowel
                symptoms by a gastroenterologist.

             -  Arm III: Patients undergo diagnostic and treatment algorithm-led management of
                bowel symptoms by a nurse practitioner.

      Patients complete questionnaires about bowel symptoms and other pelvic symptoms, quality of
      life, and anxiety and depression at baseline, 6 months, and 1 year. Patients also complete
      questionnaires about cost effectiveness of the diagnostic and treatment algorithm or usual
      care.
    
  