
    
      The period of practical study will be conducted at the Center for Orofacial Rehabilitation
      Aesthetics, located in Campinas-SP, where there are several beds and a large number of people
      served by dentists attending post-graduate, under the supervision of Dr. Claudio Azenha.
      Thus, patients are instructed to find the center if they experience the first signs of UARs.

      Will be included only where the top of the table has not extrapolated 48 hours. These
      patients will be referred to the visit of screening and early treatment (day 0 - Visit 01).
      At a screening visit will be informed all the relevant aspects of research, enabling the
      patient judge the feasibility of their participation in the study. After signing the Informed
      Consent, patients will be randomized and will receive one of the treatments. This
      consultation will be a clinical examination where the examiner will tell the lesions and
      measure the size of each. Besides the clinical examination there is a subjective test, in
      which the patient must consider the intensity of pain you're feeling at that moment, using
      the visual analogue scale (VAS). The drug will be administered by the investigator, the
      patient showing the correct way of administration. After 15 minutes, the pain will be
      measured again, using the VAS.

      After three days, patients should return for the 02 tour, which will be clinically evaluated
      and will be assessed for intensity of pain, in addition to the reporting of adverse events.
      The same procedures will be repeated in the return of seven days (Visit 03). This visit some
      patients may receive high clinic.

      The study will be finalized after 14 days of treatment (Visit 04), when patients must return
      to the office to the final evaluations, as will high or be exempted from the clinical study.

      Patients who do not have improvement in time, receive replacement therapy funded by the
      sponsor and provided by waxen, according to the needs of each individual case, judged by
      expert researchers.
    
  