
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a complex clinical syndrome. It is caused by structural or functional
      impairments, which interfere with the ability of heart muscles to fill or eject blood. The
      prevalence of HF exceeds 7 million in the United States alone.(1) Despite improving survival,
      HF hospitalization rates has remained stable, which reflects persisting difficulties in
      managing existing disease. (2) Specifically, readmission rates may be as high as 50% by 6
      months after an admission for HF management. (2) Caring for HF patients exceeds 30 billion
      annually and is largely driven by hospitalizations.2 Innovative, at-home surveillance tools
      are needed to reduce hospital admissions and to drive down the overall societal burden of
      this disease. (3)

      HF is characterized by periodic exacerbations due to volume overload and fluid congestion
      that impairs perfusion to the organs.(2) Accurate assessment of volume status is, therefore,
      key for early detection of impending exacerbation. Currently, there is no single, objective
      method of assessment, relying on a combination of tools including physical examination,
      weight, pulmonary artery catheter or echocardiography.(4) However, these measures are
      subjective, invasive, or impractical for monitoring patients at home. Unique body habitus and
      comorbidities of individual patient further complicates assessment of volume status.(4) The
      future of heart failure management, therefore, lies in the development of a telemonitoring
      system that is convenient to use and accessible for patients at home, while quantitatively
      understanding individual characteristics.(4)

      Cardiovascular health is closely related to the imbalances of the autonomic nervous
      system.(5) Heart rate variability (HRV), the degree of fluctuation in the interval between
      consecutive heartbeats, has been recognized as a reliable marker of autonomic activity.(5)
      HRV has been shown to be depressed in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) and to
      correlate with disease severity. (6) Furthermore, abnormal HRV parameters are independently
      associated with incident CHF in asymptomatic, older adults. (7)

      HRV is conventionally measured using a 24-hour Holter monitor, which is sensitive, but
      inconvenient and impractical for home monitoring.(5) Newer studies have shown not only the
      reliability of short term (5-minute) or ultra-short term (<5 minute) analysis of
      electrocardiographic recordings, but also that of wearable monitors amenable for use at
      home.(9-11) In particular, HRV parameters measured by Apple Watch (Cupertino, California)
      were shown to agree with those measured by a validated chest best heart rate monitor.(12)

      The usefulness of the study is to validate the utility of wearable heart monitors such as the
      Apple Watch in accurately measuring heart rate variability, a dynamic marker of
      cardiovascular health, and correlating it with the health status specifically of heart
      failure patients. Validating this will allow wearable monitors to record HRV remotely from
      home, facilitating telemonitoring and preventing hospitalizations.
    
  