
    
      The study is a double-blind randomized controlled trial with crossover, within subjects
      repeated measurements. The symptoms are measured by questionnaires. 40 patients will be
      included in the study. Patients are recruited via the Department of Rheumatology, UNN. The
      patient group is selected because they respond well to NSAIDs. Since the patients can
      participate while being at home it is not a requirement to live in Tromsø.

      When the patients are recruited their normal treatment plan is examined. This includes both
      their prescript treatment from the patient's physicians and also non-prescript substances,
      such as herbal medicine. If these drugs or substances inflict with the study treatment plan,
      the patients will be excluded. The patient will follow the study treatment plan on study days
      only, which is three days during the week. During the study days the patients will be
      required to abstain from any other substances that can influence the treatment, such as
      alcohol, both prescription and nonprescription drugs and herbal medicine. After 19:00 the
      study day is over and other medication can be taken. On the non-study days the patients can
      follow their normal treatment plan, but if the following day is a study day, no medication
      can be consumed after 21:00.

      The patients can at any time withdraw from the study. A patient who withdraws from the study
      will not be replaced.

      Data collection

      The study does not require patients to meet in the clinic. The patients can be at home, at
      work or performing their daily routines as they participate. Information about the procedures
      of self-administration will either be given to the patients in written form through mail or
      in person by the experimenter. Patients will be instructed in how to report pain, tension and
      nervousness via mobile phone (Checkware AS, Trondheim, Norway). Data from the sms is
      automatically saved in a database administrated by Checkware AS and the research team. The
      patient's phone number is connected to a patient ID number in the database. The patients name
      is connected to the same identification number in a different document safely secured on a
      different hard disk.

      Submission via sms has the advantage that most people have their mobile phone with them at
      most times. Additionally, the time of recording is registered, which cannot be reliably done
      via paper and pencil recordings. Three days a week for 12 weeks the patients are instructed
      to report at 0900 AM, and thereafter at 0910, 1100, 1300, 1500, 1700, and 1900 hrs each study
      day. At these times the patients will receive a sms where they are instructed to immediately
      rate their pain and stress level and report back. If they do not report within 10 minutes
      they will receive a new sms as a reminder. Patients will also be instructed to send in the
      SF-36 and the Fear of Pain Questionnaire at the inclusion of the study, midway and at the
      final day.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoints: pain intensity and pain unpleasantness are measured by numerical rating
      scales (NRS) via sms. Perceived health related quality of life measured with Sort Form (36)
      Health Survey in Norwegian translation [22]. Secondary endpoints: tension and nervousness
      measured on NRS via sms. Fear of pain measured by The Fear of Pain Questionnaire III in
      Norwegian translation [23].

      Questionnaires Short Form (36) Health Survey The Short Form (36) Health Survey (SF(36)) is a
      standardized and validated self-report questionnaire that assesses how patient perceive their
      own health. It is normally used to measure health status in clinical studies. The present
      study will use a Norwegian translation of the questionnaire.

      The Fear of Pain Questionnaire III The Fear of Pain Questionnaire III (FPQ-III) is a
      standardized and validated self-report questionnaire that assesses fear of pain. It contains
      of 30 items involving three subscales: Severe pain, minor pain and medical pain. Each item is
      rated on a five-point Likert scale, were 1=no fear and 5=extreme fear. The present study will
      use a Norwegian translation of the FPQ-III.

      Pharmaceutical control and placebo Kragerø Tablettproduksjon (in Kragerø, Norway) will be
      responsible for the pharmaceutical control. The administrated drug is Ibumetin 400 mg
      (http://www.felleskatalogen.no/medisin/ibumetin-takeda-nycomed-559938). The placebo is
      capsules containing sugar spheres produced by Kragerø Tablettproduksjon. To secure that the
      Ibumetin and the placebo looks identical; the Ibumetin will be purchased by Kragerø
      Tablettproduksjon from the producer of Ibumetin, Takeda Nycomed, and then sealed in identical
      capsules as the placebo.

      Kragerø Tablettproduksjon will label and pack the entire 12 week treatment. The treatment
      dose for each day will be put in separate containers. The containers will be marked with a
      number from 1-35 representing the specific treatment day.

      The treatment order is different for each patient, and Kragerø Tablettproduksjon has received
      the treatment order for every patient from the Department of Psychology, UiT.

      Randomization and blinding:

      When the patients have been enrolled they receive an ID-number. To secure double blinding an
      independent researcher at the Department of Psychology, who is not involved in the study,
      will administer the ID-number distribution using www.random.org. The ID-number is also linked
      to a specific order of treatment and the order of treatment is different for every patient.
      The lists (1) linking each patient to their ID-number and (2) linking the treatment order to
      the different ID-numbers will be filed separately from other study information and not be
      released to the conductors. However, if circumstance requires, such as severe side effects
      resulting in hospital admission or death (see below), the blinding for the specific patient
      or patients will be released to the conductors.

      Design:

      A 2 drug (Ibumetin and placebo) x 3 information (no information, positive, neutral) within
      subjects repeated measures (pre-test, 6 post-tests) design will be conducted. All patients
      will be tested in all conditions.

      Condition 1: Baseline: Pain and stress registered, Ibumetin placebo not administrated.

      Condition 2: Ibumetin: Ibumetin administrated. No information about the effect. Condition 3:
      Placebo: Placebo administrated. No information about the effect.

      Condition 4: Ibumetin + Positive Information: Ibumetin administrated. The patients receive
      written information that the capsule is Ibumetin.

      Condition 5: Placebo + Positive Information: Placebo administrated. The patients receive
      written information that the capsule is Ibumetin.

      Condition 6: Ibumetin + Neutral Information: Ibumetin administrated. The patients receive
      written information that the capsule is placebo.

      Condition 7: Placebo + Neutral Information: Placebo administrated. The patients receive
      written information that the capsule is placebo.

      Procedure:

      Patients that have been enrolled and have signed the informed consent are informed about the
      purpose of the experiment and the procedures. Patients will orally self-administer 4 capsules
      containing Ibumetin 400 mg or identical looking capsules with placebo every Monday, Wednesday
      and Friday morning for 12 consecutive weeks in their home environment. The administrated
      treatment dose of Ibumetin is normal in treatment of pain in patients with Axial SpA. The
      patients will report their score on the outcome variables via mobile phone in accordance with
      the schedule mentioned above. The seven conditions are presented five times to each
      participant, for 35 days, with one workday between each condition. For the first seven study
      days, each condition is run once, for study days eight to 14 each condition is run once, etc.
      Thus, the 35 study days are comprised of five blocks of seven study days, in which all
      conditions are presented. The order of presentations of the conditions is random within each
      block and is different in all participants. The subjects are allowed to take non-study
      medicine on non-study days and after 1900 hours on study days, but not after 2100 hours if
      the following day is a study day. The SF-36 and FOP questionnaires are filled in upon
      inclusion in the study, and again after study days 17 and 35.

      The participants will receive the capsules in Nolato 50 ml/34 mm containers (box: Art.no
      C112863 Cerbo Classic 50 ml white, lid: Art.nr.: C112820 Cerbo Classic SC 34 white) with all
      relevant information . The patients will also be encouraged to contact the conductors by
      phone if they have any questions or worries.

      The patients will be informed that it is necessary to follow the treatment protocol precisely
      as described, and that any variance will compromise the study. The patients will be equipped
      with a "study journal". In the study journal the patients have to register what time they
      take their treatment and if they consume all the capsules. The patients also have to register
      what substances they consume on non-study days. The study journal will also have a note
      section. In this section the patients can note what they think of the treatment, how they
      feel, if they experience any side effects, if they experience any new medical incidences or
      if they feel stressed and uncomfortable. They also have to register if they have followed the
      treatment plan as requested and if they have answered the questionnaires. When the study is
      completed the patients will be asked if they did follow the treatment protocol exactly, and
      encouraged to be truthful. If they report any mistakes or variance, it will be noted and
      included in the analysis.
    
  