
    
      Primary objective:

      To investigate the feasibility of volumetric image guidance for the Nano-X patient rotation
      system (PRS).

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To develop image reconstruction methods that allow target and normal tissue
           visualisation at all treatment angles to a clinical cone beam computed tomography (CBCT)
           standard.

        2. To determine the reproducibility and variability in Nano-X CBCT compared to clinical
           CBCT.

        3. To measure the magnitude of gravity-induced anatomical deformation and translation.

        4. To develop treatment plan adaptation methods to compensate for gravity-induced target
           motion based on Nano-X CBCT image reconstruction at varying treatment angles.

        5. To quantify the participant experience of horizontal rotation using the Nano-X PRS for
           volumetric image guidance CBCT acquisition.

      The investigators will perform a pilot stage, device feasibility trial, to investigate the
      feasibility of acquiring CBCT images for image guidance by maintaining a fixed imaging system
      and rotating the participant about the horizontal axis using the Nano-X PRS. It is a
      single-arm, controlled, single-blinded, non-treatment, non-invasive, single-institution
      trial.

      Eligible participants will be asked to attend the Nelune Comprehensive Cancer Centre (NCCC)
      at the Prince of Wales Hospital on two separate occasions to obtain Nano-X CBCT scans. For
      each scan the participant will be rotated 360° about the horizontal axis which will take
      approximately 72 seconds to complete.

      Participants will be asked to complete validated psychometric questionnaires before and after
      each Nano-X CBCT. The questionnaire responses will be used to quantify their experiences of
      anxiety and motion sickness, and report previous experiences of claustrophobia, in order to
      identify determinants of tolerance level.

      The projection data sets from the Nano-X CBCT scans, along with conventional CBCTs obtained
      for the participants' standard radiotherapy treatment, will be used to investigate the
      image-related objectives. The two Nano-X CBCT data sets from each participant will be used to
      compare Nano-X CBCT variability and reproducibility to clinical CBCT acquisition.
    
  