
    
      The main objective of this study is to study the links between source memory deficits and
      externalization abilities in schizophrenic patients and healthy subjects.

      Also, this study will:

        -  evaluate the impact of emotional content on the ability to externalize an auditory
           perception

        -  evaluate the abilities to separate sources concerning vocal stimuli

        -  evaluate the basic auditory processes In order to meet the objectives, the correlation
           between the percentage of good attributions in the reality monitoring task and the
           percentage of correct perceptions in/out (sound perceived as coming from inside or
           outside the head) will be analyzed in the externalization task in patients suffering
           from schizophrenia.

      Will also be analyzed:

        -  the number of correct perceptions In/Out in the externalization task

        -  the number of correct perceptions In/Out for the emotional stimuli

        -  the detection level of difference in pitch between 2 vocal sources pour the height
           discrimination task

        -  the number of correctly identified words in the speech-in-speech task

      The tasks :

      Subjects will undergo a battery of cognitive and auditory experiments in order to answer the
      objectives and hypothesis. The duration of the entire experiments will be 3.30 hours.

      - Subjects will undergo the source monitoring task (30 min):

      This task is divided in 2 parts:

        -  one part that will evaluate the reality monitoring performances (LISTENING task).
           Subjects either have to listen to words or imagine themselves listening to words

        -  another part evaluating internal source monitoring performances (SAY task). Subjects
           either have to pronounce words or imagine themselves pronouncing words.

             -  In order to measure perception abilities, all subjects will undergo a battery of
                psychoacoustic tests (30 min) including the Tone Matching Task (TMT) which
                evaluates the capacity of discriminating static pitch. The battery is also composed
                of tasks measuring length, amplitude, etc…

             -  A yes / no discrimination task will be used to measure the externalization
                abilities: subjects will have to discern whether a sound is perceived as coming
                from inside or outside the head

             -  the ability to separate sources will be measured using 2 paradigms:

        -  a pitch discrimination task (30 min): it will evaluate the capacity to discern sources
           based on voice pitch

        -  a speech-in-speech task (30 min): target words are presented simultaneously to masks
           (composed of words time reversed so that have lost the semantic content). The subject
           has to listen and repeat the words heard.
    
  