
    
      -  Based on the results of the investigators pilot study in moderate traumatic brain injury
           (M-TBI), the investigators will conduct a randomized, controlled study of cranial nerve
           non-invasive neuromodulation (CN-NINM) in individuals with chronic symptoms of mild to
           moderate traumatic brain injury (mTBI), post-concussive sequelae, (PCS) and
           post-traumatic stress (PTS).

        -  The study will involve training of both balance and gait, with assessments using
           standardized and relevant metrics to monitor changes in these indications, as well as
           cognitive function, sleep, headache, anxiety, mood, and eye-movement control.

        -  The training regimen involves using a neurostimulation intervention that addresses
           primary and secondary symptoms associated with mTBI, PCS, and PTS.

        -  This randomized double blind controlled study will enroll a total of 44 subjects (M & F)
           in 2 equal subgroups: 22 with an Active PoNS™, and 22 with a Control (non-zero,
           minimally perceivable stimulation) device.

        -  Subjects will participate in a 3-phase intervention beginning with a 2-week in-lab
           training program (ITP) (2 in-lab training sessions and 1 home training session daily),
           followed by 12 weeks of training at home (HTP) (3 home training sessions daily), and a
           12-week withdrawal period (no training). Subjects will return to the clinic weekly
           during the at-home phase for a single session of retraining and progression, and
           participate in periodic retesting.

        -  All training and testing will be performed uniformly across all subjects in both groups.
           Multiple assessment metrics will capture data at the beginning and end of the 2-week
           in-lab CN-NINM intervention period and at 3-week intervals. After completion of the
           formal training period, subjects will stop using the device (withdrawal stage) and will
           be tested every 3 weeks over an additional 12 weeks to monitor and assess changes due to
           withdrawal of the PoNS. This will yield a total of 10 data points for each subject.

        -  If successful, this study would indicate that CN-NINM may improve rehabilitation
           outcomes and reduce time required to improve function.
    
  