
    
      Aim 1 would require 6 months, to demonstrate ASIS device's consistent performance on 60
      subjects with Primary Immunodeficiency (PI), and the particular skin affected by this
      disease.

      30 subjects will receive Gadolinium subcutaneously, and 30 subjects will receive Gadolinium
      subdermally with ASIS device. An MRI will be taken promptly after Gadolinium injection, as
      starting reference, to which subsequent MRI taken at 6 hrs, 12 hrs, and 24 hrs later will be
      compared for Persistent %. Since there isn't a way to measure level of Gadolinium within it,
      or any other (e.g.

      GAMMAGARD) for that matter, at least the Prolongation of Gadolinium may be approximated by
      the greater or longer Persistent % on MRI. However, this approximation can only work if the
      variables are minimized to the same population with Primary Immunodeficiency (PI), and the
      particular skin affected by it. Case in point, Primary Immunodeficiency (PI) patients are
      prone to infection, and tend to have scared skin with less vascularity, so expectantly will
      have prolonged Gadolinium subcutaneously Persistent %, which will be very different from the
      skin of normal patients, while the Gadolinium subdermally Persistent % may or may not change.
      Therefore, the Relative Prolongation Ability Score or total Persistent % subdermally over
      that of total Persistent % subcutaneously, will be different and very specific for the
      particular skin affected by Primary Immunodeficiency. However, they are valuable indicators
      that will help us modify the GAMMAGARD dosage and duration to inject into that "unknown"
      subdermal space for Aim 2.

      Aim 2 would require 12 months, using GAMMAGARD, instead of Gadolinium, to demonstrate the
      advantages of ASIS device subdermally over subcutaneously, for the same Primary
      Immunodeficiency subjects. Of course that Relative Prolongation Ability Score in Aim1 will be
      valuable, but it isn't absolutely required to start Aim 2, because GAMMAGARD's
      Pharmacokinetics will be studied anyway, by following Peak and Trough levels of
      immunoglobulin G.

      However, the Pharmacokinetics of subdermally injected GAMMAGARD will be just dependent on
      GAMMAGARD's diffusion out of that subdermal bloodless space; therefore, if GAMMAGARD getting
      into the bloodstream becomes so severely inhibited, then we can just change the osmolality of
      GAMMAGARD in the end. The therapeutic advantages of GAMMAGARD with ASIS device subdermally
      over subcutaneously will also be studied by comparing the reduction of Validated Acute
      Serious Bacterial Infections, adverse reactions, and injection site pain.
    
  