
    
      Primary percutaneous coronary intervention has been well established as the treatment of
      choice for the majority of patients presenting with acute ST elevation myocardial infarction
      (STEMI). However primary PCI alone is unable to remove intracoronary thrombus and this often
      results in distal embolisation, no reflow which in turn leads to impaired myocardial
      perfusion. This can result in left ventricular dysfunction and subsequently increased
      mortality.

      The use of thrombectomy devices during percutaneous coronary intervention in the setting of
      acute ST elevation myocardial infarction has been recently shown to improve epicardial,
      myocardial perfusion, angiographical TIMI flow, blush score, or result in less embolisation.
      Moreover thrombus aspiration or rheolysis has been shown to decrease cardiac death and repeat
      myocardial infarction.

      It is estimated that late stent malapposition is more common after stenting in the course of
      primary PCI as compared with elective PCI, and may predispose to stent thrombosis. Late
      malapposition may be related to underdeployment of stents at the time of primary PCI, and
      this may be due in part to thrombus behind the stent, which subsequently resolves and leads
      to stent malapposition. Removal of thrombus before stenting potentially could lead to better
      stent expansion and less late malapposition.

      On the other hand, the impact of thrombus on acute and chronic luminal dimension is still
      unclear in a setting of primary PCI. After stenting, such thrombus either I) protrude into
      the lumen through the mesh of metallic stent struts or II) is crushed between the vessel wall
      and stent. Theoretically, the protruded thrombus can hinder the intra-luminal flow
      immediately after stenting, while the resorption of crushed thrombus against vessel wall
      might result at long term in stent malaposition.

      Due to the limited ability of the conventional angiography and the intravascular ultrasound
      (IVUS) to detect thrombus, these aspects have not been investigated.

      Optical coherence tomography has recently been shown to be feasible and to provide valuable
      information in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. This imaging modality has been
      shown to be even more sensitive to detect intraluminal mass (i.e. thrombus) and offers unique
      possibilities of analysis of coronary intervention in acute myocardial infarction.

      TERUMO OFDI is a novel optical imaging device that uses a scanning laser as light source
      which centre wavelength is around 1.3 μm with sweeping range over 100 nm. The echo-time delay
      and the amplitude of light reflected from the tissue microstructure at different depths are
      determined by processing the interference between the tissue sample and a fixed reference
      mirror.

      Compared to the conventional OCT imaging devices, OFDI has a higher temporal frame rate (160
      frames/sec), with a faster pullback speed of maximally up to 40 mm/s. The safety and
      performance of the device has been investigated in the First-in-man study enrolling 19
      patients where both IVUS and OFDI were performed. In the study, OFDI was associated with no
      device-related adverse events, and with a good correlation with IVUS measurement.

      We hypothesize that TERUMO Eliminate® thrombectomy device will reduce the thrombus burden in
      STEMI patients and this will result in less intraluminal material and larger flow area,
      measured with OFDI. This will be clinically translated in a better restoration of blood flow
      and reduce further damage of the myocardium.

      In addition, a reduction of thrombus burden would eventually result in less stent
      malaposition at 6 months. Given the benefits of reducing thrombus burden in STEMI as
      described above, the study may have important implications on the prove of the effectiveness
      of the thrombectomy device and the use of this imaging modality to assess its efficacy. To
      best assess benefits of thrombus removal, a randomized controlled study was considered the
      most appropriate method.
    
  