
    
      This is an observational study in free-living participants over up to 14 consecutive days.
      The rationale is that this period will provide sufficient intra-individual data for exploring
      behavioural and psychological determinants of blood glucose fluctuation. Multiple repeated
      data points on lifestyle behaviours will be collected through mobile phone applications, and
      24-hour glucose concentrations and physical activity will be monitored objectively over the
      study period.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      As this is a pilot study, 36 participants will be recruited with anticipated 15% dropout
      resulting in 30 remaining participants. The recruitment target is determined based on what is
      financially feasible and sufficient to meet the study aims.Hierarchical clustering will be
      used to identify subjects with similar continuous blood glucose trajectories over 1 week by
      classifying them into groups. Followed by assessing whether the group labels from the cluster
      analysis are associated with the variation in dietary intakes, physical activity and
      psychological stress using Chi-square test or Fisher Exact test where appropriate. To
      quantify the effect of specific events (e.g., dietary intake, physical activity and stress
      affect) on continuous blood glucose trajectory within the two hour window after an event,
      linear models with generalized estimating equations will be used, where the characteristics
      of the event, socio-demographic variables of the subject and time since event are predictors
      in the model while accounting for the correlations from repeated continuous blood glucose in
      the same individual from multiple events. This study will also assess whether the
      characteristics of the event and sociodemographic variables are potential effect modifiers on
      the association between time and continuous blood glucose. To allow for flexibility in
      modelling time and continuous blood glucose, smoothing spline will also be used.

      RECRUITMENT:

      Participants of the Singapore Population Health Studies cohort who have agreed to be
      contacted for other studies, will be contacted by telephone and invited to participate in the
      present study (Telephone script and screening questionnaire; and this will be done in
      compliance with Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) 2012. Eligible participants will be
      invited to attend NUH Investigational Medicine Unit.

      Participants will be instructed to refrain from strenuous exercise for 48 hours before the
      procedure, and to undergo overnight fasting (10-12 hours) before the start of the procedure.
      No alcohol may be consumed for 24 hours before the study procedure. Participants will be
      asked to refrain from taking Vitamin C, multivitamins, and aspirin during the eleven day
      study period.

      TEST SESSION 1 (DAY 1):

      The first study visit will take approximately 3 hours. At the clinic visit, informed consent
      will be obtained in a private space, a mobile phone application will be downloaded onto
      participants phones to ensure compatibility, and blood pressure, height, weight, and waist
      circumference measured. A continuous glucose monitor (Freestyle Libre; Abbott Diabetes Care,
      Witney, Oxon, UK) will be fitted on the upper part of their non-dominant arm. If the
      participant has a lot of arm hair, the area will be shaved. A waterproof plaster will be
      placed over the device.

      A mixed meal tolerance test (MMTT) will be conducted. The duration of MMTT will last for
      about 2 out of the 3 hours allocated for test session 1. Participants will be asked to sit on
      a bed and a cannula will be fitted in one of the antecubital veins in the pit of the elbow on
      the participants arm with a 3-way stopper. A blood sample will be taken via the cannula.
      Participants will then be asked to ingest a standardized meal (fried rice). While eating the
      standardised meal, participants will be video-recorded using a laptop webcam at face-level.
      Post-meal satiety responses using a visual analogue scale will be collected on a laptop every
      15 minutes. Blood samples will be collected via an antecubital catheter before eating (11ml)
      and then at 5 min, 10 min, 15 min, 30 min, 45 min, 60 min, 90 min and 120 min (8ml each)
      after completion of the meal. The total blood volume taken will be 65-75ml. Blood will be
      sent immediately to NUH Referral Lab for analyses.

      Questionnaires will be administered on demographics and lifestyle, including usual diet (FFQ
      with frequency rating from "never or rarely" to "6+ a day") and physical activity (GPAQ
      Questionnaire-Yes/No and input of actual activity duration), eating behaviours (TFEQ
      Questionnaire on 4-point scale from "definitely true" to "definitely false"), alcohol
      consumption (Yes/No), smoking (Yes/No), stress (K10 on likert scale from "All of the time" to
      "None of the time", where higher score indicate greater stress), and sleep (Pittsburgh sleep
      quality index-input of sleep time and duration and questions on 4-point scale from "Not
      during the past month" to "Three or more times a week"). Glucose and level of daily physical
      activity will be monitored using a continuous glucose monitor sensor and a wrist worn
      accelerometer. Food intake, physical activity and sleep time will be recorded by participants
      through an ecological momentary assessment (EMA) survey pushed out via mobile phone
      application.

      Oral processing behaviours and saliva properties of test meal bolus: Bolus particle size
      (oral processing behaviour measure) and saliva uptake (saliva properties) will be assessed by
      having participants will be asked to chew a fixed mouthful of the test meal until ready to
      swallow, then expectorating it in a cup. The duration of oral processing behaviours and
      saliva properties measures will last for about 10 minutes out of the 3 hours allocated for
      test session 1.

      Once the MMTT is complete, vital signs (blood pressure and pulse rate) will be measured. The
      cannula will be removed, and pressure applied locally on the site of bleeding. Researchers
      will ensure the participant is feeling well and is not giddy before continuing with the
      protocol.

      DAY 2 to 10 (OFF-SITE):

      Participants will be instructed to wear the continuous glucose monitor sensor continuously
      for 10 days. Participants will be asked to scan the sensor with a reader device at least
      every 6 hours during waking hours, and immediately before and after sleeping. The reader
      display will be masked with a sticker so participants will not be able to see their glucose
      readings. Participants will also be fitted with a wrist-worn accelerometer (Actigraph - Model
      wGT3x+ BT), a small tamper-proof electronic device that can be worn on a non-removable strap
      on the wrist of the non-dominant hand. Although the accelerometer may be worn during
      showering and swimming, participants will be given one additional strap in case removal is
      required.Participants will be guided on use of the ecological momentary assessment (EMA)
      mobile phone application during the baseline visit, and be asked to record within the app,
      their food intake, physical activity, and sleep times. A trained interviewer will demonstrate
      how the use the app and the participant will have a chance to ask questions. Participants
      will receive a reminder via the app, and will be asked to start recording activities
      prospectively from day 4 of the study.

      From day 4 onwards, participants will receive one-minute time-triggered surveys via the app
      up to six times per day in which participants will be asked about hunger levels, stress, and
      psychological states. A phone number and email address will be provided to participants for
      them to contact the study team if participants face problems during the study. Participants
      will also be issued with a paper handout with reminders about using the app and sensor.
      Participants with phone models that are discovered to be incompatible with the app during
      study visit 1 or later in the study period will be issued with a phone handset on which
      participants can complete lifestyle tracking and EMA surveys. At the end of day 4,
      participants will be telephoned and asked if participants experienced any technical issues.
      For issues that cannot be resolved over the telephone, participants will be asked to meet
      researchers at Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, or a place of their convenience. If the
      issue relates to the glucose sensor, if necessary participants will be asked to restart the
      monitoring period, and will be fitted with a new glucose sensor.

      TEST SESSION 2 (DAY 11):

      The final study visit will occur on day 11 and will take approximately 2 hours. Participants'
      body composition will be measured using a BOD POD Gold Standard Body Composition Tracking
      System (COSMED, Concord, CA, USA) is an air displacement plethysmograph which uses whole-body
      densitometry to determine body composition (fat and fat-free mass). Participants will be
      asked to change into swimwear and sit inside the machine for 5 minutes. Participants will be
      provided with results on their body composition.

      Oral processing behaviours and saliva properties: Saliva measures will be taken from the
      participant. Resting saliva will be taken by asking the participant to expectorate into a
      tube (approximately 5ml) while stimulated whole saliva samples will be collected by asking
      the participant to chew on a clean, non-toxic inert Parafilm square and expectorating over a
      period of 5 minutes (approximately 5-10ml). The duration for saliva measures in about 30
      minutes. Mouth volume will be measured by asking the participants to take in the maximum
      volume of filtered water participants can hold and then expectorating it into a volumetric
      cylinder. Participants will also be asked to chew on 3 test foods (white rice, rice cake, raw
      carrot) using a fixed chew protocol (i.e. 15 chews, 30 chews and chew until point of first
      swallow) and then expectorating the bolus to assess their oral processing behavior based on
      bolus properties including saliva uptake and particle size distribution. The duration is
      approximately 1 hour.

      Participants will return the accelerometer, glucose monitor reader, and study phone (if
      issued). A research assistant will remove the glucose sensor from the participant's arm.

      Before leaving the unit, participants will be asked to take part in a 15 minute open-ended
      interview about taking part in this research, focusing on their experiences using the glucose
      monitor and research app. Participants will receive a letter reporting the following
      measurements and results collected during the study: blood pressure, height, weight, BMI,
      HbA1C concentration, and fasting glucose concentration. The report will include information
      on interpreting the results, and occasions when it is advised to see a doctor
    
  