
    
      Telerehabilitation refers to the use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) to
      provide rehabilitation services to people remotely in their homes or other environments. By
      using ICT, patient access to care can be improved and the reach of clinicians can extend
      beyond the physical walls of a traditional healthcare facility, thus expanding continuity of
      care to persons with disabling conditions. Telerehabilitation holds significant potential to
      meet this need and to provide services that are more accessible to more people, while having
      the ability to offer a more affordable enhanced level of care.

      The overall goal of the study is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of a home-based
      tele-motion-rehabilitation (TMR) program in improving functional status of people who had
      stroke. We hypothesize that the clinical effectiveness within a mock-up set up in the
      hospital of the TMR will be greater in comparison to self-training exercise carried out at
      home in improving function of the weak upper extremity and performance of Activities of Daily
      Living.

      Twenty-four subjects who had a stroke (as verified via CT or MRI), aged between 18 and 80
      years, and living at home with a caregiver will participate. Subjects will be 2-72 months
      post stroke, and no longer receiving rehabilitation as in or out patient. They will have
      moderate impairment of the affected upper extremity determined by range of motion (ROM);
      shoulder flexion and abduction must be more than 45 degrees with mild to moderate
      compensations; elbow flexion should be about 30 degrees. Measures used to characterize their
      level of ability include: NIH Stroke Scale, Mini-Mental State Examination, Sensory evaluation
      (light touch, extinction, stereognosis, proprioception), and the Behavioral Assessment of the
      Dysexecutive Syndrome (BADS); these will not be used as study outcome measures.

      The subjects will be evaluated over 2 sessions on different days for a total of 5-6 hours.
      The second session will include the setting of treatment goals for either treatment
      condition. Primary outcome measures will include Range of Motion (ROM) of the shoulder, elbow
      and trunk, the Chedoke Arm and Hand Activity Inventory (CAHAI), and the Motor Activity Log
      (MAL). Secondary outcome measures will include the Functional Reach Test (FRT) (in sitting
      and standing), the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA), Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for Pain
      evaluation, Functional Independence Measure (FIM), Instrumental Activities of Daily Living
      (IADL), Stroke Impact Scale (SIS). Responses to the tele game activities will be monitored by
      using the following tool: BORG scale of perceived effort, Short Feedback Questionnaire (SFQ),
      Tele-game scores, and arm and trunk 3-Dimensional kinematics; these will not be used as
      outcome measures.

      Subjects will be randomized into the two groups (12 in tele and 12 in self-training
      treatment) such that the two groups will be matched for level of impairment of the upper
      extremity. Each subject will receive twelve 45-60 min sessions (3 sessions per week for 4
      weeks) of one of two types of treatment while seated. The control group will receive
      self-training exercises that are based on conventional therapy using principles of motor
      control and will include training of upper extremity movements in order to achieve better use
      of the affected arm in ADL. Each subject will receive a list of exercises to be performed in
      his home using a stand-alone poster as targets for the movements. In addition, each subject
      will be asked to write the dates and duration of time he/she did the each exercise. They will
      be in contact with a therapist once a week to monitor the self training program and adjust
      the level of exercise.

      The experimental group will receive tele-rehabilitation treatment of comparable duration and
      intensity to those in the conventional treatment group. However, the treatment will be
      delivered via the Gertner Tele-Motion Rehabilitation system with remote online monitoring by
      the therapist. Treatment feedback will be given in the form of Knowledge of results (game
      scores) and Knowledge of performance (feedback of compensatory movements made while using the
      upper extremity) to enhance motor learning. The software will generate a report which will
      include the duration and type of exercises performed by the subject. If needed, a personal
      attendant may provide physical support in the tele home mock-up room.

      The Gertner Tele-Motion-Rehabilitation system is implemented via Microsoft's Kinect
      three-dimensional) camera-based gesture recognition technology without any additional
      accessories (i.e., with no need for head mounted helmets or gloves). Using the patient's
      natural hand and body movements control all activity within customized computer games. The
      system runs off a standard desktop computer and is displayed on a large television screen.
      The patient may see himself (whole body or hands) within the virtual environment or may only
      see virtual objects that he is manipulating.

      Each subject meeting the inclusion criteria will sign an informed consent. Subjects will be
      randomly assigned into one of two groups by a person who is not part of the study. Each
      subject will be assessed with the outcome tests listed above by a skilled therapist who will
      be blind to group's assignment of the subjects. The evaluations will be repeated 3 times,
      once before the intervention commences, once immediately following the intervention and once
      four weeks after the intervention.
    
  