
    
      Objective: To study the impact of use of an intraoperative retractor sponge on duration of
      hospital stay and risk of perioperative complications in patients undergoing laparoscopic
      surgery for colorectal cancer.

      Study design: Randomized controlled trial, nested within a prospective cohort according to
      the 'cohort multiple randomized controlled trial' (cmRCT) design (clinicaltrials.gov
      NCT02070146).

      Study population: Patients with colorectal cancer who undergo laparoscopic sigmoid of rectal
      resection, and who have given informed consent to be offered experimental interventions
      within the prospective cohort. Patient who require open surgery or patients with benign
      colorectal diseases are excluded for this study.

      Intervention: Intraoperative use of the retractor sponge versus usual care, i.e. the
      Trendelenburg position.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoint is hospital stay. Secondary objectives
      are operation time, blood-loss, fluid balance, body temperature, oxygen therapy and
      postoperative complications.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The study will be conducted according to the cohort multiple Randomized
      Controlled Trial (cmRCT) design. Within the PLCRC cohort, we will identify all patients who
      are eligible for the experimental intervention and who have given informed consent to be
      invited for future experimental interventions. From this sub cohort, we will randomly select
      a group of patients to whom we will offer surgery with use of the retractor sponge, which
      they can accept or decline. Eligible patients from the sub cohort who were not randomly
      selected will undergo standard treatment, i.e. surgery in Trendelenburg position. We do not
      expect adverse events in patients in the intervention arm.
    
  