
    
      The optimal anesthesia for posterior mandibular implant surgery remains controversial and
      dependent on operator's preferences. Although not evidence-based, most operators usually
      avoid infiltration anesthesia in the posterior mandible due to its uncertain efficacy.
      However, various comparative studies with articaine 4% have not found differences between
      infiltration (INF) and inferior alveolar nerve block (IANB) but current research is still
      conflicting.

      Infiltration anesthesia is easier for the operator and more tolerable for the patient. Should
      it were sufficient for surgical procedures in the posterior mandible it could become the
      first option in routine surgeries.

      The purpose of this prospective, randomized and multicenter study is to clarify the efficacy
      of infiltration anesthesia for placing implants in the posterior mandible.

      The study will take place in eight centers with similar socio-professional characteristics
      and the same operative protocol. The study has been approved by the Ethical Research
      Committee of the University Hospital of San Juan (Alicante, Spain).

      On a significant sample of patients (48n) that meet the in-exclusion criteria, the same
      intervention (implant placement surgery in posterior area of the mandible) has been carried
      out randomly (List Randomizer, www.random.org/lists) with one or another type of anesthesia
      (group A: IANB or group B: INF).

      Data of pain perception from patients were collected intraoperatively, by means of a
      Numerical Rating Scale, in three moments (after incision, after drilling, after suturing) and
      global satisfaction one week post surgery.

      Five confounding variables were also recorded, gender, use of release incision, number of
      implants placed, wether or not Guided Bone Regeneration (GBR) was applied and the distance
      from the implant apex to the mandibular canal. A non-parametric statistical analysis was
      applied.
    
  