
    
      Most cases of cervical radiculopathy are due to cervical spondylosis or disc herniation. As
      the age progresses, disintegration of the disc causes a decrease in disc height and foraminal
      narrowing. The decreased disc height then results in hypertrophy due to vertebral loading in
      the intervertebral joints of Luschka. This leads to foraminal stenosis and cervical
      radiculopathy.If cervical radiculopathy is due to disc herniation, its mechanism is explained
      by the impact of the nerve root with the disc material and causing nerve damage by both
      mechanical and chemical effects.Non-operative treatment of cervical radiculopathy consists of
      a number of different modalities including immobilization, physical therapy, traction,
      manipulation,drug therapy, cervical steroid injection and laser therapy.The physiological
      effects of high intensity laser therapy(HILT) reduce the release of histamine and bradykinin
      from inflammatory tissue and increase the pain threshold. In addition, laser light reduces
      the secretion of substance P from peripheral nociceptors, thereby reducing the perception of
      pain and preventing the development of hyperalgesia. The laser analgesic effect is due to the
      increased secretion of endogenous opioids such as β-endorphins, where pain is centrally
      inhibited.

      This investigation was designed double-blind prospective sham controlled randomized study.
      Participants were randomized into 3 groups: HILT + therapeutic exercise, sham HILT +
      therapeutic exercise, and only therapeutic exercise.

      As evaluation parameters, cervical range of motion, Visual Pain Scale (VAS) Neck, Visual Pain
      Scale (VAS) Arm, SF (Short form) -36 Quality of Life Scale, Pain Detect Pain questionnaire,
      Cervical Radiculopathy Impact Scale ) will be evaluated with.It was planned that the
      evaluations were made and recorded by a blinded physician to the groups at the beginning of
      the treatment, at the end of the treatment and at the 3rd month controls.

      .
    
  