
    
      This study will take place between September - November, 2020, and will ask participants to
      participate in: a web-based baseline survey, two rounds of SARS-CoV-2 serological testing
      (September and November), and bi-weekly web-based behavioral surveys (4 total surveys). Each
      is described in more detail below:

      Web-based baseline survey: The baseline survey is designed to collect data on participant
      demographics, SARS-CoV-2 protective behaviors, alcohol drinking habits, nicotine use, and
      personality profile and should take less than 30 minutes to fill out. Participants who
      provide informed consent will be provided the link to the survey which they can fill out at a
      time convenient to them prior to first round of serological testing.

      SARS-CoV-2 serological testing: There will be two rounds of SARS-CoV-2 serological testing,
      once at baseline (September 14-23) and once at endline (November 9-11). The serological
      testing visits will involve in-person laboratory testing for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. The
      laboratory test involves a fingerstick to provide a small blood sample for the antibody test
      kits.

      Antibody test results will eventually be provided to all study participants via secure link
      sent by email. With this message, we will include a clearly written information sheet about
      the chance for inaccurate test results and how it is still unknown whether previous
      infections confer immunity to future infections. We will clearly counsel participants to not
      use the results of the tests as proof of a previous SARS-CoV-2 infection, nor as a reason to
      change their behaviors. If participants wish to participate in the study, but do not wish to
      be provided with their antibody test results, they will be able to opt out of the results
      provision. If any participants opt out of receiving their test results, these participants
      would essentially create a third category of respondents: those who do not receive their
      results at all. However, these participants will still be analyzed with the trial arm to
      which they were randomized (intent to treat analysis).

      The primary experiment will assess whether provision of the antibody test results leads to
      behavior change with respect to personal protective behaviors. To that end, all participants
      will be randomized to a trial arm that immediately receive results (within 24 hours) or a
      trial arm with a delayed provision of results (after 4 weeks). So as to not incentivize early
      drop-out, if a participant in the delayed results arm drops out early, they will still be
      provided their test results at the regularly scheduled time, not earlier. All other
      procedures between arms are identical. The endline laboratory test results will be delivered
      to all participants in the same timeframe - within 24-72 hours. The early and delayed test
      result intervention will have completed after the first round of testing.

      Web-based behavioral surveys: To assess whether or not the provision of antibody test results
      changes behaviors, participants will self-reported behaviors in a short web-based survey
      every two weeks under observation. Links to these surveys will be sent to participants at
      regular bi-weekly intervals. Participants will fill out these short follow-up surveys on
      their computers or mobile devices. They are designed to take about 5 minutes or less to
      complete for each survey.
    
  