
    
      In this study, it is aimed to present an innovative approach in ensuring the participation of
      Roma women in cervical cancer screenings. For this purpose, music therapy and planned
      education program will be implemented in order to influence the health beliefs of Roma
      women.Study design ans setting The research was conducted in a randomized controlled
      double-blind pretest-posttest controlor the control group. The randomized clinical trial was
      based on the guidelines proposed by the Consolidated standard of Reporting Trials- CONSORT
      2010. The data of the study will be collected in Samsun / Canik District Yavuz Selim Family
      Health Center between January and June 2021.

      A personal questionnaire prepared by the researcher in line with the literature, Cervical
      Cancer and Pap Smear Test Health Belief Model Scale will be applied to the Roma women who
      apply to Yavuz Selim Family Health Center and who have accepted to participate in the study
      by explaining the purpose of the research and those who accept to participate in the study.
      Pre-tests will be done to the experimental and control group in a training room in Yavuz
      Selim Family Health Center. Collection of data will take approximately 15-20 minutes. Roma
      women who are pre-tested will be randomly assigned to the sample pool to be divided into
      experimental and control groups. Roman women will be divided into experimental and control
      groups by Simple Random Method.

      Data Collection Tools Personal questionnaire; This form was developed in line with the
      literature and consists of 18 questions to determine the introductory characteristics of the
      participants. Personal questionnaire includes age, marital status, educational status,
      income, employment status, social security, family history of cervical cancer, first sexual
      intercourse age, first birth age, number of births, use of oral contraceptives, gynecological
      problems, Training status for cervical cancer will be questioned before.

      Cervical Cancer and Pap Smear Test Health Belief Model Scale: This scale developed by
      Champion for breast cancer and mammography; Adapted to Cervical Cancer and Pap Smear Test.
      The Turkish validity and reliability study was carried out by Güvenç, Akyüz and Açıkel in
      2010. The scale consists of 35 items and five main dimensions: sensitivity (3 items),
      severity (7 items), Pap Smear benefit and motivation (8 items), health motivation (3 items),
      Pap Smear barriers (14 items). 5-point Likert-type scaling ranging from 1 to 5 in the
      evaluation of the scale - "strongly disagree" (1), "disagree" (2), "undecided" (3), "agree"
      (4), "totally agree" (5) - method was used. Each dimension of the scale is evaluated
      separately and cannot be combined into a single total score. For each individual, points are
      obtained as much as the number of subscales. The higher the scores, the higher the
      sensitivity, caring and motivation; It states that the perceived benefits are high for the
      perception of benefit and the obstacles for the perception of disability are perceived high.
      Subscales other than the perception of disability subscale are positively associated with Pap
      Smear screening behavior. The high disability perception score of the individual indicates
      that the barriers related to having the Pap Smear test are high.

      As a result of the research, the data obtained from the personal information form and the
      cervical cancer and pap smear test health belief model scale will be evaluated in the SPSS
      package program and will be reported. Descriptive statistics, paired t test, mc nemar test
      and correlation analysis will be used to evaluate the data. The data recorded with a voice
      recorder in the focus group meeting will be done by the player. Content analysis will be used
      in the analysis of the data. Inductive analysis, that is, content analysis based on coding,
      will be used in content analysis. In this analysis, similar data will be classified under
      certain concepts and themes and will be interpreted in an understandable way.

      Ethical aspects: Study approval was given by Ondokuz Mayıs University Clinical Research
      Ethics Committee. (Decision No: B.30.2.ODM.0.20.08 / 616-704). All participants were informed
      about tis study and obtained orat-written informed consents.
    
  