
    
      Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) are the reference of anticoagulant oral therapy concerning common
      diseases such as Atrial Fibrillation (AF) and Venous ThromboEmbolism (VTE). In France,
      approximately 600,000 patients are treated with oral anticoagulants. The treatment is
      monitored and adjusted on the INR. Time outside the area of target INR is directly correlated
      with complications (thrombotic and hemorrhagic), the time in this zone mean the effectiveness
      of treatment. In France, monitoring patients by GP, the percentage of the time outside the
      target area INR higher than their European or North American comparators. To reduce
      complications VKA, specialized structures for monitoring anticoagulation have emerged in
      recent years around the world (Netherlands, Italy, UK, Canada, and USA). The evaluations in
      these countries show that the percentage of time in therapeutic INR range is around 70% when
      the patient is monitored in anticoagulation clinic (ACC), while in France this time was
      measured at around 50% in surveys of usual medical care. On data obtained abroad: correlation
      with improved monitoring INR monitoring the ACC decreases by a factor 3-4 morbidity and
      mortality associated with the use of VKA and thus allows a significant reduction in
      hospitalizations caused by adverse drug effects and thus health care costs. In France several
      ACC, have emerged since 1998. Ile de France since 2004, the ACC Ile-de-France called CREATIF
      (Centre for Reference and Education antithrombotic Ile de France). Since its inception to
      date, has an active list of approximately 450 patients which monitors long-term anticoagulant
      treatment. The question of benefit of such a structure arises, is why this has been decided
      to establish a prospective randomized study to evaluate the benefit of the management of oral
      anticoagulant treatment by CREATIF with respect to usual medical care in terms of time in
      therapeutic INR range. This study of usual care, witch aims to assess two types of management
      of anticoagulant therapy, does not alter the type of anticoagulant therapy nor its duration.
      The overall medical care of patient and his care pathway will also remain unchanged. The
      study Randomized GP investigators, is open, prospective, is concerning primary medical care
      (independent central randomization). Primary care investigators are GPs managing patients
      treated by VKAs. They were recruited in a list of GPs working with CREATIF or through several
      physicians networks (North Paris Health Network, ARES 92, GP Department of Paris VII
      university, GP Department of Paris West). CREATIF, investigators will be usual physicians
      working at the anti-coagulation clinic. The aim of the study is to compare the management of
      patients treated with VKA by the CREATIF versus their management in primary care. Therefore,
      the evaluation criterion is the time in therapeutic INR range. During 6 months randomized in
      2 arms: GPs versus CREATIF; During the next 6 months following the reversal mode of
      management is to determine the existence of prolonged benefit by one followed by CREATIF
      after returning to his usual medical care. The investigators will also collect the
      retrospective 6 months INR.A retrospective study, prospective, open and multicenter with
      direct individual benefit. Prospective study conducted in cross-over: anticoagulant therapy
      for each patient will be followed by six months CREATIF then by his GP or vice VERSA.Primary
      analysis: comparing the two types of monitoring parallel group after randomization: Group A
      in Phase 1 versus Group B in Phase 1. Primary endpoint: percentage of time in therapeutic INR
      range.

      The main requirements of the commitment to the inclusion of GP will be:

      To have a fax or email to communicate with the CREATIF To transmit its coordinated to
      CREATIF. Allow the TEC and the ARC to have access to medical records for establish the
      retrospectives records.

      Support the CREATIF approach, by a letter signed sent to medical laboratories for INR values
      of the retrospective study.Patients treated by VKA: COUMADINE or PREVISCAN
    
  