
    
      Objectives:

        1. In relation to human exposure 1.1. To assess the levels of certain disinfection
           by-products (DBPs) in blood and urine (biomarkers of exposure); 1.2. To assess swimming
           induced changes in biomarkers of genotoxicity, specifically micronuclei (MN) in
           exfoliated urothelial cells and buccal cells and DNA damage in peripheral blood
           lymphocytes, urine mutagenicity and in exfoliated urothelial; 1.3. To assess the effects
           of swimming pool exposure on oxidative stress and lung damage in swimming pool users;
           1.4. To assess the impact of DBPs, including volatile DBPs on airway function,
           inflammation and reactivity; 1.5. To assess the impact of swimming on skin
           transepidermal water loss and dermal condition.

        2. In relation to swimming pool environment 2.1. To assess water and air quality through
           the analysis of several chemical (DBPs and other), physicochemical and microbiological
           parameters and the associated short-term variation of their levels (hourly and daily);
           2.2. To assess microbiological contamination of highly used surfaces; 2.3. To assess
           mutagenicity of indoor chlorinated and brominated swimming pool water.

      Methods

      Study setting Chlorinated and brominated public indoor municipal swimming pools in the North
      of Portugal.

      Study design

      This study will follow two distinct approaches:

        1. A cross-sectional analysis to assess swimming pool physicochemical and microbiological
           characteristics and the association between each parameter measured as an indicator of
           water and air quality, contamination of surfaces and the health parameters assessed in
           recreational users, swimming teachers and pool attendants.

        2. An uncontrolled, before and after study to assess acute and chronic environmental
           exposure effects on respiratory biomarkers of competitive swimmers:

             1. Assessment of acute changes: regular competitive swimmers will be asked to swim for
                40 minutes in a single, indoor, 50 m-long chlorinated swimming pool. Before and
                after swimming, a battery of measurements will be assessed to evaluate respiratory
                health biomarkers.

             2. Assessment of chronic changes: regular and naïf competitive swimmers will be
                followed for a mean period of 90 days. A battery of measurements and biological
                samples will be collected at the baseline evaluation and 90 days after, in order to
                evaluate long-term changes in respiratory health biomarkers.

      Recruitment and data collection procedures

        1. Cross-sectional study. The cross-sectional analysis will be performed in fifty municipal
           indoor swimming pools in the North of Portugal on a voluntary basis. The administrative
           boards of each swimming pool will be approached by the research team to present the
           study's purposes and procedures and to obtain their consent to perform the study. Upon
           acceptance, recreational users, swimming coaches/teachers and pool attendants will be
           contacted and invited to participate. All subjects will receive a written description of
           the study (appendix I-a) and the informed consent form (appendix II-a). Those who
           provide an informed consent signed by both the subject and legal tutor (if a minor) will
           be included in the study. Recreational swimmers, swimming teachers and pool attendants
           will be asked to complete a self-administered standardized home questionnaire comprising
           sociodemographic and health-related information, with a major focus on respiratory
           health. Participants will also be asked to provide information on their food
           consumption, physical activity levels and psychological well-being. Subjects should
           return the completed questionnaires at the swimming pool facilities. A medical
           examination will also be performed by trained health professionals and will include
           anthropometric measurements, blood pressure evaluation, urine sample collection, skin
           prick testing, exhaled breath condensate collection, lung function evaluation by
           spirometry with bronchodilation, in a period conveniently scheduled with the
           participating subjects.

           The assessment of swimming pool chemical (DBPs and others), physicochemical and
           microbiological characteristics will include sampling in the water, air and eventually
           selected surfaces, that include: pool edges, stairs and starting blocks, floors (pool
           and bathhouse), walls (concrete and glass of the pool and bathhouse) and highly touched
           surfaces such as bathhouse benches. We will measure different chemical, physicochemical
           and microbiological parameters in multiple locations within the pool structure in order
           to characterize the exposure and its spatial and temporal distribution both within a
           specific swimming pool and also between the different swimming pools studied.

        2. Uncontrolled, before and after study. A single, indoor, 50-meter-long chlorinated
           swimming pool in Porto, Portugal, will be selected for this study. The administrative
           board will be approached by the research team to present the study's purposes and
           procedures and to obtain their consent to perform the study. Upon acceptance, the
           competitive swimming team will be asked to participate in the study. All subjects will
           receive a written description of the study (appendix I-b) and the informed consent form
           (appendix II-b). Competitive swimmers with 12 years of age or older who provide an
           informed consent signed by both the subject and legal tutor (if a minor) will be
           included in an uncontrolled before and after study to assess acute and chronic
           respiratory symptoms after a regular training session. This assessment will be executed
           following two approaches:

             1. Assessment of acute changes: in a period conveniently scheduled with the swimmers
                and their coaches, a medical examination will be performed in order to assess
                baseline respiratory biomarkers of competitive swimmers. This examination will
                include the assessment of exhaled breath condensate and lung function evaluation.
                The same biological measurements will be performed after a single regular training
                session and an interviewer-administered questionnaire will be applied.

             2. Assessment of chronic changes: Competitive swimmers will also be followed through a
                90-day period in order to evaluate long-term changes in respiratory and cancer
                biomarkers. The baseline evaluation will consist in the assessment of biological
                measurements, namely anthropometric measurements, blood pressure evaluation, sample
                collection (i.e. blood and urine samples and buccal swab), skin prick testing,
                pupillometry, capsaicin challenge, exhaled breath condensate collection, lung
                function evaluation (namely, spirometry with bronchodilation, impulse oscillometry,
                methacholine challenge and fractional concentration of orally exhaled nitric oxide)
                and transepidermal water loss assessment. Participants will also be asked to
                provide information on sociodemographic characteristics, personal and family
                history of disease, use of medication, frequency of self-reported respiratory,
                ocular and cutaneous symptoms, data on health-related behaviors, namely tobacco
                use, physical activity levels and food consumption, through an
                interviewer-administered questionnaire. A full examination will be performed only
                at baseline and at the follow-up assessment (90 days after).

      This evaluation will be performed by trained health professionals in a room inside the
      swimming pool facilities but separated from the swimming pool area, in a period conveniently
      scheduled with the swimmers and their coaches. Due to the possibility of experiencing
      transient symptoms, participants will be asked to visit the research department in order to
      perform the methacholine challenge. Participants will be reimbursed for any travel expenses.
    
  