
    
      This is a large, simple, comparative effectiveness trial of the Personalized Addiction
      Treatment-to-Health Model vs. standard care in the community specialty addiction treatment
      system. PATH combines several empirically supported treatment methods in a flexible schedule
      in tandem with primary care, with the goals of higher rates of confirmed substance abstinence
      and treatment retention.

      PATH components include: 1) The CONTINUUM multidimensional assessment, an evidence-based
      implementation of the American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) placement criteria; 2)
      Cognitive Behavioral Relapse Prevention (CB/RP), a skills-based approach centered on teaching
      coping skills to handle risky situations that can be practiced and learned; 3) Contingency
      management (CM), which targets chronic substance use's diminution of brain dopaminergic
      reward by specifically conditioning positive recovery behaviors via immediate financial
      incentives; and 4) Recovery Support Services, non-professional community-based services for
      wrap-around care needs.

      Effect sizes for a combined CB/RP and CM approach appear to be large and there is evidence
      that this combination results in longer lasting improvements presumably as homeostasis
      returns to the reward system. An extensive literature demonstrates that counseling plus
      medication-assisted treatment (MAT) yields superior outcomes versus counseling alone.
      Buprenorphine and extended-release naltrexone are well suited for use in primary care.
      Buprenorphine is a partial agonist at the mu-opioid receptor that provides anti-withdrawal
      and anti-craving effects for up to 36 hours on a single dose. Partial agonism and a slow
      onset diminish the patient's perception of euphoria, limiting abuse, while the long half-life
      and binding duration make it useful for both detoxification and long-term opioid maintenance.
      Extended-release naltrexone is a once-monthly intramuscular injection that, following
      detoxification, provides opioid receptor blockade for at least 30 days and is safe and
      effective for prolonging abstinence and preventing relapse from opiates.
    
  