
    
      Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), especially those with a long duration of diabetes,
      insulin treatment and chronic kidney disease (CKD) are vulnerable patients exhibiting a high
      risk for cardiac arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death (SCD). Various factors such as the
      presence of coronary heart disease, diabetic cardiomyopathy as well autonomic neuropathy are
      underlying pathologies associated with the development of potentially fatal arrhythmias in
      these patients while hypoglycemic events are considered to directly trigger these
      arrhythmias. It has been postulated that severe hypoglycemia may lead to cardiac arrhythmias,
      later summarized as the "dead in bed" syndrome. In addition, recent data from large
      cardiovascular outcome trials in patients with type 2 diabetes suggest that severe
      hypoglycemia is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events and cardiovascular
      related death. Moreover, CKD markedly increases the risk for hypoglycemia and even a moderate
      impairment of kidney function (eGFR < 45 ml/min) is associated with a significant increase in
      SCD.

      Various pathophysiological mechanisms may contribute to the increased cardiovascular
      mortality after hypoglycemia including hypoglycemia-induced release of catecholamines,
      pro-arrhythmogenic ECG alterations as well as inflammatory changes. Morphological and
      functional alterations of the heart occurring in CKD further contribute to these mechanisms.
      So far performed studies were limited by a short duration of glucose and ECG monitoring and
      by the fact that only 3 lead Holter-ECGs were used, thus not allowing the assessment of more
      sophisticated ECG abnormalities such as QT dispersion, T-wave alternans, or late potentials.
      Therefore no clear data exist to predict arrhythmias and SCD and its relation to hypoglycemia
      in patients with diabetes. Ideally, a SCD risk score could identify and characterize
      high-risk patients but to date little is known about hypoglycemia-associated ECG markers for
      the identification of patients at risk for arrhythmias and SCD.

      In the general population, various ECG risk markers for SCD have been identified such as
      heart rate, cardiac rhythm abnormalities, atrioventriculare (AV) block, QT length, QT
      dispersion, heart-rate variability (HRV), T-wave alternans, late potentials, as well as left-
      (LBBB) or right-bundle branch block (RBBB) (reviewed in). In patients with diabetes
      hypoglycemia, diabetic cardiomyopathy, as well as the presence of autonomic neuropathy may
      lead to such ECG abnormalities. Merely sparse data exist on the effect of spontaneous
      hypoglycemic episodes and changes in ECG parameters with only a small study in patients with
      type 1 diabetes demonstrating that nocturnal hypoglycemia is associated with a decrease in
      the low-frequency component of heart rate variability. To date, more sophisticated markers
      such as QT dispersion, late potentials, or T-wave alternans were not examined in a "real-life
      setting", most likely because these markers require a 12 lead ECG registration of longer
      duration.

      However, for the establishment of a risk algorithm for the prediction of
      hypoglycemia-associated arrhythmias it is mandatory to perform long duration simultaneous
      glucose monitoring and 12 lead ECG registration to capture these ECG risk markers for SCD.

      In an actually running project the investigators are evaluating the association of
      hypoglycemic events/glucose swings and arrhythmias/ECG predictors for SCD a clinical study
      will be performed in 50 patients with insulin-treated diabetes and moderate to severe CKD.
      These patients receive 7 days continuous glucose and ECG registration and data will be used
      for the development of the risk assessment model.

      The current validation study seeks to confirm the risk assessment model developed in
      collaboration with AICES - Aachen Institute for Advanced Study in Computational Engineering
      Science and to approve the capacitive ECG registration device obtained in collaboration with
      Philips Chair for Medical Information Technology at University Clinical Center Aachen (UKA).
      To this end, 10 patients with insulin-treated diabetes and moderate to severe CKD will be
      included. Seven day glucose monitoring as well as data of capacitive ECG recordings will be
      generated in this study, thus allowing validation and adjustment of the developed medical
      hardware and the mathematic models. The study item is a 12-lead ECG T-shirt consisting of
      textile electrodes and a data logging device. The device can record long-term 12-lead ECG
      data. The purpose of the T-shirt is to improve the patient's comfort for long-term recordings
      and to prevent adverse effects of regular ECG electrodes. Current systems are limited by the
      use of ECG electrodes, which are hardly tolerated by the patients because of severe direct
      side effects on the skin such as rash and bullous lesions. These side effects are a result of
      skin preparation and electrode gel. The proposed ECG T-shirt does not need these problematic
      preparations. Another benefit is the fixed placement of the electrodes on the T-shirt. In
      regular 12-lead ECG long-term recordings, the electrodes may fall off and the patient needs
      to reattach them. Therefore, faulty positioning of the electrodes may occur.
    
  