
    
      These patients will undergo frequent individual centre based follow up care. At each follow
      up visit, patients will:

        -  receive comprehensive clinical examination, history of intercurrent infections and sinus
           surgery

        -  receive quantitative assessment, consisting in spirometry (performed according to
           ATS/ERS guidelines), arterial blood gas analysis, measurement of immunosuppressive drug
           levels and chest radiographs

        -  receive questionnaires (quality of life (SNOT-20 GAV), side effects of sinus inhalation,
           symptom scores)

        -  be asked to collect a sample of nasal lavage; a sample of BAL (obtained from routinely
           performed bronchoscopy) will also be collected. These specimens will be analysed for
           microbiological work up and evaluation of inflammatory markers.

      The principle of vibrating inhalation is implemented in novel nebulizers, with which
      sinonasal inhalation is performed by aerolized medication into one nostril, while the
      contralateral nostril is occluded and the soft palate elevated as recommended for nasal
      lavage. The medication is administered into both nostrils for 4-6 min each side during phases
      of arrest of breathing. Choice of antibiotics depends on resistance testing from
      microbiological results. Patients will be divided into different groups, on the basis of the
      inhaled antibiotic regimen being chosen: colistin vs. tobramycin. An alternate therapy with
      hypertonic saline may be applied to improve sinus clearance. All regimens will be
      administered with the same machine, i.e. PARI Sinus ™ nebulizer, which, unlike conventional
      aerosols, allows the deposition of drugs directly into the paranasal sinuses.

      The aims of this study are:

        -  to assess sinus - and pulmonary colonization in cystic fibrosis (CF) lung transplant
           (LuTx) recipients (frequency of pathogen colonization; load; bacterial species)

        -  to study association with clinical events (e.g. infections and development of
           bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS))

        -  to develop an optimal inhaled regimen (continuous inhalation/on-off regimen; single or
           combined antibiotics).

        -  to compare cohorts receiving sinus surgery in a historical control to a cohort receiving
           our current conservative strategy (since 2012) of sinonasal vibrating inhalation of
           antibiotics, in terms of graft colonization, quality of life, overall survival,
           incidence of chronic lung allograft dysfunction

        -  to compare inflammatory mediators in upper and lower airway lavages in regard to
           pathogen colonization, lung function and development of BOS
    
  