
    
      The primary objective is to evaluate whether the intensity of treatment adherence support
      affects sustained virologic response rates in HCV mono- and HIV/HCV co-infected participants
      receiving HCV direct-acting antivirals (DAA) in PWID-focused centers. Secondary objectives
      are: 1. To evaluate whether the intensity of treatment adherence support affects HCV
      treatment completion rates. 2. To evaluate whether the intensity of treatment adherence
      support affects HCV treatment adherence. 3. To estimate the incidence and correlates of HCV
      reinfection among HCV mono- and HIV/HCV coinfected PWID who achieve HCV cure. 4. To evaluate
      the impact of HCV cure on HIV viral suppression among HIV/HCV coinfected PWID.

      Investigators will evaluate this via a 3-arm, individual-level randomized clinical trial, in
      which treatment assignment probabilities vary according to participants' estimated propensity
      for treatment failure at baseline (precision randomization). An estimated 3,000 persons will
      be enrolled and randomized at 7 community-based integrated care centers (ICCs) across India
      across a duration of 18 - 24 months. Data from these 7 ICCs on early HIV treatment
      refills/viral suppression (3-6 months after antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation) will be
      used to develop and validate an algorithm to predict propensity for HCV treatment failure.
      Prior to treatment initiation, each participant will undergo a questionnaire to capture
      information on barriers/ facilitators to treatment adherence identified in the prediction
      model in order to determine the propensity for HCV treatment failure (minimal or elevated
      risk). Individuals will be preferentially randomized to the support level that matches their
      failure risk. Those at elevated risk for treatment failure will be randomized at an
      allocation ratio of 3:2:1 for Arm 3 (high intensity support), Arm 2 (medium intensity
      support) and Arm 1 (low intensity support), respectively. Conversely, those at minimal risk
      will be randomized at a ratio of 1:2:3 to Arm 3 (high intensity support), Arm 2 (medium
      intensity support) and Arm 1 (low intensity support), respectively. Participants and study
      staff will be blinded to the risk classification (minimal, elevated) but, because of the
      nature of the interventions, blinding to intervention assignment is not possible.

      Persons will be treated for HCV according to the standard of care in India. Minimal
      laboratory monitoring will be used except when clinically indicated. Participants with
      decompensated cirrhosis will be excluded from treatment.

      All HIV/HCV co-infected participants and those HCV monoinfected participants who achieve SVR
      will be followed post-treatment. These individuals will be followed every six months after
      the SVR assessment to assess HCV reinfection and HIV viral suppression (among HIV/HCV
      coinfected participants) for up to 30 months after SVR.
    
  