
    
      Patients with cervical cancer treated with primary irradiation will be recruited at their
      routine post-treatment surveillance follow-up in the out-patient clinic, in the order of
      their appointment time. Study procedure will be explained and written informed consent is
      obtained from each subject at the visit. Systemic and vaginal examination will be carried out
      as usual. Subjects will receive vaginal vault smear by both Cervex-Brush® and Orcellex® Brush
      during the same speculum examination. The order of using smear sampling devices will be
      randomized. Randomization will be carried out according to computer-generated random numbers,
      allocated by sequentially numbered, sealed opaque envelopes. Subjects will be randomized into
      two groups: using Cervex-Brush® first followed by Orcellex® Brush, or vice versa. The
      procedure of smear taking will be carried out by four trained clinicians who are independent
      of the study. The method of smear taking will be standardized for both Cervex-Brush® and
      Orcellex® Brush. The vaginal vault will be swept horizontally by the brush and the cervical
      dimple, if seen, will be rotated five times by the brush. Each sampling device will be shaken
      vigorously in separate Thinprep specimen containers, which is labelled as smear A for
      Cervex-Brush® and smear B for Orcellex® Brush.

      The subjects are unaware of the sequence of the sampling device used, as they cannot see the
      procedure of smear taking during examination. The patient will be asked about the pain score
      during each smear taking, by using the visual analog scale. Any vaginal bleeding will be
      recorded.

      The specimen will be sent to the laboratory and will be processed by the ThinPrep method. The
      cytopathologist is unaware as to which device is used for that particular specimen and the
      slide prepared from it. One pathologist will be responsible in screening all the vault smears
      involved in this study. Adequacy of vault smear sample was defined by the Bethesda System as
      a minimum of 2000 well-visualized and well-preserved squamous cells.

      Patients will be arranged subsequent follow-up visits at appropriate time interval according
      to the department protocol. Patients with inadequate smear result by both sampling devices
      will be called back early within 8 weeks for repeat smear using the conventional
      Cervex-Brush®.

      Patients with cervical cancer in the department will have surveillance follow-ups at variable
      intervals from 3 months to 12 months, depending on the time interval from previous treatment
      and patients' symptoms. Some patients may have repeated smears during the study period. As
      the result of previous smear will have no impact on the adequacy rate of subsequent smear,
      patients can be recruited for smear taking more than once in the study. Hence the actual
      number of patients recruited in the study would be less than the calculated sample size of
      160.
    
  