
    
      There are 2 groups or cohorts in this study. The cohort patient's are in is based on their
      clinical treatment plan set by your physician. The number of imaging visits and timing of
      visits will be determined by what cohort they are in.

      If the patient is in cohort #1, they will make 4 visits to UAB. They will be scheduled for a
      pre-study or screening visit. During the pre-study visit, once consented, they will have a
      blood draw to determine kidney function, and a pregnancy test if they are a woman of
      childbearing potential. Their vital signs will be taken, they will be asked to fill out an
      MRI questionnaire, and they will have a PET/MRI fit test. If eligible for the study, they
      will be scheduled for the first PET imaging visit which will occur before they start
      chemotherapy. During this PET imaging visit, they will have a pregnancy test if they are a
      woman of childbearing potential. A plastic catheter will be placed into a vein in their arm
      and they will then be positioned in the PET/MRI scanner. Once positioned, they will be
      injected with the investigational radioactive drug, [18F]FMISO. They will then be imaged for
      up to 90 minutes during which time they will receive an FDA approved contrast agent called
      Prohance (gadoteridol). Once all the procedures are complete, the catheter will be removed
      and they may resume all normal activities. The patient will receive a follow-up phone call
      within 24-48 hours of your injection to be sure they are not experiencing any adverse events.
      Their second imaging visit will be scheduled after they receive therapy with Herceptin alone
      and within 10 days before their first cycle of combination therapy including Herceptin.
      During the second PET imaging visit, the same procedures will be followed as were performed
      during your first PET imaging visit. They will receive a follow-up phone call within 24-48
      hours of your injection to be sure you are not experiencing any adverse events. Their third
      PET imaging visit will be scheduled after their first cycle of combination therapy including
      Herceptin and within 10 days before starting their second cycle of combination therapy
      including Herceptin. During the third PET imaging visit, the same procedures will be followed
      as were performed during their first and second PET imaging visits. The patient will receive
      a follow-up phone call within 24-48 hours of their injection to be sure they are not
      experiencing any adverse events.

      If the patients are in cohort #2, they will make 3 visits to UAB. The patients will be
      scheduled for a pre-study or screening visit. During the pre-study visit, once consented,
      they will have a blood draw to determine kidney function, and a pregnancy test if they are a
      woman of childbearing potential. Their vital signs will be taken, they will be asked to fill
      out an MRI questionnaire, and they will have a PET/MRI fit test. If eligible for the study,
      they will be scheduled for the first PET imaging visit which will occur before they start
      chemotherapy. During this visit, they will have a pregnancy test if they are a woman of
      childbearing potential. A plastic catheter will be placed into a vein in their arm and they
      will then be positioned in the PET/MRI scanner. Once positioned, the patient will be injected
      with the investigational radioactive drug, [18F]FMISO. They will then be imaged for up to 90
      minutes during which time they will receive an FDA approved contrast agent called Prohance
      (gadoteridol). Once all the procedures are complete, the catheter will be removed and the
      patient may resume all normal activities. They will receive a follow-up phone call within
      24-48 hours of your injection to be sure they are not experiencing any adverse events. Your
      second PET imaging visit will be scheduled after your first cycle of combination therapy
      including Herceptin and within 10 days before starting the second cycle of combination
      therapy including Herceptin. During the third PET imaging visit, the same procedures will be
      followed as were performed during the first PET imaging visits. The patient will receive a
      follow-up phone call within 24-48 hours of your injection to be sure they are not
      experiencing any adverse events.

      We will follow the patients every 6 months for 5 years by reviewing their medical records to
      see how they are doing.
    
  