
    
      Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) affects more than 3 million patients per year in the
      United States, and is increasing in frequency [2-15]. Approximately 8 % of hospitalized
      patients are infected with C. difficile [12]. Of these patients 3% - 8% will develop the
      fulminant disease, defined as C. difficile colitis with significant systemic toxic effects
      and shock, resulting in need for colectomy or death [2].

      Fulminant C. difficile colitis (FCDC) is a highly lethal disease with mortality rates ranging
      between 12% - 80% [2-6,8-15]. A retrospective study in our own institution identified a 35%
      mortality rate for FCDC [2].

      The indications for surgical management of patients with FCDC are not clearly defined,
      however most advocate surgical intervention in patients with worsening clinical exams,
      peritonitis, or patients in shock. Total abdominal colectomy (also called subtotal colectomy)
      with end ileostomy has been advocated as the operation of choice and has been demonstrated to
      marginally improve survival compared to non-operative management in these critically ill
      patients. A total abdominal colectomy has many disadvantages. Most important, mortality rates
      continue to range from 35-80%. Additionally, total abdominal colectomy (subtotal colectomy)
      can result in significant morbidity, and many survivors will have a permanent ileostomy.

      The new treatment option that will be tested in this randomized controlled trial (RCT) may
      change the standard of care. Based on a small prospective series from Neal and colleagues [1]
      the investigators propose an alternative surgical approach for the management of FCDC, which
      may prove a safer and simpler option. Based on the nature of the disease as a bacterial
      toxin-mediated mucosal inflammatory process with delayed and indirect systemic threats to
      life, the investigators think that minimally invasive ileal diversion with intraoperative
      colonic lavage using a high volume polyethylene glycol/electrolyte solution will clear
      Clostridium difficile infection resulting in eradication of FCDC while preserving the colon.
    
  