
    
      Many pain syndromes are notoriously refractory to almost all treatment and pose significant
      costs to patients and society. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) for refractory pain disorders
      showed early promise but demonstration of long-term efficacy is lacking. Current DBS devices
      provide "open-loop" continuous stimulation and thus are prone to loss of effect owing to
      nervous system adaptation and a failure to accommodate natural fluctuations in chronic pain
      states. DBS could be significantly improved if neural biomarkers for relevant disease states
      could be used as feedback signals in "closed-loop" DBS algorithms that would selectively
      provide stimulation when it is needed. This approach may help avert the development of
      tolerance over time and enable the dynamic features of chronic pain to be targeted in a
      personalized fashion.

      Optimizing the brain targets for both biomarker detection and stimulation delivery may also
      markedly impact efficacy. Recent imaging studies in humans point to the key role of frontal
      cortical regions in supporting the affective and cognitive dimensions of pain, which may be
      more effective DBS targets than previous targets involved in basic somatosensory processing.
      Pathological activity in the anterior cingulate (ACC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is
      correlated with the higher-order processing of pain, and recent clinical trials have
      identified ACC as a promising stimulation target for the neuromodulation of pain. In this
      study, the investigators will target ACC and OFC for biomarker discovery and closed-loop
      stimulation. The investigators will develop data-driven stimulation control algorithms to
      treat chronic pain using a novel neural interface device (Medtronic Activa PC+S) that allows
      longitudinal intracranial signal recording in an ambulatory setting. By building and
      validating this technological capacity in an implanted device, the investigators will empower
      DBS for chronic pain indications and advance personalized, precision methods for DBS more
      generally.

      This study will enroll ten patients with post-stroke pain, phantom limb syndrome and spinal
      cord injury pain in our three-phase clinical trial. The investigators will first identify
      biomarkers of low and high pain states to define optimal neural signals for pain prediction
      in individuals (Aim 1). These pain biomarkers will then be used to develop closed-loop
      algorithms for DBS and test the feasibility and efficacy of performing closed-loop DBS for
      chronic pain in a single-blinded, sham controlled clinical trial (Aim 2). Our main outcome
      measures will be a combination of pain, mood and functional scores together with quantitative
      sensory testing. In the last phase, the investigators will assess the efficacy of closed-loop
      DBS algorithms against traditional open-loop DBS (Aim 3) and assess mechanisms of DBS
      tolerance in response to chronic stimulation. Successful completion of this study would
      result in the first algorithms to predict real-time fluctuations in chronic pain states for
      the delivery of analgesic stimulation and would prove the feasibility of closed-loop DBS for
      pain-relief by advancing implantable device technology.
    
  