
    
      Heart failure is a leading cause of death, hospitalisation, impaired quality of life and
      health expenditure. Symptoms and survival can be significantly improved by implantation of a
      device for Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT). CRT devices are available as
      biventricular pacemakers (CRT-P) or as significantly more complex and cost-intensive
      biventricular defibrillators (CRT-D).

      In patients who have previously experienced a life-threatening arrhythmia, the choice of the
      CRT-D (and not the CRT-P) is imperative but these are a small minority of patients. For the
      vast majority of patients receiving CRT therapy, there is currently considerable uncertainty
      as to whether the defibrillator function is needed and whether its benefits outweigh its
      risks. The defibrillator function may protect patients from sudden cardiac death. On the
      other hand, device-associated complications such as device infections appear to be increased;
      furthermore the defibrillator comes along with specific adverse events, particularly
      inappropriate shocks. These shocks are common and not only traumatic to patients (potentially
      leading to post-traumatic stress syndrome, anxiety disorders and depression), they also are
      negatively associated with overall survival.

      The objective of the trial is to demonstrate that in patients with chronic heart failure who
      receive optimal medical treatment for this condition and have indication for CRT, the
      implantation of a CRT-P (index group) is not inferior to CRT-D (control group) with respect
      to all-cause mortality. Patients with an indication for CRT will be randomised to CRT-P or
      CRT-D.

      RESET-CRT is an event-driven trial with a planned number of randomised and treated patients
      of n=1,800 and of 361 primary endpoints within an estimated median follow-up period of 1.69
      years.

      No investigational medical product is defined to be used within RESET-CRT since only the
      therapeutic strategy (CRT-D versus CRT-P) is a pre-defined study treatment and allocated by
      random group (Proof of Strategy Trial). The devices to be implanted will be decided by the
      treating physician on the basis of the situation of the individual study patient and in line
      with local policies in routine clinical care.

      Total study duration:

      Enrolment of 35 months. All patients will be followed until 361 valid primary endpoints are
      reached (event-driven trial) which is expected about 10 months after last patient in. Total
      study duration of 45 months (about 4 years) is expected which might be adapted based on
      blinded interim analysis of the overall occurrence of the primary endpoint.

      Individual study duration:

      Expected mean follow-up time will be about 1.69 years per patient with a minimum follow-up
      time of 10 months and a maximum follow-up time of presumably 45 months.
    
  