
    
      Over 6 million people in the United States suffer from heart failure (HF). By the year 2030
      the prevalence of HF is expected to exceed 8 million people. Heart failure accounts for 1
      million hospital admissions each year, costing our economy in excess of $30 billion dollars
      per year. Mortality in patients with HF remains high, and nearly half of all patients
      diagnosed with HF will die within 5 years. More than half of all patients admitted with HF
      decompensation have preserved left ventricular systolic function. Patients with HF and mildly
      reduced or preserved left ventricular systolic function are at high risk for developing
      atrial fibrillation (AF), the occurrence of which often contributes to HF decompensation and
      increases morbidity and all-cause mortality. Similarly, patients with AF are at high risk for
      developing HF due to loss of atrio-ventricular synchrony and rapid uncontrolled ventricular
      rates. Detection of AF can be challenging and may go undiagnosed in asymptomatic or minimally
      symptomatic patients through conventional monitoring methods. Patients with HF represent a
      large population who are at risk for complications related to undiagnosed AF. AF increases
      the risk of stroke five-fold and the risk of death nearly two-fold. Moreover, strokes related
      to AF are twice as likely to be fatal or severely disabling compared to strokes due to other
      causes, such as ischemic small vessel disease or atheromatous large vessel disease. Cardiac
      implantable electronic devices (CIEDs), can be used for the early detection of AF in
      asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients with HF. However, current guidelines provide an
      indication for prophylactic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) only in HF patients
      with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) ≤ 35%, whereas there are limited data for
      device-based detection of AF in HF patients with more preserved LVEF.

      Implantable cardiac monitors (ICM) are devices that can be injected into the subcutaneous
      tissue and can provide automatic electrocardiographic recordings of asymptomatic arrhythmias
      as well as patient triggered electrocardiographic recordings of symptomatic episodes during
      long term follow-up. Implantable cardiac monitors are be paired with remote monitoring
      systems, capable of rapid remote review of electrograms. Accordingly, we hypothesize that a
      management strategy that incorporates ICM implantation in patients with HF and LVEF >35% will
      result in a significantly higher rate of AF detection leading to arrhythmia related
      interventions compared to conventional monitoring and follow-up in patients with HF.
    
  