
    
      The rehabilitation of decayed or fractured posterior teeth using an indirect technique was
      introduced for large cavities with coverage of one or more cusps. Problems of biological
      nature and technical operative may be encountered when restoring large cavities extending
      below the cement-enamel junction(CEJ).

      Biological problems refers to the possible violation of the 'biological width', a recommended
      distance of 3 mm or more between the restorative margins and the alveolar crest. The
      technical operative problems include difficulties in tooth preparation, impression making,
      adhesive cementation of the restoration, finishing and polishing in subgingival areas. In
      order to eliminate these difficulties Proximal Box Elevation' (PBE) was introduced that
      proposes application of composite resin in the deepest parts of the proximal areas in order
      to reposition the cervical margin supragingivally. Whether the PBE technique is the most
      optimal treatment option for the restoration of cavities extending below CEJ and how the
      proposed advantages and possible disadvantages could affect the clinical performance of the
      indirect restorations are the topics extensively discussed among clinicians.

      According to results of in vitro studies, PBE was found to be effective in indirect resin
      composite bonding to deep proximal boxes in terms of marginal quality and adaptation (1).

      In a retrospective clinical study, 79 indirect composite restorations were clinically
      examined following modified United States Public Health Service criteria. Survival rate was
      91.1% and success rate was 84.8% after 5 years (2). Similarly, in another clinical study
      success rate of 71 indirect composite restorations was reported as 100% after 36 months (3).
      Nevertheless, not much scientific evidence on the influence of PBE technique on the longevity
      of the restorations and the periodontal health could be found in the currently available
      literature. Randomized controlled clinical trials with classification of baseline clinical
      situation and standardization of cavity preparations are necessary to evaluate the clinical
      performance of this technique.

      This study will be carried out as a prospective study, with assessment of the restorations
      after three years. 80 indirect composite restorations in at least 60 patients will be
      included. Potential patients attending to Istanbul Medipol University Dental Clinics in
      Istanbul will be invited to the study. The patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be
      recruited. After giving their consent to take part in the study, baseline clinical situation
      will be classified based on technical operative and biological parameters (4).

      The treatment procedure is:

      Restorative process in all cases, will start with coronal relocation of the margins using
      flowable composite with maximum thickness 1 to 1.5 mm and followed by resin composite
      build-up. Defined principles of morphology driven preparation technique will be followed for
      standardization of cavity preparations. Impression making, fabrication of indirect
      restoration with SR Nexco and adhesive cementation will be completed according to
      manufacturer's instructions.

      The control procedure is:

      The restorations will be evaluated according to marginal adaptation, cavo surface marginal
      discoloration, approximal contact, fractures and caries associated with restorations. The
      periodontal status will be assessed with defined periodontal parameters. The controls will be
      conducted after two weeks, six months, 1year, 2 and 3 years.
    
  