
    
      Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) occurs in 1 in every 200-250 individuals of northern European
      descent, and is the most common inherited disease in this population. Although the molecular
      pathophysiology remains incompletely understood, a homozygous mutation in the HFE gene
      (Cys282Tyr) is observed in nearly 100% of clinically confirmed cases. The clinical
      manifestations of HH are due to inappropriately increased iron absorption with excessive iron
      deposition in the liver, heart, endocrine organs, and joints.

      Phlebotomy treatment, with removal of iron contained in the hemoglobin of red cells, is the
      only effective therapy for HH. Phlebotomy therapy relieves many of the symptoms of
      iron-mediated tissue damage and prevents progression to cirrhosis. However, published
      laboratory guidelines for monitoring phlebotomy therapy are based on retrospective data, and
      in general allow a moderate level of iron overload to persist during maintenance therapy.
      Since 1987, the DTM has piloted the use of the red cell mean corpuscular volume (MCV), in
      conjunction with the hemoglobin, as a prospective guide to phlebotomy therapy in a small
      cohort of HH patients. In contrast to other retrospectively-derived guidelines, this simple,
      inexpensive, physiologic method was found to be a precise indicator of iron-limited
      erythropoiesis, and could be easily applied to adjust the pace of phlebotomy and prevent
      excess iron reaccumulation.

      Although the majority of persons with HH meet eligibility criteria for allogeneic blood
      donation, until recently regulatory guidelines restricted the use of therapeutically
      withdrawn blood for transfusion. New regulations now permit increased flexibility in the use
      of such units for this purpose. The purposes of this protocol are: (1) to prospectively study
      the genotypic and phenotypic response to phlebotomy therapy in HH patients using the
      MCV/hemoglobin monitoring guide, and to validate the use of this guide in a large study
      cohort; (2) to evaluate the course of severe hepatic disease and rheumatologic symptoms
      following sustained iron depletion; and (3) to establish the safety and efficacy and document
      the operational issues inherent in a program to collect therapeutically withdrawn blood for
      use in allogeneic transfusion. These goals have as their combined target the establishment of
      the simplest, safest system for donor processing, phlebotomy management, and transfusion of
      blood drawn from HH subjects.
    
  