
    
      Kidney transplant patients are exposed to long-term immunosuppressive therapy, and have an
      increased risk of infections and cancer, while a lack of treatment increases the risk of
      rejection. The development of imaging techniques to characterize the status of the graft
      remains a challenge in transplantation. Ideally, they should identify complications (acute
      rejection, chronic allograft nephropathy, nephrotoxicity ...) without the need for invasive
      procedures and thus lead to better customization of immunosuppressive therapy.

      The post-transplant follow-up is based on the monitoring of graft function. Impaired function
      suggests the possibility of a complication, but requires confirmation by an invasive
      procedure such as renal biopsy. In addition, the diagnosis remains complex at a relatively
      advanced stage of the process due to damage to the graft parenchyma. To anticipate the
      altered function and detect subclinical lesions, screening biopsies have been used to
      diagnose chronic rejection. By definition, screening for subclinical lesions can not be based
      on any biological parameter; the diagnosis of subclinical complications thus requires
      performing multiple systematic biopsies, which are scheduled at 3 months and 1 year.

      Doppler ultrasound is an imaging method of choice for the study of renal transplant, but it
      cannot diagnose the NCT due to the absence of specific findings. The lack of early diagnostic
      test for NCT is a major obstacle to the development and evaluation of new therapeutic options
      to prevent, slow or stabilize renal fibrosis. It is therefore necessary to develop a
      non-invasive imaging technique for the early diagnosis of NCT.

      Ultrasound elastography is a technique that allows tissue stiffness measurements and provides
      a parametric picture.

      The main objective of our study is to evaluate the performances of elastography and
      measurement of renal perfusion (area under the ROC curve) to diagnose the NCT and determine
      for each both measures a threshold to maximize the sensitivity. These performances will be
      evaluated at 3 months and 12 months. The results can also be compared to other imaging
      modalities such as functional MRI, and to clinical events (obstruction, infection…).

      Functional ultrasound imaging should identify diagnostic and prognostic criteria of NCT, and
      enable the development of less invasive therapeutic protocols to evaluate new therapeutic
      approaches
    
  