
    
      The President's Cancer Advisory Board and the Centers for Disease Control have called for
      renewed efforts in promoting vaccination for Human Papillomavirus (HPV), including
      vaccination for adolescent boys, because the uptake of this new vaccine remains alarmingly
      low. Currently, less than 15% of adolescent boys have received the HPV vaccine; thus, most of
      this population remains at risk for oropharyngeal, anal, and penile cancers. Many parents
      remain unconvinced of the safety and effectiveness of HPV vaccines, so effective and
      accessible messaging to improve decision-making on this vaccine is needed. Parents of
      adolescent boys also have different concerns about HPV vaccination than for adolescent girls,
      creating a need for unique health communication interventions to promote vaccine uptake among
      boys. Interventions also need to address the unique challenges of minority populations and
      populations for whom English is not the first language. A novel digital intervention will be
      produced and evaluated for its ability to improve HPV vaccine outcomes. Specifically, a
      mobile responsive web application ("mobile web app") will be created that performs similar to
      a mobile app but runs on a variety of computing platforms from personal desktop and laptop
      computers to the latest smart phones and tablet computers. Mobile web app content will be
      targeted to parents and adolescent boys aged 11-13 years. The specific aims are to: 1)
      carefully and systematically develop a mobile web app (BoyVac) for smart phones, tablet
      computers, and personal computers that will utilize Diffusion of Innovations principles to
      provide targeted information concerning HPV vaccine adoption to adolescent males and their
      parents, particularly minority adolescents and parents; 2) implement a comprehensive and
      rigorous test of the impact of the BoyVac mobile web app intervention on HPV vaccine adoption
      outcomes via a randomized efficacy trial (BoyVac v. usual and customary care); and 3) examine
      the dose-response relationships between mobile web app usage and vaccine outcomes within a
      components analysis. A group-randomized pretest-posttest controlled design will be
      implemented, recruiting 1800 pairs of parents and adolescent boys from 30 pediatric clinics
      (n=60 parents and boys per clinic). Parents will be surveyed at baseline, a 3-month
      follow-up, and a 9-month follow-up and records HPV vaccination adoption for the boys will be
      obtained from the clinics' medical records at the 9-month follow-up. Analyses will test the
      hypotheses that 1) more 11-13 year old boys in the intervention group (BoyVac mobile web app)
      will adopt the HPV vaccine than boys in the usual and customary care comparison group and 2)
      adoption of HPV vaccine will be mediated by improvements in theoretical mediators among
      parents in the intervention compared to the usual and customary care comparison group.
    
  