
    
      Older oncology patients pose a significant treatment challenge due to poor chemotherapy
      tolerance as a result of underlying co-morbidities, lack of social support, and diminished
      functional reserve. Oncologists are faced with the challenge of differentiating between
      patients that can and cannot tolerate chemotherapy, and tailoring therapy to the patient's
      biologic rather than chronologic age.

      A significant challenge that surrounds the treatment of the older metastatic gastric cancer
      (mGC) patient in particular, lies in the lack of evidence based clinical data to guide the
      oncologist in determination of a treatment plan. This is a result of under representation of
      older patients in clinical trials. Due to these challenges, a thorough evaluation of the
      older patient is recommended prior to initiation of anti-cancer therapy.

      The purpose of this research study is to enhance the care of the older mGC patient by
      increasing awareness among oncology providers of the unique aspects of care required for
      older patients. The goal of the study is to educate providers on the utility of geriatric
      assessment in guiding therapy of older metastatic gastric cancer patients. The investigators
      will also assess the feasibility and benefit of incorporating geriatric self-assessments into
      clinical practice. The study will include four phases:

        1. Needs assessments - to understand the population of older gastric cancer patients seen
           in routine practice at community and academic centers, and assess their treatment
           approach.

        2. Educational programming about management of older metastatic gastric cancer patients,
           and geriatric assessment of these patients.

        3. Active testing of the use of geriatric assessment in clinical practice, including an
           exploratory analysis to evaluate the use of fitness trackers for evaluation of
           functional status.

        4. Short-term follow-up chart reviews (2-3 months post intervention) to assess for actual
           implementation of recommended interventions identified by the geriatric assessment.

      The ultimate goal is to expand this educational intervention to other oncology practices
      beyond those participating in this study, and for all older cancer patients regardless of
      their disease site. During this study period we will identify the specific gaps that exist in
      each practice for the care of older patients with mGC. This information is crucial to
      understand the needs of this patient population and will inform future trials with possible
      intervention. The second phase of our study will expose the practices to the use of a
      geriatric assessment through a patient's self-assessment tool and demonstrate its
      feasibility. Our hope is that all involved practices will find benefit from incorporating a
      geriatric assessment into their practice and will continue to use it in the future.
    
  