
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and best tolerated dose and frequency of gp96 heat shock
           protein-peptide complex vaccine in patients with recurrent or progressive high-grade
           glioma. (phase I [closed to accrual as of 7/25/2007])

        -  Determine the clinical response to treatment, time to disease recurrence and
           progression, and overall survival of patients treated with this vaccine. (phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the immune response in patients treated with this vaccine.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, phase I study (closed to accrual as of 7/25/2007)
      followed by a phase II study.

        -  Phase I (closed to accrual as of 7/25/2007): Patients undergo surgical resection. Viable
           tumor tissue is used to generate the gp96 heat shock protein-peptide complex (HSPPC-96)
           vaccine. Patients with primary disease receive standard adjuvant therapy after surgery.
           Patients whose disease progresses during or after standard adjuvant therapy receive the
           HSPPC-96 vaccine. Patients with recurrent disease receive the HSPPC-96 vaccine between
           2-8 weeks after surgery. The HSPPC-96 vaccine is administered intradermally every 1-3
           weeks for 4 doses and then every 2-3 weeks thereafter in the absence of disease
           progression, unacceptable toxicity, or vaccine depletion.

      Cohorts of 6 patients receive the HSPPC-96 vaccine at escalating dose frequencies until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive the HSPPC-96 vaccine as in phase I at the appropriate dose
           frequency determined in phase I (closed to accrual as of 7/25/2007).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  