
    
      Background Pilonidal disease (PS) is a common disorder that occurs in the crena ani. A
      paradigm shift of our perception of the pathology of this disorder has been on its way for
      several decades and the treatment is slowly starting to follow.

      The estimated incidence is 26 per 100,000 although this is subject to large geographical
      variation. Men present themselves with symptomatic pilonidal disease more than twice as often
      as women and in population surveys of young students, a 10: 1 male / female ratio has been
      found, including also asymptomatic pilonidal cysts. The disorder usually affects the younger
      population with average age at first manifestation of 21 years for men and 19 for women.

      Acute manifestations are infected and result in pilonidal abscesses. The treatment of acute
      abscesses within pilonidal disease is uncontroversial and is based on lateral incision and
      drainage with subsequent open healing.

      The treatment of chronic pilonidal disease, on the other hand, is still controversial.
      Traditional surgical approach is based on excision of the affected tissue with primary
      closure or open secondary healing. This treatment, regardless of the manifestation of
      disease, is characterized by poor healing, complicated postoperative ulceration and
      recurrence.

      Since April 2010, there has been a combination and standardization of the treatment of
      complicated pilonidal disease at the regional hospital in Randers (Denmark), where patients
      with 1) recurrence after previous surgery, 2) missing healing > 2 months after surgery and 3)
      extensive / fistulatory pilonidal disease are offered Bascom's cleft lift (BCL ) operation
      for the condition.

      Bascoms Cleft Lift operation is one of several lateralization techniques that have shown
      promising results over the last decades. It has the significant advantage compared to the
      other generally accepted surgical lateralization techniques that it only removed a skin patch
      (7 mm thick); sub cutis and fat is left in situ regardless of its involvement in the
      condition: Crena anii is lifted and lateralized, thereby solving the underlying problem and
      preserving most tissues. The intervention should be significantly less painful than other
      variants.

      In the ongoing work it has been clear that there is delayed healing in a large proportion of
      these patients by the scheduled postoperative control 14 days after surgery. During the
      experience of the investigators throughout the first 3 years wound healing complications /
      delayed healing was found to a variable extent. More than 15% were followed longer than 3
      months due to delayed healing and nearly 7% had to be re-operated due to primarily
      undermining of the cicatrices.

      As the operating results are otherwise promising in these recurrent patients, the
      investigators find it relevant to optimize the postoperative course focusing on better
      healing.

      A vacuum assisted (negative pressure) system, Prevena ™ and ACTIV.A.C ™ therapy system has
      been developed to maintain drainage on closed incisions. The system also works by altering
      the cytokine profile locally so that it functions anti-inflammatory, by increasing local
      growth factors and promoting angiogenesis19. Negative pressure wound management (NPWM) such
      as Prevena ™ and ACTIV.AC ™ is a widely used tool with many different variations, but the
      evidence of effect remains sparse and more studies are required. The investigators believe
      that in a dry and closed incision such as the one after BCL surgery, in an area exposed to
      stretching during healing, it must be an advantage of maintaining drainage, reducing the
      anti-inflammatory response and increasing angiogenesis.

      Hypothesis

      The investigators hypothesize that:

        -  Patients who have undergone BCL surgery for complicated pilonidal disease have a
           significantly better healing using Prevena ™ and ACTIV.A.C ™ Therapy System 4-7 days
           post-operatively compared to patients undergoing normal regimen with drainage and
           conventional wound dressing.

        -  That the optimized healing will positively affect the health and wellbeing of patients.

      The investigators are not aware of other studies that examine the effect of healing with or
      without Prevena ™ and ACTIV.A.C ™ or similar devices or its effects on the quality of life of
      these patients.

      Purpose of the study

        1. To investigate whether Prevena ™ and ACTIV.A.C ™ Therapy System after BCL surgery for
           complicated pilonidal disease will improve wound healing compared to a control group of
           patients treated with conventional drainage and dressing.

        2. To examine whether Prevena ™ and ACTIV.A.C ™ treatment and possibly faster healing after
           surgery for PS affects the self-perceived and pain after surgery using questionnaires /
           pain journal (Appendix 2 and 3).

        3. To describe general health perception among patients with complicated pilonidal disease
           before and after Bascom's Cleft Lift operation using a questionnaire regarding pilonidal
           disease.

        4. To investigate whether postoperative pain after BCL surgery for complicated pilonidal
           decreases with Prevena ™ and ACTIV.A.C ™ Therapy System.

      Primary end point:

      • Evaluate the clinical effect* of Prevena ™ and ACTIV.AC ™ of 4-7 days on BCL cicatrices
      after 14 days of healing by the following two criteria*: 1) existence of defects in the
      cicatricees (defects ≤ 5 mm considered fully healed) and 2) undermining of the cicatrices.

      Secondary end point:

      Evaluate the following short and long term results in connection with BCL surgery and the use
      of Prevena ™ and ACTIV.A.C ™ Therapy System:

        -  Symptom related health perception assessed baseline, 14 days postoperatively, after 3
           months and after 12 months assessed by questionnaire (Appendix 2)

        -  Healing after 3 months evaluated according to criteria described above

        -  Recurrence rate

        -  Postoperative pain assessed by pain diary (Appendix 3)
    
  