
    
      Main objective: to show, among practicing sports club that regular hydration, including days
      without competition may prevent the occurrence of an incident or accident during sport.

      Primary endpoint: number of accidents and sport incidents, - Adverse events and complications
      at 3 months and 6 months.

      EXPERIMENTAL PLAN: randomized clinical trial of two groups of athletes:

        -  dismissed the first group consume water from Aix-les-Bains in quantity defined during
           the 6 months of the study.

        -  Licensees 2nd group (control group) will have a free hydration, at their convenience and
           habits during the 6 months of the study. They will be able, if they wish to receive
           water from Aix within 3 months of the study.

      NATURE OF TREATMENT: daily intake of Aix 1.5l water baths according to European
      recommendations (1 liter for children under 16 years) POPULATION STUDIED

      Features licensees:

        -  Licensee aged 10 to 80 years;

        -  Practitioners sport regularly at a health club Number of members: as this is a pilot
           study will enroll a maximum of volunteers in each of the two clubs, a staff of 50
           athletes per group is expected.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The variables are described (number and frequency for categorical
      variables, mean, standard deviation, median and confidence interval for continuous
      quantitative variables). The initial comparability of the two groups will be tested.

      The primary endpoint will be analyzed using a Chi-square test without continuity correction
      if the validity conditions are true or if otherwise by Fisher's exact test. The usual
      additional criteria (relative risk and 95) will be presented.

      For the analysis of quantitative secondary endpoints, the Student t-test will be used. If
      distribution does not meet the normal distribution, the nonparametric Mann-Whitney will be
      used. The percentage change in the activity score between baseline and 6 months 3 months will
      be calculated.

      The qualitative evaluation criteria will be analyzed by Chi-square test without continuity
      correction if the conditions of validity is checked or if otherwise by Fisher's exact test.

      An analysis of variance with repeated measures (comparison Inclusion- 3 months - 6 months)
      will be made on the physical activity score taking into account the treatment factor and
      interaction repetitions X treatment.
    
  