
    
      The clinical part of EPIMARKER is composed of 2 prospective studies (WP1 and WP2) of epilepsy
      progress in Tuberous Sclerosis Complex -TSC children, performed in 2 sites: Medical
      University of Warsaw -WUM and Children's Memoroal Health Institute - IPCZD, Poland.

      WP1 and WP2 are designed to conduct the studies, but the resulting data and samples will be
      analyzed and used in Workpackage 3-12 (WP3-12).

      CLINICAL STUDY in WP1 Inclusion criteria: male or female children with a definite diagnosis
      of TSC (Roach 1998), aged up to 4 years, diagnosis of epilepsy established on the basis of
      clinical seizures or epileptiform changes on EEG within 1-7 days prior to baseline , written
      informed consent of caregivers.

      Study overview: Each subject will be followed for 12 month. Epilepsy will be tracked with
      serial video EEG (vEEG) recordings and clinical investigations performed every 3 months.
      Apart from medical history of the patients, data from seizure diary, neuroimaging studies,
      and neuropsychological examinations will be collected. Blood samples for biomarkers studies
      will be collected at study entry, at the onset of drug- resistant seizures or after 6 months,
      whichever is applicable, and at the end of follow-up in all patients participating in the
      project. The data obtained in children responding, to standard and with drug- resistant
      seizures will be compare.

      Sample size: We plan to enroll 60 TSC patients into WP1 of Epimarker in 12 months. Based upon
      our preliminary results and extensive experience with TSC, we predict that about 50% of
      patients will develop drug- resistant seizures, while 50% will respond to standard treatment
      (Jozwiak 2011) Study endpoints: the primary clinical endpoint of this study is a collection
      of a set of clinical, molecular, and EEG source data in all subjects.

      CLINICAL STUDY in WP2 Inclusion criteria: male or female children with a definite diagnosis
      of TSC (Roach criteria: Roach 1998) and epilepsy, aged up to 16 years, seizure free, in whom
      a decision to withdraw antiepileptic drugs was made, written informed consent of caregivers.

      Study overview: Each subject will be followed for 12 months. Antiepileptic drugs will be
      withdrawn within 3 months in all subjects starting, at study entry. Epilepsy will be tracked
      by means of serial video EEG recordings and clinical investigations performed every 3 months.
      Apart from medical history of the patients, data from seizures diary, neuroimaging studies
      and neuropsychological examinations will be collected. Patients with recurrent seizures will
      receive antiepileptic treatment according to current standards. Blood samples for biomarkers
      study will be collected at study entry, at the end of drugs withdrawal, at the onset
      recurrent seizures and at the end of follow-up in all patient participating in the project.
      The data obtained in children seizure free at the end of follow-up and patients with
      recurrent seizures will be compare.

      Sample size: We plan to enroll 60 TSC patients into WP2 of Epimarker in 12 months. Based upon
      our preliminary results and extensive experience with TSC, we predict that about 50% of
      patients will develop recurrent seizures, while 50% remain seizure free (unpublished data).

      Study endpoints: the primary clinical endpoint of this study is a collection of a set of
      clinical, molecular, and EEG source data in all subjects.
    
  