
    
      The study will be conducted on patients with DOR attending our reproductive medicine centre
      for proposed IVF-ET between January 2021and December 2022.

      The trial is designed as a randomised, controlled clinical trial with two groups established
      by 1:1 equal allocation, a treatment group with interventions using herbs to tonify the
      kidneys and regulate blood and a control group treated using conventional Western medicine.

      Random numbers will be prepared by an independent third-party statistician who prepared a
      list of random group codes for this study. Enrolled subjects will be given a subject number
      during the screening process and, upon formal enrolment, will be randomly assigned to either
      the test or control group with a corresponding random number.

      Treatment method Phase I: The control group will be treated with conventional Western
      medicine, whereas the treatment group will receive sequential treatment with the Chinese
      herbal formula 2 months before the proposed embryo transfer(ET) to regulate menstruation and
      improve ovarian reserve function. Treatment with the Chinese herbal formula will start on the
      5th day of menstruation after entering the super-ovulation cycle. The medicines used will be
      Er Zhi Wan combined with Si Wu Tang (Radix et Rhizoma Ligustrum 15 g, Radix Morindae Sinensis
      12 g, Fructus Lycii 15 g, Semen Cuscutae 20 g, Radix Rehmanniae 20 g, Radix Angelicae
      Sinensis 10 g, Radix Paeoniae Alba 12 g, Radix Yam 20 g); which will be taken for 10-15days.
      After ovulation, the herbs used to warm the kidney and regulate the blood will be changed to
      Er Xian Promoting Pregnancy Decoction with Si Wu Decoction (Curculus 10 g, Xianling spleen 15
      g, Morinda officinalis 15 g, Cuscutae 20 g, Amethyst 15 g, Rehmannia 20 g, Angelica 15 g,
      Chuanxiong 10 g); which will be taken for 10-15days. The hospital will be responsible for the
      decoction of 200 mL per dose, 1 dose per day, divided into 2 doses in the morning and in the
      evening.

      Phase 2: After ET, the control group will be treated conventionally with no TCM intervention,
      and the treatment group will continue to take Chinese herbal medicine, changing to tonifying
      the kidney, regulating blood, and calming the foetus, using Shou Foetus pill combined with Si
      WuTang with addition and subtraction (Cuscuta 15 g, Sambucus 15 g, Chuan Guan Gong 10 g,
      Agaricus 9 g, Shu Di 15 g, Angelica 10 g, Bai Shao 12 g), which will be taken until the 14th
      day of transplantation.

      Medication Patients that meet the inclusion criteria will be assigned to one of two groups
      according to a randomisation table after completing the relevant tests and signing the
      informed consent form. The control group will be treated routinely, and the treatment group
      will begin taking the assigned drugs on the 5th day (with no intervention drugs taken on days
      1-4) of menstruation for two menstrual cycles before IVF until the day of ET and then
      continue the intervention for 14 days after ET.

      Follow-up plan Blood tests to measure progesterone and human chorionic gonadotropin(hCG) will
      be performed 14 days after fresh or frozen ET. If the blood results confirm pregnancy, a
      clinical pregnancy will be confirmed after 2 weeks by vaginal ultrasound. When a gestational
      sac is seen in the uterus, the presence or absence of ectopic pregnancy and the number of
      implanted foetuses will be determined. Those with clinical pregnancy will be followed for
      final pregnancy outcome (miscarriage/live birth, week of delivery, and a number of
      new-borns), delivery (mode of delivery and pregnancy complications), and offspring (sex,
      weight, length, presence of birth defects, and stillbirth). Follow-up will be limited to
      subjects with transferred embryos obtained from egg retrieval in this study. In the case of
      subject withdrawal or dropout from the study, detailed reasons will be recorded.
    
  