
    
      Despite continuing improvements in surgical procedures and ancillary care, post surgery pain
      continues to be a nearly universal patient experience following major operative procedures.
      Opioids provide considerable pain relief, but they have multiple adverse side effects and are
      not entirely effective. For cancer patients, uncontrolled postoperative pain can have a
      substantial negative effect on quality of life, can slow recovery, increase the likelihood of
      complications, and contribute to poorer postoperative outcomes. The identification of novel
      modifiable patient risk factors for post surgery pain that could become the target of
      presurgery interventions is thus an important goal. We will conduct a randomized,
      placebo-controlled, double-blind intervention trial design to evaluate the effects of an FDA
      approved hypnotic (zolpidem) on post surgery pain. Since presurgery psychological factors
      (e.g., heightened anxiety) are known to predict the severity of post surgical pain and may be
      associated with poor sleep, we will also assess psychological factors (with questionnaires)
      as well as sleep (using actigraphy) in order to determine their individual and combined
      impact on women's experiences of post surgery pain in this stressful clinical context. Aim 1:
      To determine the impact of zolpidem administered the night prior to endometrial cancer
      surgery on women's experiences of pain over the initial 7-10 day follow-up period after
      surgery using a double-blind placebo-controlled design (final n=128). Aim 2: To investigate
      psychological factors on the morning before surgery, as well as objective sleep variables on
      the night before surgery, as possible mediators of the beneficial effects of zolpidem on post
      surgery pain. Aim 3: To examine psychological factors, as well as sleep variables, assessed
      prior to the sleep intervention as possible moderators of the ameliorative effects of
      zolpidem on post surgery pain. The results of the proposed exploratory study would provide
      the preliminary data necessary for an R01 application to support more comprehensive
      investigations, including explorations of biological mechanisms underlying the preventative
      effects of better presurgery sleep on patients' experiences of post surgery pain.
    
  