
    
      The overall aim of VAST-D is to enhance treatment outcomes for representative outpatients
      diagnosed with nonpsychotic major depressive disorder (MDD) and treated in primary or
      psychiatric VA care settings. In particular, VAST-D is designed to determine the comparative
      effectiveness of different treatment options for participants with MDD who fail to have a
      satisfactory outcome to treatment with their initial antidepressants.

      These options may be conceptualized as representing two overall treatment strategies: 1)
      Medication Switch - switching from the initial antidepressant to another antidepressant
      medication, specifically bupropion-SR and 2) Medication Augmentation - augmenting the initial
      antidepressant with a second antidepressant, specifically bupropion-SR or a second generation
      antipsychotic, specifically aripiprazole. VAST-D's primary goal is to determine which of
      these 3 treatment strategies is most likely to lead to remission. Other key objectives
      include comparisons of response, time to remission, time to response, relapse, anxiety
      symptoms, suicidal ideation and behaviors, side effects, tolerability, quality of life,
      health related costs and satisfaction with participation in the study.

      VAST-D will enroll 1518 total patients of both genders and all ethnic/racial and
      socioeconomic backgrounds. All patients will meet Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
      Disorders (DSM)-IV-TR (text revised) criteria for nonpsychotic MDD. The diagnostic criteria
      for eligibility will be established by clinical interview supplemented with the 9-item
      Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). Final determination for eligibility will be made by the
      study clinician. Only participants with a suboptimal outcome to a well documented, adequately
      delivered (dose and duration), trial with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) or a
      serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) or mirtazapine will be eligible for
      the study. Failure to achieve an adequate outcome will be ascertained by a score on the
      16-item Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology - Clinician rated (QIDS-C16) scale >= 16
      (considered severe depression) after at least 6 weeks of treatment or QIDS-C16 >= 11
      (considered moderately severe depression) after at least 8 weeks of treatment. Otherwise, the
      inclusion criteria are broad and the exclusion criteria are few; participants with most
      comorbid general medical or psychiatric disorders are generally included to provide a broadly
      representative sample.

      Participants will be randomized (1:1:1 ratio) to switch to bupropion-SR alone (n=506),
      current antidepressant plus bupropion-SR (n=506), or current antidepressant plus aripiprazole
      (n=506). Treatment will be guided by clinician-rated symptom measures (the PHQ-9) and global
      side effects measures (the Frequency, Intensity, and Burden of Side Effects Rating or FIBSER)
      obtained at each treatment visit. Acute treatment visits will occur at baseline and at weeks
      1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 to ensure delivery of appropriate and yet vigorous and tolerable
      pharmacotherapy. Participants who tolerate the acute treatment and achieve adequate response
      at 12 weeks will enter the 24-week Continuation Treatment phase, during which the initial
      treatment will continue and visits will occur every four weeks subsequently until patients
      have been followed for 36 weeks post-randomization. The QIDS-C16 will be administered at
      baseline and at each follow-up visit by an independent evaluator (who will be blinded to
      treatment assignment) to measure symptoms of depression for the study outcomes of remission,
      response and relapse. Neither the participant nor the treating clinician will be blinded to
      treatment.

      Primary hypotheses:

      Primary hypothesis 1.a: Remission rate from major depressive disorder will be higher in
      patients whose treatment is augmented with bupropion-SR (antidepressant + bupropion-SR)
      compared to those switched to bupropion-SR monotherapy.

      Primary Hypothesis 1.b: Remission rate from major depressive disorder will be higher in
      patients whose treatment is augmented with aripiprazole (antidepressant + aripiprazole)
      compared to those switched to bupropion-SR monotherapy.

      Secondary hypotheses:

      Secondary Hypothesis 2.a: Remission rate will be greater in patients whose treatment is
      augmented with bupropion-SR (antidepressant + bupropion-SR) than in those augmented with
      aripiprazole (antidepressant + aripiprazole).

      Secondary Hypothesis 2.b: Relapse rate (within 36 weeks of the initiation of treatment) will
      be lower in patients whose antidepressant is augmented with bupropion-SR (antidepressant +
      bupropion-SR) than in those whose antidepressant is switched to bupropion-SR monotherapy.

      Secondary Hypothesis 2.c: Relapse rate (within 36 weeks of the initiation of treatment) will
      be lower in patients whose treatment is augmented with aripiprazole (antidepressant +
      aripiprazole) vs. those switched to bupropion-SR monotherapy.

      Secondary Hypothesis 2.d: Relapse rate (within 36 weeks of the initiation of treatment) will
      be lower in patients whose treatment is augmented with bupropion-SR (antidepressant +
      bupropion-SR) than in patients whose treatment was augmented with aripiprazole
      (antidepressant + aripiprazole).

      Secondary Hypothesis 2.e: The proportion of patients who develop akathisia, other
      akathisia-like side effects (e.g., tremor, irritability, motor restlessness) and
      extrapyramidal side effects will be greater in the patients whose antidepressant treatment is
      augmented with aripiprazole (antidepressant + aripiprazole) compared to patients whose
      treatment is augmented with bupropion-SR (antidepressant + bupropion-SR), or switched to
      bupropion-SR monotherapy.

      Secondary Hypothesis 2.f: The relative costs (direct and indirect) of augmenting an
      antidepressant with aripiprazole (antidepressant + aripiprazole) will be greater than the
      costs of antidepressant augmentation with bupropion-SR (antidepressant + bupropion-SR), and
      the costs of antidepressant augmentation with bupropion-SR (antidepressant + bupropion-SR)
      will be greater than the costs of switching to bupropion-SR monotherapy, and augmentation and
      monotherapy with bupropion-SR will be more cost-effective than aripiprazole augmentation.
    
  