
    
      The study is a multicenter prospective cohort study, aimed to explore underlying mechanisms
      of chronic kidney disease progression and its association with adverse consequences. The
      study will establish a baseline cohort of 5000 Chinese pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease
      patients, who will be followed up until death or dropout or starting renal replacement
      therapy. The follow-up will be conducted for at least 5 years. Their clinical information and
      biomaterials will be collected at baseline and then annually during follow-up.

      The baseline visit includes the following items: detailed demographics; socioeconomic and
      health care services information; medical and family history; medication history; and
      questionnaires concerning quality of life, health behaviors, depressive and anxiety symptoms,
      cognitive function, and physical activity. Anthropometric measures (height, weight, waist
      circumference, hip circumference, resting blood pressure, heart rate, grip strength, and
      15-feet measured walk) will also be collected. The laboratory parameters of chemistry test,
      intact parathyroid hormone, 24-hour urine electrolytes, protein creatinine ratio, and albumin
      creatinine ratio should also be collected for each participant and measured in the central
      laboratory. After the baseline visit, participants will return annually for follow-up visits
      and evaluation. The evaluating items of follow-up visits are similar to the baseline visit,
      and sample collection.

      The principal clinical outcomes of the study can be broadly categorized as renal disease
      events, cardiovascular events, and death. Renal disease events include the incident end stage
      renal disease or significant loss of renal function.Cardiovascular events include acute
      myocardial infarction, unstable angina, hospitalization for congestive heart failure,
      incident serious cardiac arrhythmia, cerebrovascular events, and peripheral vascular
      diseases. Death is further clarified as cardiac, cerebrovascular, renal, others, or unknown.
    
  