
    
      This NANT trial will determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of autologous expanded
      natural killer (NK) cells when combined with standard dosing of ch14.18 and will assess the
      feasibility of adding lenalidomide at the recommended Phase II dose of the expanded NK cells
      with ch14.18, for treatment of children with refractory or recurrent neuroblastoma.

      Ch14.18 is a chimeric antibody against GD2, which is expressed on a majority of neuroblastoma
      cells. It has been shown to increase EFS and OS in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma when
      given after autologous stem cell transplant in combination with subcutaneous GM-CSF and
      intravenous IL-2, followed by isotretinoin. Lenalidomide has been studied in children with
      solid tumors and can safely be given to patients based on 2 prior trials in children. It was
      also shown to have immunomodulatory effects and is synergistic with ch14.18. Lenalidomide is
      also an oral agent that can be given in the outpatient setting. Natural killer cells are
      lymphocytes of the innate immune system that have the ability to recognize and kill malignant
      cells, including neuroblastoma. Ch14.18 and lenalidomide both exert part of their anti-cancer
      effect through the activation of natural killer cells. Patients were given these in
      combination in the NANT 2011-04 study where the safety and immunomodulatory effect were
      established. The dose level proposed in this study is based off of these data. Natural killer
      cells are dysfunctional and low in number in many cancer patients, and number and function
      are further suppressed by chemotherapy and radiation. Investigators hypothesize that
      autologous NK cells can be expanded and activated ex vivo and readministered to restore
      number and function, and in combination with lenalidomide and ch14.18 will provide an
      anti-tumor effect in patients with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma.

      Investigators will determine the feasibility of centralized expansion, cryopreservation, and
      distribution of autologous NK cells. Investigators will then determine the maximum tolerated
      dose by assessing the toxicities of autologous expanded NK cells given with ch14.18; by
      assessing the toxicities, cytokinetics and immunomodulatory effects, Investigators will
      select the recommended Phase II dose of the two-agent combination after dose escalation of
      the NK cells and then adding lenalidomide to the combination to establish the three-agent
      combination.

      Cytokinetics (persistence of infused NK cells) and immune function studies will be required
      for all patients entered on this study. In addition to routine assessment of response,
      quantification of rare tumor cell detection in blood and bone marrow using TLDA will also
      provide another measure of possible anti-tumor efficacy to support the rationale for the
      final schedule chosen.
    
  