
    
      ENDPOINTS Primary endpoint To investigate the role of non-contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI), as a secondary prevention test for the early diagnosis of prostate cancer (PCa),
      comparing it with the serum PSA test.

      Secondary endpoints

        1. Assess the percentage of men with a positive PSA screening test, defined as > 4 ng/ml
           and > 2.5 ng/ml in patients with family history of PCa (father and/or sibling).

        2. Evaluation of the percentage of men with positive MRI and MRI targeted biopsy results
           stratified according to: absence of neoplasm, non-clinically significant neoplasm (ISUP
           1) and clinically significant neoplasm (ISUP> 1), compared with PSA test and serum
           biomarkers (optional).

        3. Comparison of the percentages of participants with PCa and with clinically significant
           PCa, according to the different positive screening tests.

        4. Comparison of the different screening tests combinations in terms of PCa detection rate,
           both for non-clinically significant and clinically significant cancer.

      STUDY DESIGN

      Design:

      Single center, prospective, interventional randomized controlled trial Duration: 2 years
      Evaluation of the effectiveness of the primary outcome: the evaluation of the effectiveness
      non-contrast MRI for the PCa detection will be based on MRI-guided biopsy targeted on the
      areas described and classified as biparametric Prostate Imaging-Reporting and Data System
      (bPI-RADS) ≥3 (scored according to the biparametric evaluation).

      The reference standard for the diagnosis of prostate cancer will be the Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging - Transrectal Ultrasound (MRI-TRUS) guided targeted biopsy, which will be performed
      at a maximum of 4 weeks from MRI.

      In order to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of non-contrast MRI the diagnostic performance
      variables (sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive and negative predictive value, area
      under the curve and receiver operating characteristic curves) will be calculated.

      For the statistical analysis of the effectiveness, only those participants who have undergone
      prostate biopsy as planned by the operator will be included.

      In addition, the interreader agreement between two radiologists responsible for the analysis
      of MRI images, with 10 and 8 years of experience in urogenital imaging, respectively, will be
      evaluated. The agreement between the two radiologists will be calculated using the weighted
      Cohen's k statistic.

      Evaluation of secondary outcomes: the evaluation of the effectiveness of secondary outcomes
      will be verified by evaluating the same statistical variables of diagnostic accuracy
      implemented for the primary purpose.

      Safety evaluation: the safety of the procedure will be determined by assessing the incidence
      and severity of adverse events, defined as complications related to the procedure recorded
      from the first treatment and during the entire duration of the follow-up (2 years).

      Participants in the study:

      Enrollment: 710 men will be enrolled and blindly randomized in two different arms. Arm a) 355
      patients will perform MRI with a bi-parametric approach (without contrast medium) regardless
      their PSA value; Arm b) 355 patients will perform MRI with a bi-parametric approach (without
      contrast medium) only when PSA is elevated.

      Patients with positive MRI defined as bPI-RADS ≥3, will undergo MRI-directed targeted
      prostate biopsy.
    
  