
    
      Heavy drinking in HIV-infected patients can lead to low antiretroviral therapy adherence and
      poor virologic control, greater sexual risk taking, increased risk of liver disease, and
      decreased cognitive function. Therefore, reductions in drinking may have particularly
      positive and widespread effects in HIV-infected patients. Men who have sex with men (MSM)
      continue to represent the majority of new HIV infections, and HIV-infected MSM have rates of
      hazardous drinking as high as 33%. Therefore, developing and testing interventions to reduce
      heavy drinking in HIV-infected MSM is a very high public health priority. There have been
      relatively few alcohol interventions tested that focus on MSM, and only two have addressed
      drinking in HIV-infected MSM. Although recent studies indicate that behavioral interventions
      can reduce heavy drinking in HIV-infected patients, much remains unknown about the efficacy
      of different approaches to behavioral intervention and their unique and combined effects. The
      purpose of the present study is to conduct a fully-crossed 2 X 2 X 2 factorial randomized
      controlled trial with a diverse sample of 224 MSM recruited from 2 urban HIV primary care
      clinics (one in the Northeast and one in the South). The first study factor will compare
      brief advice (BA) vs. a motivational intervention (MI) that contains detailed personalized
      normative and HIV-specific feedback. The second factor compares an interactive text messaging
      (ITM) intervention vs. no text messaging. The final factor compares intervention of low
      intensity and duration (two sessions over 1 month) to extended intervention (EI) entailing 5
      sessions over 9 months. BA and MI will be delivered by a core set of interventionists from a
      central location using a webcam-enabled telemedicine system, which can facilitate
      larger-scale implementation. The design will allow us to test the hypothesis that MI compared
      to BA, ITM compared to no ITM, and EI compared to no EI, will result in significantly greater
      reductions in number of alcoholic drinks consumed and number of heavy drinking days at 6- and
      12-month follow-ups. Secondary outcomes include engagement in unprotected anal intercourse,
      ART adherence and viral suppression, CD4 cell count, liver function tests, and neurocognitive
      function. We also will test the hypothesis that the effects of MI, ITM, and EI on drinking
      will be moderated by alcohol use disorder status and readiness to change drinking such that
      these interventions will be relatively more efficacious in those with a current disorder and
      those with low readiness. The study will provide crucial evidence regarding which
      intervention approaches, alone or in combination, are likely to be most efficient to
      implement on a large scale in HIV care settings.
    
  