
    
      A vascular aneurysm is a permanent, localized dilatation of a blood vessel at least 1 1/2 to
      2 times the normal vessel diameter. The aorta is the most frequent site for aneurysms, with
      approximately 10% of aortic aneurysms located above the renal arteries in the thoracic
      segment. Thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAAs) are less common than abdominal aorta, however,
      detection of TAAs is increasing, perhaps due to an aging population, increased diagnostic
      capability or an increase in prevalence.

      Untreated thoracic aneurysms can be life-threatening. As many as 78% of untreated patients
      with TAA die within 5 years after diagnosis, most often from rupture of the aneurysm.
      Conventional surgical treatment, either tube graft placement or patch aortoplasty, is a high
      risk surgical procedure. Repair of the thoracic descending aorta is performed with a
      thoracotomy and cross-clamping of the aorta, with or without a shunt by-pass to maintain
      distal perfusion.

      As an alternative to conventional surgery, a less invasive endovascular procedure has been
      developed that may be used to treat certain aneurysms. A collapsed stent-graft, a metal stent
      coupled with a fabric graft, is introduced into the vasculature, advanced to the size of the
      aneurysm, and deployed to span the aneurysm. The device creates a new aortic lumen, excluding
      the aneurysm sac from blood flow while maintaining flow within the stent-graft. This less
      invasive technique is designed to prevent or decrease the need for open surgery, to reduce
      the need for blood transfusion, to decrease the use of anesthetics and other drugs, and to
      speed recovery time. A reduction in intensive care and total hospital stay should result,
      leading to an increase quality of life following the procedure and a reduction in cost.

      The primary objective of this investigational plan is to determine the safety of the Valiant
      endoluminal device when used to exclude thoracic lesions: true descending thoracic aortic
      aneurysms, dissections, penetrating ulcers, traumatic transections and traumatic and
      degenerative pseudoaneurysms from blood flow in high risk and low risk patients who are
      candidates for endoluminal repair.

      Patients should be heparinized during the implant procedure (recommended activated clotting
      time is 200-300 seconds). During implantation of the Valiant endoluminal stent-graft, the
      pre-implant angiogram and CT scan are used together with (on-the-table) intravascular
      ultrasound (IVUS), digital subtraction angiography (DAS), roadmapping, and angiography for
      proper implant positioning. The Valiant endoluminal stent-graft endoprosthesis is inserted by
      delivery catheter and introducer sheath via a surgical cutdown (e.g., external iliac artery,
      femoral artery, common iliac artery conduit, etc.) approach. The introducer sheath and
      delivery catheter containing the stent-graft is inserted over a guidewire and advanced into
      the aorta and above the aneurysm. With the delivery catheter in the correct position, the
      introducer sheath is then withdrawn further until the stent-graft is completely deployed. A
      separate stent-graft balloon catheter system is provided with the device and may be used
      along the full length of the implanted device to model the springs against the vessel wall
      and to unravel possible wrinkles in the graft fabric. After deployment of the stent-graft,
      angiography is performed to verify implant position and to check for the presence of
      endoleaks.

      Subjects will undergo an evaluation of the Valiant endoluminal stent-graft to determine the
      safety and efficacy of the device as indicated by the adverse event rate, and to determine
      the risk factors that are most predictive of a successful outcome when used to exclude
      thoracic aortic aneurysms that require suprarenal fixation in high risk and low risk
      patients. Follow-up will be completed at 1, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months. Subject
      evaluation at 1 month will include a Complete Physical Exam, Labs (BUN and Creatinine), and a
      Thoracic Spiral CT with and without IV contrast 2.5 mm. Subject evaluation at 6, 12, 24, 36,
      48, and 60 months will include a Complete Physical Exam, Chest X-ray (AP, Lateral), Labs (BUN
      and Creatinine), and a Thoracic Spiral CT with and without IV contrast 2.5 mm.
    
  