
    
      The aim of this study is to provide a prospective classification of CD8 high (immunologically
      "hot") versus CD8 low (immunologically "cold") tumors at the time of treatment, based on the
      percentage of CD8 cells in a tumor biopsy, and to address the predictive value of the CD8
      biomarker for selecting patients for treatment with nivolumab with or without ipilimumab.

      A total of up to approximately 200 participants with advanced metastatic cancer will be
      enrolled. Ongoing monitoring for safety and futility will be implemented based on the method
      of Thall and colleagues (Thall et al, 1995) separately in the CD8 high and CD8 low tumor
      groups. Single-agent nivolumab will be administered at 360 mg intravenously (IV) every 3
      weeks (Q3W). Participants who continue to show clinical benefit after the first disease
      assessment will receive nivolumab 480 mg IV every 4 weeks (Q4W) until progressive disease
      (PD) or intolerable toxicity. At PD, participants will be allowed to add ipilimumab. For
      nivolumab and ipilimumab combination therapy, nivolumab will be administered at 360 mg IV
      Q3W, and ipilimumab will be administered at 1 mg/kg IV Q3W for the first 2 doses and then
      every 6 weeks for the 3rd and 4th doses, followed by nivolumab 480 mg IV Q4W until PD or
      intolerable toxicity. After receipt of the first dose of ipilimumab, the Investigator may
      determine (based on clinical symptoms) the number of future doses of ipilimumab the
      participant will receive, for a maximum of 4 doses. Participants who stop ipilimumab dosing
      early due to toxicities, may start nivolumab maintenance (ie, 4 doses [12 weeks] of nivolumab
      following the first dose).

      Advanced prostate cancer participants with tumoral CD8 ≥ 15% will be enrolled in the
      nivolumab monotherapy arm. A total of approximately 20 participants with Advanced Prostate
      Cancer and tumoral CD8 < 15% will be randomly allocated to 1 of 2 cohorts using combinations
      of ipilimumab and nivolumab.
    
  