
    
      The test treatment is the iRestore™ Hair Rejuvenation System. The device irradiates the scalp
      with visible light using 5 mW (class 3a) lasers. It is to be used approximately 3 times per
      week for approximately 30 minutes at each session.

      The System is placed on the head and adjusted to a comfortable size by rotating knobs on the
      side of the device. If needed, subjects may replace the soft pad on the inside of the device
      with the thinner pad provided. There will be 2 options for using the product. The subject
      will either insert the 5-V AC power adapter pin into the device remote control, and the 5-V
      adapter will then be plugged into the AC outlet; or the subjects will use the rechargeable
      battery pack and belt clip. The battery pack is an external device which will allow the
      subject the freedom of mobility while treating the hair. The rechargeable battery pack will
      hold a charge for up to 3 hours prior to needing to be recharged. The iRestore™ remote
      control clips into the battery holster and the pack plugs into the remote. The battery pack
      can be placed in a pocket, clipped to the belt or placed next to the subject. The device will
      be turned on by pressing the power button on the remote control. The dome of the device is to
      be moved forward and backward by the subject to brush through the hair and increase the
      direct light which comes into contact with the scalp. Subjects will then position the dome at
      the front of the scalp and press the start button to begin a 10-minute session. Note: As a
      safety feature, the dome must be placed onto the head prior to starting the device. A timer
      will indicate the completion of the session with a beep sound. Subjects will complete the
      same process as done with the front of the scalp with the dome repositioned to the middle of
      the scalp and then the back of the scalp. Once all 3 positions have received the 10 minute
      treatment, the power button is to be held for approximately 3 seconds to turn the device off.
      Once off the device is to be unplugged from the wall.

      The control device will be identical to the test device except that the laser-emitting units
      will be disabled. A standard light will be emitted from the device. Subjects and clinical
      staff engaged in the performance of assessments will be treatment blinded.
    
  