
    
      As part of intensive treatment of brain injury, intracranial pressure (ICP) should be
      controlled when the cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) falls below 60-70 millimeters of
      mercury (mmHg) (depending on the cause of injury) and/or the ICP is greater than 20 mmHg.
      Intracranial hypertension (ICHP) occurs in approximately 30-40% of all patients with severe
      traumatic brain injury and it is not infrequent in patients with non traumatic brain injury,
      such as subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH), and
      ischemic stroke (IS), and the presence of ICHP and inadequate CPP has been correlated to poor
      outcome. Therefore, measures to monitor ICP and CPP should be instituted as soon as possible
      in patients with severe brain injury. Currently, available methods for ICP monitoring include
      epidural, subdural, subarachnoid, parenchymal, and ventricular locations. Historically,
      ventricular ICP catheter has been used as the reference standard and the preferred technique
      when possible. It is the most accurate, and reliable method of monitoring ICP. Subarachnoid,
      subdural, and epidural monitors are less accurate. Unfortunately, all of the described
      methods are invasive, associated with a complication rate and are not inexpensive. For this
      reason, new methods have been developed in order to measure ICP non invasively. Transcranial
      Doppler (TCD) allows insonation of the basal cerebral arteries and the measurement of blood
      flow velocities in such vessels in by using a low-frequency-pulsed Doppler of 2 Mega Hertz
      (MHz) over the acoustic window regions. Many authors have analysed the doppler wave shape and
      the relation among diastolic, systolic and mean velocities in order to find a correlation
      with ICP and CPP. Few formulas have been described, in our study, the method introduced and
      tested by Schmidt et Al. in 2000 was adopted. Those authors observed a relationship among
      mean arterial blood pressure (ABP) diastolic flow velocity (FVd) and mean flow velocity (FVm)
      in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) that led them to find a formula able to yield CPP
      (estimated CPP: ABP x FVd / FVm + 14); once CPP is estimated, ICPtcd is easily calculated
      (ICP= ABP- CPP). The first aim of our study is to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of
      ICPtcd, compared to invasive ICP measurement, in order to exclude elevated ICP in patients
      with acute brain injury such as epidural hematomas (EDH), subdural hematomas (SDH),
      subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), intraparenchymal hemorrhage (IPH), ischaemic strokes (IS),
      traumatic brain injury (TBI). Inclusion criteria are:

        -  acute brain injury requiring invasive ICP monitoring

        -  Age > 18 yrs.

      Exclusion criteria are:

        -  inaccessible or poor acoustic ultrasound window;

        -  a cardiovascular disease causing hemodynamic variations affecting the TCD reading
           (severe arrhythmia, severe cardiac valvular stenosis, moderate or severe vasospasm);

        -  patients receiving craniotomy or had craniectomy before first time frame 1°,

        -  any treatment for intracranial hypertension or manipulation of arterial blood pressure
           between the non-invasive ICPtcd measurements and the invasive ICP (ICPi) measurement.
           (This is most likely to happen during time frame 1°).

      All patients included will have evaluation of non-invasive ICP monitoring through use of TCD
      (ICPtcd), and at least three TCD Measurements will be performed and correlated with
      non-invasive ICP. The timing for the TCD measurements and correlations will be as follows:

        -  1° measurement: will be performed before, and as close as possible, to ICP monitoring
           probe placement.

        -  2° measurement. Immediately following ICP monitoring probe placement;

        -  3° measurement: after ICP management optimization (2-3 hours after the second
           measurement).

      The first brain CT will be performed before invasive ICP placement (this CT scan is normally
      performed for diagnostic purposes) and whenever it is appropriate to perform the second scan,
      either for a change in clinical status, or according to guidelines and clinical judgment. If
      possible from 8 - 12 hrs following the first scan.
    
  