
    
      Problems with the ability to smell are referred to as olfactory dysfunction (OD). This
      condition is a widespread issue. 10-20% of all adults have OD, with 15 million individuals in
      the US self-reporting it in the past year. Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is defined as 12
      weeks or longer of non-clear nasal drainage, nasal congestion, facial pain or pressure,
      and/or decreased sense of smell. CRS is a common cause of OD. Up to 78% of patients with CRS
      reporting decreased sense of smell.

      Several previous studies have shown a beneficial treatment option for OD called olfactory
      training (OT). OT consists of smelling different odors several times per day, every day for
      several months. These studies have shown that OT improves the sense of smell in patients who
      lost their sense of smell due to acute infection, head trauma, or diseases of the brain like
      Parkinson's disease. OT has not, however, been studied previously as a treatment for OD due
      to CRS.

      The proposed study will use a randomized controlled trial to investigate if OT is effective
      for the treatment of OD in CRS. It will also investigate if widely available and lower cost
      odors, called essential oils, are as effective as traditionally used, pure fragrance oils,
      for OT in CRS. Lastly, the modified Questionnaire of Olfactory Disorders (mQOD) will be
      tested to determine if it can be used as a valid measure for monitoring patient's response to
      treatment.

      Patients diagnosed with CRS who report that their sense of smell is diminished on a standard
      intake survey given to all patients will be recruited for the study by their treating
      practitioner. Once enrolled and consented, the subject will take the mQOD and then undergo a
      baseline Brief Smell Identification Test (BSIT) test. They will then be randomly assigned to
      one of three groups. The subjects in two groups (n = 50 subjects per group) will receive OT
      while the subjects in the third group (n = 50 subjects) will serve as a control group and
      will not receive OT. Subjects in the OT groups will be asked to smell four different odors in
      rotation for five minutes two times per day, a total of 10 minutes of participation per day.
      Half of the patients assigned to the OT group will be given odors made of fragrance oils. The
      other half will be given odors made of essential oils to use. Patients will be blinded to
      whether they were given fragrance oils or essential oils. Subjects in the OT groups will be
      asked to record each training session in a provided journal.

      All subjects regardless of group will be sent an electronic version of the mQOD via email
      after the first and second month. Regardless of which group subjects are assigned, they will
      continue taking all medications and treatments for CRS as if they were not enrolled in this
      study. After three months, all subjects will again complete this survey as well as a second
      BSIT test. This study will determine if a) OT is an effective treatment for OD due to CRS, b)
      essential oils are as effective as pure fragrance oils for OT in CRS, and c) if the mQOD can
      be used to monitor treatments for OD in CRS.
    
  