
    
      Context and justification It has been shown that when patient's family commits to a
      psycho-educational programme, the relapse rate of the patients themselves is halved to an
      equivalent level to that of drug treatment. Cognitive disorders affect 80% of patients with
      schizophrenia and have deleterious consequences on their autonomy and daily functioning.
      Cognitive remediation has now clearly demonstrated its effectiveness in the management of
      these cognitive disorders, particularly with regard to compensatory approaches that aim
      modifying the environment and providing external support. However, access to cognitive
      remediation remains extremely limited. It is only available in a limited number of
      specialized centres. In order to allow a better access to these cognitive remediation methods
      and to maintain its effects over time, the objective of this research project is to develop a
      web-based intervention, the Cognitive Adaptative Training for Caregivers ("CAT famille"),
      aimed at accompanying and guiding family carers via an internet video chat with a
      psychologist to implement cognitive remediation techniques of compensatory approach directly
      into their sick relative living home.

      Main and secondary objectives The main objective is to evaluate the impact of a web-based
      intervention aimed at training a family caregiver in cognitive remediation techniques using a
      compensatory approach on the daily life functioning of his/her family member suffering from
      schizophrenia. Secondary objectives are to assess improvement in: 1) caregiver burden, 2)
      caregiver and patient quality of life, 3) negative symptoms, and 4) patient compliance.

      Methodology This is a comparative, prospective, randomized study including two groups of
      (patient/caregiver) dyads: 1) an intervention group consisting of a (patient + family carer)
      dyad benefiting, in addition to the usual treatment, from the intervention for the family
      carer, and 2) a group consisting of a (patient + caregiver) dyad with usual care (control
      group).

      Control group: Psycho-education manual, with a weekly reading module and a 15-minute webcam
      feedback by the psychologist.

      Intervention group: Family CAT manual, with a module each week to be read according to the
      patient's objectives and a 15-minute webcam feedback by the psychologist.

      For all groups:

      Before intervention: Neuropsychological assessment + home assessment of the environment and
      the performance of daily living activities by psychologist A.

      After intervention: Home assessment of the environment and the performance of daily living
      activities by psychologist B.

      The inclusion criteria are: 1) for patients: patients with schizophrenia, aged 18 to 50, who
      can read, understand and speak French, 2) for parents: understand, speak and read French. The
      main outcome will be the assessment of the patient's daily life functioning as measured by
      the Life Skills Profile.

      Process:

      Total number of visits and follow-up: 3 visits during a prospective follow-up over 10 months
      Duration of inclusions: 18 months and duration of statistical analysis/valuation: 3-6 months

      Feasibility:

      The University Service of Adult Psychiatry of the University Hospital of Montpellier is one
      of the schizophrenia expert centres of the Fondamental network. SUPA has proven expertise in
      the field of cognitive remediation (see PRME Grecco in progress). SUPA works in collaboration
      with the family carers of people diagnosed with schizophrenia, in particular through the
      Profamille program (psychoeducation for carers) and UNAFAM.

      Outcomes / Perspectives:

      The management of cognitive disorders is essential in the care of patients with
      schizophrenia, in combination with other types of therapies. This research, aimed at training
      family carers in the use of compensatory cognitive remediation techniques that require little
      knowledge of neuropsychology, will be of direct benefit to patients. The expected results
      will contribute to the optimization of management by demonstrating that intervention and
      training of relatives in compensatory cognitive techniques will improve functional autonomy.
    
  