
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the complete response rate (CR) and functional CR rate in patients with
      previously untreated stage I (with at least 1 risk factor) or stage II CD20+ diffuse large
      cell lymphoma who receive therapy with R-CHOP followed by 90-Yttrium -Zevalin™.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the time to treatment failure, duration of response, and overall survival in
      these patients who receive therapy with R-CHOP followed by 90-Yttrium -Zevalin™.

      II. To evaluate the toxicity of this therapy. III. To evaluate the toxicity of adding
      involved field radiation therapy > 12 weeks after Zevalin™ for patients with CT+/PET+
      residual masses.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate PET scans pre -and post - R-CHOP/Zevalin™ therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      R-CHOP (rituximab, prednisone, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin,vincristine): Patients receive
      oral prednisone once daily on days 1-5. Patients also receive rituximab IV over several hours
      followed by cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV over 30-60 minutes on day
      1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) after 2 courses receive 2
      additional courses. Patients achieving a partial response, uncertain CR, or stable disease
      receive 4 additional courses. Patients are evaluated 3 weeks after the last course of
      therapy. Patients with progressive disease go off study.

      Radioimmunotherapy: Beginning no more than 9 weeks after the reevaluation (or 12 weeks after
      the last dose of R-CHOP), patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 followed by indium In 111
      ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes for imaging studies. Patients then receive rituximab
      IV followed by yttrium 90-Yttrium ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day 8.

      Radiotherapy: Patients with residual disease by CT scan or positron emission tomography (PET)
      scan after 12 weeks after radioimmunotherapy undergo conventional involved-field
      radiotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months
      for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  