
    
      Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a subtype of recurrent depression involving major
      depressive episodes during the fall and/or winter months that remit in the spring. SAD
      affects an estimated 5% of the U. S. population, over 14.5 million Americans. The central
      public health challenge in the management of SAD is prevention of winter depression
      recurrence. The established and best available treatment, light therapy, remits acute
      symptoms in 53% of SAD cases. However, long-term compliance with clinical practice guidelines
      recommending daily use of a light box from onset of first symptom through spontaneous
      springtime remission during every fall/winter season is poor. Time-limited alternative
      treatments with durable effects are needed to prevent the annual recurrence of these
      disabling symptoms. Our preliminary studies suggest that a novel, SAD-tailored
      cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) may be as efficacious as light therapy alone for acute SAD
      treatment and that CBT may have superior outcomes to light therapy during the next winter.
      During the next wholly new winter season following the initial winter of study treatment, the
      proportion of depression recurrences was significantly smaller in participants randomized to
      CBT (5.8%) or to CBT combined with light therapy (5.2%) than in participants randomized to
      light therapy alone (39.2%). As the next step in this programmatic line of intervention
      studies, the primary aim of the proposed project is to further test the efficacy of our CBT
      for SAD intervention against light therapy in a larger, more definitive randomized
      head-to-head comparison on next winter outcomes in an intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis using
      all randomized participants. This project is seeking to test for a clinically meaningful
      difference between CBT and light therapy on depression recurrence in the next winter (the
      primary outcome), thereby having the potential to impact clinical practice. The proposed work
      will go beyond our pilot studies in four ways: (1) This study will augment the
      generalizability of our prior pilot study data by relaxing the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      to allow for comorbid diagnoses and stable antidepressant medication use and by demonstrating
      the feasibility of training experienced community therapists to facilitate the CBT groups.
      (2) We will prospectively track recurrences and potential intervening variables that could
      affect outcome (e.g., new treatments, summer remission status) in the interim between
      treatment endpoint and the following winter. (3) This study includes a second annual winter
      followup to obtain preliminary data on the comparative effects of CBT vs. LT two winters
      after the initial winter of study treatment. (4) We will examine how potential modifiers
      influence the effects of CBT vs. LT, including demographic variables; baseline
      characteristics (e.g., depression severity, comorbidity, baseline medication status); and
      complete or incomplete summer remission status in the interim. If successful, this work will
      develop a novel treatment with important public health implications for winter depression
      prevention.
    
  