
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess treatment outcomes of adjuvant chemotherapy based on ERCC1 and RRM1 mRNA
           levels in patients with stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      RNA is isolated from pretreatment biopsy samples and analyzed with reverse transcriptase-PCR
      (RT-PCR) assays to determine ERCC1 and RRM1 mRNA expression.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive standard chemotherapy comprising docetaxel IV and carboplatin IV
           on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients are treated according to ERCC1 and RRM1 mRNA expression levels as
           determined by RT-PCR.

             -  Genotype A1 (high ERCC1 and high RRM1 mRNA levels): Patients receive non-platinum
                doublet chemotherapy comprising docetaxel and vinorelbine ditartrate IV on days 1
                and 15. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Genotype A2 (high ERCC1 and low RRM1 mRNA levels): Patients receive non-platinum
                doublet chemotherapy comprising gemcitabine hydrochloride IV and vinorelbine
                ditartrate IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Genotype B1 (low ERCC1 and high RRM1 mRNA levels): Patients receive platinum
                doublet chemotherapy comprising docetaxel IV and carboplatin IV on day 1. Treatment
                repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Genotype B2 (low ERCC1 and low RRM1 mRNA levels): Patients receive platinum doublet
                chemotherapy comprising gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 8 and
                carboplatin IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  