
    
      As of late July 2020, the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2), continues to spread globally. Although knowledge about the pathogenesis,
      epidemiology and clinical aspects of the virus is improving every week, evidence-based
      interventions that promote testing, quarantine, isolation, symptom monitoring and
      care-seeking still elude us. Rigorously collected data about how to overcome barriers and
      promote testing, the cornerstone of our public health response, and the constellation of
      necessary preventive behaviors linked to testing is urgently needed to prevent the spread and
      toll of COVID-19. Study investigators will work with long-term Navajo Nation (NN) and White
      Mountain Apache Tribe (WMAT) partners to answer COVID-19 research questions foundational to
      the effectiveness of testing through evaluation of community-based evidence-informed
      interventions targeting enhanced symptom tracking and monitoring, uptake of rapid testing
      after symptom onset, care-seeking, and preventive behaviors.

      The first case of COVID-19 was detected on Navajo Nation on March 17, 2020. As of August
      2020, over 8,500 cases and 400 deaths have occurred among a population of ~206,000 (4,126 per
      100,000). On the Fort Apache Reservation (WMAT), cases have been steadily increasing since
      the first documented illness on April 1. More than 2,200 cases and 32 deaths have occurred
      among a population of ~17,000 (12,353 per 100,000) (as of August 2020). Per capita, these
      disease rates are among the highest in the US. These communities also suffer some of the
      highest rates of underlying conditions (obesity, heart disease and diabetes), putting them at
      increased risk for severe COVID disease, complications and mortality.

      Infectious diseases have been a threat to Indigenous peoples since the Europeans arrived.
      Historical records show that smallpox, cholera, scarlet fever, influenza and tuberculosis
      took more Indigenous lives than wars, enslavement, and starvation combined. Intentional germ
      warfare by federal officials to decrease American Indian and Alaska Native populations is a
      dark page in US history and a traumatizing memory for American Indian and Alaska Natives. The
      current pandemic is a profound reminder of endured injustice, simultaneously inciting trauma
      and tribal resilience to survive and thrive anew. In past respiratory viral pandemics,
      American Indian and Alaska Natives experienced more severe illness, with 4-5 times higher
      death rates vs. general US population. With COVID-19, there has been greater recognition of
      the social determinants that underlie these persistent health disparities. A number of
      factors including poverty, lack of running water, and sub-standard, overcrowded federal
      housing shared by multi-generational families contribute to increased risk. On Navajo Nation,
      between 30-40% of households lack running water. Up to one-third of Navajo Nation and White
      Mountain Apache Tribe homes lack reliable electricity, internet and cell phone
      infrastructure. Underlying conditions, driven by food and water insecurity, environmental
      toxins, and over a century of inadequate access to health services, exacerbate the
      susceptibility to and severity of COVID-19. Further, the acute psychosocial stress caused by
      the pandemic is leading to an increase in already disproportionate mental and behavioral
      health conditions, including substance abuse, depression, and anxiety, that contributes to
      more spread (through more sharing of substances), more avoidance or stigma related to testing
      positive, and ongoing cycles of greater fear and despair. Interventions designed for this
      project seek to address both physical and psychosocial effects of COVID-19.

      This study will conduct research to understand how to expand and hasten testing when a person
      has symptoms or exposure, and preventive behaviors, isolation and care-seeking when positive,
      among elders, ages >65 and young adults ages 18-34 years who have used alcohol or drugs in
      the past 6 months.
    
  