
    
      Sample population: Women who attend the abortion service at the Chalmers Centre to receive
      abortion assessment and abortion care. There will be 3 groups recruited based upon
      gestational age of pregnancy - Group 1: Gestation less than 10 weeks (10 participants), Group
      2: Gestation 10+0 -13+6 weeks (10 participants), Group 3: Gestation 14+0-20+0 weeks (10
      participants).

      Information Sheet: All new patients attending the clinic will be given a copy of the
      participant information sheet, so that they have time to read about the study. The
      Information sheet will also be available on the 'research' section of the clinic website -
      all women are routinely directed to this page before attending clinic.

      Approach by research staff: Following registration, all patients are taken for an ultrasound
      scan by a clinical support worker to confirm gestation. Following this, patients move to a
      waiting area until they can be seen for their assessment. While they are waiting, the clinic
      coordinator will ask the patient if they are happy to be approached by the researcher to
      discuss the study further. If they are happy to discuss further, the researcher will then
      approach and discuss the study in a private room.

      Consent: If patients are happy to participate in the study, the researcher will then obtain
      written informed consent prior to their bloods being taken by clinic staff if bloods required
      for routine care, if no routine bloods are required, the researcher will obtain the blood
      sample. Participants will be asked if they are planning to use a hormonal form of
      contraception following their abortion - if yes, they would be asked to wait until they have
      had their second blood sample taken to commence or not taken forward into the study.

      First blood test: This will be obtained on the day of clinic attendance and ultrasound scan.
      Blood samples (less than 20 ml) will be obtained and taken to the NHS Lothian laboratory at
      the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and for ClotPro thromboelastography point of care testing.

      Second blood test: An appointment will be made to see the patient in Chalmers Centre or at
      their home to obtain a further blood sample to compare to the initial test. This will take
      place 10-14 days following mifepristone administration. For the repeat sample we will conduct
      a COVID-19 risk assessment and only invite them for return visit/home visit if:

        1. The participant has confirmed they and close contacts are well and without suspicion of
           COVID-19.

        2. The participant agrees to a home visit.

        3. The research staff undertaking the home visit should be well and have had no known
           contact with a COVID-19 positive individual for the past 14 days.

      If they are having an intrauterine contraceptive, implant or injection, the second blood
      sample can be taken when they come into clinic for this, to minimise the number of visits.

      Comparison group: A comparison group, Group 4 (10 participants), who are healthy volunteers,
      recruited from sexual and reproductive health clinics at Chalmers Centre, will be asked to
      provide a single blood test for ClotPro and lab tests, and urine pregnancy test hCG to act as
      a nonpregnant comparison. These participants must not be using hormonal contraception and
      must not be pregnant. This group will be approached by clinicians working in the SRH clinics
      and the researcher will be on hand to obtain consent and then draw blood.
    
  