
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is systemic autoimmune disease characterized by various
      immunological abnormalities, including dysregulated activation of both T and B lymphocytes
      with overt production of autoreactive antibodies . Lupus nephritis (LN) is the most common
      and serious complication in SLE patients characterized by proteinuria, hematuria, drop
      glomerular filtration rate, or renal dysfunction . It is known that B lymphocytes are
      involved in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus in autoantibody-dependent
      mechanisms . The chemokine CXC ligand 13 protein (CXCL13), also known as B cell-attracting
      chemokine-1 (BAC-1) or B lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC), is a CXC subtype member of the
      chemokine superfamily. The receptor of CXCL13 is CXCR5, which is normally expressed on mature
      B cells and follicular T helper cells (Tfh). It has been demonstrated that CXCL13 is
      sufficient to induce secondary lymphoid tissues in peripheral organs. It is well known that
      different chemokines are involved in the pathogenesis of LN by orchestrating proinflammatory
      microenvironments, recruiting immune cell subsets into the kidney and by inducing local
      activation of immune effector cells . Local B-cell infiltration and related abnormal
      expression of ectopic lymphoid tissue (ELT) in the renal tissues of LN mice models was
      related to the severity of renal impairment .

      Of interest, in regions of B cell infiltration a higher expression level of CXCL13 was found.
      Most B cells in this region expressed the corresponding receptor CXCR5, also supporting the
      hypothesis that CXCL13 induces B cell infiltration into the kidneys via its receptor CXCR5 .

      In one study on 91Caucasian patients, CXCL13 serum levels were correlated with disease
      activity using the SLE Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) and to lupus nephritis. It was found
      that serum CXCL13 levels correlated well with SLEDAI and median CXCL13 concentrations were
      higher in patients with renal involvement .
    
  