
    
      Explanation (of rationale for current study):

      Despite the encouraging case report described above, oseltamivir has not been rigorously
      tested in humans to determine its efficacy in the management of ITP. Oseltamivir is an
      attractive drug for ITP since it specifically targets a pathophysiologic mechanism that
      appears to be important for the development of ITP and has a benign side effect profile
      compared to standard ITP therapy. However, more robust evidence that oseltamivir affects
      desialylation in humans is needed before a definitive, multicenter randomized trial can be
      justified to funders.

      The investigators therefore propose the first randomized, double blind, study to assess the
      impact of oseltamivir on biological markers in adult patients with ITP. This study will also
      provide information about the feasibility of recruitment into a definitive trial, which would
      be coordinated at St. Michael's Hospital (SMH).

      Impact:

      The most appropriate treatment of patients with persistent ITP represents an area of major
      clinical interest burdened by unacceptable uncertainty. This study has the potential to
      dramatically change the treatment of ITP. If the results from the definitive study are
      positive, the investigators envision a move away from non-specific immune-blunting therapy
      such as prednisone, towards tailored therapy like oseltamivir. Targeted therapy for ITP is a
      timely and relevant concept. It could diminish the lifelong summative immunosuppressive
      therapy burden, associated drug toxicity and improve long- and short-term health outcomes for
      this patient population.

      Research Question:

      Do adults (≥ 18 years) with ITP treated with oseltamivir at 75mg twice daily for 5
      consecutive days have an increase in their mean platelet glycoprotein sialylation compared to
      those receiving placebo?

      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the impact of oseltamivir on mean platelet
      glycoprotein sialylation when administered orally at 75 mg twice daily versus placebo for
      five consecutive days in the management of ITP in adult patients (≥ 18 years).

      Secondary Objectives:

      The secondary objectives relate to the feasibility of conducting a subsequent definitive
      randomized trial focused on treatment efficacy and include:

        1. The percentage of eligible patients who were successfully recruited;

        2. The number of patients recruited per month;

        3. The percentage of patients who received the study drug within 12 hours of randomization;

        4. The percentage of patients who received every scheduled dose of the study drug in a
           blinded fashion;

        5. The percentage of patients who completed follow-up six months after randomization.

      Additional exploratory objectives are to determine in each treatment arm:

        1. The mean platelet count;

        2. The proportion of patients who received additional ITP based therapy during the study 12
           month follow-up period;

        3. Frequencies of CD4+ and CD8+ T regulatory cells;

        4. Cytokine profiles;

        5. The anti-platelet glycoprotein antibody specificity/titer; and

        6. The effects of these antibodies on macrophage- and hepatocyte-mediated Fc-dependent and
           independent phagocytosis in vitro.

      Methods: Trial Design, Participants, Interventions, and Outcomes:

      Trial Design:

      This is a single center, pilot, proof-of-concept, double-blind randomized controlled clinical
      trial to determine the impact of oseltamivir on mean platelet glycoprotein sialylation in
      patients with ITP. Eligible participants will be randomized to one of two treatment regimens
      in a 1:1 allocation ratio, receiving either oseltamivir (administered orally at 75 mg twice
      daily) or placebo (administered orally twice daily) for five consecutive days.

      Information for Participants:

      Those who are capable of giving informed consent meeting study eligibility criteria, as per
      the investigators judgement, will be approached for study. The informed consent form (ICF)
      and process for obtaining informed consent will comply with institutional, local, national
      and international laws, rules and regulations. The ICF will be signed and dated by the
      subject before the subject participates in any study-related activities. If any significant
      changes to study design are made, a protocol amendment will be issued, submitted/approved by
      the REB and signed by the site investigator. Protocol changes will be presented to the
      subject and repeated ICF procedures will occur.

      Study Site:

      This will be a single center study undertaken at SMH, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. All
      laboratory based elements will be measured/studied at the SMH clinical hematology lab or at
      Dr. Ni's platelet biology lab at the Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute.

      Description of Interventions:

      All study participants will receive either oseltamivir (administered orally at 75 mg twice
      daily) or placebo (administered orally twice daily) for five consecutive days. Screening of
      potential study participants will occur within 7 days of the randomization date (Day 0).
      Screening can occur on Day 0. The study participant will be randomized on Day 0 and study
      drug administration will begin on Day 1 and end on Day 5.

      All capsules will be dispensed in a blister pack format. The capsules of oseltamivir and
      placebo will be encapsulated to look the same. Packing and labeling of the blister packs will
      be performed by the study pharmacist at SMH. To track compliance, the blister pack will be
      reviewed at Day 5 (or within 3 days of study drug completion) and a participant diary will be
      utilized. Discontinuation of the medication while on trial can occur because of adverse
      effects, participant or treating physician request (e.g. if patient requires standard ITP
      therapy). The reason for discontinuation will be carefully collected and documented. For the
      duration of the trial, there will be no additional study interventions aside from what has
      already been described above.

      Co-Interventions:

      The investigators anticipate that rare patients will receive additional ITP therapy over the
      course of study follow-up, particularly if their platelet count falls to below 20 x 109/L.
      Therefore, the investigators will collect data regarding immunosuppressive therapy at all
      follow-up time points.

      Feasibility of Intervention and Study Population Oseltamivir is a safe and well-tolerated
      medication. The dose and duration of treatment used in this study is the accepted regimen for
      the treatment of influenza. The most common side effects (2-15%) are gastrointestinal
      symptoms (nausea, abdominal pain and diarrhea). Current second/third line management of ITP
      involves a range of immunosuppressive regimens with variable efficacy and considerable
      adverse effects, or observation without therapy (depending on a patient's platelet count and
      bleeding risk). The placebo and oseltamivir treatment arms are ethically sound for the
      reasons listed above and because the investigators are excluding patients with severe
      thrombocytopenia (<20 x E9/L) and active significant bleeding (defined as a bleeding
      assessment score of Grade 2 at any site by the Immune Thrombocytopenia Purpura Bleeding
      Score).

      Methods: Randomization

      Sequence Generation, Concealment of Allocation and Implementation:

      Concealment of allocation will occur by centralized web based randomization using sealed
      envelopes, with a 1:1 computer generated allocation sequence created independently by the
      study statistician, Prof. Kevin Thorpe. Participants will be randomized with permuted blocks
      of varying size to achieve allocation balance across the two treatment groups (this will be
      concealed to participants, clinicians and data collectors).

      Blinding:

      Trial participants, clinicians, data collectors, and laboratory analysts will be blinded.
      Blinding of participants and clinicians will be achieved with the use of identical appearing
      oseltamivir and placebo capsules (achieved via over-encapsulation). Blinding of laboratory
      technologists is of particular importance since the primary outcome is technologist
      determined.

      Unblinding In the event of a medical emergency, when management of a participant's condition
      requires knowledge of the study drug, the treatment assignment may be unblinded to disclose
      the identity of the study drug dispensed. Investigators seeking to unblind the participant's
      treatment assignment will contact the Principal Investigator (Dr. M. Sholzberg), or in the
      absence of the Principal Investigator; the Co-Investigator, Dr. Gloria Lim. The Clinical
      Research Coordinator (CRC) will be contacted to record the reason for unblinding, name of
      investigator requesting unblinding, date and time of unblinding.

      Methods: Data Collection, Management, and Analysis

      Source Data The investigators and study staff will maintain adequate and accurate source
      documentation to document the treatment and study course of a subject and to substantiate the
      integrity of the trial data submitted for review to regulatory authorities. Documentation
      will be filled out by study staff and must be completed for each screened subject with all
      required study data accurately recorded. The investigator has final responsibility for the
      accuracy and authenticity of the clinical data at all times.

      Analysis:

      Primary Outcome The primary analysis of platelet glycoprotein will be conducted using ANCOVA
      where the baseline value is adjusted for. The treatment effect will be expressed as an
      adjusted mean difference. The intention-to-treat (ITT) approach will be employed for analyses
      of the primary outcome. If a meaningful difference is observed at day 5 a secondary analysis
      will employ a linear mixed effect model to explore the duration of the treatment effect.

      Secondary Feasibility Outcomes

      The investigators have set some minimal targets for the feasibility outcomes that will
      facilitate assessment of the feasibility to conduct a larger trial. The targets the
      investigators hope to achieve are:

        1. At least 30% of eligible patients recruited

        2. Approximately two patients per month recruited

        3. At least 80% receive study drug within 12 hours of enrollment

        4. At least 90% successful blinding of drug distribution

        5. At least 80% completing 12 month follow-up

      Secondary Clinical and Biomarker Outcomes Given the small sample size of this trial it must
      be stressed that all secondary outcomes should be viewed as supportive or describing
      mechanisms related to the primary findings. Therefore, the statistical methods employed will
      be used for effect estimation purposes rather than formal statistical inference. The
      difference in proportion receiving ITP therapy will be expressed as the absolute risk
      difference with 95% confidence interval. With the exception of the phagocytosis in vitro
      study (outcome 6), all other biomarkers will undergo a primary analysis of their Day 5
      levels. The ANCOVA model will be used to estimated the baseline adjusted difference between
      groups. If possible (e.g. model convergance) linear mixed effect models will examine the time
      course of platelets and cytokines by treatment group. In addition to the standard ITT
      approach, per-protocol analyses of the biomarkers will also be conducted. Finally, "The
      effects of these antibodies on macrophage- and hepatocyte-mediated Fc-dependent and
      independent phagocytosis in vitro" is a one-time lab analysis. The difference in mean
      flourescent intensity will be estimated from a linear regression model that adjusts for
      antibody class. The possibility of an interaction between treatment and antibody class will
      also be explored. All biomarker analyses will be supplemented with graphical displays of the
      results.
    
  