
    
      A predetermined recording of a music playlist meeting the properties of sedative music is
      being developed in consultation with a Boston Children's Hospital (BCH) music therapist.
      Properties of sedative music include soothing, stable, constant, and relatively unchanging,
      slow tempo and light rhythmic emphasis, constant volume and rhythm, lullaby style,
      repetitious and no separate melody for chorus/bridge. The music recorded for the neonates has
      been produced specifically for this study. In accordance with the recommendations for
      soothing music, BCH Music Therapists have recorded English nursery rhymes (Figure 1) in the
      key of C major at 60bpm with acoustic guitar and voice. The playlist will be stored on an
      Apple iPod Touch and will be delivered through a Bluetooth speaker that is positioned
      centrally (so that the sound input is received binaurally) at the subjects head or feet for a
      period of 20 minutes once during a 12-hour shift for 14 days or until mechanical ventilation
      has been discontinued, whichever is first.

      The literature supports a duration of up to 30 minutes of music therapy followed by at least
      30 minutes of silence, with a maximum of four hours per day. Music played for longer than 30
      minutes has the potential to be a source of over-stimulation/agitation. There is some
      evidence to suggest that playing music for long periods of time (two four-hour segments) has
      a negative effect. In addition, it seems reasonable and likely to assume that the neonate
      could have a period of 30 minutes when they will not require an intervention associated with
      post-operative care. The protocol will target a 20 minute playlist. This will allow for
      variation in the length of songs while ensuring that music will not be played for longer than
      30 minutes. There will be at least 30 minutes of quiet between music therapy session.
    
  