
    
      Venous thrombo-embolic disease (VTED) is a frequent pathology. The incidence is about 5 to 20
      cases for 10000 persons each year, in a general population. The immediate risk is the
      pulmonary embolism potentially fatal. So, it justifies all the works in clinical research
      during the last years. Those studies allow many progresses, diagnostic and therapeutic, for
      the immediate undertaking of the patients. Despite that, VTED is a major problem of public
      health and the diminution of the mortality lied to VTED is one of the objectives of the
      French law relative to the politics of Public Health (August 2004). At more long-term, the
      post-thrombotic syndrome lead to an incapacitating pathology, which requires many cares. The
      frequency of the post-thrombotic syndrome is evaluated between 25 and 60% at middle-term (1
      or 2 years). It depends of the studies and of the clinical primary end-points or vascular
      explorations. Rehabilitation has never been validated in this indication by studies with a
      correct methodology.

      Deep venous thrombosis (not in acute phase) is recognized as an indication for about 10 spa
      in France. But the specific or global benefit of this water cure is not clearly and
      scientifically proved. The importance of the venous pump of the calf and of the hydrostatic
      pressure in the physiopathology of the post-thrombotic syndrome make natural the use of
      balneotherapy for the prevention of this pathology for patients with severe deep venous
      thrombosis of lower limbs (proximal and obstruent). The venous thermal techniques have
      well-defined physiopathological targets. The haemodynamic and microcirculatory effects of
      some of them have been proved. The high degree of satisfaction of the patients that benefit
      from phlebological water cure every year in France indirectly shows the benefits that they
      feel. In those indications, prevention of the post-thrombotic syndrome is one of the
      well-recognize by the medical profession. For all that, there was not really validation of
      this indication with an acceptable methodology for the canons of the modern medicine. That is
      the reason why we undertake this randomized, single-blind controlled study with for main
      objective to demonstrate that hydrotherapy in a specific place can reduce the risk of
      post-thrombotic syndrome.
    
  