
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the efficacy of sodium thiosulfate (STS) to reduce the hearing impairment
           caused by cisplatin chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To carefully monitor any potential impact of STS on response to cisplatin and survival.

        -  To assess the short- and long-term tolerability of the combination of STS and cisplatin

        -  To prospectively evaluate and validate biological, radiological and pathological
           features of standard-risk hepatoblastoma for future risk adapted management

        -  To investigate the effect of STS on the formation of cisplatin-DNA adducts.

        -  To prospectively collect patient DNA specifically for the analysis of possible genetic
           factors that may contribute to the development of treatment-related ototoxicity and
           nephrotoxicity

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to country, median
      age (< 15 months vs ≥ 15 months), and PRETEXT tumor classification (I vs II vs III). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (Neoadjuvant and adjuvant cisplatin): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours
           on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses. Patients with progressive
           disease after course 4 are taken off study. Patients without evidence of disease
           progression proceed to surgery. Beginning within 3 weeks after surgery, patients receive
           cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 2 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (Neoadjuvant and adjuvant cisplatin and sodium thiosulphate): Patients receive
           cisplatin IV over 6 hours and sodium thiosulphate IV over 15 minutes (beginning 6 hours
           after completion of cisplatin) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses.
           Patients with progressive disease after course 4 are taken off study. Patients without
           evidence of disease progression proceed to surgery. Beginning within 3 weeks after
           surgery, patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours and sodium thiosulphate IV over 15
           minutes (as in neoadjuvant therapy) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 2
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood collection and tumor biopsies periodically for biological and
      pharmacological studies consisting of biomarker analysis, gene expression profiling, IHC,
      proteomic analysis, and gene rearrangement analysis. Patients undergo auditory evaluations at
      baseline, and at the completion of study treatment or at an age of at least 3.5 years to
      measure ototoxicity and hearing impairment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.
    
  