
    
      Timely treatment can effectively reduce the burden of stroke and should begin with optimal
      prehospital stroke care. The slogans 'Time is brain' and 'Competence is brain' adequately
      point out that acute stroke is a time-critical medical emergency requiring specialized
      treatment.

      Pursuant to ongoing technological developments and in line with the American Stroke
      Association and the European Stroke Organisation guidelines, the implementation of telestroke
      for optimizing inhospital stroke care is currently applied in several countries. Research on
      prehospital telestroke systems is recommended by the American Stroke Association, as it may
      facilitate early stroke diagnosis, assessment of stroke severity and selection of patients
      for specific stroke treatments.

      The experience with prehospital telemedicine for assessment of stroke severity, however, is
      limited to the TeleBAT project and two recent pilot studies conducted in healthy volunteers.
      Prehospital telestroke is a very promising concept, facilitating specialized stroke care in
      very early stage based on integration of bidirectional audiovisual communication with point
      of care laboratory analysis, vitals and decision support software.

      As part of the Prehospital Stroke Study at the Universitair ziekenhuis Brussel (PreSSUB), we
      have developed and tested several prototypes for prehospital telemedicine. The current system
      consists of commercially available hardware and a Web-based telemedicine platform. The data
      are transmitted to a multimedia server unit over a mobile (ultra)broadband connection (3G or
      4G). Data privacy is secured by password-protected logins, role-based access control, and
      hypertext transfer protocol secure encryption.

      The results of a feasibility study using the 4G network in healthy volunteers have recently
      been reported and feasibility data using the 3G network in healthy volunteers are available.

      Building further on the reassuring safety and feasibility data specified above, the next
      logical step is to evaluate this system for prehospital telemedicine in the real-life
      situation involving transportation of patients in the Paramedic Ambulance team
      (PIT)-ambulance to the UZ Brussel.
    
  