
    
      Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) represents the fourth leading cause of cancer-related
      mortality in the United States, with an estimated 36,800 deaths attributable to PDAC in
      2010.(1) Over 90% of patients have inoperable disease at presentation, at which point
      systemic therapy becomes the primary form of treatment. Single agent gemcitabine became the
      standard of care for advanced pancreatic cancer a decade ago since demonstrating improved
      survival when compared with fluorouracil. Since then, a number of phase III trials have
      evaluated the benefit of adding additional cytotoxic or targeted agents to gemcitabine, as
      shown in the table below. The PA.3 trial(2), which led to the approval of erlotinib in
      advanced pancreatic cancer, was a landmark study in that it represented the first positive
      phase III study of a combination regimen for this disease indication; however, while
      erlotinib represents both an important proof of principle and a welcome addition to our
      therapeutic armamentarium, it has failed to gain significant traction in this disease, as
      many in the oncology community consider the marginal absolute improvement in median overall
      survival to be of questionable clinical significance.

      FOLFIRINOX: A new standard of care for advanced PDAC? At the 2010 American Society of
      Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting (ASCO), a French cooperative group presented results of a
      potentially practice-changing phase III clinical trial (PRODIGE 4/ACCORD 11).(18) In this
      study, 342 patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic cancer were randomized to
      receive either gemcitabine monotherapy or the combination of biweekly infusional
      5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX) (ref). The investigators
      reported statistically significant improvements for the FOLFIRINOX arm in the primary
      endpoint, overall survival (median of 11.1 months vs 6.8 months, P < .0001); as well as
      1-year survival rate (48.4% vs. 20.6%), median progression-free survival (6.4 vs. 3.3 months;
      P < .0001), and objective response rate (CR+PR, 31.6% vs. 9.4%; P = .0001)). Not
      surprisingly, the more complex FOLFIRINOX regimen was associated with higher rates of grade
      3/4 toxicities, including neutropenia (45.7% vs 18.7%), febrile neutropenia (5.4% vs. 0.6%),
      fatigue (23.2% vs. 14.2%), and diarrhea (12.7% vs. 1.2%). Notably, while primary prophylaxis
      with growth factor support was not mandated in this trial, 42.5% of patients did ultimately
      receive such support. Moreover, most patients enrolled in this trial had non-pancreatic head
      tumors (approximately 64%) which is the opposite distribution of what one might expect in a
      representative pancreatic cancer population. Thus, it is conceivable that the FOLFIRINOX
      regimen, with its high rates of neutropenia, may lead to unacceptable rates of infectious
      complications (eg, ascending cholangitis and biliary sepsis), in patients with pancreatic
      head tumors with indwelling endobiliary stents.

      Nevertheless, this strikingly positive survival benefit, with a median overall survival
      approaching one year in a purely metastatic cohort, has never before been observed in any
      previous study, which raises the question of whether FOLFIRINOX should become the newly
      adopted standard of care, at least in patients with preserved performance status (patients on
      this trial were required to have an ECOG performance score of 0-1).

      HEDGEHOG SIGNALING The Hedgehog(19) signaling pathway is important for normal mammalian
      embryonic development and for adult tissue remodeling. Recent reports have demonstrated that
      aberrant activation of the Hh pathway is associated with many types of cancer, including
      basal cell carcinoma (BCC), medulloblastoma, pancreatic adenocarcinomas, small-cell lung
      cancer (SCLC), metastatic prostate cancer, glioma, breast cancer, hepatocellular cancer, and
      hematologic malignancies. High levels of Hh pathway activation, either through mutation of
      pathway components or through constitutive expression of Hh pathway genes, appear to be
      involved in both the initiation of cancer and tumor cell survival, as well as tumor growth
      and metastasis. Given the therapeutic potential of Hh pathway inhibition in cancer, Infinity
      has developed IPI-926, a potent and specific antagonist of the Hh pathway that binds
      Smoothened (Smo), a key signaling transmembrane protein in this pathway, thereby diminishing
      downstream promoters of cellular proliferation.

      Pancreatic adenocarcinomas are an ideal tumor class in which to evaluate the activity of a Hh
      pathway inhibitor, as multiple lines of evidence support a role for Hedgehog signaling in
      pancreatic tumorigenesis:

        -  Aberrant expression of Sonic hedgehog (SHH) and its associated signaling components
           (patched (PTC) and smoothened (SMO)) are frequently found in pancreatic cancer
           specimens.(20-27)

        -  Pharmacologic inhibition of hedgehog signaling produces antitumor effects in pancreatic
           cancer cell lines27 and orthotopic xenograft models.(28,29) Studies involving global
           sequencing analysis have identified this pathway as one of the central elements
           undergoing transformation in nearly all pancreatic cancers.(21)

        -  Hedgehog signaling may play an important role in maintenance of pancreatic cancer stem
           cells.(30-32)

        -  The dense desmoplastic mesenchymal network that constitutes the stroma of pancreatic
           adenocarcinomas coupled with poor vascularity may present a major challenge to effective
           delivery of intravenous chemotherapy to the bulk of pancreatic tumor cell burden. Recent
           evidence in a genetically engineered mouse model of pancreatic cancer demonstrated that
           IPI-926 can deplete tumor-associated stromal tissue and increase intratumoral mean
           vessel density, resulting in enhanced delivery of concurrently administered systemic
           agents such as gemcitabine, decreased tumor burden, and prolonged survival.(33)
    
  