
    
      BACKGROUND Persistent postsurgical pain occurs in more than 30% of patients undergoing breast
      cancer surgery. Evidence that gabapentinoids such as pregabalin may reduce the incidence of
      persistent postsurgical pain is ambiguous, potentially because in previous trials
      prophylactic treatment was administered to every patient undergoing surgery. The patients at
      low risk of long term pain, were exposed to side effects without much benefit to expect.

      AIM Validating or refuting the utility of pregabalin to prevent long term post-operative pain
      in patients at high risk of persistent pain after breast cancer surgery.

      METHODS Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of pregabalin (2*150mg from the
      day before breast cancer surgery until 2 weeks after surgery) in patients at high risk of
      persistent pain (>30%). High-risk patients are identified by a risk score derived from a
      previous observational study. The main outcome is the incidence of clinically important pain
      (necessitating analgesic treatment, or having an intensity of >3 at rest or >5 on movement)
      at 3 months after surgery. Secondary outcomes are: incidence of neuropathic pain, pain
      interference, and incidences at 6 and 12 months of follow-up. In addition, side effects of
      pregabalin and the retention rate during the treatment period will be monitored, as well as
      patient expectancies.

      RELEVANCE This is the first study for prevention of persistent postoperative pain which
      targets only high-risk patients, thus lowering a false negative outcome and averting the risk
      of side effects for patients at low risk.

      The study is powered to show a reduction of the incidence of clinically important pain at 3
      months of 20%. In the case the study shows that this can be achieved and pregabalin is well
      tolerated, the preventive use of pregabalin for breast cancer surgery would be justified at
      least in high-risk patients. On the other hand, a negative result would indicate the futility
      of pregabalin prevention, which is already in routine use in many hospitals.
    
  