
    
      Background: Stroke is a major health issue in Canada, with 405,000 Canadians currently living
      with stroke. Exercise is an important component of stroke rehabilitation that can result in
      improved function and health. Traditionally, exercise rehabilitation programs for stroke
      employ moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) protocols that are typically sustained
      for 20-30 minutes. The continuous nature of this form of training however, even at moderate
      intensities, is challenging for many individuals with stroke to sustain due to neuromotor
      impairments and poor exercise capacity. High-intensity exercise, when delivered in short
      interval bursts (i.e. high-intensity interval training, HIIT), may be a feasible alternative
      that allows higher intensities to be achieved during exercise. This is important because
      intensity of training is the critical factor in promoting changes in neuroplasticity and
      cardiovascular health, the two most important aspects of recovery and secondary prevention
      after stroke. Interventions implemented earlier following stroke are generally viewed to
      yield greater benefits, but high intensity exercise may also promote neuroplasticity and
      optimize cardiovascular health in later stages of recovery. Furthermore, determining if HIIT
      is viewed to be motivating and enjoyable for individuals post-stroke can provide insight into
      the sustainability of this intervention.

      Objective: To compare the effects of 16 weeks of HIIT and MICT on neuroplasticity,
      cardiovascular health and psychosocial predictors of physical activity in individuals with
      chronic stroke.

      Design: Participants will be recruited from two research sites and randomly allocated into
      HIIT or MICT. Participants will be assessed before and after the training period, and at
      2-months follow-up.

      Outcomes: 1) The investigators will assess: Neuroplasticity: by measuring markers of
      corticospinal excitability at rest and in response to a non-invasive brain stimulation
      protocol applied over the primary motor cortex (M1); 2) Cardiovascular health: by measuring
      cardiorespiratory fitness, resting blood pressure, arterial stiffness, and waist-hip ratio;
      3) Psychosocial predictors of physical activity: by measuring exercise motivation and
      enjoyment.

      Methods: Neuroplasticity: motor evoked potentials amplitude, intracortical facilitation and
      short-intracortical inhibition on the lesioned and unlesioned upper limb M1 area at rest and
      in response to continuous theta-burst will be measured with transcranial magnetic
      stimulation; Cardiovascular health: cardiorespiratory fitness will be measured with a graded
      exercise test, resting blood pressure with an automated blood pressure monitor and arterial
      stiffness using applanation tonometry. Exercise motivation and enjoyment will be assessed
      with the Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale and the Behavioral Regulation Exercise
      Questionnaire-2, respectively.

      Expected results: Both HIIT and MICT will result in improvements in outcomes of
      neuroplasticity and cardiovascular health. However, improvements with HIIT will be greater
      and will last longer. Participants will rate HIIT as enjoyable as MICT, and motivation for
      exercise will increase similarly after both interventions.

      Impact: HIIT is a promising, time-efficient, and potentially more effective alternative to
      traditional MICT protocols that could offer an opportunity for greater improvement in motor
      recovery and cardiovascular health in people living with stroke.
    
  