
    
      This is an open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), prospective (study
      following participants forward in time), single-arm, single-center study to assess the
      consequences of treatment discontinuation and evaluate clinical response to re-initiation of
      risperidone in case of relapse. The study will consist of 2 periods: Period 1 and Period 2.
      Participants who were on RLAI for 24 months and in remission (when a medical problem gets
      better or goes away at least for a while) state will enter in Period 1. In Period 1: RLAI
      will be tapered and discontinued over a period of 6 weeks. Participants will be regularly and
      carefully followed-up until their first disease relapse or a maximum of 36 months. In case of
      relapse (i.e., participants experience the same or similar symptoms to those experienced at
      the time of study entry in the previous Study RIS-PSY-301), participants will be transferred
      from Period 1 to Period 2. In Period 2, participants will re-start medication with RLAI (25
      milligram [mg], 37.5 mg, or 50 mg [maximum]) and simultaneously start on oral (taken by
      mouth) risperidone (1 mg, 2 mg, or 3 mg). Doses will be adjusted at Investigator's
      discretion. Oral Risperidone will only be given for the first 3 weeks until the RLAI
      injection becomes effective. RLAI injections will continue for up to a maximum of 24 months.
      Participants will be followed-up until a (new) relapse or the treatment stopped, during a
      maximum of 24 months. The total duration of the study will be 36 months and will include 16
      visits. Assessments will be performed every 2 months in the first year and every 3 months
      during the following 24 months period. Time to relapse and rate of relapse will be measured
      as primary outcome for Period 1 and degree of clinical improvement will be measured by
      Positive And Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total score for schizophrenia. Time to response
      after re-exposure to treatment with RLAI will be measured as primary outcome for Period 2.
      Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  