
    
      The VALENTINE Cardiac Rehabilitation Study will evaluate a digital intervention to supplement
      cardiac rehabilitation for low- and moderate risk patients, integrating a mobile application
      with physiologic and contextual information from wearables to provide incremental support to
      patients. The study will be performed in conjunction with planned home-, hybrid-, or
      center-based cardiac rehabilitation at Michigan Medicine. Participants will be randomized to
      the control or telehealth group. Both groups will receive a smartwatch and usual care.
      Participants in the telehealth arm will additionally (1) have access to activity tracking and
      goal setting through the VALENTINE app; (2) receive micro-randomized, contextually tailored
      notifications, and (3) receive weekly activity summaries via email, which will also be
      provided to their exercise physiologist while enrolled in cardiac rehabilitation.
      Contextually tailored notifications will be one of two types: walking and exercise
      notifications. Walking notifications are designed to encourage participants to be active
      though at lower than their target heart rate zone. Participants will receive 1 notification
      per day, on average, at one of four times. Notifications will be randomized on four
      dimensions of context. Exercise notifications are designed to encourage participants to
      exercise within their target heart rate zone. Notifications will be delivered each evening at
      a time of the participant's choosing. Participants will have a 50% probability of receiving a
      notification each evening. Notifications will be randomized on two dimensions of context.
      Participants will be followed for 6-months. Participants in both arms will be asked to
      complete a 6-minute walk test at baseline, 3-months, and 6-months using their mobile phone
      and smartwatch. They will additionally complete general and disease-specific quality-of-life
      questionnaires at baseline and at 6-months.
    
  