
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and P2Y12 receptor inhibitor has been the
      mainstay for the prevention of recurrent ischemic events in ACS patients and in those
      undergoing PCI. However, clopidogrel shows major individual variation in its antiplatelet
      effect in association with an increased incidence of ischemic events and stent thrombosis in
      patients with High on-treatment platelet reactivity (HTPR). There are several possible
      mechanisms of clopidogrel response variability or "resistance". Recently, it has been
      reported that a marked decrease in platelet response to clopidogrel is highly associated with
      the CYP2C19*2 loss-of-function allele, leading to an adverse prognosis.

      Ticagrelor is the first reversibly binding, oral, direct acting P2Y12 receptor antagonist.
      Increasing studies showed that ticagrelor has a more rapid onset of effect and greater
      inhibition of platelet aggregation compared with clopidogrel. Recently, it has been reported
      that low-dose ticagrelor either with 90 mg QD or 45 mg BID, was associated with a more potent
      antiplatelet effect compared with clopidogrel treatment and once daily dose provided similar
      antiplatelet effect but favorable effect on optimal platelet inhibition compared with twice
      daily dose. Hiasa et al. identified that ticagrelor 45 mg twice daily was associated with
      enhanced inhibition of platelet aggregation (IPA) compared with clopidogrel 75 mg once daily
      in 118 Japanese patients with stable CAD. In our previous study, the investigators found that
      half-dose ticagrelor produced similar inhibitory effects on platelet aggregation as
      standard-dose ticagrelor and exerted significantly stronger effects than clopidogrel in
      patients with ACS and one-quarter standard-dose ticagrelor provided greater degree of
      platelet inhibition than clopidogrel in patients with stable CAD. Furthermore, standard-dose
      ticagrelor (180mg loading dose [LD], then 90mg twice daily) has a significant increase in the
      risk of bleeding and incidence rate of dyspnea, and that higher discontinuation rates due to
      adverse effects compared to clopidogrel. A recent study demonstrated that maximum plasma
      concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve of ticagrelor (90 mg twice
      daily) and its active metabolite (AR-C124910XX) tended to be approximately 40% higher in
      healthy Chinese volunteers compared with Caucasian subjects. Notably, poor drug metabolism of
      clopidogrel is more common in Asian populations compared with other international regions,
      due to the prevalence of CYP2C19 reduced-function alleles. The data suggested that a low dose
      of ticagrelor might be more appropriate for Chinese patients. Therefore, the optimal dose of
      ticagrelor for Chinese patients with HTPR is increasingly urgent.

      So the objectives of this clinical study were to evaluate the effects of optimal dose of
      ticagrelor（90 mg qd）ticagrelor and double standard-dose clopidogrel on platelet reactivity in
      Chinese CHD patients with HTPR.
    
  