
    
      BACKGROUND/RATIONALE: Despite the promise of electronic health resources, there is evidence
      that they have not led to the improved self management that many envisioned. There is
      evidence for this from a variety of sources, including the Veterans Health Administration
      (VHA). Although there is appropriate attention to improving the functionality and ease of use
      of the system, a key barrier is patient acceptance and familiarity. Peer support,
      particularly in group settings, can improve health-related behaviors. Such approaches may
      increase and improve MHV use.

      OBJECTIVES: Our goal in the present project is to develop and test a peer-based mechanism to
      increase MHV use by member of veterans service organizations (VSO) such as the American
      Legion. The investigators will address 3 specific aims:

        1. To demonstrate that trained members of VSO can provide basic MHV education and support
           within their VSO unit using mobile computers.

        2. To demonstrate that this intervention increases MHV registration, in person
           authentication (IPA), and reported use of MHV among veteran post members.

        3. To create clear, concise, and portable resources that will make it possible to replicate
           this process in other VSO units or other community settings.

      METHODS: This implementation study is a quasi-randomized intervention with delayed controls.
      Working with the leadership of selected veterans groups, the investigators will identify 12
      posts that have the appropriate resources and interests to serve as pilot posts for the
      present project. The investigators will train 2 peer mentors (super-users or SU) from 4 of
      these posts using adaptations of the peer training approach the investigators used for a
      previous project. The investigators will work with the SU to install computers with wireless
      broadband Internet access at their posts. The investigators will load the computers with
      software that documents unique sessions, sites visited, and amount of time at each site. The
      investigators will help the SU provide lessons regarding MHV use to his/her fellow post
      members at 4 monthly post meetings. After 4 months, the investigators will move the computers
      to the next 4 posts and repeat the intervention. Finally, the investigators will move the
      computers to the last 4 posts, providing remote support and our training materials to the SU
      at those posts. The investigators will use computer tracking data, surveys, focus groups, and
      interviews to assess the impact of the program. The investigators will test changes in
      registration, IPA, and use with before and after surveys. Our analysis will adjust for
      clustering within posts. The investigators will transcribe our focus groups and interviews
      verbatim and analyze them using a case study approach.
    
  