
    
      In current Dermatology practice, options for moderate acne vulgaris remain limited. Moderate
      acne is clinically defined as acne that has not responded to at least three months of topical
      therapy and is not severe enough for initial treatment with a conventional course of
      isotretinoin (formerly known as Accutane). The mainstay of treatment for moderate acne
      remains long courses of oral antibiotics, mainly tetracyclines (doxycycline, minocycline) and
      occasionally trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Males with moderate acne, in particular, are
      especially limited in their treatment options as they are not eligible for hormonal
      management (spironolactone, oral contraceptive pills) like their female counterparts.
      Additionally, even for those regardless of gender who may eventually qualify for a
      traditional isotretinoin course, many insurance companies first require failure to respond to
      at least three months of oral antibiotics. Nagler et. al found that the average antibiotic
      use for moderate to severe acne prior to receiving isotretinoin was 331 days, with 15.3% of
      patients prescribed antibiotics for three months or less, 88% for six months or more, and 46%
      for at least one year.1 Despite the widespread use of oral antibiotics in acne, antibiotic
      resistance is considered a global threat per the CDC2, and there have been calls to limit
      their use in acne because of concerns of bacterial resistance3,4,5. Because of this, there is
      a significant need for more research on alternative treatment options for moderate acne.

      Once weekly isotretinoin dosing has the potential to significantly improve moderate acne with
      good patient satisfaction and safety profile; however, no study findings on this treatment
      option have been published to date. The efficacy of isotretinoin, an oral vitamin A
      derivative, for treatment of acne has been well established. The traditional treatment course
      for severe acne consists of once to twice daily dosing (0.5-1 mg/kg/day) for 4-7 months (or
      150mg/kg total cumulative dose). Though efficacious, there are numerous reported side-effects
      due to achieving the cumulative dose rapidly by once to twice daily dosing, such as severe
      dry skin, lips, and eyes, as well as liver enzyme and lipid abnormalities. Because of this,
      there have been studies exploring alternative isotretinoin dosing regimens including
      microdose, lower daily dose regimens (0.15-0.4 mg/kg/day6, 0.25-0.4 mg/kg/day7, 0.3-0.4
      mg/kg/day8,9, in addition to 5 mg/day10 and 0.15-0.28 mg/kg/day with additional of local
      application of 1% clindamycin gel every other day11) and daily dosing for 7-10 consecutive
      days (0.5-0.7 mg/kg/day) out of each month only.7,12,13,14 All studies had favorable outcomes
      with alternative dosing, despite the lower total cumulative dose versus conventional dosing.
      Those who also analyzed adverse effect rates with alternative isotretinoin dosing found that
      these were either rarely observed or similar to conventional dosing.6,8,9,10,12,14 In
      contrast, the potential adverse effects of oral antibiotics used for acne include
      photosensitivity and nausea/vomiting (doxycycline), drug-induced pigment deposition and
      drug-induced systemic lupus erythematosus (minocycline), and angioedema and drug rashes
      including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome
      (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole). Interestingly, rates of acne recurrence between alternative
      isotretinoin dosing and conventional dosing were similar at follow-up,6,7,9 despite a much
      older study from 1984 that found otherwise.15 Additionally, cost of alternative isotretinoin
      dosing was lower than with conventional dosing,8,9,13 and patient satisfaction was highest in
      the alternative dosing groups.7,10 For these reasons, this study aims to evaluate the
      efficacy of once weekly isotretinoin dosing (1-1.5 mg/kg/week) as a potential alternative to
      oral antibiotics for the treatment of patients with moderate acne. Secondary endpoints
      include patient satisfaction and adverse effects.
    
  