
    
      This randomized, controlled, parallel group trial of 6-months duration is determining the
      efficacy of structured resistance exercise training in preventing the decline in physical
      function in older men with prostate cancer undergoing androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). It
      will compare the structured resistance exercise training with a control group of men
      undergoing flexibility and balance exercises training.

      Men undergoing ADT for treatment of their prostate cancer experience a significant decline in
      muscle mass and muscle strength, which impacts their physical function. This predisposes them
      to frailty and a higher risk of falls. In addition to physical dysfunction, men undergoing
      ADT also experience a significant decrease in health-related quality of life and experience
      fatigue (tiredness).

      This research study is taking a preventative approach to the physical function problems in
      men with prostate cancer by implementing exercise interventions before participants begin ADT
      that are specifically designed to improve muscle mass, muscle strength and physical function
      to lessen the impacts of muscle mass and strength decline.

      The study includes a screening visit during which the following procedures will be conducted:
      Vitals, EKG, blood sample collection and a physical to determine eligibility. If qualified,
      participants will be randomly assigned to two different types of structured exercises:
      Resistance exercise training or flexibility and balance exercises. During the weekly exercise
      training 20 subjects will be assigned to the Exercise A group and 20 subjects to the Exercise
      B group. The exercise training sessions will occur approximately 2 times/week. In addition
      participants will also undergo DEXA scans, perform muscle strength testing and complete
      questionnaires at baseline, 3- and 6-month visits.

      It is expected participants will be in this research study for up to 6 months. It is expected
      that about 40 people will take part in this research study.
    
  