
    
      In oral and maxillofacial surgery, split skin is regularly removed to cover secondary
      defects. These defects occur, for example, in tumor patients after the removal of
      microsurgical radialis or fibular grafts for defect coverage or reconstruction, since the
      skin cannot be primarily closed there.

      Split skin is defined as a free skin graft made of epidermis and the upper parts of the
      dermis. The average thickness of the grafts is 0.2-0.8 mm. The thickness of the split skin
      determines the pigmentation structure and the quality of the graft. The thinner the split
      skin, the better the healing tendency and the less scar remains at the donor site. However, a
      disadvantage of thin split skin grafts is the stronger secondary shrinkage in the recipient
      region. Moderately thick grafts are hardly subject to scar shrinkage, but occasionally leave
      hypertrophic scars or keloids at the donor site. Split skin grafts with a thickness of
      0.6-0.8 mm provide the best esthetic results, but have a poorer healing rate.

      The split skin can be removed with a dermatome. The ventrolateral proximal thighs and the
      inside and outside of the upper arms are particularly suitable as donor regions.

      In oral and maxillofacial surgery, a 0.4 mm thick split skin is usually removed from the
      ventrolateral thigh to cover the defect in the forearm or lower leg.

      The requirement at the split skin removal site is rapid healing with complete
      re-epithelialization. To achieve this, wound management is currently left to the clinic
      itself, as there is no evidence-based standard care. The technical literature only recommends
      moist wound management and rare dressing changes.

      A new product that promises faster healing and reduced scarring of these wounds is Ready
      Medical Post Treatment. This is an established preparation consisting of hyaluronic acid,
      perfluorodecalin and Physalis angulata extract. Studies have shown that both hyaluronic acid
      and perfluorodecalin can significantly improve the epithelialisation rate of wounds. The
      study will use a split wound design to investigate whether secondary wound healing can be
      accelerated and improved by the application of hyaluronic acid combined with perfluorodecalin
      and Physalis angulata extract.
    
  