
    
      Study design

      This study will be a randomized controlled with two arm clinical trial and examiner blinding.

      The sample will consist of 100 participants (both genders) with nonspecific chronic low back
      pain.

      Randomization and allocation

      Patients will be randomly assigned through a randomization process involving opaque envelopes
      containing cards stipulating one of the three following groups: (1) Global Stretching Program
      (GSP) and (2) Stabilization Exercises (SE). An assistant researcher not involved in the
      recruitment of patients will allocate the randomly using data generated by a group allocation
      software.

      Procedures

      The proposed study will follow the recommendations described on Consolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement to ensure transparency and quality of the findings.

      Each participant will be supervised by a single physical therapist, who will not be involved
      in the assessment of the patients and/or randomization. A second researcher will conduct the
      following evaluation in baseline assessment: pain intensity, low back pain related disability
      and psychosocial factors using questionnaires validated to Brazilian Portuguese.

      During the treatment and follow-up periods, the use of drugs will be discouraged. Patients
      who require rescue medication during the study will be encouraged to register the use.

      Initial evaluation and follow-up

      After eligibility assessment, participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire with
      personal data. Subsequently, the psychosocial evaluation will be conducted in accordance with
      the recommendations of the Initiative on Methods, Measurement and Pain Assessment in Clinical
      Trials (IMMPACT) for chronic pain. The volunteers will be re-assessed immediately after
      treatment and after one and three-months follow-up. The main outcome measures will be pain
      intensity and low back pain related disability. Secondary outcomes will be fear avoidance,
      global perceived treatment effect and muscle flexibility.

      The hypothesis of this study is that patients with chronic low back pain submitted to global
      stretching exercises will show greater effects to pain intensity and disability than patients
      submitted to interventions separated.

      Primary Outcomes

      The pain intensity measurement will be accomplished by application of a numerical pain rating
      scale - PNRS, which consists of a sequence of eleven numbers from 0 to 10, in which 0
      represents "no pain" and 10 represents "worst pain imaginable". Volunteers will rate their
      pain based on these parameters.

      To assess disability related to chronic low back pain, the Oswestry Low Back Disability
      Index, adapted to Brazilian Portuguese will be used. The result is converted into a
      percentage by multiplying the total score by two. This instrument consists of 10 items, each
      of which has six response options. The total score will be calculated by summing up the
      points, the largest possible sum being #50. Previous research has found ODI showed
      responsiveness to change for patients with CLBP, with MCID of #8 points.

      Secondary Outcomes

      Fingertip-to-Floor Test, Fear avoidance beliefs questionnaire - FABQ and Global Perceived
      Effect of Treatment will be assessed pre and post treatment.

      The FABQ adapted for Brazilian Portuguese consists of 16 self- response items, rated on a
      seven-point Likert scale from 0 (completely disagree) to 6 (completely agree). The score is
      obtained for each separate subscale: one that addressed the fears and beliefs of individuals
      in relation to work and one that addressed their fears and beliefs about physical activities.

      Global Perceived Effect of Treatment is recommended for use in clinical trials of chronic
      pain as a measure of the perception of global improvement/worsening regarding to treatment.
      Global Perceived Effect of Treatment is an 11-point scale that ranges from -5 ("vastly
      worse") through 0 ("no change") to +5 ("completely recovered"). A higher score indicates
      higher recovery from the condition.

      The Fingertip-to-floor test showed excellent levels of validity compared to the radiological
      measurement (r=0.96) and reproducibility (intra and interexaminer - ICC = 0.99). The test is
      known for full mobility in the tilted forward position when standing, corresponding to
      flexion of the spine and pelvis. It is a measure of relevance in rehabilitation results
      probably because patients simultaneously increase the pelvic and lumbar flexion post
      treatment.

      As baseline intervention the investigators will assess pain catastrophising, anxiety and
      depression scale and pain self efficacy. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale will be used
      to identify anxiety disorders and depression in physically ill patients. The HADS was
      translated and validated into Portuguese. Then divided into the anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and
      the depression subscale (HADS-D), both containing seven interspersed items. It is composed of
      seven items for depression and seven items for anxiety, each item including four response
      options ranging from 0 to 3. The cutoff scores are 8 points for anxiety, 9 for depression.
      Change in depressive symptoms significantly predicted change in pain severity and intensity.

      Pain catastrophising scale (PCS) will be used to assess catastrophising thoughts. The scale
      is composed of 13 items staggered on a Likert scale, ranging from 0 to 5 points. The total
      score is the sum of the items divided by the number of items answered, with the minimum score
      being 0 and the maximum being 5 for each item. Higher scores indicated a greater presence of
      catastrophic thoughts. The total score of the scale could vary between 0 and 52 points. A
      recent systematic review found that found catastrophising to be associated with pain and
      disability at follow-up in CLBP patients.

      The Chronic Pain Self-Efficacy Scale (CPSS) will be used to assess self-efficacy perception
      related to chronic pain, which can be defined as an individual's personal conviction that
      they can successfully execute an action to produce desirable results related to living with
      chronic pain. The scale has 22 items and was adapted and validated to Brazilian Portuguese.
      Previous research suggested that rehabilitation programs for CLBP should target pain
      self-efficacy which mediates the relationship between depressive symptoms and pain severity.

      Interventions

      Participants will be randomly assigned to two possible interventions: GPS and Stabilization
      Exercises intervention group. Treatment protocol will be conducted by eight weeks, one time
      per week. The session will last for 40 minutes.

      Data Analysis

      The pain intensity outcome was considered for sample size calculation. A change of at least 2
      units on NPRS was considered for analysis. The sample size obtained was 78 (39 subjects
      each). The following specifications were considered: α = 5%, statistical power of 90% and
      0.61 effect size for F-test. The GPower software was used to calculate the sample size
      (GPower 3.0.10 of the University of Kiel, Germany). Thus, to ensure a power suitable and
      assuming sample losses, 100 (50 subjects per group) participants will be considered (GPower
      3.0.10, University of Kiel, Germany).

      The statistician will be given grouped data, but data will be coded so that the statistician
      will remain blinded to patients' group allocation and to protect patient confidentiality. The
      mean effects of the interventions and the group differences for all outcomes (primary and
      secondary) will be calculated using linear mixed models that incorporated terms for the
      treatment groups, time (post-intervention and follow-up), and interaction terms (treatment
      subgroups and time) as well as psychosocial variables, sex and age as covariates. Secondary
      analysis will be conducted using regression models to determine whether baseline scores of
      psychosocial variables (HADS, PCS, CPSS) will moderate the effect of treatments. The analyzes
      will follow the intention-to-treat principles. For all of these analyzes, IBM SPSS software
      package will be used, version 22 (IBM Corp, New York).

      The Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) software version 22 (Chicago, IL, USA)
      will be used for analysis, and the significance level was established at 0.05.
    
  