
    
      Male and female DoD beneficiaries ages 18 years or older who have been diagnosed with Type II
      diabetes, will be recruited at the Mike O'Callaghan Federal Medical Center (MOFMC).

      Screening Visit:

        -  Obtain signed Informed Consent Document and HIPAA Authorization (research-driven).

        -  Record: Date of birth, phone number, age, gender, race, ethnicity, social security
           number, current email address, height (in inches), weight (in pounds), blood pressure,
           medications list including any over-the-counter and prescription weight loss medication
           (name, strength, dose) or supplements.

        -  Subjects will have the following standard of care blood test drawn which include:

             -  Hemoglobin A1c via 1 venipuncture (5-10 mls, approximately 1-2 teaspoons of blood
                will be drawn)

      Visit 1 (Day 1 within 1 week of Screening Visit):

        -  Record: Weight (in pounds), blood pressure, and any changes to their medications list.

        -  Subjects will complete the RAND 36 Item Health Survey.

        -  Subjects will complete the Intake Questionnaire.

        -  Subjects will be assigned their Fitness Tracker username and their username and password
           will be recorded by the Research Coordinator.

        -  Subjects will be given User Instructions based off of their randomization group.

        -  Subjects will be instructed to follow all research procedures and that failure to do so
           may result in the removal from the study and the return of the Fitness Tracker.

        -  Subjects will be randomized by the research coordinator using a random-number generator
           into one of two groups (research-driven):

             -  Group 1: will use a fitness tracker but will not be able to see other participant's
                data.

             -  Group 2: will use a fitness tracker and will be able to see other member's daily
                and weekly results.

                  -  Both groups will receive the scripted feedback at set time intervals by the
                     Research Coordinators.

        -  Subjects will be provided a fitness tracker and instructed on how to use it.

             -  If subject is a DoD beneficiary, and finishes all study-related procedures at month
                6, they will keep the fitness tracker. If a subject does not complete all
                study-related procedures, they will be asked to return the fitness tracker so the
                investigators can erase their data and re-issue to another study subject.

             -  If subject is active duty or a DoD employee, regardless of their study completion,
                they will be asked to complete Temporary Issue Receipt and bring back the fitness
                tracker at the end of the study.

      Visit 2 (Month 3/90 days post Visit 1):

        -  Record: Weight (in pounds), blood pressure and any changes to their medications list.

        -  Subjects will complete the RAND 36 Item Health Survey.

        -  Subjects will complete the Follow up Questionnaire.

        -  Obtain information from their fitness tracker.

        -  Subjects will have the following standard of care blood test drawn which include:

             -  Hemoglobin A1c via 1 venipuncture (5-10 mls, approximately 1-2 teaspoons of blood
                will be drawn)

      Final Visit 3 (Month 6/90 days post Visit 2):

        -  Record: Weight (in pounds), blood pressure and any changes to their medications list.

        -  Subjects will complete the RAND 36 Item Health Survey and be asked some additional
           questions.

        -  Subjects will complete the Follow up Questionnaire.

        -  Obtain information from their fitness tracker.

        -  Subjects will have the following standard of care blood test drawn which include:

             -  Hemoglobin A1c via 1 venipuncture (5-10 mls, approximately 1-2 teaspoons of blood
                will be drawn)
    
  