
    
      Rationale Allergic rhinitis is an IgE-mediated, inflammatory disorder of the upper airway
      that occurs following allergen exposure. Perennial Allergic Rhinitis (PAR) starts in early
      childhood and occurs all year around. It's caused by allergy to the aerosolised droppings of
      house dust mites and pet skin flakes (dander). Occasionally, indoor mould spores and, in rare
      cases, food allergy can be causes.

      Intranasal corticosteroids are highly effective medications for controlling the nasal
      symptoms that accompany allergic rhinitis.

      AVAMYS (TM) (fluticasone furoate aqueous nasal spray 100mcg) has been shown having effects on
      nasal symptoms of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis and on the ocular symptoms of
      allergic rhinitis and has been evaluated as effective and safe for treatment seasonal and
      perennial allergic rhinitis by FDA. It is speculated that AVAMYS (TM) is also effective and
      safe for Vietnamese patients. However before being used widely for patients across the
      country, AVAMYS (TM) should be proved that it is safe for Vietnamese patients.

      Objective(s) The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety of fluticasone furoate
      aqueous nasal spray 110mcg once daily in adults with PAR.

      As treatment duration of duration of PAR is normally longer than that of SAR, the
      safety/tolerability evaluation of PAR treatment is well sufficient for the similar evaluation
      of SAR.

      Safety Endpoints

        -  Frequency of solicited clinical adverse events (headache, epistaxis, pharyngolaryngeal
           pain)

        -  Vital signs (systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate [pulse])

        -  Clinical laboratory tests at baseline, during and at study termination, specifically as
           follows:

      Chemistry: Glucose, ALT & AST, Total Bilirubin, Alkaline phosphatase, Total Protein & Albumin
      Hematology: Complete Blood Count (CBC) Pregnancy test: Urine pregnancy test for all female
      subjects at Screening, Visit 2 & Visit 3.

      • 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) at baseline and at study termination

      Study Design This is a 6-week, open trial. A study center will be enlisted to recruite a
      minimum of 50 PAR subjects. At the visit 1, subjects who fulfil the inclusion criteria are
      eligible to be include in the group to self-administer intranasal treatment of fluticasone
      furoate aqueous nasal spray 110 mcg once daily for 6 week. The subjects are instructed to
      administer two sprays from the device into each nostril once daily every morning.
      Administration of the dose will be performed by alternately spraying one spray to each
      nostril followed by a second spray to each nostril. Subjects will not be permitted to take
      any anti-allergy or rhinitis medication during the screening or treatment period.

      Throughout the study, subjects will document their study drug administration/compliance, any
      medical conditions experienced, and any concomitant medications taken. All subjects are
      outpatients. Clinic visits for a study subject are scheduled to occur at the following
      intervals:

      Screening visit: To collect Inform Consent Form and evaluate eligibility, medical history,
      clinical status, electrocardiography and necessary laboratory testing. If a subject is
      eligible and is not on any anti-histamin medications, he/she can enter the study right at
      this visit (i.e. on study medication).

      Visit 1: Three to five days after the screening visit. This visit is due to a subject who is
      eligible and is on an anti-histamin medication at the screening visit. The subject must have
      been discontinued the anti-histamin medication(s) since the screening visit. He/she is then
      clinically evaluated, prescribed with study drug and instructed how to fill the Diary Card.

      Visit 2: Fourteen ( ± 1) day after Visit 1 or Day 15. Clinical evaluation, drug
      accountability, Diary card collection and study-specific laboratory testings are applied.

      Visit 3: Forty-two ( ± 1) day after Visit 1. Clinical evaluation, drug accountability, Diary
      card collection and study-specific laboratory testings are applied. All study information in
      the Case Report Form (CRF) of the subject is reviewed. A PAR subject is considered to fulfill
      the study only when this visit is completed.

      A follow-up telephone contact is made 3 to 5 days after Visit 3/Early Withdrawal to assess
      for any adverse effects after discontinuing study treatment.

      Study Population A minimum of 50 adults with perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) are recruited
      for this study.

      Study Assessments The safety assessments include a summary of the frequency and type of
      clinical adverse events that occur during the study. In addition, hematology and chemistry
      analyses of blood samples are also implemented. A physical examination and nasal examination
      are also performed and vital signs collected. Twelve-lead ECGs are performed at all visits.
    
  