
    
      This proposal is designed to address the urgent need for an effective primary prevention
      approach to the problem of sexual violence among college students. It is estimated that 1 in
      every 5 college women has been sexually assaulted while in college. There is a dearth of
      primary prevention strategies that have demonstrated significant reductions in sexual
      violence in college students as part of a rigorously designed evaluation. Research shows that
      many victims of sexual assault are abused while drunk, under the influence of drugs, or
      otherwise incapacitated, and that incidents of sexual violence typically occur in college
      party settings where the victim knows the perpetrator and the perpetrator has been drinking
      or using drugs. In Phase I of this study, the investigators established the feasibility,
      relevance, and appeal of the new primary prevention program for sexual violence, alcohol, and
      drug abuse for incoming college students. The program is an adaptation of a successful
      evidence-based substance abuse and violence prevention approach called Life Skills Training
      (LST). The LST approach is designed to build personal self-management skills, social skills,
      and other life skills needed to reduce substance abuse and violence, increase resilience, and
      successfully navigate developmental tasks. In Phase I, the investigators developed the full
      scope and sequence of the program which outlines the learning objectives and activities of
      the of the online e-learning modules and small group facilitator-led sessions; developed
      relevant prototype materials to represent a subset of the full program; conducted formative
      research to establish the feasibility, relevance, and appeal of the intervention through a
      series of focus groups with college students and key informant interviews with college
      prevention staff; and recruited over 40 colleges and universities to participate in Phase II
      of the project. In Phase II, the investigators will fully develop the skills building
      curriculum materials and conduct a rigorous randomized controlled trial to examine the impact
      of the intervention. Forty colleges will be randomized into either an intervention group that
      will receive the new intervention or a treatment-as-usual control group that will receive the
      existing information on sexual violence provided at the school. At the end of a two-month
      intervention period, and at 6- and 12month follow-up assessments, the investigators will
      compare changes in behaviors, norms, attitudes, and knowledge regarding alcohol, drug abuse,
      and sexual violence. The ultimate intervention holds promise for wide dissemination as an
      evidence-based primary prevention approach for sexual violence to four-year colleges,
      community or junior colleges, universities, graduate and professional schools, for-profit
      schools, trade schools, and career and technical schools.

      Phase II Specific Aims

        1. Fully develop the sexual violence primary prevention skills building curriculum
           materials;

        2. Conduct a randomized controlled trial to examine the impact of the intervention;
           randomize 40 colleges into either an intervention group that will receive the new
           intervention or a treatment-as-usual control group that will receive the existing
           information on sexual violence provided at the school;

        3. Conduct an outcome evaluation by assessing changes in the two experimental conditions
           with regards to behaviors, norms, attitudes, and knowledge regarding alcohol, drug
           abuse, and sexual violence at the end of the two-month intervention period, and at 6-
           and 12-month follow-up assessments;

        4. Conduct a process evaluation to document and monitor all Phase II project activities;

        5. Disseminate research findings to the scientific and practice communities;

        6. Create a provider training mechanism to promote dissemination and sustainability of the
           intervention;

        7. Based on the commercialization plan, implement a marketing strategy for the new primary
           prevention program aimed at institutions of higher education across the country.
    
  