
    
      Study objectives

      The primary objective is to compare insulin secretion (Secr2.phase) between the two different
      formulations of Tac.

      Secondary objectives are to compare the effect of the two formulations on Secr1.phase,
      insulin sensitivity and to investigate possible associations with individual systemic
      tacrolimus exposures.

      Study design

      Twenty adult kidney transplanted patients treated with Prograf® twice daily or Advagraf® once
      daily will be included in the study. Eligible patients may be included in a stable
      posttransplant phase (no Tac dose adjustments or acute rejection episodes the preceding 2
      weeks). A 3-hour hyperglycaemic clamp will be performed while patients are treated with their
      standard Tac formulation and repeated 4-6 weeks after switching to the alternative Tac
      formulation. The clamp investigation will be done after administration of the morning dose of
      Tac. Samples for measurement of Tac whole blood concentrations will be drawn for all patients
      up to 24 hours after morning Tac dosing. It is not mandatory for all patients to perform full
      24 hour pharmacokinetic investigations.

      Switching to the alternative Tac formulation will be performed in a 1:1 daily dose ratio and
      subsequently adjusted according to centre protocol for trough concentrations (5-10 ng/mL).
      Patients will meet for trough concentration measurements at Rikshospitalet for appropriate
      dose adjustment in the period between the two investigations days.

      Patients

      The patients will primarily be recruited from the great-Oslo area and all study visits will
      be performed at Rikshospitalet. Patients will otherwise follow standard post transplant
      procedures at their local hospital during the study period. Patients included in other
      clinical trials are also eligible for inclusion in the present study as long as they are not
      treated with investigational drugs.

      Informed consent will be obtained according to the Declaration of Helsinki and ICH-GCP
      guidelines. Patients and investigator will sign the patient information which will be kept on
      file. The patient will receive a copy of the patient information. Patient data will be
      recorded in Case Report Forms (CRF) and all information will be handled confidentially. Any
      complications will be recorded.

      Glucose clamp calculations

      Lean body mass (lbm) is estimated using Hume's formula [12] which correlates well with
      tritiated water or electrical bioimpedance measures [13]. Secr1.phase is calculated as the
      area under serum insulin vs. time curve (AUC, trapezoidal rule) during the first 10 min of
      the clamp procedure, and Secr2.phase is calculated as the insulin AUC during the last hour
      (120-180 min) of the clamp procedure. The same calculations were also performed for C-peptide
      concentrations. Glucose disposal rate (GDR) is calculated from the amount of glucose infused
      during the last hour of the clamp. The IS index (ISI) is calculated as GDR [mmol/kg
      (lbm)*min] divided by mean serum insulin (pmol/l) in the same period. Glucose clearance is
      calculated as ISI divided by mean serum glucose during the last 60 min of the clamp [14].

      Pharmacokinetic calculations

      Nonlinear mixed effects modeling (NONMEM software version VI and Intel Fortran (version 8)
      compilation tool) will be used to analyze the dose-concentration-time data for Tac using a
      population approach. The pharmacokinetic profile data will be used to develop a
      pharmacokinetics model including the effect of major covariates (e.g. age, gender, body size,
      renal function, hematocrit, acute rejection status etc.) on CL/F and V/F from the 24-hour
      pharmacokinetics investigations. If applicable additional trough concentration data from the
      routine follow-up of the patients in the study will be used to develop the model.

      Exclusion of patient data will only be allowed if Tac concentrations have not been able to be
      measured accurately or in case of unavailable information that may interfere with
      pharmacokinetic evaluation, e.g. exact blood sampling time or dose given.

      The POSTHOC, MAXEVAL=0 option in NONMEM will be used to estimate individual AUC0-24 and
      half-lives for each individual. Actually measured Ctrough, Cmax and Tmax values will also be
      used to describe the pharmacokinetic properties of the patients.

      Statistical considerations

      Sample size:

      Based on the assumption that a 15% relative change in insulin secretion between the two
      formulations are clinically relevant and a relative standard deviation of 25% 20 patients are
      needed to assure a power of 80% at a 5% significance level. Patients that drop-out during the
      study will be substituted.

      Analysis plan:

      The primary end-point will be analyzed per-protocol by comparing the ratio of insulin
      sensitivity (Secr2.phase) for the two formulations. Data will be transformed to obtain normal
      distribution if appropriate.

      Secondary endpoints will be analyzed as follows:

        -  Insulin Secr1.phase

        -  Insulin sensitivity index (ISI)

        -  Association between insulin Secr2.phase, Secr1.phase and ISI and systemic exposure of
           Tac (derived from individual NONMEM estimations)

        -  All analysis above also performed for C-peptide
    
  