
    
      Each year, approximately 30,000 people suffer aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the
      United States. The most common and potentially treatable cause of secondary neurological
      injury in this population is delayed ischemic deficit (DID). As the name implies, this
      phenomenon is fundamentally a reduction of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and oxygen delivery
      below critical ischemic thresholds, occurring days after the onset of hemorrhage. Three
      inter-related physiological processes appear to be involved in the reduced oxygen delivery:
      severe narrowing of intracranial arteries (arterial vasospasm), intravascular volume
      depletion and a loss of normal autoregulatory function in the distal circulation. DID occurs
      in up to 40% of patients surviving SAH. One third of these patients will die from this
      phenomenon and another third will be left with permanent and severe disability.

      The optimal treatment of vasospasm is not known. Medical management involves a number of
      hemodynamic manipulations and is usually referred to as hypervolemic, hypertensive,
      hemodilution (or Triple-H) therapy. Our knowledge of the physiological impact of the
      individual components or a combination of them is limited and clinical efficacy has not been
      established. The information gained in this study has great potential to advance our
      knowledge regarding the role of hematocrit in the optimal treatment of this often-devastating
      condition.

      Changes in hematocrit can potentially impact brain oxygen delivery in two ways. First, there
      is a linear relationship between hemoglobin and arterial oxygen content, lower hematocrit
      less oxygen. Thus at a given CBF lowering hematocrit reduces brain oxygen delivery.
      Fortunately, the brain responds to this by increasing blood flow to restore oxygen delivery
      to baseline levels. Additionally, lowering hematocrit has another effect, it reduces
      viscosity which in and of itself can raise CBF, but in a non-linear way. It is the relative
      contribution of these two effects that will determine if oxygen delivery improves.

      It has been proposed by largely on theoretical consideration that the "optimal" hematocrit
      that achieves this balance is 30-35%. Yet no study to date has assessed the relationship
      between hematocrit and oxygen delivery in SAH patients. Other observations, however, suggest
      that higher hemoglobin levels in SAH patients was associated with better outcomes. Finally
      another retrospective review suggested that receiving transfusions increased risk for
      vasospasm and poor outcome after subarachnoid hemorrhage.

      We are proposing to begin a series of studies to determine the appropriate management of
      hematocrit in SAH patients. The first is to define the appropriate physiologic response
      (cerebral oxygen delivery and metabolism) to a change in hematocrit. Then the "optimal"
      hematocrit can be defined. Only then will we be able to properly design clinical outcome
      trials.
    
  