
    
      Background

      Hyperekplexia, also known as hereditary startle disease or stiff baby syndrome, is a rare
      neurogenetic non-epileptic disorder characterized by exaggerated persistent startle response
      and neonatal hypertonia to unexpected auditory, somatosensory and visual stimuli. Startle
      responses and generalized muscle stiffness both gradually subside during the first months of
      life. Pathological startle responses can remain throughout adulthood resulting in unprotected
      falls and injury.

      Hereditary hyperekplexia has been identified in 70 pedigrees, most of them being
      characterized by the major form. Some occasional occurrence of the minor form was described
      in rare families, but its presence may remain clinically undetected.

      The clinical diagnosis of the major form of hyperekplexia needs three mandatory features:

        1. Generalized stiffness after birth normalizing during the first years of life

        2. Excessive startling to an unexpected stimulus, particularly auditory, present from birth
           and remaining throughout life

        3. Generalized stiffness after a startle reflex that lasts a few seconds Five genes are
           associated with hyperekplexia, the disease being caused by mutations in the genes
           encoding different subunits of the inhibitory postsynaptic glycine receptor GLRA1 and
           GLRB. Additionally defects in the presynaptic glycine transporter gene (SLC6A5) have
           been recently identified in human hyperekplexia. GPHN, encoding the glycinergic
           clustering molecule gephyrin, and ARHGEF9, an X-linked gene encoding collybistin, are
           each associated with one known case of hyperekplexia.

      The glycine receptor is a member of the pentameric ligand-gated ion channel family. The
      receptor is a membrane-embedded protein that contains an integral Cl- -selective pore. The
      glycine receptor is the major determinant of inhibitory neurotransmission in the retina,
      spinal cord and brainstem.

      Inhibitory synaptic transmission in the spinal cord dorsal horn use GABA and glycine as their
      principle fast neurotransmitters. Both of them open the Cl- -channels, which induce
      postsynaptic hyperpolarisation and impairs the propagation of excitatory potentials on
      dendrites of neurons. Immunofluorescence studies have revealed abundant glycinergic
      innervations in the dorsal horn, site attributed to the long standing gate control theory of
      pain. According to this model, inhibitory GABAergic and glycinergic interneurons in the
      superficial spinal dorsal horn are key components in the control of pain transmission from
      the periphery to the brain. The model states that a non-painful stimulation is felt as non
      painful as long as the synaptic GABAergic and glycinergic inhibition remains intact.

      Pharmacological blockade of GABAergic and/or glycinergic neurotransmission in the dorsal horn
      mimics many symptoms of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Additionally, a loss of synaptic
      inhibition in the dorsal horn occurs in animal models of experimental pain. This is difficult
      to prove experimentally in humans, although studies on nociceptive long term potentiation
      suggest that loss of inhibitory interneurons in the dorsal horn may have a role in the
      development of chronic pain in patients.

      Objective

      The aim of this study is to evaluate for the first time in humans whether symptomatic
      mutations in the glycinergic system affect central pain processing. Positive results would be
      suggestive for an important role of the glycinergic system in pain modulation and would
      therefore stimulate further developments for the pharmacological modulation of human pain
      syndromes.

      Methods

      Design Assessment of pain thresholds in consecutive hyperekplexia patients and a group of sex
      and age-matched healthy volunteers.

      Subjects We will test consecutive patients with one of the five mutations cited in the
      introduction. Patients will receive a compensation of 150 Swiss Francs for their
      participation, plus reimbursement of travel costs.

      23 hyperekplexia patients will be recruited. Once the testing of these patients is completed,
      45 healthy age and sex-matched controls will be enrolled.

      Treatment with a GABA-agonist (mainly clonazepam) will not be discontinued for safety reasons
      .

      Pain tests:

      Pressure pain detection threshold (primary outcome) Electric pain detection threshold to
      single cutaneous and temporal summation to repeated electrical stimulation Heat and cold pain
      detection, conditioned pain modulation
    
  