
    
      This will be a single centre prospective observational study. 50 consecutive patients
      admitted to the surgical intensive care unit (SICU) who are deemed to require cardiac output
      monitoring by the treating intensivist will be studied. Data collection is planned to be
      carried out over 2 consecutive years. Inclusion criteria are: 1) Patients who are deemed to
      require cardiac output monitoring. 2) Patients 21 years old and above. 3) American Society of
      Anesthesiologist (ASA) physical status 1 to 4. Exclusion criteria are: 1) Patients who are
      not on mechanical ventilation. 2) Patients who are not in sinus rhythm. 3) Patients with
      allergy to adhesive tapes. Patients will be treated as per department protocols and no
      additional intervention will be performed. Each patient will have an arterial catheter
      inserted as per our usual practice. All patients will have the FloTrac® connected to the
      arterial catheter (standard of care in CGH SICU) and the NICOM Cheetah® electrodes placed on
      the skin across the anterior thoracic wall. The FloTrac CO monitor is the current standard of
      care for cardiac output monitoring in the SICU of CGH. All patients deemed to require cardiac
      output monitoring will receive the FloTrac (as per departmental practice). The NICOM CO
      monitor involves the application of non-invasive sensor strips. In this study, it will be
      applied to patients receiving the FloTrac (standard of care), on top of the standard care of
      monitoring with Flotrac. For each patient, standard demographic and SICU data (age, gender,
      comorbidities, ASA score, admission diagnosis, type of surgery, cause of haemodynamic
      instability, mean arterial pressure (MAP) and central venous pressure (CVP) at the time of
      instituting cardiac output (CO) monitoring, use of inotropic support, presence of renal
      replacement therapy, presence of mechanical ventilation and APACHE II score) will be
      collected. Cardiac Index (CI) values simultaneously recorded by the NICOM Cheetah® and
      FloTrac® on a 15-minutely basis for the first 10-hour period will also be collected. These
      data will be automatically recorded by the FloTrac® Vigilance monitor and the Cheetah NICOM
      monitor and transcribed to a data entering/analysis software by the principal and
      co-principal investigators for data analysis.
    
  