
    
      Purpose of clinical trial:

      To compare hybrid closed-loop applying faster insulin aspart to hybrid closed-loop applying
      standard insulin aspart over 8 weeks.

      Study objectives:

      The study objective is to compare hybrid closed-loop glucose control using faster insulin
      aspart with hybrid closed-loop control using standard insulin aspart in very young children
      with type 1 diabetes.

        1. EFFICACY: The objective is to assess the ability of a hybrid closed-loop system applying
           faster insulin aspart to maintain CGM glucose levels within the target range from 3.9 to
           10.0 mmol/l, in comparison to a hybrid closed-loop system applying standard insulin
           aspart in very young children with type 1 diabetes.

        2. SAFETY: The objective is to evaluate the safety of closed-loop glucose control using
           faster insulin aspart compared to standard insulin aspart in terms of episodes and
           severity of hypoglycaemia, frequency of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and nature and
           severity of other adverse events.

        3. UTILITY: The objective is to determine the acceptability and duration of use of the
           closed-loop system.

        4. HUMAN FACTORS: The objective is to assess emotional and behavioural characteristics of
           parents/guardians and their response to the closed-loop system and clinical trial using
           validated surveys.

      Participating clinical centres:

        1. Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge

        2. John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford

        3. Nottingham Children's Hospital, Nottingham

      Sample Size:

      24 children randomised (6-14 participants per centre).

      Maximum duration of study for a subject:

      6 months

      Recruitment:

      Participants will be recruited through the paediatric diabetes outpatient clinics at
      participating clinical centres (see above). Enrolment will target up to 30 participants
      (aiming for 6-14 participants per centre), to allow for dropouts during run-in.

      Consent:

      Written informed consent will be obtained from all parents/guardians.

      Screening and baseline Assessment:

      Eligible participants will undergo a baseline assessment including a blood sample for the
      measurement of HbA1c. Height and weight will be recorded. Validated questionnaires will be
      completed by parents/guardians.

      Pre-Study Training and Run-in:

      Training sessions on the use of the study CGM and insulin pump will be provided by the
      research team. Participants and parents/guardians will use the study CGM and insulin pump
      during a 2-4 week run-in period. For compliance and to assess the ability of the participant
      to use the study devices safely, at least 8 days of CGM data need to be recorded and safe use
      of study insulin pump demonstrated during the last 14 days of the run-in period. The CGM data
      will also be used to assess baseline glucose control and may be used for treatment
      optimisation as necessary.

      Competency Assessment:

      Competency on the use of study pump and study CGM will be evaluated by the research team.
      Training may be repeated if required.

      Randomisation:

      Eligible participants will be randomised using randomisation software to the initial use of
      faster insulin aspart with the hybrid closed-loop system or to standard insulin aspart with
      the hybrid closed-loop system for 8 weeks before crossing over to the other treatment arm.

      Hybrid closed-loop system training:

      Parents/guardians of participants in both groups will receive an additional training session
      covering the use of the closed-loop system provided by the research team prior to starting
      closed-loop insulin delivery if required. During this session, parents/guardians will operate
      the system under the supervision of the clinical research team. Competency on the use of the
      closed-loop system will be evaluated. Thereafter, participants and their parents/guardians
      will use the hybrid closed-loop system for 4 months at home with either faster insulin aspart
      or standard insulin aspart first.

        1. Faster insulin aspart with hybrid closed-loop:

           Participants and their parents/guardians will use the hybrid closed-loop system with
           faster insulin aspart for 8 weeks at home. The participant, parents/guardians and the
           research team will be blinded to the intervention.

           Crossover assessment:

           At the end of the first study arm, validated questionnaires will be completed by the
           parents/guardians.

        2. Standard insulin aspart with hybrid closed-loop:

      Participants and their parents/guardians will use the hybrid closed-loop system with standard
      insulin aspart for 8 weeks at home. The participant, parents/guardians and the research team
      will be blinded to the intervention.

      Study contacts:

      Participants and parents/guardians will be contacted 24 hours after starting each study arm
      to ensure there are no concerns regarding the study devices. Participants will be contacted
      by the study team (email/phone) 2 and 4 weeks after the start of each study arm in order to
      record any adverse events, device deficiencies, and changes in insulin settings, other
      medical conditions and/or medication.

      In case of any problems related to the technical devices or diabetes management, participants
      and parents/guardians will be able to contact a 24-hour telephone helpline to the local
      research team. The local research team will have access to central 24 hour advice on
      technical issues.

      End of study assessments:

      Height and weight will be recorded. Validated questionnaires will be completed by
      parents/guardians. Participants will resume usual care using their pre-study insulin pump.

      Procedures for safety monitoring during trial:

      Standard operating procedures for monitoring and reporting of all adverse events will be in
      place, including serious adverse events (SAE), serious adverse device effects (SADE) and
      specific adverse events (AE) such as severe hypoglycaemia.

      A data safety and monitoring board (DSMB) will be informed of all serious adverse events and
      any unanticipated serious adverse device effects that occur during the study and will review
      compiled adverse event data at periodic intervals.

      Criteria for withdrawal of subjects on safety grounds:

      A participant and parent/guardian may terminate participation in the study at any time
      without necessarily giving a reason and without any personal disadvantage. An investigator
      can stop the participation of a participant after consideration of the benefit/risk ratio.
      Possible reasons are:

        1. Serious adverse events

        2. Serious protocol violation

        3. Non-compliance

        4. Failure to satisfy competency assessment

        5. Decision by the investigator, or the Sponsor, that termination is in the participant's
           best medical interest

        6. Allergic reaction to insulin
    
  