
    
      Postoperative pain scores, as measured by the Parents' Postoperative Pain Measure scale, will
      not be statistically different in boys who receive opioid pain medication postoperatively
      compared to boys who do not.

      The long-term objectives of this study are to understand if pre and postoperative counseling
      and education along with proper surgical technique will result in less opioid prescriptions
      following hypospadias repair.

      Children with suspected hypospadias will be seen and examined in clinic and offered surgery
      if appropriate. If the families elect for surgery, this will be performed by one of the
      investigators between 6-12 months of age. The surgical technique may vary among the
      investigators. Patients with severe hypospadias may require multiple surgeries for
      correction.

      On the day of surgery, patients will be randomized to receive one of two pain medication
      regimens:

        1. Acetaminophen (15 mg/kg) q6h and Ibuprofen (10 mg/kg) q6h

        2. Acetaminophen q6h, Ibuprofen q6h, and Oxycodone 0.1 mg/kg q6h prn breakthrough pain for
           10 doses Home dosing regimens will be started six hours after the last hospital dose of
           each medication. The families will be instructed as to when they can give oral
           medications at home. Lastly, families of both children in both groups will be instructed
           to contact the clinic or urologist on call if their children are experiencing
           uncontrolled pain. This may necessitate evaluation in person or adjustment of the
           current pain regimen. Any deviation from to prescribed pain regimen will be recorded for
           the study.

      Patients will be contacted by phone at 1, 3, and 5 days postoperatively and given a validated
      questionnaire, the Parents' Postoperative Pain Measure scale, to objectively quantify how
      much discomfort boys in both groups experienced.
    
  