
    
      Defining a specific IL-22-mediated pathway in regulating eczema (i) Introduction: Overarching
      aim: Eczema is a significant chronic skin disease yet the need for targeted treatments
      remains largely unmet. In this study, I will investigate the cellular mechanisms for how the
      IL-22 pathway contributes to skin inflammation in eczema and whether pharmacologic
      manipulation of this pathway might offer effective new treatments for this common disease.

      Main hypothesis and objectives: I hypothesise that prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) promotes eczema
      through activating IL-22 signalling and that blockade of PGE2 receptors EP2/EP4 reduces
      eczema severity. I will interrogate this hypothesis with three objectives: (1) to examine
      whether IL22 overexpression in eczema patients is driven by endogenous PGE2 acting via EP2
      and EP4 receptors, (2) to determine whether this PGE2-IL-22 pathway is of particular
      importance in distinct subtypes of eczema and, (3) to study whether blocking EP2/EP4
      receptors upstream of IL-22 and IL-17 will reduce eczema severity.

      Background and importance of research:

      Eczema is the most common chronic inflammatory skin disease, with a rising prevalence in
      Western society placing an increasing economic burden on the health service.3 It is
      increasingly being recognised as a heterogenous disease encompassing acute and chronic
      eczema, and allergic contact dermatitis (ACD). It cumulatively affects over 4% of adults and
      10% of children of whom 50% have persistent disease in adulthood. The recent UK Translational
      Research Network in Dermatology priority setting exercise highlighted the burden created by
      this common and important disease.The requirement for a greater understanding of eczema
      pathogenesis according to subtype allowing patient stratification, and the dearth of
      treatment options available are significant unmet needs. This is in contrast with advances
      made in the development of biological therapies for psoriasis although refinement of these
      was also prioritised.

      Atopic eczema may predispose children to the "atopic march", and early effective treatment
      may reduce progression to asthma and hayfever in these patients. Understanding the immune
      pathway in eczema may provide insight into inflammatory pathways generic to a range of
      diseases especially those arising at the environmental allergen/epithelial interface.

      The mainstay of treatment for eczema over the last 50 years has been topical corticosteroids
      and latterly calcineurin inhibitors with the particular side effects of, respectively, skin
      thinning and carcinogenesis.

      Topical treatments are useful in mild disease but lack efficacy in those with moderate or
      severe eczema. Systemic immunosuppressants are used for moderate and severe disease, but
      these are 'blunderbuss' drugs, with no specificity for eczema and as a result can cause an
      extensive range of potentially serious adverse effects. Dupilumab, the first biologic
      treatment targeting dysregulated elements of the immune system in eczema has just received
      its European Marketing Authorisation approval. The trial data are impressive and confirm that
      immune-targeting eczema treatments will, produce a genuine paradigm shift in treatment of
      this disabling disease, yet 30% of patients do not respond. This highlights the importance of
      an increased understanding of immune dysfunction in eczema and the finding of new potentially
      'druggable' targets.

      Th22 cells are the predominant inflammatory infiltrative cells in chronic eczema lesional
      skin, and IL-22 produced by Th22 and Th17 cells induces pathognomonic epidermal hyperplasia
      and also reduction of filaggrin expression, leading to epithelial barrier disruption in a
      self-amplifying loop.

      Th22 infiltration correlates directly with eczema severity, and IL22 gene expression is
      increased in atopic dermatitis, suggesting IL-22 inhibition therapies as a specific target
      for eczema. It is believed that IL-22 is as important a 'driver' cytokine in eczema as IL-17
      has been in psoriasis.

      Confirmation of the importance of IL-22 in driving eczema has been the phase 2a clinical
      trial showing successful treatment of severe eczema with an anti-lL-22 antibody
      (fezakinumab).

      Chronic eczema and psoriasis share some immunological features. In particular, IL-17 and
      IL-22 are upregulated in both, although IL-17 predominates in psoriasis while IL-22
      predominates in chronic eczema. Specific IL-17 antagonists are highly effective treatments
      for psoriasis but not eczema. Both cytokines may be upregulated by PGE2, but shared pathways
      of induction are not fully understood.

      Therefore, identification of molecules or pathways that specifically regulate IL-22/IL-17
      signaling will be particularly valuable because these approaches might offer new therapeutic
      strategies for treating eczema and also psoriasis.

      As a well-known inflammatory mediator, PGE2, is one such molecule. The investigators have
      published data from a completely separate from this study (i.e. not results from this study),
      the investigators have previously shown that PGE2, through its receptors EP2 and EP4,
      promotes IL-22/IL-17 production from both innate and adaptive lymphocytes and mediates
      chronic inflammation in numerous tissues including skin. The investigators have shown that by
      either pharmacologically inhibiting endogenous PGE2 production with a COX inhibitor,
      indomethacin, or by genetically blocking EP4 signaling, hapten (oxazolone, OXA)-induced
      chronic allergic contact dermatitis in mice is reduced, and this is correlated with reduction
      of IL-22+CD4+ cells in skin-draining lymph nodes. The phenotype of the imiquimod mouse model
      resembles eczema and psoriasis.

      PGE2/IL23 (as it impacts on IL-17 and IL-22) represents an elegant therapeutic target for
      both eczema and psoriasis in mice (imiquimod mouse model) with similar potential in man. In a
      study which is completely separate to this (not results of this study) it was shown
      (published data) that genes related to IL-22/IL-17 and PGE2 signaling pathways are
      up-regulated in close correlation in inflammatory skin in both eczema and psoriasis.
    
  