
    
      Justification of study

      Respiratory abnormalities are complex in Myotonic dystrophy type 1. Some patients presented
      with isolated alveolar hypoventilation and breathe rhythm irregularity. Nocturnal ventilation
      is usually proposed but usual modes of ventilation can't provide enough respiratory
      assistance for patients especially during REM sleep or too much respiratory assistance
      increasing the risk of asynchrony. The goal of this study is to evaluate the effect of the
      mode AVAPS (a mode permitting a pressure support with guaranteed volume and offering
      advantage of volume and pressure support with Bipap A30 Phillips Respironics) compared to
      bilevel pressure support.

      Main Objective To evaluate efficacy of AVAPS Mode at day 7 on arterial PCO2 under ventilation
      after launching ventilation.

      Secondary Objectives To evaluate efficacy of AVAPS Mode at day 90 on daytime arterial PCO2
      after launching ventilation.

      To evaluate compliance to ventilation at day 7 and 90. To evaluate clinical efficacy on
      respiratory symptoms, dyspnea and sleepiness at day 1 and 90.

      To evaluate quality of life at day 1 and 90. To evaluate effect of AVAPS on polysomnography,
      nocturnal SaO2, nocturnal PtCO2.

      To evaluate Multiple sleep latency and Maintenance of wakefulness tests at day 90.

      To evaluate effect of AVAPS on respiratory parameters VC and mouth maximal pressures.

      Type of study: Prospective, monocentre, randomized, controlled single blind study on 2
      parallel group.

      Number of subjects: 32 patients recruited in home ventilation unit of Raymond Poincaré
      hospital.

      Selection criteria : Patients with Myotonic dystrophy presenting at least one clinical signs
      : effort or rest dyspnea, orthopnea, sleepiness, morning headache or VC<50% or Pi max< 60 cm
      H2O or time of SaO2<90% more than 5 minutes and Hypercapnia > 6.0 kPa.

      Study process Preceding screening period within the 3 months before inclusion. Day 1 to day 3
      baseline evaluation. Day 3 Inclusion and Randomisation Day 3 to 8 Launch of ventilation Day 8
      Home discharge Day 90 Evaluation of efficacy (secondary objectives) and observance.

      Duration Participation of a patient 3 months. Period of inclusion 24 months. Total duration
      of study 30 months.
    
  