
    
      The research plan includes a retrospective review of the chart of past UT MD Anderson Cancer
      Center (MDACC) patients and the experience in treating them.

      All studies analyzed will be Phase I clinical trials.

      Analysis is designed to collect information on the number of and timeframe within which ECGs
      are performed on these trials. Data on adverse events and serious adverse events, dose
      modifications based on ECG changes, attribution to drug, incidence and types of ECG changes
      specifically QTC prolongation as well as their influence on study procedures like dose
      limiting toxicities (DLTs) in dose escalation phase of the studies.

      Study conducted using clinical records of patients treated on Phase I protocols in the MDACC
      Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics. The demographic data to be collected from
      patients whose charts will be analyzed will include variables such as age, gender, primary
      cancer, stage of the disease, performance status, treatment characteristics (i.e., number and
      type of prior therapies), disease status, adverse events, laboratory data (i.e., complete
      blood count/differential/platelets, tumor markers), and treatment outcomes.

      The analysis will allow identification and descriptive analysis of the occurrence of cardiac
      events in the phase I population and will help define the role of protocol required EKGs in
      their detection.

      HIPAA privacy and confidentiality guidelines will be followed. The database will be secured
      in the Department server. A Data coordinator has been recruited to undertake this project.
      The information derived from these observations will help the investigators formulate
      research questions and projects to develop future prospective studies.

      The statistical analysis will be performed in a descriptive fashion with paired and
      multivariable analyses.

      The analyses will be reported using summary tables, figures, and data listings. Continuous
      variables will be summarized using the mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and
      maximum.

      This study will be conducted at the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas.
    
  