
    
      Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is the most common autosomal dominant disease in most
      countries, including Spain. Its prevalence is estimated at one in every 350-500 people being
      higher in certain areas with certain genetic isolation as French Canadians, Christian
      Lebanese, or "Afrikaners" in South Africa. The HF is characterized by a very high
      concentration of LDL cholesterol, familial autosomal dominant pattern, tendon xanthomas and
      increased risk of premature coronary disease. Without drug treatment, approximately 50% of
      men before age 50 years and the same percentage in women before age 60 will suffer a serious
      manifestation of cardiovascular disease. It has been estimated that HF limits life expectancy
      about 20 years for males and about 12 years for women, so that effective treatment is a
      priority in cardiovascular prevention. Most cases of HF are caused by mutations in the gene
      encoding the receptor of LDL particles (LDLR). More than 1000 different mutations in the LDLR
      gene (LDLR) have been described as the cause of HF, many of them specific to a territory or
      population group. In Spain we have described 235 different mutations and is one of the best
      studied populations in the world from the genetic point of view. This is because in Spain we
      have an efficient tool for genetic diagnosis of HF, referred Lipochip ® (Progenika Biopharma,
      Derio, Vizcaya), and allows us to be pioneers in the world in the diagnosis and treatment of
      HF.

      Most cases of HF in Spain, and especially the cases with a genetic diagnosis, which
      represents the true diagnosis, are controlled by the Lipid Unit network of the Spanish
      Atherosclerosis Society (SEA) distributed throughout the national territory, and in many
      cases using homogeneous clinical criteria for the clinical management of these patients. For
      the above reasons the SEA is the ideal setting for studies in a wide range of subjects with
      HF, especially those requiring an accurate diagnosis. The advent of statins has been a
      landmark for people suffering from HF. Since the late 80s of last century we have this class
      of drugs. They have reduced and almost normalized LDL concentrations in FH and have
      substantively altered the natural progression of the disease. However, the health impact
      brought about by the statins in HF is unknown. Indirect data from the UK Simon Broome
      Register suggest that subjects with HF now have a better prognosis than 20 years ago but that
      register has many limitations that make difficult to know the real impact of the treatment.

      Retrospective, obervacional, multicenter, based on Lipid Units of the Sociedad Española de
      Arteriosclerosis.

      Our hypothesis is that statins have improved cardiovascular prognosis in recent years in
      heterozygous FH subjects. The objective of this project is to establish the current
      prevalence of cardiovascular disease in adult subjects suffering from genetically diagnosed
      HF, and to know the impact that drug treatment has course in cardiovascular disease when
      compared with that of their affected parents with a much longer period of exposure to
      hypercholesterolemia.

      To establish the current prevalence of cardiovascular disease in adult subjects suffering
      from genetically diagnosed HF

      To know the impact that drug treatment has resulted in cardiovascular disease when compared
      with that of their affected parents with a longer period of exposure to hypercholesterolemia.
    
  