
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      This is an Investigator initiated, international, multicenter, prospective registry,
      enrolling 100 consecutive BAV patients who will undergo TAVI with the Evolut R/Pro
      (23-26-29)/Evolut R 34THV.

      Enrollment will be without limitation for each center (competitive enrollment). The
      indication for TAVI will be based on each local Heart Team decision. As per local
      institution's regulatory policy, each patient will provide a written informed consent for the
      TAVI procedure, anonymous data collection and analysis. Each center will use its own consent
      template.

      All data will be collected in an electronic clinical report form (eCRF).

      STUDY POPULATION Population

      All consecutive patients diagnosed with type 0 or type 1 bicuspid aortic valve stenosis or
      steno-insufficiency disease, undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation, as per local
      standard of care.

      CASPER algorithm

      The sizing of the THV will be performed according to the proposed algorithm.

      First step ("calcium impact"): subtract 1 mm in patients with aortic calcium volume ≥300 mm3
      (i.e. ≥ Class I); no subtraction in patients with aortic calcium volume <300 mm3 (i.e. Class
      0).

      Second step ("raphe impact"): subtract 1 mm if the raphe length is ≥50% of the perimeter
      derived mean annulus diameter Further 0.5 mm will be subtracted if a high burden of calcium
      is distributed predominantly on the raphe site.

      In case of bicuspid Type 0 the second step should be skipped.

      Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Procedure

      TAVI will be performed according to the local standards of care. Balloon valvuloplastywill be
      performed to prepare for TAVI deployment, at operator's discretion. Balloon size should not
      exceed the minimal diameter of the aortic annulus at baseline.

      TAVI deployment will be performed as the current best practices. All Centers will be
      encouraged to implant THV according to the two cusp alignment technique. If necessary, post
      dilatation will be performed, based on the final hemodynamics and aortic regurgitation
      assessment. The postdilatation will be performed according to the calcium burden with a
      balloon size diameter equal to the minor annulus diameter or to the mean diameter.

      Post-procedural MSCT scan

      The post-procedural MSCT scan must be performed between 2 and 30 days after the index
      procedure.

      Post implant measurements of THV dimensions (perimeter and area) will be obtained at inflow
      level, raphe level, and stent waist level (defined as the smallest dimension observed at any
      plane of the implanted prosthesis). If the raphe level corresponds to the stent waist level,
      only one measurement will be reported.

      Eccentricity index will be calculated for each level. Eccentricity will be defined as
      1-(minimal diameter/maximal diameter) and will be calculated both at the inflow and at the
      narrowest level.

      The post-procedural raphe length (defined as the longest measurable dimension of the
      structure) will be measured at the same level of pre-procedural MSCT. The ratio between the
      pre and post-procedure raphe length will be calculated for the assessment of raphe
      shortening.

      Strut separation data will be acquired (maximal strut distance, mean strut distance, strut
      eccentricity index, i.e. maximal-minimal strut separation). The stent strut spaces will be
      measured separately at the inflow level, with the first stent strut defined as the strut
      closest to the commissure between the non-coronary and right coronary sinuses. The subsequent
      struts will be numbered clockwise in an ascending order (1-15 for the Evolut THV).
    
  