
    
      Objective: The goal of this study is to establish the mechanism(s) of progression of
      primarily spinal syringomyelia (PSS), the type of syringomyelia that is associated with
      pathology in the spinal column and not at the craniocervical junction. Our hypothesis is that
      when a lesion obstructs the spinal subarachnoid space, it shortens the segment of spinal
      canal that dampens the CSF pressure waves that are produced with each heartbeat and creates
      enlarged spinal subarachnoid pressure waves that act on the spinal cord above the block to
      drive CSF into the spinal cord and create a syrinx. After a syrinx is formed, enlarged
      subarachnoid pressure waves compress the external surface of the spinal cord, propel the
      syrinx fluid, and promote syrinx progression.

      Study Population: Subjects will have primary spinal syringomyelia associated with 1)
      intradural scarring which is post-traumatic, post-inflammatory, or post-operative, 2)
      intradural-extramedullary masses such as arachnoid cysts or meningiomas, and 3)
      extramedullary-extradural spinal lesions such as cervical spondylosis or spinal deformity, or
      4) an intramedullary tumor.

      Design: Subjects will have testing before and after standard surgical therapy of
      syringomyelia. Testing includes measurement of CSF pressure, neurologic examination,
      CT-myelography, and MR scanning. Results of CSF pressure measurements before surgery will be
      compared to measurements from normal controls that were previously studied. The effect of
      surgery on CSF pressure, neurologic examination, CT-myelography, and MRI scans will be
      evaluated.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measure is cervical CSF pulse pressure, which is the
      amplitude of the CSF pressure wave, compared to normal values. Secondary outcomes measures
      include change in CSF pulse pressure, neurologic examination, CT-myelography, and MRI scans
      between before and after surgery.
    
  