
    
      Psychosis is a set of symptoms associated with distorted perception and cognition. Clinical
      treatments that focus on positive symptoms, hallucination, and delusion are increasingly well
      developed throughout the century. However peripheral facets such as depressive mood
      (post-psychotic depression to its extreme) and anxiety have never been the foci of attention;
      they are often viewed as less important than positive, negative, or cognitive symptoms, if
      not entirely ignored. Sadly, depression and anxiety are prevalent in early psychotic
      patients. Depression was found in 22% of people with First Episode Psychosis (FEP), and
      anxiety disorders of social phobia was found in 32%, and obsessive compulsive disorder in
      4-15% of people with FEP. These adverse conditions after the early acute stage of psychosis
      are linked with poor engagement in treatment services and adverse impact on the change
      process, resulting in poor treatment outcomes, lowered quality of life, and increased
      likelihood of suicide. Given the high prevalence and extensive impact, there is a need to
      explore adjunction intervention that targets mood and anxiety symptoms following onset of
      psychotic disorders.

      Mindfulness is the awareness that emerges from paying attention to the present moment without
      judgment. It is a skill that can be achieved through meditation practices, and has been shown
      to improve general well-being. Mindfulness-based intervention (MBI) has been referred to as
      the "third wave" of psychological interventions after the first wave behavioral and the
      second wave cognitive interventions. Research relating to MBIs has increased exponentially in
      the past decade. Key, fully developed, MBIs in the literature include mindfulness-based
      stress reduction (MBSR), mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) and acceptance and
      commitment therapy (ACT). These interventions are increasingly used with individuals
      suffering from depression or anxiety and have gained positive findings. Hofmann and
      colleagues conducted an effect size analysis on 39 studies of MBI for anxiety and mood
      symptoms in clinical samples. They found a moderately strong uncontrolled pre-post effect
      size of MBIs on reducing anxiety symptoms and depressive symptoms among individuals with
      disorders not limited to anxiety disorders or major depression. The authors postulated that
      MBIs may not be diagnosis-specific. Rather it is effective in reducing stress in general and
      hence improves symptoms of anxiety and depression across a relatively wide range of
      conditions.

      Since MBIs are efficacious in reducing mood and anxiety symptoms across various disorders, it
      has potential intervention value for early psychosis as well. In a recent meta-review, Khoury
      and colleagues concluded that MBIs have moderate therapeutic effects for psychosis. At the
      same time, there are arguments against mindfulness practices on active psychotic patients,
      and in people at risk of developing psychosis. In response, Chadwick et al. demonstrated in a
      feasibility study the safe use of a mindfulness intervention on nine active psychotic
      patients. Given the small sample size, further careful research, especially randomized
      controlled trials (RCTs), is needed to support its usage .

      Evidence on mindfulness-based interventions in treatment of mood and anxiety symptoms is
      encouraging. Yet, only a small number of RCTs have been conducted on patients with early
      psychosis to date. Further, with the limited resources available to the health system in Hong
      Kong, we aimed to create a simple MBI specific for early psychosis patients, with a
      user-friendly protocol that can be operated by health practitioners after sufficient yet
      time-efficient training. Therefore, the current RCT protocol in assessing the efficacy of a
      brief MBI on patients with early psychosis is of value.

      The primary research question is whether positive changes on depressive and anxiety symptoms
      can be obtained through a 7-week MBI program designed for early psychotic patients.
      Specifically, we hypothesized that the anxiety level and depressive mood can be significantly
      reduced by our MBI. The second question we sought to answer is whether this change can be
      maintained, as reflected in a 3-month follow up. Our secondary hypotheses are that since
      depression and anxiety are lowered, those receiving the MBI will perceive having better
      quality of life and overall functioning as a result
    
  