
    
      The overarching aim of this proposed Phase II research project is to fill a gap in prevention
      by completing the development and establishing the effectiveness of 3T: Tune in, Turn on,
      Turn up, a multimedia interactive sex-positive smartphone app-delivered HIV and other
      sexually transmitted infection (STI) intervention designed for use by YBMSM ages 14-17. The
      larger and longer term aims of developing an intervention specifically tailored to this
      population, utilizing a technology platform to reach youth where they are, is to contribute
      to a reduction in HIV/STI risk, increase HIV testing, and an increase in the quality of
      overall sexual health and relationships among YBMSM. To do this 3T emphasizes partner
      reduction, avoidance of concurrent partners, use of condoms if having anal or vaginal sex,
      and getting HIV/STI tests. 3T also focuses on improving quality of sexual experience and
      relationships, helping participants become clearer about what they do/don't want to do
      sexually, communicating their choices, and learning ways to enhance sexual experience without
      increasing HIV/STI risk. dfusion and its research partner, ETR, will meet the following
      specific Phase II aims:

        -  In conjunction with advisory panel members, develop content and corresponding
           storyboards for all activities. The curriculum will include content on risk reduction,
           sexual health and the quality of sexual experiences, and developing healthy
           relationships;

        -  Successful development of the first mobile app-delivered STI/HIV prevention program
           specifically designed for YBMSM aged 14-17. Reaching this aim requires continued
           development of the app technology, including the multimedia interactive activities,
           games, data collection, activity randomization, and a messaging/forum system. Research
           shows that YBMSM use the Internet to find information related to sex and sexuality, find
           friends and sexual partners, and YBMSM are increasingly using mobile apps, such as
           Grindr, to meet sex partners.20 The reliance on mobile devices for education and
           entertainment make it the ideal technology platform for reaching the YBMSM audience;

        -  Conduct a rigorous evaluation to determine the effectiveness of the intervention to
           reduce HIV/STI risk.

      The evaluation features a 2-arm cluster randomized controlled trial with approximately 300
      young black men who have sex with men (YBMSM) to assess the effectiveness of the 3T mobile
      app. To be eligible participants will be required to identify as male; Black,
      African-American, or biracial Black/African American; age 14-17 at baseline; self-identify as
      gay, bisexual, fluid, or sexually attracted to men; own a smartphone, and reside in any state
      in the United States. Those in the treatment arm will be provided with the 3T app, to be
      downloaded to their own device, and asked to use it during a three month period. Those in the
      control arm will be asked to download a general health app and use it during the same three
      month period. Participants will complete brief online surveys at baseline and at 3- and
      6-months following the conclusion of the app-use period to assess effectiveness in changing
      sexual risk behaviors and relationship and communication behaviors and attitudes.

      Recruitment. We will use a chain-referral technique for recruiting, starting with a group of
      100 "seeds" recruited using a multi-pronged strategy including: 1) Engaging Organizations.
      Approximately 15-20 organizations from across the U.S. that serve YBMSM will be approached to
      help recruit participants through social media and in-person (see letters of support.) 2)
      Using Google Adwords. Placing study advertisements on Google based on keyword for participant
      recruitment; 3) Using Social Media Advertising including targeted advertising on social media
      sites and sponsoring study posts with social media influencers in the YBMSM community. To
      minimize contamination, we will randomize initial seeds and all persons in their recruitment
      chain to either the treatment arm or the attention control arm.
    
  