
    
      The primary objective of this study is to determine the average bioequivalence of generic
      efavirenz 600 mg tablet (test formulation)compared with Stocrin(R) 600 mg tablets (Reference
      formulation).The study is designed as an open label, randomized, crossover, 2-treatments,
      2-period, 2-sequence, single dose pharmacokinetic study conducted in healthy volunteers.

      Subjects will be randomized to receive generic efavirenz 600 (Test formulation) or Stocrin(R)
      600 tablets (Reference formulation)on study day 1 (period 1), then they will undergo a 24
      hour intensive pharmacokinetic evaluation after ingesting a single dose of either the Test or
      Reference formulation. Additional pharmacokinetic samples 36, 48, 72, 120 and 192 hours
      postdose will be drawn.

      Subjects will complete a wash out period form day 8 to day 28 during which no study drug will
      be ingested. On day 29 (period 2) they will ingest either the Test or the Reference
      formulation (opposite to the formulation received on period 1). All subjects undergo another
      24 hour intensive pharmacokinetic evaluation and pharmacokinetics samples on days 36, 48, 72,
      120, 192 pos-dose, respectively, will be drawn. Adverse events and concomitant medication
      will be documented throughout the study.

      The sample size is 28 and is based on a 15% dropout rate (due to lost to follow-up, treatment
      discontinuation, etc.) Since the investigators are expecting four subjects not to complete
      the study,24 evaluable subjects are finally expected. If the discontinuation rate is greater
      than 15%, the investigators will continue to enroll until they get 24 evaluable subjects.

      The primary endpoint is to determine average bioequivalence for Test and Reference
      formulation of efavirenz according to the FDA guidance on bioequivalence testing. The ratio
      of the Test to Reference formulation mean for efavirenz AUC0-192, AUC0-inf and Cmax and the
      90% confidence interval around each mean ratio will be determined. Average bioequivalence
      will be met if 90% confidence interval around de AUC and Cmax mean ratios for efavirenz falls
      within the FDA's predefined limits of 0.80 to 1.25.

      Safety will be evaluated by administering a questionnaire to the subjects during the study .
      This questionnaire will list the most frequent adverse effects already described for the
      innovator (Stocrin(R)). Safety will also be evaluated from vital signs recordings, lab tests
      out of the limits fixed in the study protocol and Psychiatric Evaluations during screening,
      in the wash out period and 15 days after the last administration of the study medication.
    
  