
    
      This two-group randomized controlled trial integrates evidence-based strategies for promoting
      moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) among Latina women and girls to design and
      deliver a mother-daughter intervention to increase girls' MVPA.

      Mothers are instrumental in promoting healthy behaviors to their daughters. Specifically,
      mothers' PA and PA parenting practices influence their daughters' PA. Mothers can create and
      support PA opportunities, reduce access to sedentary activities, model PA, and reinforce
      daughters to be physically active. Other family level factors like parent-child communication
      positively predicts PA for girls. Family influences are generally hierarchical, in that
      influence often flows from mothers to daughters. However, parents are not parenting in
      isolation, but in response to children's traits and behaviors, as well as other social
      factors. Thus, children play an important role in shaping PA parenting practices and mothers'
      PA through encouragement and support. Understanding daughters' and mothers' PA and other
      family factors from multiple perspectives will extend our understanding of the bidirectional
      nature of parent-child relationships that may hinder or facilitate behavioral trajectories of
      PA.

      The study will recruit 90 pairs of mothers and their preadolescent daughters through
      partnerships with schools and diverse community organizations that serve Latinos. Each pair
      will be randomly assigned to a 12-week Conmigo PA intervention (n=45 dyads) or to a 4-week
      abbreviated intervention following completion of M3 assessment (control) (n=45 dyads). The
      full and abbreviated (control) interventions will include PA and PA counseling, as well as
      parenting discussion. The study will examine the efficacy of the intervention in increasing
      daughters' and mothers' PA at 12 and 24 weeks after baseline measurements. Secondary outcomes
      include mother-daughter communication and PA parenting practices at 12 weeks (M2), and 24
      weeks (M3) using protocols and instruments developed in the formative phase. Participants in
      the control condition will participate in an abbreviated (4 week) version of the intervention
      after the M3 assessment. After the 12-week intervention, the investigators will conduct focus
      groups with intervention condition participants, stratified by daughters who met the PA
      guidelines and those who did not, to identify potential moderators (e.g., BMI, perceived
      barriers to PA) and mediators (e.g., mother-daughter communication, PA support, PA parenting
      practices) that may explain and influence program impact.

      The investigators hypothesize that daughters participating in Conmigo will have higher
      minutes of MVPA at M2 and M3 compared to girls in the delayed treatment control condition.
      They also hypothesize that mothers in the intervention will increase minutes of MVPA and
      demonstrate improved use of PA parenting practices and mother-daughter communication compared
      to the control condition.
    
  