
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the preliminary effectiveness and social validity of
      the OP-ENS (Our Peers - Empowerment and Navigational Support). a 12-month peer health
      navigator intervention sing a clinical trial design in a sample of community-dwelling adult
      Medicaid beneficiaries with physical disabilities.

      Participants will be recruited through community and clinical networks and screened for
      eligibility. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the intervention or usual care
      groups. Participants in the intervention group will be matched with a trained peer health
      navigator (who is also a person with a physical disability). Using a structure process of
      barrier identification, goal setting and action planning peer health navigators will work
      with participants to help address their healthcare needs and concerns, including such things
      as patient-provider communication, transportation, access to durable medical equipment. It is
      important to note that peer health navigators are not healthcare providers and do not provide
      medical or health advice. Participants in the intervention trial are asked to meet with their
      peer health navigator at least once a month during the study period. To encourage
      participation in this intervention, progressive micro-incentives are integrated into the
      study protocol. To promote equipoise, a similar micro-incentive schedule is created for the
      usual care group.

      Data Collection - All participants, regardless of group assignment, will be interviewed at 3
      time points (baseline, 6 months, 13 months) using a self-report measures of healthcare
      access, quality, and outcomes as well as measures of social support and patient activation.
      Data collectors will be blinded to group assignment and not involved in the delivery of the
      OP-ENS intervention.

      Data Analysis - The investigators will employ mixed effects model using each study outcome as
      a time-varying dependent variable and treatment group (PHN vs. usual care) as the main fixed
      effect. Baseline characteristics including race/ethnicity, gender, and socioeconomic status
      will be entered as time-invariant covariates if baseline group differences are observed (in
      spite of randomization). Subject intercept will be modeled as a random effect. The null
      hypothesis will be rejected if a significant group*time interaction effect is observed. The
      investigators hypothesize that PHN will have a more favorable trajectory slope of study
      outcomes than the matched control group. For each hypothesis, post-hoc analysis will be
      conducted to assess difference in each outcome variable between the two groups at different
      time points. The mixed models will run using PROC MIXED from of SAS 9.3 (Cary, NC). The
      method of estimation will be maximum likelihood (ML). A variety of covariance structures
      (first order regressive, compound symmetry, toeplitz, variance components, unstructured) will
      be carefully examined and compared for best model fit, Akaike's Information (AIC) and
      Bayesian Information Criteria (BIC). These statistics are functions of the log likelihood and
      can be compared across models. As missing data are inevitable in a longitudinal study, values
      will be imputed where possible using either mean (median) substitute or formal imputation
      procedures such as EM algorithm if missing data are MCAR (missing completely at random) or
      MAR (missing at random). If missing data are NMAR (not missing at random), the "pattern
      mixture" approach will be used to compute a "weighted average" of the parameters that are
      associated with the missing data to estimate what the data would have been.
    
  