
    
      Specific Aim: To determine if prehospital administration of 7.5% hypertonic saline /6%
      Dextran-70 (HSD) OR 7.5% hypertonic saline alone (HS), compared to current standard therapy
      with normal saline (NS), as an initial resuscitation fluid, affects survival following
      traumatic injury with hypovolemic shock.

      Trauma is the leading cause of death among North Americans between the ages of 1 and 44
      years. The majority of these deaths result from hypovolemic shock or severe brain injury.
      Patients in hypovolemic shock develop a state of systemic tissue ischemia then a subsequent
      reperfusion injury at the time of fluid resuscitation. Conventional resuscitation involves
      the IV administration of a large volume of isotonic or slightly hypotonic (lactated ringers,
      LR) solutions beginning in the prehospital setting. Although not conclusive, prior studies
      have suggested that alternative resuscitation with hypertonic saline (7.5%) solutions may
      reduce morbidity or mortality in these patients. Furthermore, hypertonic fluids may have
      specific advantages in the brain-injured patient, as they may aid in the rapid restoration of
      cerebral perfusion and prevent extravascular fluid sequestration, thereby limiting secondary
      brain injury. In addition, recent studies have demonstrated that hypertonicity significantly
      alters the activation of inflammatory cells, an effect that may reduce subsequent organ
      injury from ischemia-reperfusion and decrease nosocomial infection. The majority of previous
      clinical trials have focused on the use of HSD. The potential for 7.5% saline alone (HS) to
      have similar effects has not been well studied. Removal of the dextran component may enhance
      the anti-inflammatory effects of this solution, which could improve secondary outcomes such
      as acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), multiple organ failure syndrome (MOFS) and
      rates of nosocomial infections.

      This study is a randomized, double-blind, three-arm placebo controlled trial designed to
      evaluate the clinical outcome of trauma patients with hypovolemic shock, as manifested by
      prehospital hypotension. Patients will be randomized to a single 250cc IV dose of 7.5% saline
      in 6% Dextran-70 (HSD), 7.5% saline (HS) or normal saline as the initial fluid for
      prehospital resuscitation. No additional interventions will occur once the patient is
      admitted to the hospital. In hospital data collection will last up to 28 days.
    
  