
    
      Background & Rationale: Affecting ~19% of mothers, postpartum depression (PPD) reduces
      maternal sensitivity and positive responsiveness to infant cues and bids for caring
      attention. Infants perceive these behaviours as stressful which stimulates the hypothalamic
      pituitary adrenal axis, triggering cortisol release which, at persistently elevated levels,
      inhibits neurogenesis during critical periods of brain development. Elevated infant cortisol
      of infants of mothers with PPD may explain later poor child cognitive development and
      hyperactivity and anxiety problems into adolescence. The negative developmental outcomes from
      poor quality interactions and disrupted cortisol patterns underscores the urgency for
      intervening. Treating PPD successfully, has not consistently improved maternal-infant (M-I)
      interaction quality and children's development. Parent training promoting sensitive,
      responsive interactions may help infants of depressed mothers develop optimally.

      Research Question & Objectives: Conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with depressed
      mothers of infants aged 2-6 months designed to alter negative M-I interaction and child
      development associated with PPD. Objective: examine effect of the intervention, VID-KIDS
      ("video-feedback intervention to promote improved interactions between mothers and their
      kids"), on: 1) M-I interaction; 2) infant cortisol patterns, infant development, maternal
      symptoms of PPD, anxiety, and parenting stress. Anticipate to improve: 1) M-I interactions
      and infant development, infant cortisol; 2) symptoms of PPD, anxiety, parenting stress, and
      infant development. The investigators will conduct cost-benefit analyses.

      An additional objective is to collect infant buccal cells for future genetic/epigenetic
      analyses. Research has suggested biological sensitivity, assessed via genotyping specific
      genetic variants and alleles may confound effects of interventions of this nature.
      Intervention may affect the epigenome, particularly the number or nature of methylated DNA
      sites, of treated infants differently than untreated infants that may link to infant
      development. This portion of the study is optional for parents-they can opt out of buccal
      cell collection.

      Methods: The study will implement a parallel group RCT compared to resource and referral
      program (standard care) for mothers with PPD and their infants. After baseline assessment,
      over the following 9-weeks, mothers randomized to the intervention will receive
      3-video-feedback sessions during home visits conducted at 3-week intervals. Mothers
      randomized to the control condition will receive standard care. Both groups will be assessed
      at baseline, immediately following the 9-week treatment/standard care interval (post-test),
      then 2-months later (delayed post-test).

      Both control and intervention mothers will have access to standard care over the study
      period. Mothers' use of such health services will be documented. The investigators will
      adhere to CONSORT guidelines.

      Intervention description. Video-feedback interventionists will be trained by Co-PI
      Tryphonopoulos using a manualized curriculum of 7-themed modules offered in a 4-day workshop.
      Training modules will include: 1) Introduction to Video-feedback; 2) NCAST Keys to Caregiving
      Program; 3) Infant Engagement and Disengagement Cues (using NCAST's BabyCues: A Child's First
      Language Cards®; 4) Video-feedback Intervention Protocol; 5) Overview of Behaviours of
      Interest; 6) Case Studies; and 7) Examples of Strengths-Based Feedback.

      The intervention follows an 8-step protocol:

      Ice-breaking. Interventionist initiates rapport with the participant.

      Overview of Infant Engagement and Disengagement Cues. Using NCAST's BabyCues,
      interventionists review coloured photo cards that illustrate and explain the behavioural cues
      commonly seen in infants, including potent and subtle engaging and disengaging cues.

      NCAST Teaching Activity. Using the Nursing Child Assessment Teaching Scale (NCATS) protocols
      and elements, mothers are asked to perform a teaching task more advanced than their infant's
      age level.

      Recording Interaction. Mothers and infants are observed and video-recorded.

      Initial-Viewing. Specific feedback is not provided during the initial viewing. Mothers are
      asked to reflect on and point out any infant cues they recognize. Interventionist documents
      the presence or absence of infant cues and mother's response for later discussion.

      Second-Viewing. Interventionist and mother co-view the recorded interaction with
      opportunities provided for replay/slow review portions emphasizing sensitivity and
      responsiveness. Interventionist provides feedback: using praise reinforcing desired maternal
      behaviours; information on infant cues; appraisal of maternal response to infant distress;
      and use of cognitive growth fostering language.

      Third-Viewing. The final viewing, integrates all of the concepts discussed in the previous
      screenings, using positive reinforcement to emphasize optimal aspects of sensitivity,
      responsiveness and constructive feedback suggesting areas for growth.

      Post-viewing Debrief. Interventionist and mother conclude the video-feedback session
      discussing whatever interests the mother. Mothers are encouraged to make note their infants'
      engagement/disengagement cues and responses to these non-verbal behaviours.

      Video feedback sessions last 60-90min. Subsequent sessions follow same protocol (new teaching
      activities) and build on the previous interaction guidance discussions.
    
  