
    
      Background:

      Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is a temporary mechanical circulatory support
      device for cardiogenic shock (CS) patients. Patients with fluid overload (FO) and sever
      metabolic disorder in the early phase of ECMO support exhibit higher hospital mortality.
      Simultaneous renal replacement therapy (RRT) is routinely used to facilitate more rapid
      metabolic or uremic control and more effective prevention and management of fluid overload
      when ECMO is commenced in some ECMO centers registered in the Extracorporeal Life Support
      Organization (ELSO). However, high-quality evidence to support the strategy of simultaneous
      RRT during ECMO support is currently lacking. The investigators aim to perform a single
      center, randomized, controlled trial to evaluate the impact of simultaneous RRT on outcomes
      during ECMO support for CS patients.

      Hypotheses:

      The investigators hypothesize that simultaneous RRT with ECMO will improve survival, reduce
      morbidity, and shorten duration on ECMO support, duration on invasive ventilation, total days
      of ICU stay and hospitalization, and time to recovery from electrolyte disturbance.

      Design:

      Prospective, single-center, randomized, open-label trial comparing simultaneous RRT and
      standard care strategies in terms of overall survival.

      CS patients who are likely to receive ECMO support will be enrolled and randomized with a 1:1
      allocation to a simultaneous RRT arm vs. standard care arm.

        1. Simultaneous RRT arm: The continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) machine is primed
           and connected to the patient by a "machine in-line" CRRT access after randomization. The
           drainage tube of the CRRT machine is connected to the ECMO circuit where is after the
           membrane lung, and the return tube before the membrane lung. The simultaneous RRT begins
           after ECMO is commenced and finishes when a patient has been weaned from ECMO. If a
           patient has AKI (The definition is described in outcomes.) after ECMO weaning and
           fulfills any of the criteria of the following conventional indications,
           conventional-indication RRT should be delivered with independent CRRT access with a
           central venous catheter: (1) Serum potassium≥6.0 mmol/L, (2) Serum bicarbonate≤10
           mmol/L, or (3) urine output < 0.5 ml/kg/h for 24 hours after ECMO weaning.

        2. Standard care arm: Only when a patient demonstrates AKI and fulfills any one of the
           criteria of the conventional indication mentioned above during ECMO support or after
           ECMO weaning, conventional-indication RRT should be delivered. The "machine in-line"
           CRRT access or independent CRRT access is separately used when RRT is delivered during
           ECMO support or after ECMO weaning.

      Primary outcome:

      All-cause 30-day mortality after ECMO is commenced.

      Secondary outcomes:

      Morbidity (acute kidney injury, infection), duration on ECMO support, duration on invasive
      ventilation, total days of ICU stay and hospitalization, and time to recovery from
      electrolyte disturbance.

      Number of subjects required:

      The baseline hospital mortality (66%) of CS patients with ECMO support was obtained from the
      investigators' previous study. Based on their literature research, early initiation of RRT
      could reduce the mortality by 18%. Assuming all-cause 30-day mortalities in the control and
      intervention groups of 66% and 48%, respectively, with a two-sided significance of 0.05 and a
      power of 0.8, a total of 262 patients (131 for each arm) will be required, including an
      estimated dropout rate of 10%.
    
  