
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of heavy-load resistance training on
      muscle cellular outcomes in women with breast cancer undergoing (neo-)adjuvant chemotherapy.

      More specifically, the investigators' objectives are to

        1. Investigate the effects of a heavy-load resistance training intervention on skeletal
           muscle fiber cross-sectional area.

        2. Investigate the effects of a heavy-load resistance training intervention on regulators
           of muscle fiber size, muscle fiber function, cellular stress and mitochondrial function.

        3. Investigate the effects of chemotherapy on skeletal muscle fiber cross-sectional area,
           regulators of muscle fiber size, muscle fiber function, cellular stress and
           mitochondrial function.

        4. Explore the effects of heavy-load resistance training on the expression levels of
           myokines.

      This study is a two-armed randomized controlled trial with follow-up at six months. With this
      design, the investigators can study the main effect and interactions between factors
      (groups). Participants will be randomized to either an intervention group or a control group.

      Participants recently diagnosed with breast cancer will be recruited from Uppsala University
      Hospital. Based on power calculations, 50 participants will be included. Data will be
      collected before the first cycle of chemotherapy, after chemotherapy, and 6 months later
      (6-month follow-up.

      Participants in the intervention group will perform supervised heavy-load resistance training
      twice a week from the week following the start of chemotherapy and throughout the course of
      treatment, approximately 16 weeks. Sessions will be performed at a public gym and led by
      trained coaches. The following six exercises will be included in the program: seated
      leg-press, seated chest press, seated leg-curl, seated row and seated leg-extension performed
      in machines and seated overhead-press using dumbbells. The first two weeks of the program
      represent familiarization to the training protocol and 1 RM (Repetition Maximum) tests.
      During this period, the participants will perform exercises at a light load. After the first
      1 RM-test, training will progress in sets and training load before testing of 6- and 10 RM
      which will provide the participants with individualized loads. Rest periods between sets will
      be two (6 RM training load) and one minute (10 RM training load) for the two different
      sessions, respectively. The training load will be adjusted throughout the intervention
      period. Participants in the control group are encouraged to continue with their activity as
      usual i.e. maintain their habitual physical activity level and not initiate resistance
      training during chemotherapy. To increase interest in participation, controls will be invited
      to a 2-week introduction to the same resistance-training program as the intervention group
      following completion of chemotherapy and offered a 12-month membership at a local gym, free
      of charge.
    
  