
    
      Research background Preimplantational genetic screen (PGS) is tool for diagnosis of embryo
      chromosome abnormality before transfer. Under this tool, patients with a family history of
      genetic disease or special genetic disease could avoid to produce chromosomal abnormalities
      of the next pregnant. For the preemergence of embryos before the genetic diagnosis must be
      carried out artificial reproductive treatment, the process includes induction of ovulation,
      ovulation, in vitro fertilization and embryo culture, to embryos grow to six to eight cells
      or cultured into the stage of blastocyst stage, Under the embryonic section, take one or
      several cells, the slices of cells for genetic diagnosis, select the embryo without genetic
      disease implanted in the uterine cavity, in order to avoid the birth of genetic disease
      offspring.

      PGS can reduce the pregnancy when the chromosomal abnormalities of the fetus after
      implantation, but also to reduce the risk of abortion from chromosomal abnormalities, and can
      avoid the couples implanted with genetic abnormalities of the embryos, thereby significantly
      reducing it is important to promote the process of eugenics and reduce the social cost.

      Research purposes The detection of chromosomal abnormalities of embryos are important factors
      for clinical diagnosis or screening before implantation. However, there is no complete
      analysis of domestic studies. This program will compare the genes or chromosomal
      abnormalities and clinical outcomes of embryo testing at different stages of embryonic
      development.

      Research design This study is a retrospective study, data collection from 2001 Jan. to 2015.
      Nov. Patients underwent PGS and data including the couples age, infertility factors,
      stimulation protocols, medicine records, embryo quality records and blood tests were
      collected in this study. Analysis the relationship between outcomes of PGS, clinical outcomes
      and embryo quality is performed and further to find a diagnosis reference for clinical care.
    
  