
    
      The drugs used in intensive care units are numerous and their administration is based on a
      strong expertise in this context of urgency and complexity. Nurses role is not only to carry
      out preparation of a treatment but to implement a complex treatment that requires a risk
      management approach surpassing the simple task to which the decree of professional acts
      refers to.

      In this context, the administration of catecholamines, widely used in intensive care medicine
      in the treatment of shock, appears to be a sensitive issue to study. These vasoactive drugs
      have a short half-life and a narrow therapeutic index. Administration should be careful
      ensuring both efficiency and prevention of complications such as hemodynamic instability or
      arrhythmias.

      Administration of these therapeutic must be strictly continuous, that is to say delivered
      using electric syringe pumps. Syringe replacements appear as critical moments because of the
      risk of flow change or brief interruption of the infusion.

      There are three main types of syringes relay techniques, but to date, no study has compared
      these techniques with each other. There is thus no recommendation based on objective datas to
      guide clinical nursing practice.

      This study aims to provide evidence in order to secure the administration of catecholamines.
      It may also use as a reference for evaluation of new features that allow automation relays
      with called "smart pumps" and for which no study has demonstrated the added value in terms of
      security. No progress will be possible in securing the administration of drugs with a short
      half-life, narrow therapeutic index and significant side effects without a deep reflection of
      the conditions of their infusion. The choice of materials used and the development of care
      procedures must be based on reliable and timely recommendations. Patients expect safer care.
      Nurses must be able to have references enabling them to guide their practice to the benefit
      of patients.
    
  