
    
      Introduction and Background

      Smoking continues to be a burden to the healthcare system in Canada. As of 2015, 3.8 million
      Canadians (13% of the population over age 15) reported being a current smoker. British
      Columbia's smoking rate is lower, but 10.2% of adults still regularly smoke cigarettes. It is
      well-known that smokers suffer more complications and higher risk of mortality after surgery
      than non-smokers. Pulmonary complications, cardiovascular complications, and surgical site
      infections are mediators of smoking-associated mortality at 6-months and 1-year after
      elective surgery.

      Although there have been a handful of studies that have demonstrated dramatic reductions in
      postoperative complications with well-timed smoking cessation interventions in the
      preoperative period, these results have not translated into widespread clinical practice in
      delaying surgery for the purpose of achieving smoking cessation. In addition, most of these
      studies took place in Europe, where smokers may behave differently than in the Canadian
      setting.

      A systematic review recommended at least 4 weeks of smoking cessation in order to reduce
      postoperative complications. Several European studies have shown dramatic reductions in
      complications when smoking cessation interventions have been implemented 4-8 weeks
      preoperatively. One Canadian editorial even suggested new policies be put into place to delay
      elective surgeries in smokers until a trial of cessation for 6 weeks had taken place. While
      this may occur on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of the surgeon, a protocolled delay
      directed by the preadmission clinic has not been described in the literature.

      Implementation of smoking cessation programs preoperatively have the potential to reduce
      morbidity and mortality. A Cochrane systematic review has shown that preoperative smoking
      cessation therapy improves both short and long-term smoking cessation. In fact, a surgical
      encounter with the healthcare system has been described as a "teachable moment" that provides
      motivation for patients to permanently stop smoking. Despite this information, most
      anesthesiologists do not routinely offer smoking cessation advice to their patients and
      advice, counselling, and pharmacotherapy for smoking cessation is not routine in
      pre-admission clinics across Canada and the United States.

      Several small trials have shown that smoking cessation interventions can increase smoking
      cessation and reduce postoperative complications, particularly wound-healing complications,
      which can have an absolute risk reduction of up to 25%. Prior work by one of the
      co-investigators showed that a simple intervention in the pre-admission clinic was able to
      increase the abstinence rate from 3.6% to 14.3% on the day of surgery. Smoking cessation
      initiated in the perioperative period can also promote long-term smoking cessation.

      Despite these successes, standard care at Royal Columbian Hospital (RCH) has not routinely
      included specific preoperative smoking cessation pharmacotherapy or counselling. There is a
      current quality improvement project underway that is in the process of implementing a smoking
      cessation bundle that will be given to all current smokers during their preadmission clinic
      visit. Therefore, this is the ideal time to study the effects of when the perioperative
      smoking cessation bundle is given to patients. After implementation, the smoking cessation
      bundle will be standard of care for all smokers. The perioperative smoking cessation bundle
      will include: free nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), a referral to the Smokers' Helpline
      (quitnow.ca), brief counselling, and a Stop Smoking for Surgery brochure. This bundle will be
      offered to all regular smokers of cigarettes during their preadmission clinic visit.

      Once the simple smoking cessation intervention has been implemented for all preoperative
      smokers, the investigators wish to use the natural waiting time for elective surgery to study
      the effect of early preadmission clinic visits on smoking cessation and postoperative
      complications. The current standard at RCH is to have the preadmission clinic visit scheduled
      around 2 weeks before the surgery or less. The natural waiting time for elective surgery is
      often be more than 4 weeks, which allows us to schedule early preadmission clinic visits
      anytime during this period. The investigators aim to schedule the early preadmission clinic
      visit 4-6 weeks before surgery.

      The investigators aim to determine whether postoperative complications can be reduced in
      elective surgical patients when the smoking cessation bundle given to patients during their
      preadmission clinic visit are administered 4-6 weeks preoperatively. The investigators plan
      to carry-out a randomized controlled trial where patients who identify as smokers will be
      randomized to early preadmission visits (4-6 weeks preoperatively) versus standard visits
      (less than 2 weeks preoperatively).

      Purpose and Justification

      Most randomized studies showing improved smoking cessation rates after preoperative
      interventions have strict inclusion and exclusion criteria, and required ongoing consent for
      research experimentation, which limits their external generalizability. The BuTT Out Study is
      of utmost importance since it has the potential to demonstrate reductions in surgical site
      infections and lengths-of-stay using a cost-free intervention (time). If our hypothesis is
      confirmed, widespread implementation could translate into tremendous advantages for the
      patient, in terms of reduced complications, and providers, in terms of cost savings.

      Research Question

      For patients who smoke undergoing elective surgery what is the effect of an evidence-based
      smoking cessation bundle administered 4-6 weeks preoperatively on patients' outcomes (smoking
      rates, complication rates and hospital length of stay) compared with standard practice of the
      bundle administered usually less than 2 weeks preoperatively?

      Research Objectives

      To determine whether postoperative complications can be reduced in elective surgical patients
      who smoke when the smoking cessation bundle administered in the preadmission clinic is given
      4-6 weeks preoperatively versus less than 2 weeks preoperatively.

      Research Hypothesis

      In patients who smoke and receive the perioperative smoking cessation bundle, a preadmission
      clinic appointment 4-6 weeks prior to elective surgery for the purpose of quitting smoking
      will result in reduced smoking rates on the day of surgery, lower 30-day complications, and
      shorter lengths of stay.
    
  