
    
      There are two main groups in this study. Firstly a group of 40 to 60 volunteers recruited
      from the community and not previously exposed to typhoidal Salmonella (part A); secondly a
      group of 20 to 60 volunteers from participants of previous challenge studies conducted by the
      Oxford Vaccine Group (part B).

      Participants in part A and B will be randomly allocated one-to-one to have either S. Typhi or
      S. Paratyphi. The dose of bacteria has been determined by previous challenge studies to give
      an attack rate of 60 to 75% in individuals naive to typhoidal Salmonella. The bacteria is
      then ingested as a drink with a bicarbonate buffer ('the challenge').

      In addition to these two groups, a preliminary study involving 3 to 10 participants to act as
      'negative controls' will be performed. They will ingest the bicarbonate drink but not be
      given S. Typhi or S. Paratyphi. This group is not randomised with part A or B, and is
      unblinded i.e. the participant will be aware that they are not drinking typhoidal Salmonella.
      The participants will have all the same procedures and investigations as those in part A and
      B, including endoscopy with biopsies, daily visits during the two week intensive phase, and a
      course of antibiotics.

      Prior to challenge, participants (from parts A, B and negative control group) will undergo
      endoscopy and tissue biopsies of the gut lining. This procedure will be repeated after the
      intensive phase and completion of a two week course of antibiotics.

      After challenge, participants will be reviewed daily for at least 14 days by study
      investigators. Samples of blood, stool, saliva and urine will be collected. Participants
      diagnosed with enteric fever will be treated immediately with antibiotics and samples will be
      taken as per the protocol. The participants who do not meet criteria for enteric fever will
      be treated with antibiotics on Day 14.

      Enteric fever is diagnosed if any of the following apply:

        1. A positive blood culture for S. Typhi or Paratyphi from 72 hours post-challenge,

        2. a positive blood culture for S. Typhi or Paratyphi within 72 hours post-challenge, with
           one or more signs/symptoms of enteric fever,

        3. persistent positive blood cultures (two or more blood cultures taken at least 4 hours
           apart) for S. Typhi or Paratyphi within 72 hours postchallenge, or

        4. oral temperature ≥ to 38°C persisting for 12 hours.

      A proportion of participants from Part A and B will be offered the optional procedures of
      enteric string tests (also called Enterotest) and/or Wireless Video Capsule Endoscopies
      (WCE). Participants consenting to these procedures will be selected sequentially until the
      quota has been filled for each group.
    
  