
    
      There is growing concern that repetitive concussions, or even exposure to sub-concussive
      blows during collision sports, may be associated with chronic neurologic problems, including
      CTE. Despite the lay media attributing devastating clinical problems to CTE, no studies
      conclusively demonstrate a connection between the pathological findings and clinical effects.
      Experts at the 5th International Conference on Concussion concluded that "a cause-and-effect
      relationship has not yet been demonstrated between CTE and SRCs [sport-related concussions]"
      and "the notion that repeated concussion or sub-concussive impacts cause CTE remains
      unknown." As there are no treatments or prevention strategies available for CTE, some former
      players who attribute their problems to CTE develop depression, despair, and suicidality.
      There is a pressing need to understand the risk, incidence, character, progression, and
      treatment of the neurologic health problems of former NFL players.

      The investigators propose an in-depth study assessing the association between concussion,
      sub-concussive exposure, cerebral tau, and clinical outcomes; assessing former NFL players
      for autoantibodies to cis-tau; assessing carbon monoxide (CO), memantine, environmental
      enrichment (EE), and cis P-tau antibodies for preventing and treating neurologic sequela of
      rmTBI. The most promising treatment(s) from preclinical studies will ultimately be translated
      into clinical trials for individuals identified during the clinical study who are at risk for
      long-term neurologic health problems. The study will be carried out at 2 sites, The
      University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and The Medical College of Wisconsin both at the
      oversight of the main grant awardee, Boston Children's Hospital.

      In order to prospectively and longitudinally track progression of neurologic health and
      assess associations with concussion and sub-concussive exposure the investigators plan to
      execute multiple study phases: (1) Former National Football League (NFL) Players will
      complete the General Health Survey (GHS)(part of a previous research study); (2)
      Stratification based on age and the GHS; (3) Phone Screening with Brief Test of Adult
      Cognition by Telephone (BTACT); (4) Re-stratification based on BTACT scores; (5) In-Person
      Neurobiopsychosocial Research Evaluation 1; (6) Annual Follow-Up Health Surveys; and (7)
      In-Person Neurobiopsychosocial Research Evaluation 2.

      Based on the stratification above, 250 subjects will be enrolled for In-Person Research
      Evaluation 1. This cohort will include 100 high cognitive functioning former NFL players, 100
      low cognitive functioning former NFL players, and a group of 50 demographically matched
      healthy controls. Informants of the former NFL subjects, that are selected for In-Person
      Research Evaluation 1, will also be asked to complete a series of informant-based
      questionnaires (n=200). Subjects enrolled in the In-Person Research Evaluation 1 will
      complete an assessment of neurobiopsychosocial function, to include a detailed
      neuropsychological assessment, patient-reported outcomes, and symptom validity measures.
      Assessment of neurobiopsychosocial function will also include proteomic and genomic studies,
      multi-modal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and position emission tomography (PET) molecular
      imaging studies of tau, amyloid and inflammation.

      Annual follow-up surveys of health status and life function (selected repeat measures from
      the GHS) will be sent/administered annually for 5 years. Based upon the annual follow-up
      survey of health status and life function, a subset of former NFL players and all controls
      will return for second a research assessment of neurobiopsychosocial function that mirrors
      the in-person research evaluation.
    
  