
    
      Intellectual disability and neurobehavioural comorbidities affect at least 50% of the
      individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), which, although a rare genetic disease,
      is the most common form of muscular dystrophy in childhood. Several studies have documented
      that 25% of the DMD population has intellectual disability with recent studies suggesting
      that autism and clinically relevant hyperactivity affects 20% and 25% of DMD boys
      respectively. A milder allelic variant, named Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD), has similar
      prevalence in the population and is also associated with variable degrees of central nervous
      system (CNS) comorbidities, which however have been less well defined.

      We will address this knowledge gap in a large multicentre study funded by the European
      Commission (EU H2020) involving 6 countries (Denmark余 The Netherlands余 France余 Spain余 Italy
      and UK) with the largest European neuromuscular centres and advocacy groups. The aim will be
      to study the neurobehavioural aspects of DMD and BMD as well as their correlation to the
      genotype.

      This study will involve male participants with DMD aged 5-17 years and with BMD aged 5-50
      years, who will complete a battery of cognitive and behavioural assessments. The objective of
      this study is to deep phenotype a cohort of 270 individuals with DMD and BMD, focussing on
      the cognitive and neurobehavioural aspects of these conditions. A sub-groups of patients will
      also undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to investigate brain structure, volumetric
      features, perfusion, functional connectivity and metabolism. This information will then be
      correlated to the location of the underlying DMD gene mutation. The brain imaging part is
      also going to involve age and sex-matched controls.

      While there have been major improvement on the definition of the genetic basis of the
      skeletal aspects of dystrophinopathies and their correlation to the DMD genotype, our
      knowledge on the spectrum of lifespan CNS comorbidities and the precise genotype / phenotype
      correlations in patients with different DMD mutations is still limited. A study looking into
      the association between different dystrophin isoforms and different CNS manifestations would
      therefore offer a unique opportunity to unravel the role of specific dystrophin isoforms and
      the associated circuitries in brain function.
    
  