
    
      Conventional transradial intervention is now considered the first intention technique for
      coronary access. The principal advantages are the increase in safety due to the reduction of
      major bleeding complications, as well as an increase in the patient's comfort due to the
      immediate post-procedure mobilization.

      The safety of conventional transradial catheterization is determined mainly by the favorable
      anatomical relationship between the radial artery and the adjacent structures. No important
      vein or nerve is located near the artery, which minimizes the chances of damaging these
      structures. Due to the superficial trajectory of the radial artery, hemostasis can be easily
      performed with local compression. Traumatic or thrombotic arterial occlusion does not put the
      viability of the hand at risk while there is an adequate collateral blood flow from the ulnar
      artery, or from the interosseous artery.

      Among the expected complications and limitations for future interventions is radial artery
      occlusion, which is estimated to occur in 1-10% of patients undergoing transradial
      intervention, and it has been considered the "Achilles heel" of transradial intervention for
      patients who eventually require new coronary interventions due to the complexity of their
      cardiac disease, because it originates in the sheath insertion site due to endothelial
      damage, blood flow cessation, and secondary thrombosis, and has an early occurrence after
      transradial catheterization. The radial artery occlusion is clinically silent due to the
      blood flow supply through the ulnar artery, which becomes a significant problem just at the
      time of the study execution, enhancing the interventionist cardiologist to perform a new
      vascular access.

      The distal radial technique, which consists of canalizing the radial artery through the
      anatomical structure called the snuffbox (anatomical snuffbox, radial fossa, fovea radialis)
      on the dorsal aspect of the hand, has recently emerged as an alternative arterial
      intervention for diagnostic and therapeutic coronary catheterization, allowing the
      conservation of the radial artery for classical transradial intervention in patients who,
      according to the complexity of their heart disease, require new coronary interventions.

      Another important characteristic of this technique is a proximal puncture of the short artery
      of the thumb and distally to the branch that irrigates the superficial palmar arch. This is
      because an occlusion at this site maintains anterograde flow towards the superficial palmar
      arch. This reduces the risk of formation of retrograde thrombus in the proximal radial artery
      located in the forearm, a frequent finding in patients who develop radial artery occlusion
      due to traumatic punctures or traumatic hemostasis at the traditional radial puncture site.
      Flow towards the thumb is maintained by way of the superficial palmar arch, preventing
      ischemia and disability of the hand.

      This technique of distal transradial intervention has been performed in Mexico since 2017.
      The present research aims to describe the characteristics, complications, and benefits of
      this procedure carried out on a consecutive series of patients in a Latin-American centre.
    
  