
    
      There are four major components of the evaluation design as described below: 1) Site
      Assessment, 2) Competence and practice of individual MLP who participate in IDT, 3) Facility
      cost and performance indicators, and 4) Mortality survey. The site assessment guided the
      curriculum development and site selection. As shown in Figure 1, it occurred only once in
      Year 1. The effect of the IMID and OSS on competence of individual MLP will be evaluated with
      written case scenarios or vignettes. Data on case scenarios will be collected three times: a)
      before training, b) after the three-week course, and c) after the nine-month program that
      includes two, one-week booster courses and distance learning. To estimate the effect of IMID,
      aggregate changes in test score across all 3 time points for both arms will be analyzed
      jointly. To estimate the effect of OSS, differences in change in test score starting from
      after the three-week course to the end of the nine-month program will be compared across the
      2 arms. The effects on practice of individual trainees will be evaluated with clinical
      assessments by mobile team faculty during five outpatients visits and five HIV clinic visits
      by individual MLP. Data on clinical assessments will be collected two times: a) before
      training, and b) after the nine-month program. Facility performance indicators will be
      collected on a monthly basis from each site. Sites will be randomly assigned to begin OSS in
      either Phase 1 or Phase 2 and the facility indicators of these two samples of sites will be
      compared. The principal investigators of IDCAP are actively considering collecting data on
      mortality among children under five, but a final decision has not been made. At the request
      of the acting chairperson of SOMREC, we are including information about this potential
      activity. Mortality surveys would be conducted before and after the OSS.
    
  