
    
      INTRODUCTION Gram-negative bacteria have recently become endemic in many ICUs around the
      world. Ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) is relatively common and its parenteral
      treatment often leads to low and sub-therapeutic concentrations of antibiotics in the lung.
      Ventilator associated tracheobronchitis (VAT) is characterized by fever, purulent sputum,
      positive cultures of tracheal aspirates secretions and the absence of new pulmonary
      infiltrates on CXR. This entity is of particular interest because it is an intermediate step
      in the pathogenesis of VAP (between colonization and VAP itself) and prolongs mechanical
      ventilatory support. Inhaled antibiotics achieve high (both peak and trough) concentrations
      in respiratory secretions. Endobronchial antibiotics have been given to non-cystic fibrosis
      patients for prevention of VAP. Colistimethate sodium (colistin) given by instillation
      decreased the incidence of Gram-negative pneumonia and did not lead to the development of
      colistin resistant bacteria.

      AIM

      The study is a prospective open label randomized study which aims to clarify the effect of
      colistin to:

        1. The incidence of VAP The incidence of VAT

        2. Mechanical ventilation free days

        3. Incidence of multidrug resistant bacteria in tracheal aspirates cultures

      METHODS Settings: The study will be performed in the ICU of the University of Larissa (12
      beds).

      Entry criteria: All intubated and tracheostomised patients, older than 18 years old with
      duration of intubation of 48 hours.

      Exclusion criteria: 1) Purulent sputum within 48 hours from admission. 2) Pneumonia within 48
      hours of intubation 3) New chest X ray infiltrate, 4) Advanced COPD that led to intubation 5)
      Pregnancy 6) Allergy to colistin 7) Resistance of the bacterial strain to colistin.

      Tools: Randomization of the patients into two groups: the first group will receive nebulized
      colistin and the other no treatment. The initial dose is 1000000 units and it will be doubled
      after measurement of the drug concentration in tracheal secretions. The drug will start on
      admission and stop after 10 days.

      All patients will be given the respiratory bundle measures (semi-recumbent position, daily
      interruption of sedation) as part of the usual daily practice of our ICU except otherwise
      indicated.

      The severity of patients will be estimated by APACHE II score on admission and SOFA score
      thrice weekly. CPIS score as a screening tool for pneumonia will be estimated as well thrice
      weekly.

      Tracheal aspirates cultures on admission and thrice weekly thereafter for the first two weeks
      and twice weekly thereafter.

      The patients will be followed for thirty days to measure outcome.
    
  