
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine potential effectiveness of a new, reusable mask
      against SARS-CoV-2 and other microbes. This requires filtering down to at least 0.3 microns,
      as the SARS-CoV-2 virus is on average 0.25-0.5 microns in diameter.

      Dr. Nordell has developed a machine-washable mask which shows potential to be significantly
      more effective than other masks on the market. It uses a fabric that is machine washable,
      without need for a filter or replaceable component. This fabric, Evolon-100 or E-100, is a
      microfilament fabric produced by a private company outside of the USA (and is therefore not
      yet FDA approved as of December 2020).

      Unofficial data shows this mask passes the "N95 fit test" before and after multiple washes on
      the majority of individuals tested, and the material used in Dr. Nordell's design filters
      93-96% of 0.3 micron particles. For reference, the N95 mask used in the hospital (whenever
      concern for potential exposure to COVID-19 or similar contagion exists) filters 95% of 0.3
      micron particles when factoring in air leak, assessed with the "fit test." Voluntary survey
      of users also shows it is more comfortable than other masks, including the N95. This mask is
      also reported to be breathable even after prolonged use.

      This mask design addresses every factor in respirator design. The design intentionally uses
      pleats to increase the effective mask surface area while decreasing the seal perimeter,
      resulting in increased air flow, lower pressure drop, and increased filtration efficiency.
      The investigators propose that it has a higher filtration ability than other washable fabrics
      tested, filtering at least 93% of 0.3 micron particles, even up to 96%. It also helps prevent
      air leak, a large factor limiting efficacy of most non-standard masks. It is easy to don and
      doff, and it is very easy to clean and disinfect. This material can be washed multiple times
      in a standard washing machine without reducing its effectiveness. And finally, it is very
      affordable, with materials for one mask costing less than $1.50. All materials used beyond
      this specific fabric are easily purchased on the internet or in a fabric store.

      Upon completion of this research, the investigators hope to demonstrate that this mask is a
      superior alternative in multiple settings, including hospitals in developing countries with
      little or no N95 mask access, non-hospital settings such as businesses and schools, as well
      as for the general population, especially those with high risk for COVID-related
      complications.
    
  