
    
      Primary Objective: To design an online and mobile course in which participants will learn to
      triage pigmented lesions as benign or malignant. The course will use images and question
      prompts to train users in pattern recognition with the goal of increased diagnostic accuracy.

      Secondary Objective: To assess the effectiveness of this course. Students will be asked to
      rank their confidence when answering questions at the end of each module and confidence over
      time will be tracked. Students will also be asked to complete a post-course survey which will
      include an externally validated, 10 question usability scale. Responses will be standardized
      and compared across participants.

      The study will take place at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine over a 2
      year time course. Initially, participants will assess the diameter of pigmented lesions with
      and without a ruler incorporated in the image of a pigmented lesion that contains at least
      one hair (Phase 1). Next, participants will be asked to complete an online/mobile course with
      the goal of learning to triage pigmented lesions as benign or malignant. (Phase 2) (Figure 1)
      These will be accessed on personal smart phones and/or computers. The course will consist of
      four modules of increasing difficulty. These modules will be completed in (4) 20 minute
      sessions over the course of 2 weeks. Each module will pair 4 images of benign lesion with 4
      images of melanomas. Each sequential module will incorporate one new type of benign lesion as
      well as re-introduced images that were triaged incorrectly in previous modules.

      At the end of each module, participants will be asked to rate their confidence in answering
      triaging lesions on a scale of 1-10. The change in confidence rating between Module 1 and 4
      will be tracked. Students will also be asked to answer a post-test questionnaire designed to
      assess: i) the usability of this course ii) effectiveness of this course in helping students
      triage benign and malignant lesions. Usability will be assessed with the System Usability
      Scale. Effectiveness of the course will be assessed with questions tailored to assess the
      specific learning objectives.
    
  