
    
      The loss of muscle mass and function in older adults during bed rest is facilitated by
      defects in the regulation of muscle protein metabolism, including an impaired ability to
      mount an anabolic response to a mixed nutrient meal. The investigators propose that
      low-intensity exercise and supplementing daily meals with leucine or whey will independently
      and synergistically reduce the deleterious effects of inactivity on skeletal muscle and
      facilitate recovery during rehabilitation. Metabolic measures will include: a) nutrient and
      exercise-specific markers of translation initiation; b) skeletal muscle protein synthesis;
      and c) a novel breath test of glucose tolerance. Morphologic and functional measures will
      include: a) muscle mass and body composition; b) muscle strength and function; and c) motor
      activation. The investigators will test the following hypotheses in older men and women
      (65-80 years) during 7 days of bed rest followed by 7 days of inpatient rehabilitation:

        1. Inactivity-induced metabolic dysregulation will blunt the anabolic response to meals,
           facilitating a loss of lean muscle mass, glucose tolerance and functional capacity that
           is partially restored during rehabilitation.

        2. Supplementing daily meals with leucine or whey will maintain nutrient-stimulated
           translation initiation and preserve the anabolic response to meal ingestion. This will
           partially preserve lean muscle mass and function during bed rest and facilitate the
           recovery of functional and metabolic capacity during rehabilitation.

        3. Daily low-intensity exercise will preserve motor unit activation, stimulate the
           exercise-regulated signaling pathway and normalize the anabolic response to meal
           ingestion. This will partially preserve glucose tolerance, lean muscle mass and function
           during bed rest and facilitate rehabilitation.

      This translational project will provide mechanistic and practical insight into strategies to
      reduce the negative consequences of physical inactivity and promote rehabilitation in aging
      muscle. Our novel, minimally invasive and clinically interventions have direct application
      for older hospitalized patients at risk of accelerated muscle loss and diminished functional
      capacity.
    
  