
    
      Rationale:

      The currently ongoing world-crippling pandemic with the new SARS-CoV2 virus shows the
      desperate and urgent need for a better understanding of the biological pathways activated by
      the virus inducing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in infected patients. A subset of
      COVID-19 patients develop very severe respiratory symptoms requiring hospital admission with
      or without the need for mechanical ventilation, whereas others experience mild flu-like
      symptoms. The biological mechanisms underlying this striking difference in clinical outcome
      and the long term consequences are unknown, yet a genetic factor seems likely. SARS-CoV2
      enters cells via the ACE2 receptor and the activating protease TMPRSS2 which have recently
      been shown to be strongly enriched in nasal epithelium. The investigators hypothesize that
      genetics and the nasal epithelial response to SARS-CoV2 are critical determinants of the
      immune response to viral infection, and predict clinical outcome in COVID-19 patients.

      Objective:

      The main objective is to assess whether genetic background and/or the nasal epithelial gene
      expression in response to SARS-CoV2 is different in patients with mild, severe or very severe
      disease. The secondary goal of this study is to investigate a) the role of the ACE2-AngII
      system during SARS-CoV2 in relation to outcome b) the long-term consequences of mild, severe,
      and very severe COVID-19 infection c) the association between mild, severe and very severe
      COVID-19 with clinical & molecular markers of disease progression d) whether the faeces
      microbiome, virome or metabolomics profile predicts clinical outcome in COVID-19 patients and
      e) to investigate whether pre-existing antibodies towards other coronaviruses play a role in
      severe disease development.

      Study design:

      Prospective open label clinical observational study. In this study samples will be collected
      from 150 COVI-19 patients ( 50 mild (group 1), 50 severe (group 2) and 50 very severe (group
      3) ). Blood, nasal brushes and stool will be collected for all groups at hospital admission
      and 3 months after recovery, and for groups 2 & 3 at day 3, at day 14, and before detubation.
      Study subjects will be retrospectively allocated to the groups.

      Study population:

      A total of 150 patients diagnosed with COVID-19 will be included. The investigators aim for
      50 patients per group, divided over 3 groups:

      Group 1 Patients with mild disease who tested positively for SARS-CoV2 infection, but only
      experience mild symptoms and do not need hospitalization.

      Group 2 Patients with severe disease admitted to hospital, without the need to be admitted to
      the intensive care.

      Group 3 Patients with very severe disease admitted to intensive care, who require mechanical
      ventilation.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The primary endpoint of this study is the identification of genes, pathways and cell
      populations that associate with clinical outcome and disease progression in mild, severe and
      very severe COVID-19 patients.
    
  