
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a chronic and pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder
      characterized by deficits in social communication and the presence of restricted and
      repetitive behaviors. Individuals with ASD often require intensive and comprehensive
      intervention across the life span. There has been a dramatic increase in the number of
      individuals with this diagnosis over the last two decades, with current prevalence rates as
      high as 1 in 68. However, there has not been corresponding growth in the availability of
      evidence-based intervention services, contributing to high levels of unmet service needs for
      individuals with ASD and their families. The vast majority of families of children with ASD
      report receiving substantially fewer hours of services than recommended by the National
      Research Council. Furthermore, levels of unmet service needs are even higher for families
      residing in rural and medically underserved communities. Thus, systematic research focused on
      developing and improving strategies for dissemination and implementation of evidence-based
      ASD services is a high priority, particularly for chronically underserved communities.

      Parent training programs are one cost-effective and ecologically valid way to increase access
      to evidence-based ASD intervention. Training parents to provide intervention themselves can
      increase the number of intervention hours a child receives and improve child outcomes. A
      number of studies have demonstrated that parents can learn to use evidence-based intervention
      strategies with a high degree of fidelity and their children experience gains in language and
      social communication development, decreases in disruptive behavior, and greater
      generalization and maintenance of child skill. These benefits are recognized by parents, who
      report parent training to be the most effective practice for promoting their child's overall
      development. Parent training also improves family quality of life by increasing parent
      self-efficacy and reducing parenting stress, which is particularly important given the high
      rate of stress and depression found in parents of children with ASD.

      Despite these benefits, there continue to be barriers to the dissemination of training to
      parents. Formal parent training programs are rare in community-based early intervention
      settings for young children with ASD. For example, in a recent North Carolina survey, only 8%
      of parents of children with ASD under 4 reported receiving parent training. Barriers to the
      provision of parent training include a shortage of trained professionals, lengthy waitlists,
      limited financial resources and transportation, lack of child care, geographic isolation, and
      time limitations. These barriers may be even more pronounced for families who live in rural
      areas, for whom long distances, poor roads, and climatic barriers limit the ability of
      parents to receive services. Thus, it is essential to consider the adaptation of
      evidence-based parent training programs to non-traditional service delivery models to
      increase access to services.

      Telehealth, or the provision of health services and information through the Internet and
      related technologies, has the potential to replace or, at the very least, augment traditional
      service models to increase access to evidence-based services. Users of telehealth programs
      are able to interact directly with instructional content through video, animation, and active
      learning tasks, as well as with other individuals, including expert clinicians, via email and
      teleconferencing systems. The number of individuals with access to internet-based
      technologies has grown considerably in recent years (File T, 2013), and it is now estimated
      that 75% of U.S. households have a home computer with high-speed internet, and nearly 87% of
      adults are able to access the internet from home, work, or elsewhere. Telehealth services are
      becoming increasingly common with over 3,000 U.S. sites using distance-based service delivery
      models to provide patient care.

      Telehealth programs can reduce patient and provider costs and increase provider system
      coverage relative to traditional in-person service delivery models. Such programs have been
      shown to greatly improve care for patients with chronic diseases, such as diabetes, heart
      disease, and asthma, and increase access to evidence-based health promotion (i.e., smoking
      cessation, dietary change, physical activity), psychological (i.e., CBT for depression and
      anxiety), and parenting interventions. Patients are often very satisfied with the care they
      receive through telehealth services, and efficacy studies have found moderate to large
      effects of telehealth interventions on participant knowledge and behavior change. Further,
      several recent meta-analyses have found that CBT delivered via telehealth is as effective as
      traditional therapist-delivered intervention. Taken together, these data suggest that
      telehealth may serve as a promising alternative service delivery model to increase the
      dissemination of ASD parent training programs.

      Telehealth interventions can be either self-directed, in which the participant engages with
      the interactive program at his or her own pace, or therapist-assisted, in which the
      participant receives additional guidance from a trained professional as he or she completes
      the program. Self-directed programs have far greater dissemination potential as they do not
      require a trained professional and can typically be administered at a much reduced cost. At
      the same time, research on telehealth CBT interventions for mood and anxiety have found that
      therapist-assisted programs lead to better client outcomes than self-directed programs. This
      finding may be particularly relevant for telehealth parent training interventions, as
      research suggests that parent coaching is important for increasing parents' fidelity of
      implementation, and coaching is a core component of existing evidence-based parent training
      interventions for children with ASD.

      There has been growing interest in extending telehealth interventions to parent training for
      children with ASD; yet empirical evaluations of such programs are very limited. Several
      uncontrolled studies of self-directed telehealth parent training programs have shown that
      parents of children with ASD find such programs to be highly acceptable, and program use is
      associated with gains in parent knowledge of evidence-based intervention procedures.
      Preliminary empirical studies have suggested that parents can learn to implement
      evidence-based intervention techniques with fidelity after using a self-directed telehealth
      parent training program. A small controlled study found that parents who were given access to
      a DVD-based self-directed program made greater gains in their correct use of pivotal response
      training (PRT) strategies, provided their children with more language opportunities, and
      displayed greater confidence in parent-child interactions, than parents in a no-treatment
      control group. Using a single-subject design, demonstrated that parents improved their
      correct use of reciprocal imitation training (RIT) techniques after completing a web-based,
      self-directed program. However, one third of the participants required additional in-person
      coaching in order to meet the pre-determined fidelity of implementation criterion. In both
      studies, improvements in child behaviors targeted by the interventions were also observed.
      Importantly, parents in both studies indicated that immediate feedback or coaching from an
      expert clinician would have been a helpful addition to the program.

      Several recent single-subject design studies have examined the efficacy of therapist-assisted
      telehealth parent training programs for children with ASD. Researchers examined the effect of
      both a DVD-based and web-based program in conjunction with weekly remote coaching sessions
      via video-conferencing to teach parents the Early Start Denver Model (ESDM). Results
      suggested that parents increased their correct usage of the intervention strategies and
      altered their engagement styles to be more attentive and responsive to their children after
      the therapist-assisted telehealth program. Furthermore, children in both studies demonstrated
      gains in important social communicative behaviors (e.g., language, imitative behaviors). In
      an attempt to evaluate the relative contributions of self-directed instruction and remote
      coaching on parent learning of RIT, researchers conducted a second study that measured
      parents' use of RIT techniques with their child prior to completing a self-directed,
      web-based program, after completing the self-directed program but before receiving remote
      coaching via video-conferencing, and after receiving remote coaching. Similar to their
      previous study, all parents improved their correct use of the intervention techniques in
      response to the self-directed program, but roughly a third showed additional benefit from the
      provision of remote coaching. In addition, most children demonstrated gains in imitation
      skills (the target of the intervention) with the onset of treatment; however, child gains
      were most robust during the coaching portion of the program.

      These preliminary findings suggest telehealth parent training interventions are highly
      acceptable to parents of children with ASD, and can result in improvements in parent
      knowledge and implementation of evidence-based intervention techniques and gains in child
      social communication skills. To date, no studies have conducted a head-to-head comparison of
      self-directed and therapist-assisted telehealth parent training interventions. However, data
      thus far indicate that parent coaching may be necessary for some, but not all parents to
      successfully implement evidence-based intervention techniques with fidelity. A more nuanced
      appreciation of the contributions offered by each component, as well as which parents are
      more likely to benefit from each, will make it possible to develop more cost-effective
      delivery models in which services can be offered at different levels of intensity, depending
      on specific needs of the family (i.e., stepped-care).

      ImPACT Online is an interactive, web-based telehealth intervention that teaches parents to
      promote their child's social-communication skills during play and daily routines. The
      intervention content was adapted from Project ImPACT, a manualized parent training curriculum
      that uses a blend of developmental and naturalistic behavioral intervention techniques,
      including following the child's lead, imitating the child, using heightened animation, using
      simplified language around the child's focus of attention, environmental arrangement
      strategies, prompting, and natural reinforcement during child-directed activities. There is
      strong empirical support for the intervention techniques for increasing social communication
      in children with ASD. In addition, several studies have demonstrated the efficacy of the
      original parent training curriculum for increasing parent fidelity and child language skills.

      The original curriculum was designed to be implemented over 12 weeks in either an individual
      or group format by an in-person parent trainer. The investigators have adapted the program so
      that the intervention content is presented in 12 interactive, web-based modules or lessons.
      These lessons can be administered as a standalone intervention (self-directed model) or in
      combination with remote coaching (therapist-assisted model). Program development was guided
      by the technology acceptance model56, media richness theory57,58, and principles of
      instructional design59. To ensure usability, The investigators used an iterative development
      process with input from focus groups of parents and intervention providers, and interviews
      with pilot participants. The investigators have conducted a feasibility trial of the
      self-directed and therapist-assisted models with 25 families, the majority of whom (75%)
      reside in rural and medically underserved areas. Our data thus far strongly support the
      acceptability and feasibility of the web-based modules and the remote coaching protocol, and
      suggest that such models can be used to effectively reach individuals residing in underserved
      communities. Further, our data lend preliminary support for the positive effect of the
      program on parent fidelity of implementation, self-efficacy, and child language. The next
      step in evaluating ImPACT Online is to conduct a fully-powered RCT with a control group to
      evaluate the comparative efficacy of the self-directed and therapist-assisted telehealth
      intervention models on key parent and child behaviors, as well as to examine potential
      mediators and moderators of treatment outcomes.

      Statement of the Problem Research indicates that early, intensive intervention can lead to
      significant improvements for children with ASD. There has been a dramatic increase in the
      prevalence of ASD over the past two decades, but not a corresponding growth in availability
      of evidence-based intervention services. This has led to high levels of unmet service needs
      for individuals with ASD and their families. Parent training is one cost-effective and
      ecologically valid approach to increase access to intervention. Additional benefits include
      increases in parenting self-efficacy and decreases in parenting stress. Yet, there continue
      to be barriers involved with the dissemination of training to parents. Telehealth
      interventions have the potential to replace, or at the least augment, traditional service
      models to increase access to evidence-based services, particularly in rural and medically
      underserved areas. There is increasing evidence to suggest that such programs can reduce
      patient and provider costs and increase provider system coverage relative to traditional
      in-person service delivery models.

      Although there has been growing interest in extending telehealth interventions to parent
      training for children with ASD, empirical evaluations of such programs are limited, and
      little is known regarding the relative benefits of self-directed and therapist-assisted
      telehealth interventions for ASD. Self-directed programs have far greater dissemination
      potential as they do not require a trained professional and can typically be administered at
      a much reduced cost. At the same time, research on telehealth interventions for other
      disorders have found that therapist-assisted programs lead to better client outcomes than
      self-directed programs. A better understanding of the relative benefits of these two delivery
      formats on parent and child outcomes, as well as the families for whom each format is most
      and least effective, is crucial for the development of effective and efficient telehealth
      parent training interventions.

      The specific objectives of this project are to conduct a randomized control trial to examine
      the effect of a novel, telehealth parent training intervention for children with autism
      spectrum disorder (ASD), ImPACT Online, on parent and child outcomes. The investigators will
      compare the benefits of the self-directed and therapist-assisted delivery formats, and
      examine moderators and mediators of treatment outcomes. The investigators anticipate that
      both the self-directed and therapist-assisted models of ImPACT Online will be effective
      methods for teaching parents to use evidence-based intervention strategies and for increasing
      parent self-efficacy compared to a web-based information control group. Parents' use of these
      strategies will greatly enhance the amount of evidence-based intervention that their children
      receive and improve generalization and maintenance of skills, positively impacting their
      children's language development. The investigators anticipate that parents in the
      therapist-assisted group will outperform parents in the self-directed group on the primary
      parent outcome measures at the group level; however, our moderator analyses may indicate
      parents for whom each approach is more and less effective. These data will be key to
      informing a stepped-care model in which parents can be offered the intervention at different
      levels of intensity (self-directed or therapist-assisted), depending on the specific needs of
      the family. Further, if this approach to parent training is successful, it has the potential
      to greatly increase access to evidence-based intervention for children with ASD, especially
      those living in rural and underserved areas.

      Ninety families of young children with ASD will be assessed at pre-treatment (T1), randomized
      to the self-directed ImPACT Online, therapist-assisted ImPACT Online, or web-based
      information control condition, and will receive treatment for 4 months. Outcome assessments
      will occur at post-treatment (T2) and a 3-month follow-up (T3).

      Aim 1: To examine the comparative efficacy of self-directed and therapist-assisted ImPACT
      Online on parent outcomes at post-treatment and the 3-month follow-up. The primary goal of
      ImPACT Online is to teach parents to use specific intervention techniques to promote their
      child's social communication development. As parents gain the knowledge and skills to help
      their child, their self-efficacy as a parent is expected to increase. Thus, The investigators
      will compare the effects of the two telehealth intervention models on parent fidelity and
      parent self-efficacy at post-treatment and a 3-month follow-up. It is hypothesized that
      families randomized to either of the two telehealth conditions will demonstrate greater gains
      in parent fidelity and parent self-efficacy at post-treatment and 3-month follow-up than
      parents assigned to the control group. Given research on telehealth interventions for other
      disorders suggesting an added benefit of therapist-assistance, it is hypothesized that
      families randomized to the therapist-assisted telehealth condition will demonstrate greater
      gains in parent outcomes relative to parents in the self-directed telehealth condition at
      post and follow-up.

      Aim 2: To examine the comparative efficacy of self-directed and therapist-assisted ImPACT
      Online on child outcomes at the 3-month follow-up. Parent use of the intervention techniques
      over time is expected to lead to improvements in child verbal language. Thus, The
      investigators will compare the effects of the two intervention models on child verbal
      language at the 3-month follow-up. It is hypothesized that families randomized to either of
      the two telehealth conditions will demonstrate greater gains in child verbal language at
      follow-up than parents assigned to the control group. Given the stronger effects on parent
      outcomes expected for the therapist-assisted intervention, it is hypothesized that families
      randomized to the therapist-assisted telehealth condition will demonstrate greater gains in
      child verbal language relative to parents in the self-directed telehealth condition at
      follow-up.

      Aim 3: To examine whether pre-treatment parenting stress moderates the effects of ImPACT
      Online on parent fidelity and parent self-efficacy at post-treatment. Our goal is to identify
      the families for whom the different telehealth delivery formats are most and least effective.
      Prior research has indicated a negative association between pre-treatment parenting stress
      levels and treatment outcomes in ASD parent training interventions. Thus, The investigators
      will examine pre-treatment parenting stress as a putative moderator of parent treatment
      response. It is hypothesized that the effects of ImPACT Online on parent fidelity and parent
      self-efficacy will be stronger for parents with lower pre-treatment levels of parenting
      stress. It is anticipated that pre-treatment parenting stress levels may also differentially
      impact parent outcomes for the two telehealth delivery formats. For example, high levels of
      pre-treatment parenting stress may be more likely to negatively impact parent outcomes in the
      self-directed group, because parents do not have the additional support of a coach. Thus, it
      is also hypothesized that the relationship between parenting stress and parent outcomes will
      be stronger in the self-directed group than the therapist-assisted group.

      Aim 4: To examine whether gains in parent fidelity and parent self-efficacy at post-treatment
      mediate the effects of the ImPACT Online on child verbal language at the 3-month follow-up.
      In ASD parent training studies it has been assumed that improvements in child outcomes are a
      result of improvements in their parents' ability to implement the treatment. However, this
      relationship has rarely been directly tested. While parent fidelity is a likely candidate, it
      is also possible that changes in other important parent behaviors, such as parent
      self-efficacy, may be important factors in promoting child change. For example, it may be
      that parents who feel more self-efficacious in the parenting role may engage with their child
      more often, have higher expectations for their child's behavior, or may more effectively
      advocate for their child's needs, all of which might result in "non-specific" treatment
      effects. Thus, The investigators will examine mediators of child changes to better understand
      how our parent training model is affecting child outcomes. Specifically, The investigators
      will examine whether improvements in child verbal language as a result of treatment are
      mediated by changes in parent fidelity and/or parent self-efficacy. It is hypothesized that
      the effects of ImPACT Online on child verbal language at the 3-month follow-up will be
      greater for children whose parents demonstrate greater gains in parent fidelity and parent
      self-efficacy from pre- to post-treatment.

      Aim 5 (exploratory): To identify predictors of adherence to ImPACT Online. In order to fully
      capitalize on the benefits of telehealth, it is important to understand factors that
      influence parent adherence to ImPACT Online. The investigators have selected one
      program-level (therapist assistance) and three individual-level (computer/internet fluency,
      parent expectancies, treatment acceptability) factors that have been found to influence
      adherence to parent training and/or telehealth-based interventions in previous work. The
      investigators will also examine whether any sociodemographic variables predict treatment
      adherence. It is hypothesized that therapist assistance will predict adherence, such the
      therapist-assisted group will exhibit greater adherence than the self-directed group, and
      that computer/internet fluency, parent expectancy, and treatment acceptability will be
      positively associated with adherence to ImPACT online. Finally, The investigators hypothesize
      that some sociodemographic variable will be found to predict treatment adherence.

      Research Design and Methods Participants. 90 children with ASD between the ages of 18 and 72
      months will be recruited for this study. This sample size was determined to be adequate for
      maintaining adequate power for the proposed statistical analyses, while allowing for some
      attrition. To ensure that the sample includes a sufficient number of participants who are
      traditionally underserved, The investigators will oversample for participants living in a
      federally designated rural and/or medically-underserved area, and those with additional risk
      factors associated with decreased access to care, including low parental education,
      single-parent household, racial or ethnic minority, and immigrant status. To be eligible,
      children must receive a DSM-V-informed clinical diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder based
      on the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS). In light of research suggesting that
      diagnostic stability is lower in children under 30 months. Results of diagnostic testing for
      the younger children in our sample will be interpreted cautiously and discussed with parents
      in a sensitive and transparent manner. Children with a history of significant brain injury,
      known neurological or genetic condition, significant sensory or motor impairment, or major
      medical problems will be excluded as they might be expected to respond differently than
      children with ASD only or require program modifications.

      Participants will be recruited through our ongoing contacts with community agencies and
      professionals serving young children with ASD in Michigan. The P.I. has extensive experience
      recruiting families of young children with ASD for intervention studies. Previous research
      efforts, including a pilot RCT of ImPACT Online, strongly suggest that The investigators will
      be able to recruit the proposed number of participants. The MSU Autism Lab uses a number of
      strategies to ensure retention, including maintaining responsive relationships with
      participating families, providing clinical consultation and referral, and maintaining contact
      through newsletters and periodic family outings. Retention rates for previous studies,
      including the pilot RCT of this intervention, have all been above 90%.

      Group assignment. It is possible that group differences in child age and/or developmental
      quotient (DQ) at intake could affect the internal validity of the study. Thus, participants
      will be stratified by age (18-35 months; 36-72 months) and developmental quotient (DQ<50;
      DQ≥50) prior to being randomized. After stratification by age and DQ, participants will be
      randomly assigned to the one of the three groups using random permuted blocks of 6. This
      approach has been shown to yield groups that are closely balanced with regard to size and
      relevant pre-treatment characteristics. All pre-treatment assessments will be collected prior
      to randomization to prevent bias during testing based on knowledge of future group placement.

      Children in all three groups will continue to receive their existing educational programming.
      It is not expected that non-treatment intervention participation will differ systematically
      across groups; however, information on the amount and type of outside services and changes to
      services will be collected for each child on a monthly basis throughout their participation.
      All families who express a need for a computer or high speed internet will be provided with a
      loaner laptop and a high speed internet service plan for the duration of their participation.

      Training plan and coaching fidelity for Therapist-Assisted Group. Therapists who provide the
      remote coaching will be masters' level project staff trained to fidelity in the coaching
      procedure by the PI. Training includes a combination of didactic training, observation of
      remote coaching sessions, role play, and hands-on coaching during practice with children with
      ASD and their parents. All therapists will be required to establish fidelity with non-study
      participants prior to beginning the study, as determined by >90% correct implementation on
      the Coaching Fidelity Checklist (Ingersoll & Dvortcsak, 2010). This training approach has
      been highly successful for ensuring fidelity of therapists. Coaching fidelity data will be
      collected for a randomly selected sample of 20% of sessions and analyzed to ensure correct
      implementation of the remote coaching procedure. If a therapist falls below 90% correct
      implementation, the PI will provide additional training and feedback until the therapist
      re-establishes fidelity.

      Assessment protocol. Participants in each group will receive assessments at 3 time points:
      pre-treatment (prior to randomization) (T1), post-treatment (T2), and 3-month follow-up (T3).
      A 3-month follow-up was chosen to allow time for the children to beneﬁt from their parents'
      use of the intervention strategies, while ensuring that follow-up assessments for all
      children can be completed within the project period. Each assessment period will consist of
      three to four hours of testing, involving direct child assessment, home observation of a
      parent-child interaction, and parent-report measures of parent and child functioning which
      will be completed in the family home.

      Examiners who are blind to the study objectives and treatment group assignment will conduct
      all assessments. Assessments requiring behavioral coding will be videotaped and scored by
      trained observers who are blind to treatment condition. One-third of the assessments will be
      coded by a second, independent observer to determine interobserver agreement. Families will
      be compensated $25 per assessment period ($75 per family).
    
  