
    
      Suboptimal glycaemic control is an established risk factor for the development of serious
      long-term complications of diabetes. Moreover, it is associated with elevated risks of
      significant hyperglycaemic acute events such as hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state or diabetic
      ketoacidosis. Hence, patients with diabetes and persistent suboptimal glycaemic control are
      at higher risk of having a rather poor prognosis.

      Besides physiological and medical factors, psychological problems have been found to predict
      suboptimal glycaemic control. A number of studies found depressive symptoms to be
      independently associated with hyperglycaemia. Others focussed on diabetes-specific affective
      problems - the so called diabetes distress - and suggested this factor to be of great
      importance. Finally, some studies found that depressive symptoms and diabetes distress may
      interact, with the coocurrence of these factors being associated with the highest risk or
      suboptimal glycaemic control. The results correspond to other findings suggesting that both
      depressive symptoms and diabetes distress are often associated with reduced diabetes
      self-care, which can explain the associations of those factors with hyperglycaemia.

      On the other hand, suboptimal glycaemic control could also be an explanation for affective
      problems - either mediated by physiological mechanisms or psychological ones, e.g.
      dissatisfaction or guilt. Hence, it is valid to assume that the link between depressive
      symptoms and/or diabetes distress may be bidirectional - although evidence to support this
      assumption is missing.

      Following this evidence and background, the investigators designed the a to analyse the
      relationships between suboptimal glycaemic control, depressive symptoms and diabetes distress
      in diabetes using a prospective study design. The study is a randomized trial in which a
      cognitive-behavioural group treatment is compared to a treatment-as-usual condition (standard
      diabetes education) regarding their efficacy in improving suboptimal glycaemic control. 212
      diabetes patients with suboptimal glycaemic control (HbA1c value > 7.5%) and elevated
      depressive symptoms (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depressions Scale score ≥ 16) and/or
      elevated diabetes distress (Problem Areas In Diabetes Scale score ≥ 40) will be randomly
      assigned to either the treatment group or treatment-as-usual. The primary outcome is the
      improvement of suboptimal glycaemic control (reduction of HbA1c) in the 12-month follow-up.
      As secondary outcomes positive baseline-to-follow up changes regarding depressive symptoms,
      diabetes distress, diabetes self-care behaviour, diabetes acceptance and quality of life are
      assessed.

      A second study objective is to analyse cross-sectional and prospective associations of
      suboptimal glycaemic control, depressive symptoms and diabetes distress with serum levels of
      the following inflammatory markers: hsCRP, IL-6, IL-18, IL-1Ra, MCP-1 and Adiponectin.
      Potential effects of the treatment groups on these markers will also be examined.
    
  