
    
      Syphilis disproportionately impacts gbMSM:

      Syphilis remains an important cause of morbidity in gbMSM. Up to 75% of early syphilis
      infections occur in gbMSM - a population with syphilis rates nearly 10-fold higher than in
      those who are HIV negative. In Canada's urban centres, 2/3 of syphilis cases are in
      HIV-positive gbMSM, and re-infection remains high. HIV co-infection with syphilis has
      important implications for HIV management. Syphilis may increase HIV viral load levels in
      virologically suppressed individuals, and genital ulcers increase the risk of HIV
      transmission and acquisition.

      The era of novel, biomedical prevention technologies:

      Significant advancements have shaped the past two decades of HIV care. Antiretroviral therapy
      (ART) has substantially reduced HIV-associated morbidity and mortality and extended life
      expectancy to near-normal levels. With reduced morbidity and mortality associated with HIV,
      gbMSM may also be changing their sexual behaviours. Seroadaptive strategies, such as
      serosorting (selecting sexual partners of the same serostatus) and seropositioning (selecting
      a sexual position to minimize the risk of HIV transmission) are common among gbMSM. While
      this may be mitigating the risk of HIV transmission or acquisition, there is evidence to
      suggest that decreasing condom use may contribute to a rise in syphilis and other bacterial
      STIs in high-risk populations. Further, new evidence has emerged demonstrating the efficacy
      of HIV PrEP in preventing HIV acquisition. The combination use of tenofovir/emtricitabine was
      shown in the Pre-exposure Prophylaxis Initiative (iPREX) trial to reduce the risk of HIV
      acquisition by 44% in HIV-negative gbMSM when taken daily as PrEP. Among those with
      detectable drug levels, the risk reduction was > 90%.

      A role for PrEP in other STIs? The exciting developments in HIV prevention have encouraged
      investigators to expand this strategy to the prevention of other STIs, a modality previously
      shown to be acceptable to gbMSM. A recent pilot study randomized participants to receive
      either the antimicrobial doxycycline daily or a monetary incentive to remain STI-free
      throughout the study period. After 48 weeks, those receiving doxycycline were significantly
      less likely to be diagnosed with any STI (odds ratio: 0.27; 95% confidence interval:
      0.09-0.83). Though there was also a trend toward benefit for doxycycline in specifically
      preventing syphilis, significance was not achieved for this outcome.

      The first large-scale syphilis PrEP study:

      Given the rising rates of syphilis and its disproportionate impact on HIV-positive gbMSM,
      there is an urgent need to replicate this study on a broader scale. This proposed study will
      contribute to this field by being - to the investigators' knowledge - the first large-scale,
      methodologically rigorous trial of syphilis PrEP, and has the potential to provide a
      completely novel and innovative tool to the syphilis prevention armamentarium. It will
      provide insight on whether daily doxycycline is an efficacious PrEP intervention for the
      prevention of syphilis and other bacterial STIs, as well as shedding light on issues relating
      to its feasibility as a prevention tool, including its safety, tolerability, how well
      individuals adhere to it, and its impact on the development of antimicrobial resistance.
      These outcomes are directly in line with the planned outputs of this study, and have the
      potential to drastically shift how people think about and manage syphilis and other STI
      prevention in gbMSM.

      Primary objective

        1. To assess feasibility of using daily doxycycline PrEP, as defined by:

           a. Evaluation of feasibility of recruitment for a larger study i. Proportion of
           participants approached for study who are eligible and agree to participate.

           b. Adherence to 24 and 48 weeks of study drug (doxycycline or placebo) i. Determine
           proportion of individuals with >95% adherence to study drug over 24 and 48 weeks ii.
           Proportion of individuals in the doxycycline arm with therapeutic doxycycline plasma
           level at each study visit.

           c. Tolerability of doxycycline i. Comparison of grade 3 or 4 adverse events in those
           receiving doxycycline vs. placebo ii. Comparison of the proportion of individuals with
           adverse event-related discontinuation of study drug in each arm

           2.2 Secondary objectives

        2. To evaluate antimicrobial resistance over time.

           a. Change in proportion of participants with evidence of tetracycline class resistance
           in common flora, namely Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus
           pneumoniae from baseline to 24 and 48 weeks.

        3. To evaluate changes in sexual activity reported by study participants over the study
           period.

        4. To compare syphilis incidence between those in the doxycycline vs. placebo arms.

        5. To describe frequency of other STIs diagnosed in study participants over the study
           period.

           Exploratory objectives will include:

        6. To changes in the rectal microbiome of study participants from baseline to 24 and 48
           weeks after initiation of doxycycline.
    
  