
    
      Small cell cancer (SCC), which mostly arises in the lungs but also in other parts of the body
      as well such as the prostate and the intestines, is one of the most aggressive forms of
      cancer; in fact, SCC is so aggressive that in 2012 Congress designated it a recalcitrant or
      difficult-to-treat cancer, along with pancreatic cancer and glioblastoma or GBM, a primary
      tumor of the brain, which share the terrible "distinction" of having a 5 year survival rate
      less than 50%.

      One of the main reasons that SCC is so recalcitrant or difficult-to-treat has to do with the
      development of resistance. Almost all cancers (and SCC is no exception) are treated according
      to lines of therapy. A line of therapy is a particular course of treatment or treatment
      regimen. So, in SCC, the first line of treatment is a platinum doublet, with the word doublet
      meaning two, and consists of the double chemotherapy regimen of cisplatin or carboplatin +
      etoposide. Most patients initially respond well to the platinum doublet but unavoidably, as a
      matter of course, resistance to treatment develops and, with that development, a new
      treatment in second line is started. The same pattern is followed in later lines of therapy:
      resistance in second line leads to the start of another treatment in 3rd line, and with
      resistance in 3rd line, which is, unfortunately, just as inevitable, and usually happens even
      sooner, since the later the line of therapy the more aggressive the tumor, a 4th line
      treatment is started and so on and so forth until, eventually, no lines of treatment are
      left. The implicit or unwritten rule in cancer therapy is that once resistance occurs on a
      particular treatment that same treatment is never reintroduced or restarted.

      RRx-001 is a form of immunotherapy that has the potential to overturn this unwritten rule by
      sensitizing tumors, in other words, by making them more sensitive to the platinum doublet
      that they received in first line. This is very important because, as previously stated, the
      platinum doublet is usually the most effective therapy, so it is a benefit to patients if
      sensitivity to the platinum doublet is restored or increased (even in cases where no response
      ever occurred) and now they respond as if they were in 1st line rather than in 3rd line or
      beyond.

      In this study, which is called REPLATINUM, because patients will be reintroduced to or
      restarted on a platinum doublet, there is a 50% chance of receiving either RRx-001 + platinum
      doublet in Arm 1 or a platinum doublet without RRx-001 in Arm 2. However, patients in arm 2
      whose cancer progresses or gets worse (as determined by imaging scans), have the opportunity
      to "cross-over" to Arm 1 and receive RRx-001 + platinum doublet until such time as their
      cancer progresses. In this way, all patients, even those on Arm 2, are potentially eligible
      to be treated with RRx-001.
    
  