
    
      In this single-centre, open label study, 300 adults with DN will be recruited over 3 years.
      Following screening and baseline metabolic evaluations, eligible subjects will be treated
      with fenofibrate for 30-days and re-assessed.

      4.1 Study Visits and Procedures Subjects will have their written informed consent taken
      during Visit 1 at the SGH Clinical Trials Research Centre (CTRC) and undergo screening and
      baseline assessments. Eligible subjects will return within the next 14 days for the
      initiation of study drug (Visit 2). The post-treatment and final visit (Visit 3) will take
      place 30 ± 7 days after Visit 2. Details of study visits are described in Table 1 (Refer
      study protocol).

      4.1.1 VISIT 1: Informed Consent and Screening Interested patients will be scheduled for their
      first study visit (Visit 1) at SGH CTRC. Written informed consent will be taken by the
      principal or co-investigators assigned by the PI. After consent has been taken, study
      procedures in Table 1 will be performed. Subject will be given a sample copy of the treatment
      diary to familiarize them with the method to record study drug intake.

      At the end of Visit 1, subjects will head over to Singapore Eye Research Institution (SERI)
      or Singapore National Eye Centre (SNEC)) for eye tests as mentioned in the following
      paragraphs.

      Fundus Photography, conventional OCT and Assessment and grading of diabetic retinopathy (DR).
      The presence and severity of Diabetic Retinopathy (DR) or Diabetic Macular Edema (DME) will
      be assessed from digital fundus photographs and OCT. Following pupillary dilation, 7-field
      ETDRS photography using a non-mydriatic 45º fundus cameras will be obtained for each eye. The
      modified Wisconsin protocol will be used for DR grading. DR will be considered present if any
      characteristic lesion as defined by the ETDRS severity scale is present: microaneurysms (MA),
      hemorrhages, cotton wool spots, intraretinal microvascular abnormalities (IRMA), hard
      exudates (HE), venous beading, and new vessels. For each eye, a retinopathy severity score
      will be assigned according to a scale modified from the Airlie House classification system.
      Macular edema is defined by hard exudates in the presence of MA and blot hemorrhage within 1
      disc diameter from the foveal center or presence of focal photocoagulation scars in the
      macular area. Clinically significant macular edema (CSME) is considered present when the
      macular edema involved is within 500 mm of the foveal center or if focal photocoagulation
      scars are present in the macular area. DR is categorized as minimal non-proliferative DR
      (level 20), mild non-proliferative DR (level 35), moderate non-proliferative DR (level 43
      through 47), severe Non-proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy (NPDR) (level 53), and
      proliferative retinopathy (>60). Vision-threatening retinopathy is defined as the presence of
      severe NPDR, Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy (PDR), or CSME. Presence of DME (centre
      involving and non centre involving) and central retinal thickness will also be assessed on
      OCT.

      Ultrawide field (UWF) imaging Stereoscopic 200-degree-field ultrawide field images of each
      subject will be obtained using the Optos P200MA instrument. Unlike traditional fundus
      cameras, Optos imaging relies on proper eye positioning by the imager and correct patient
      fixation on a target, rather than the imager viewing the retinal structures for focus. The
      UWF200 images are centered on the fovea, covering approximately 25% and 82%, respectively, of
      the retinal area, including the optic disc, macula, and major vascular arcades. Grading of
      UWF imaging will be performed using the ETDRS protocol to determine the presence and severity
      of the following lesions: hemorrhages, microaneurysms, or both (H/Ma); intraretinal
      microvascular abnormalities (IRMA); venous beading (VB); cotton wool spots; hard exudates;
      retinal thickening; new vessels on the disc; new vessels elsewhere (NVE) on the retina;
      preretinal hemorrhage; vitreous hemorrhage; and traction retinal detachment. This test will
      be optional.

      Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography (OCTA)
      Spectral Domain Optical Coherence Tomography and optical coherence tomographic angiography
      will be performed in both eyes to obtain scans of the macular, macular thickness, retinal
      nerve fiber thickness optic disc, and optic nerve head.

      4.1.2 Initiation of Study Drug

      The PI or Co-Is assigned by the PI, will review screening results to determine whether
      subjects are eligible to continue with the study. Eligible subjects will be prescribed the
      study drug, fenofibrate (Trolip®). Fenofibrate is to be taken orally for 30 days, and the
      dose of fenofibrate will be adjusted based on the estimated CrCl during Visit 1 as below.

      CrCl (ml/min) Fenofibrate Dosage > 60 300mg/day 30-59 100 mg/day < 30 Contraindicated

      Study drug and subject treatment diary will be delivered to the subjects via a third party
      delivery service within 14 days from Visit 1. Alternatively, subjects can also return to the
      hospital to collect their study drug and drug diary. They will also be given a treatment
      diary to record the intake of study drug.

      On the day of medication delivery or collection, the clinical research coordinator at SGH
      will call the subject to confirm that they have received the study drug. Subjects should not
      take the study drug until instructed by the clinical research coordinator. The clinical
      research coordinator will also check with subject if there is any change in their medication
      intake and is well feeling well before intake of the study drug.

      They will be reminded to record intake of study drug into their treatment diary

      4.1.3 VISIT 2: 4-Week Post-Treatment Visit

      Visit 2 will take place 30 ± 7 days from the first dose of study drug. Subjects who are still
      on the study drug should continue take the study drug on the morning of Visit 2 with plain
      water. Subjects will be assessed to quantify changes in metabolic fuel utilization after
      treatment with fenofibrate. These changes are determined based on metabolomic profiling of
      acyl-carnitines, organic acids and amino acids and the eye tests.

      SAMPLE COLLECTION

      Up to a total of 47 ml (~3.2 tablespoons) of blood and 90 ml (~6.0 tablespoons) of urine will
      be collected for the entire study. During Visit 1 (Screening), approximately 25 ml (~1.7
      tablespoons) of blood and 30 ml (~2.0 tablespoon) of urine will be collected. During Visit 2
      (Dosing visit), 30 ml of urine will be collected and during Visit 3 (post-treatment & final
      visit), approximately 22ml (~1.5 tablespoon) of blood and 30 ml (~2.0 tablespoon) of urine
      will be collected.

      Subjects who developed drug-related adverse reactions may require additional blood and urine
      taken for clinical assessment.

      LABORATORY MEASUREMENTS

      A) Blood Chemistry Screening and standard laboratory tests including full blood count,
      Potassium, Creatinine. alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, β-human chorionic
      gonadotropin, creatinine kinase (CK), lipid panel, glucose and HbA1c will be measured in the
      clinical laboratory using standard methods.

      B) Metabolomic Profiling Metabolomic profiling of lipids, acylcarnitines (ACs), organic acids
      and ketones will be measured using liquid and gas chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry
      (LC-MS/MS and Gas Chromatography-MS/MS) at the Duke-National University of Singapore
      metabolomics laboratory.

      ACs represent intermediaries of metabolic fuel oxidation and provides a "snap-shot" of in
      vivo metabolism at the cellular level. The measurement of the various long-,
      intermediate-chain ACs provide an indicator of fatty acid oxidation efficiency. Ceramides are
      toxic lipid intermediaries that are implicated in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance.
      Lactate, pyruvate, succinate, fumarate, malate, alpha-ketoglutarate and citrate are organic
      acids involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle activity. Beta hydroxybutyrate is a ketone which
      will also be measured with the organic acids.

      C) Urine Protein Excretion

      Urine ACR and PCR will be performed to quantify urine protein excretion.
    
  