
    
      The need for evidence-based mental health treatments i.e., 'treatment based on the best
      available science or research evidence', has been stressed from scientific, ethical, and
      economic perspectives. While empirical evidence supports both the efficacy and effectiveness
      of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) for anxiety disorders, the demand for clinicians trained
      in these approaches far exceeds the supply. A major reason for this is the lack of trained
      cognitive behavior therapists. New technologies provide the opportunity to both facilitate
      accessibility to this specialized training by mental health professionals and to improve the
      quality of this training. Recent research has found that training clinicians using these new
      web-based technologies is highly effective, can significantly improve skills, and has
      significant advantages over traditional training programs. The long term goal of this project
      is to increase the number of available mental health professionals trained in cognitive
      behavior therapy for anxiety disorders by developing a set of web-based training tools
      enabling the widespread dissemination of this training. In Phase I the investigators
      developed a prototype online tutorial covering some core CBT principles and a Social Anxiety
      Disorder module. The investigators also tested the feasibility of live remote training
      through videoconferencing. In phase II investigators will expand the tutorial to include a
      comprehensive review of CBT principles and techniques and expand modules to include the full
      spectrum of anxiety and anxiety-related disorders (i.e., Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, Panic
      Disorder, Generalized Anxiety Disorder, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Social Anxiety
      Disorder). Investigators will also evaluate the efficacy of live remote training in improving
      clinical skills. A cohort of 50 clinicians from diverse educational and professional
      backgrounds will be recruited. Improvement in trainees' conceptual knowledge will be
      evaluated pre and post tutorial, and improvement in trainees' clinical skills in applying the
      CBT concepts will be evaluated by blind ratings of clinical adherence and competence at three
      time points: before on-line training, and before and after videoconference training. User
      satisfaction with both the on-line tutorial and the videoconference training will also be
      evaluated. Impact of training on post-training patient outcomes will be evaluated.
    
  