
    
      Background:

        -  Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-enzyme (PARP-1) recognizes and rapidly binds to DNA single-
           and double-strand breaks and has been shown to participate in other DNA-related
           functions, including gene amplification, cell division, differentiation, apoptosis, and
           DNA base-excision repair.

        -  Increased PARP activity is one of the mechanisms by which tumor cells avoid apoptosis
           caused by DNA damaging agents, and drug resistance has been linked to higher expressions
           of PARP in cancer cells. This differential expression of PARP supports the observed
           selectivity of PARP inhibitors to affect proliferating tumor cells. AZD2281 is an orally
           administered potent inhibitor of PARP-1 and PARP-2, and its combination with cisplatin
           and gemcitabine may overcome some of the resistance associated with these agents.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  Establish the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of AZD2281 in
           combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine in patients with solid tumors.

        -  Evaluate the effect of cisplatin-gemcitabine, with or without AZD2281, on PAR and gamma-
           H2AX levels in tumor biopsies and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) pre- and
           post-treatment.

      Secondary Objectives:

      - Evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of AZD2281 with and without cisplatin and gemcitabine.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients (greater than or equal to 18 years) must have histologically confirmed solid
           tumor malignancy that is metastatic or unresectable for which standard curative measures
           do not exist, or are associated with minimal patient survival benefit.

        -  Patients who have previously received cisplatin or gemcitabine, or both, are eligible.

      Design:

        -  Cycle 1 and subsequent cycles: AZD2281 will be administered orally every 12 hours (Q 12
           hours) on day 1, while gemcitabine will be administered intravenously (IV) over 1 hour
           (600 mg/m(2)/hour) on day 1 and 8 of each cycle and cisplatin over 1 hour on day 1 after
           gemcitabine.

        -  Dose escalation will proceed in cohorts of 3 6 patients to a minimum of 27 and a maximum
           of 42 patients.

        -  Patients will have a maximum of six cycles of treatment.

        -  Tumor biopsies will be collected in cycle 1 only, while blood for PBMC samples will be
           collected in cycle 1 and before drug administration, 24 and 48 hours post
           administration, in cycle 2, day 1. If Dose Level 3 is achieved additional time points
           will be collected in cycle 1, day 8 - before drug administration, 6, 24 and 48 hours

      post.
    
  