
    
      • PURPOSE, METHODS, AND PROCEDURES:

      1. Purpose:

        1. To assess the efficacy of Photon Stimulation compared with placebo, in treating the pain
           of diabetic neuropathy.

        2. To show that Photonic Stimulation for the treatment of painful diabetic neuropathy is
           cost effective compared to traditional medical interventions. The latter will be
           explored by an extensive search of the literature and from an equal number of patients
           being treated in traditional medical practices using traditional medical interventions.
           At the conclusion of the study the data will be analyzed for cost-benefits and the
           possibility of crafting a best-practices approach to treat these syndromes that cost
           billions of dollars a year in health care expenses and lost productivity.

      2. Methods

      This is a double blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled study of approximately 170 patients
      with painful diabetic neuropathy. The study sample size is 170 patients. Of these 120 will be
      given treatments utilizing Photon Therapy, using a defined treatment protocol. We plan to
      recruit 120 patients to allow for drop out, and to provide 100 completed patients, as
      requested by FDA. The Photon Therapy group will be split into two groups, one group that
      receives Active Photon Therapy and one group that will be treated with the same type of
      equipment that has been modified to emit no infrared photons (Non Active Photon Therapy Group
      ("Placebo")). The patients in the "Non Active Photon Therapy Group" will be offered an Active
      Photon Treatment Session after completion of the study. The patients in the Photon Therapy
      Groups will be randomized. The Historical Control Group of patients, fifty, will have
      received traditional medical interventions (e.g., narcotics, seizure medications) in
      traditional medical practices.

      3. Procedures: Subjects who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria and have signed a valid
      informed consent will be eligible to participate in the study. After screening, subjects in
      the Photon Therapy groups (both active and nonactive) will undergo four treatment sessions.
      The first treatment session will vary from the second, third and fourth. During all treatment
      session, each patient will be imaged with the TIP Infrared Camera before, and after
      treatment. Infrared imaging can visualize skin temperature changes in a noninvasive manner
      (2). The first treatment will utilize slightly different protocol than subsequent visits,
      reduced Photon dosage, 120 instead of 240 joules. Proprioception and protective sensation,
      characterized by the Semmes-Weinstein monofilament test, and visual and analog pain scoring
      will also be evaluated before and after each Photon Therapy treatment.

        -  SUBJECT SELECTION: Subjects were initially recruited from the PI's clinic, from a list
           of patients diagnosed by Dr. Beckley (Electromyographer) with painful diabetic
           neuropathy, and from local referrals. In October 2004, we received permission to post
           flyers and solicit patients (identified by Dr Beckley) from primary providers (flyer and
           letter attached). We also recruited by posting flyers in VANCHCS facilities, and with
           VANCHCS diabetes educators. Word of mouth also provided many subjects. In September 2006
           we modified the flyer to reflect a focused recruitment at Mather. Vulnerable populations
           will not be studied.

        -  RISKS: The potential risks to subjects include physical, psychological, social and
           economic. These are not likely: The physical risks include discomfort from the photon
           machine. The psychological risks include boredom. The social risks include being labeled
           as having a chronic illness, and the risk of loss of privacy. The economic risk includes
           time off from work that may be needed to participate in the treatment program.
           Confidentiality will be maintained as much as possible, by storing paper data in locked
           offices, without name identifiers, and electronic data on spreadsheets on
           password-protected computers in locked offices.

        -  BENEFITS: Individual subjects may derive benefit via pain relief; this would also obtain
           to the whole group of patients with painful diabetic neuropathy.

        -  RISK-BENEFIT RATIO: The risk is minimal, and the benefit minimal to moderate
           (potentially greater).

        -  SAFETY MONITORING: Research staff will monitor for safety.

        -  INFORMED CONSENT PROCEDURES: The PI (Dr. Swislocki) and his staff (Ms. Orth, Ms.
           Weisshaupt) will conduct, obtain, and document informed consent within VANCHCS
           facilities.

        -  PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY PROTECTIONS: Confidentiality will be maintained as much as
           possible, by storing paper data in locked offices, without name identifiers, and
           electronic data on spreadsheets on password-protected computers in locked offices.

        -  COSTS TO SUBJECTS: No added expenses are expected. No compensation is proposed.

        -  DISCLOSURE OF PERSONAL AND FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THE RESEARCH STUDY AND SPONSOR: The
           Principal Investigator has no personal or financial interests in the research or
           personal or financial interest in the entity.
    
  