
    
      Rationale: Individuals with motor-complete spinal cord injury (SCI) undergo dramatic changes
      in body composition in the first 18 months post-injury, including declines in bone mineral
      density (BMD) that increase lower-extremity fragility fracture risk, and increases in fat
      mass that increase cardio-metabolic disease (CMD) risk. While statins are an effective
      treatment for dyslipidemia, research evidence suggests additional pleiotropic effects on bone
      through promotion of osteogenesis, suppression of osteoblast apoptosis, and inhibition of
      osteoclastogenesis. There are currently no effective therapies to treat sublesional
      osteoporosis (SLOP) and reduce the risk of fragility fractures in individuals with SCI.

      Hypothesis: Twelve months of statin therapy with concurrent coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), to reduce
      risk of statin neuromyotoxicity, and standard care (calcium 1250mg OD and vitamin D3 2000IU
      OD) will be superior to placebo with CoQ10 and standard care, for augmenting knee region BMD
      and reducing inflammatory stress (hs-CRP), thereby reducing endocrine metabolic disease risk.

      Objective: To determine the safety and efficacy of statin therapy for augmenting distal
      femoral BMD among adults with chronic motor-complete SCI in Toronto, Ontario and Miami,
      Florida.

      Study Design: Multi-centre, double-blind, randomized controlled Phase II safety and efficacy
      trial.

      Subjects: Consenting men and premenopausal women (N=54, age 18-60 yrs) with chronic (≥2
      years) spinal cord injury with a neurological level between C1-T10 and an AIS category of
      A/B.

      Intervention: Rosuvastatin 10 mg po daily at night versus placebo for 12 months. All subjects
      will receive osteoporosis standard care (calcium carbonate 1250mg po daily and vitamin D3
      2000 IU po daily) to maintain bone mass and CoQ10 100mg po daily to prevent statin-induced
      myopathy.

      Outcomes: Primary safety outcomes: i) establish the safety of rosuvastatin in chronic SCI by
      reporting the frequency of myotoxicity and type II diabetes onset; ii) frequency and mean
      duration of liver transaminase elevations in the rosuvastatin and placebo groups. Primary
      efficacy outcome: measure the mean between group absolute changes in distal femur areal BMD
      (aBMD, g/cm2) from baseline to one year. Secondary efficacy outcomes: will examine the mean
      absolute changes from baseline in: i) volumetric BMD (vBMD, g/cm3); ii) markers of bone
      turnover - Bone Specific Alkaline Phosphatase (BALP), telopeptide (CTX), Sclerostin and RANK
      Ligand (RANK-L); iii) serum inflammatory markers including high sensitivity C-reactive
      Protein (hs-CRP), Interleukin-1ß (IL-1ß). interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor - alpha
      (TNF-alpha), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR); and, iv) lipid profile; low density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL), high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), triglycerides, and
      total cholesterol Clinical Implications: Should rosuvastatin prove to be safe and efficacious
      for reducing endocrine metabolic disease risk for adults with chronic SCI, the results will
      advance the health of people with SCI by reducing the frequency and severity of heart disease
      and fracture as they age, with a single intervention.
    
  