
    
      Background: For patients with severe upper gastrointestinal (UGI) hemorrhage, risk
      stratification for rebleeding or endoscopic hemostasis has been based on visually defined
      endoscopic stigmata of hemorrhage for more than 40 years. These are imperfect, because there
      is significant interobserver variation and the investigators were previously unable to detect
      underlying vessel blood flow, which is directly related to the risk of rebleeding. Doppler
      ultrasound endoscopic probes (DEP) are relatively new in the US and can detect underlying
      lesion blood flow. However, few patients with severe UGI hemorrhage have been studied with
      endoscopic doppler ultrasound probe in the US and none in VA's. The Center for Ulcer Research
      and Education (CURE)/VA GI Hemostasis Research Group will perform prospective randomized
      studies at the West Los Angeles VA and University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Ronald
      Reagan Medical Centers to define the role of DEP in management of severe UGI hemorrhage.

      Objectives: The specific aims (SA) of this research are: #1) In a randomized, blinded
      prospective controlled (RCT) study of patients with severe UGI hemorrhage (from
      varices/portal hypertensive lesions as one separate group vs. ulcers, & other benign
      non-variceal sources as another group) to compare 30 day outcomes of patients in these 2
      major disease groups, managed by current standards (according to endoscopic visualization &
      stigmata of hemorrhage) with similar patients assessed, risk stratified, & treated with DEP
      monitoring. #2). For patients randomized to the DEP group, to determine the initial
      prevalence, type (arterial or venous), & location & course of blood flow underlying stigmata
      for the different lesion groups. #3). For DEP patients with different lesion types, to
      determine the rates of persistent blood flow after endoscopic hemostasis treatments & whether
      blood flow after under stigmata can be eliminated by further endoscopic hemostasis with
      different techniques. #4). To determine the proportion of patients whose risk stratification
      (for rebleeding) &/or endoscopic treatment are changed by utilizing DEP for detection of
      blood flow under stigmata of hemorrhage or lesions before as a guide for endoscopic treatment
      & absence of flow after treatment as a treatment endpoint rather than visual guidelines
      (stigmata) alone for endoscopic treatment. #5). To compare the outcomes for a large cohort of
      historical controls previously treated for hemostasis of the two lesion types in the UGI
      tract by the CURE/VA Hemostasis Research Group according to visual guidelines & stigmata
      alone with patients in the RCT managed with DEP findings & stigmata, contrasting
      demographics, hemostasis rates, rebleeding rates & other outcomes up to 30 days for major
      diagnoses (ulcers and other non-variceal lesions vs varices & other lesions related to portal
      hypertension). #6). For patients who are treated with surgery or angiography for continued
      bleeding or rebleeding of UGI lesions, to correlate & compare their vessel depth & location
      (relative to stigmata), type of vessel, & lumen patency at surgery or angiography vs. Doppler
      endoscopic probe findings recorded previously. Research Plan and Methods: All studies will be
      performed over 5 years. The investigators will utilize a large RCT (blinded), a very large
      cohort study, & prospective observational studies to complete the specific aims of the study.
      Statistical Analysis System (SAS) will be utilized for data management. For SA #1, about 240
      new patients (150 with non-variceal lesions and 90 with variceal-portal hypertensive lesions)
      admitted to West Los Angeles (WLA) VA or UCLA Hospitals with severe UGI hemorrhage will be
      randomized in RCT of Doppler assisted management versus standard endoscopic/medical
      diagnosis, risk stratification, & treatment. During urgent endoscopy, patients with clean
      varices (as the source of bleeding) or other UGI lesions with stigmata of recent hemorrhage
      (from the ulcers, Mallory Weiss tears, esophageal or gastric varices, and Dieulafoy's
      lesions) will be randomized. Routine clinical outcomes will be assessed prospectively &
      compared by major diagnostic groups (ulcers-non-variceal lesions or varices-portal
      hypertensive lesions). For SA #5 (UGI cohort study), demographics, outcomes, & risk factors
      will be compared for about 150 patients with non-variceal lesions & about 90 other
      variceal-portal hypertensive lesion matched historical control patients (from CURE Hemostasis
      Research Databases) treated previously only based upon stigmata vs. 75 new patients with
      non-variceal UGI lesions or 50 variceal-portal hypertension lesions in this study treated
      according to stigmata of hemorrhage & DEP as a guide to risk stratification & endoscopic
      hemostasis. SA #2-4 & 6 will be prospectively performed according to the methods in the
      proposal & all analysis will be performed with the collaboration of an experienced
      biostatistician.

      Potential Impact on Veterans and Non- VA Healthcare: These studies will increase our
      knowledge about UGI bleeding, UGI lesion vasculature, blood flow, and effects of endoscopic
      hemostasis. Also, DEP may improve risk stratification of Veteran patients, medical and
      endoscopic management & outcomes of patients with severe UGI hemorrhage from different
      etiologies. This is particularly relevant to patient care of Veterans with severe UGI
      hemorrhage, since this is a common clinical condition which requires considerable health care
      resources in every VA hospital. These results will also be generalizable to non-VA hospitals
      and the US population who is hospitalized with severe UGI bleeding.
    
  