
    
      No other randomized, controlled studies have been conducted to compare healthcare services as
      offered in MAWs to those offered in hospital. The study will undertake an economic evaluation
      and study other outcomes of an intervention, using an RCT design, which is a strong study
      design. The study also includes measures of HRQoL and patient experiences. The project is
      interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral, and it represents research in, about and with support
      from the municipalities, which is a prioritized area of research, together with health
      services research, for the owners of the Østfold Hospital Trust, Helse Sør-Øst (HSØ). The
      project incorporates users in the planning of the project, which may contribute better
      acceptance of and a successful completion of the project. This proposal addresses key aspects
      of the CR and other national strategic documents. The CR has mandated the establishment of
      MAWs all over Norway as of 2016, without any strong scientific documentation of
      cost-effectiveness. The study builds on data from previous research, stating that there is a
      need for more solid documentation about new levels of acute hospital care. The proposed study
      will assess the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and several aspects of quality of care and
      will contribute useful information for evaluation and future planning of MAWs, as an
      alternative to hospitalization. Therefore the researchers think this project is timely. The
      MAWs in Østfold County are small to medium-sized and are expected to be representative for
      the majority of MAWs in Norway, and therefore of broad national interest. These outputs will
      be important for authorities, politicians, healthcare leaders, and professionals as well as
      researchers involved in developing, implementing and refining decentralized acute health care
      services as an alternative to hospitalization- to the best of the patients. Moreover, the
      project outputs will be of international interest, in particular in countries with national
      health insurance with broad coverage, as in the Nordic countries, the UK, Canada and
      Australia.
    
  