
    
      To assess the influence of prucalopride (Resolor®) 2mg daily, 30 patients with idiopathic and
      30 patients with diabetic gastroparesis will undergo two gastric emptying breath tests with
      concomitant assessment of meal-related symptoms, at the conclusion of two consecutive, 4-week
      treatment periods of prucalopride or placebo. The order of prucalopride and placebo treatment
      will be randomised at the initiation of the study. Medication for both patient groups, 30
      patients with idiopathic and 30 patients with diabetic gastroparesis, will be randomized
      separately. Half of the subjects will receive placebo first; the other half will receive
      prucalopride first. Treatment periods will be separated by a wash-out period of 2 weeks. All
      drugs potentially affecting gastrointestinal motility or sensitivity will be discontinued at
      least two weeks prior to the initiation of the study. Informed consent will be obtained from
      each participant.

      In order to establish the gastrointestinal symptom and quality-of-life profile of this
      cohort, each patient will complete the following validated self-reported instruments at
      baseline and at each of the two testing visits (table 1): Patients assessment of
      Gastrointestinal symptoms (PAGISYM), Patients assessment of Gastrointestinal Quality of Life
      Impact (PAGIQoL) Gastrointestinal and Global Severity Score, Patient Health Questionnaire
      (PHQ-15), Appetite Questionnaire, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, Visceral Sensitivity
      Index, Short Form Nepean Dyspepsia Index (SF-NDI). The PAGI-SYM is a comprehensive
      questionnaire of upper GI symptoms, and it includes a gastroparesis questionnaire module: the
      Gastroparesis Cardinal Symptom Index (GCSI), which has been validated in (idiopathic)
      gastroparesis.26 Furthermore, during the entire study duration patients will complete a daily
      symptom diary, incorporating a separate horizontal 100-mm visual analogue scale (VAS) for
      each of 9 upper abdominal symptoms. As prucalopride has a well-known therapeutic effect in
      chronic constipation, patients will also register information about their stool frequency and
      stool type in the daily diary (Bristol Stool Scale).
    
  