
    
      Unconscious patients admitted to the intensive care unit after being successfully
      resuscitated from cardiac arrest (CA) are at high risk for death, and neurological deficits
      are common among survivors. Nevertheless, the optimal hemodynamic strategy to ensure optimal
      cerebral perfusion and maximal outcome has not been studied by a randomized controlled trial.
      In the absence of good evidence, current post-CA guidelines are adapted from sepsis
      guidelines and recommend targeting a mean arterial pressure (MAP) above 65 mmHg (Peberdy ea,
      Circulation 2010). Importantly, post-CA patients have a large cerebral penumbra at risk for
      infarction when resuscitated to suboptimal MAP's. In a large subset of post-CA patients the
      lower threshold of cerebral autoregulation is shifted rightward and these patients might
      benefit from resuscitation to higher MAP's (Sundgreen ea, Stroke 2001) in order to ensure
      adequate cerebral oxygenation. Our research group previously showed that a MAP of 85-100mmHg
      results in optimal cerebral perfusion in post-CA patients (Ameloot ea, resuscitation 2015).
      Two retrospective and 2 prospective observational studies suggested an association between
      higher MAP's and better outcome in post-CA patients (Ameloot ea, resuscitation 2015).
      However, the value of these trials is limited by their observational design. The question
      remains as to whether patients with higher MAP's do have a better outcome due to more optimal
      cerebral perfusion and less cerebral damage or whether a higher MAP is merely a non-causal
      marker of more limited disease severity in these patients. In other words, the primary
      research question is whether we can reduce cerebral ischemia and improve prognosis of
      post-cardiac arrest survivors by targeting higher mean systemic blood pressures thereby
      optimizing cerebral perfusion during their stay in the intensive care unit. To answer this,
      we propose a multicenter interventional open label investigator driven randomized controlled
      trial to compare a goal-directed potentially neuro-protective hemodynamic optimization
      strategy with the current standard of care. Primary efficacy endpoints of the study will
      include extent of cerebral damage as assessed with diffusion weighted magnetic resonance
      imaging (DW-MRI), functional and neurocognitive testing, biomarkers of brain injury and
      survival rates. The final utilization goal of the Neuroprotect post-CA trial is to show that
      our adapted hemodynamic protocol reduces cerebral ischemia, and improves survival and
      functional outcome of post-cardiac arrest patients.
    
  