
    
      Solutions for convenient and cost saving healthcare services are needed in order to control
      costs to the public. Currently, there is a gap in weight management research involving
      telemedicine as a potential tool for obesity treatment. The use of technology will promote
      general health awareness, dietary intake and exercise practices, as well as patient
      compliance. Successful weight management program components learned from hallmark clinical
      trials include: frequent contact with the patient, frequent measurements, patient education,
      and monitoring tools to help alleviate barriers to adherence.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of a fully on-line, 12-week, medically
      monitored weight management program on obesity-related health outcomes. These obesity related
      outcomes include body weight, body fat, blood pressure and physical activity. Our central
      hypothesis is that this video conferencing (video conference similar to skype) platform will
      significantly improve health outcomes of quality of life, and participant adherence when
      coupled with a multidisciplinary team. The primary objective of this study is to determine
      the effect of a fully on-line medical weight management program on cardiometabolic outcome
      measures directly associated with obesity. Data collection will be conducted prospectively
      with all patient information and data will be secured through a HIPAA compliant server
      database accessible only by the research team.

      There are two specific aims proposed for this fully on-line 12-week medically monitored
      weight management program: 1) to investigate the changes in body weight in response to health
      coaching via telemedicine using the inHealth Medical Services, Inc, online program structure
      and 2) to examine changes in steps and dietary eating quality. The central hypothesis is that
      telehealth functions will improve health outcomes, quality of life, behaviors, and
      participant adherence.

      The public health benefits of weight management via telehealth are vast. Through the
      functionality of a mHealth (mobile health) devices, quality health coaching can be provided
      to individuals in different socioeconomic communities, expand healthcare access, as well as
      reduce overall healthcare costs.
    
  