
    
      XLH is a rare, genetic disorder that is serious, chronically debilitating and represents an
      unmet medical need. XLH is the most common inherited form of rickets and the most common
      inherited defect in renal tubular phosphate transport. XLH is transmitted as an X-linked
      dominant disorder. Mutations resulting in the loss of function of PHEX form the genetic basis
      for XLH. More than 300 different PHEX gene mutations have been identified in patients with
      XLH (PHEXdb); however, few definitive correlations have been observed between specific
      mutations and phenotypic severity.

      Patients with XLH have hypophosphatemia due to excessive serum FGF23 levels. FGF23 reduces
      serum phosphorus levels by two distinct mechanisms of action. The primary mechanism is to
      inhibit phosphate reabsorption in the proximal tubule of the kidney. The secondary mechanism
      is to decrease phosphate absorption by the small intestine through the inhibition of
      1,25(OH)2D production in the kidney.

      Burosumab has the potential to block or reduce FGF23 action and improve phosphate homeostasis
      in XLH patients. Burosumab binds the amino-terminal domain of FGF23 that interacts with the
      FGF-binding portion of the combination FGFR1/Klotho receptor, preventing FGF23 from binding
      to and signaling from its receptor. Both intact and fragmented FGF23 polypeptides are
      immunoprecipitated with burosumab. By inhibiting FGF23, burosumab restores tubular
      reabsorption of phosphate (as measured by the ratio of renal tubular maximum reabsorption
      rate of phosphate to glomerular filtration rate [TmP/GFR]) from the kidney and increases the
      production of 1,25(OH)2D that also enhances intestinal absorption of phosphate. The dual
      action on kidney reabsorption and intestinal absorption improves serum phosphorus levels,
      which is expected to improve bone mineralization and reduce the diverse bone and non-bone
      manifestations associated with hypophosphatemia in XLH patients.
    
  