
    
      Enuresis (E) is a common pediatric urological complaint. Up to 15% of 5-year old children and
      5% of 10-year old children are affected. Despite its prevalence, E is often ineffectively
      managed. Current treatment modalities include behavior modification, alarm therapy, and
      pharmacologic treatment. Recently, a significant amount of contemporary research has focused
      on sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) and its relation to E. This term encompasses a variety of
      disorders characterized by abnormalities of respiratory pattern or the quantity of
      ventilation during sleep. Often symptoms of OSA in children may be insidious in nature, and
      include behavioural problems, hyperactivity, poor school performance, failure to thrive and
      enuresis.

      The relationship between E and OSA has only recently been questioned. Cinar et al.
      demonstrated 63% complete resolution and 4% partial resolution of E post surgical treatment
      of upper airway obstruction. Basha et al. had a similar result, with 61.4% of patients having
      total resolution of NE. The investigators have previously published results on the incidence
      of SDB in the enuretic population. Using the OSA-18 and PSQ-22 as screening tools for the
      symptoms of SDB, the investigators found that a significant proportion of patients with
      enuresis have SDB and the risk is further magnified in patients with abnormal daytime
      voiding.

      The pathophysiology of this relationship is currently under review. With cystometrography,
      Brooks et al. demonstrated an increase in bladder pressure from 5 to 60 cm H2O with
      increasing respiratory efforts. Mahler et al. demonstrated that in healthy children exposed
      to sleep deprivation, disruption in the circadian rhythm resulted in a 68% increase in urine
      volume, a significant increase in sodium excretion, clearance, and fractional excretion.
      Sleep deprivation also resulted in higher nighttime blood pressure, and heart rate, which
      affected sodium regulating hormones, including the renin-angiotension-aldosterone system and
      ANP. Apneic episodes result in similar fluctuations in sodium excretion, by causing an
      increase in intrathoracic pressure, increased stretch of the cardiomyocytes, and excretion of
      atrial and brain natriuretic peptides. Finally, the overall disruption in sleep due to SDB
      may be the ultimate factor. Healthy children with sleep deprivation demonstrated increased
      naturiesis, and Yeung et al. demonstration that children with E have abnormal sleep EEG
      activity with impaired arousability, increased light non-REM sleep, frequent cortical
      arousals, and impaired wakening.

      Enuresis is difficult to treat, and conventional modalities rarely achieve success rates
      greater than 65%. According to several systematic reviews, enuresis alarms have the highest
      efficacy rate, and result in an increase in the number of dry nights per week by 4. In a
      study by Monda et al., 66% of children using enuresis alarms achieved continence by 6 months.
      Alarms may also reduce treatment failure and relapse that is often associated with the use of
      medications such as tricyclic antidepressants. Enuresis alarms use a moisture sensor that
      activates as soon as the child begins to void.

      In children, SDB is primarily caused by adenotonsillar hypertrophy, and treatment for OSA
      begins with a three-month trial of intranasal steroids (INS). INS act by directly reducing
      adenoidal size by lympholytic action, reducing inflammation, and decreasing the significance
      of adenoids as a reservoir for infection. In a recent meta-analysis, INS were found to reduce
      the symptoms of snoring, mouth breathing, and nasal speech by 45-50% when compared to
      placebo. Similarly, Demirhan et al. showed a mean decrease of adenoid/choana ratio from 86.9%
      to 56.2% after 8 weeks of fluticasone. In a recent meta-analysis, Zhang et al. found that 5/6
      trials showed a significant improvement in nasal obstruction symptoms and reduction in
      adenoid size with the use of INS.

      The investigators' previous data has shown that children with symptoms of SDB and E do not
      respond to conventional management of E. The investigators therefore propose to trial a novel
      management approach, by treating the symptoms of SDB with intranasal steroids, in hopes of
      improving patient's enuresis.
    
  