
    
      Face-it: A Health Promotion Intervention for Women with Prior Gestational Diabetes and their
      Families

      AIM: The aim of the Face-it project is to increase quality of life and reduce the risk of
      type 2 diabetes (T2DM) among women with prior gestational diabetes mellitus (pGDM) and their
      families.

      BACKGROUND: Women with pGDM are at high risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Partners and
      offspring of women with GDM are also at elevated risk of developing type 2 diabetes and
      related cardiometabolic conditions. Thus, not only are women with prior GDM at high risk of
      T2DM and related cardiometabolic conditions, their children and spouses are as well. Since
      the cumulative incidence of T2DM increases substantially within the first five years after
      delivery (Kim et al. 2002) there is a strong interest in identifying feasible and effective
      interventions in this time-period. Evidence from the state-of-the-art Diabetes Prevention
      Program suggests that intensive lifestyle intervention can reduce the risk of T2DM among
      women with pGDM (Ratner et al. 2008). However, sustainable changes in such behaviours are
      difficult and many women do not follow lifestyle recommendations after delivery (Stage et al.
      2004). Given the highly elevated risk in this group, this is a substantial missed opportunity
      for health promotion aimed at prevention of T2DM for not only the mother, but the entire
      family. It is vital that efforts are based on a thorough understanding of the barriers to
      health promoting behaviours and involve carefully tailored solutions to overcome these
      barriers. The investigators hypothesise that a health promotion intervention that focuses on
      enhancing motivation, health literacy, action competences and social involvement in women
      with pGDM and their families will reduce diabetes risk and improve quality of life.

      DESIGN: Face-it is a two-arm parallel-group randomised clinical trial with women as the unit
      of randomization comparing a health promotion intervention with a usual care control group.

      PARTICIPANTS, RECRUITMENT AND ELIGIBILIGY: Women with pGDM will be recruited from obstetric
      departments at Aarhus University Hospital (AUH), Odense University Hospital (OUH) or
      Rigshospitalet (RH) around 24-40 weeks of pregnancy by a health care professional. To be
      eligible for enrolment into the study, women should also be able to provide written informed
      consent in Danish. Exclusion criteria is that the participants may not be participating in
      other postpartum intervention trials with a possible impact on the Face-it trial. Women with
      diabetes identified at baseline will be excluded. Partners of women and the new-born
      offspring are also invited to participate in the study. Informed consents are obtained from
      1) woman and new-born offspring, including permission to obtain information from the medical
      record and blood samples for research biobank (woman only), 2) from partner, including blood
      samples for research biobank. A separate consent 3) is obtained for collection of blood for
      future biobank. In case of non-participation in the study, women are asked for consent to
      collect information from the medical record including health characteristics of woman and
      offspring related to pregnancy and birth.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND RANDOMISATION: Based on prior studies, a mean difference in BMI after 1 year
      between the intervention and control groups for the women of -1.0 kg/m2 and standard
      deviation of 2.5 is expected. A sample size of 225 women will be required to detect such a
      difference in BMI when using a 2:1 randomisation procedure, a power of at least 80% and type
      1 error of 5% (two-sided). The sample size increases to 460 women to allow for assuming 30%
      loss to follow-up between baseline and follow-up and another 30% will withdraw during the
      prolonged period from recruitment to baseline data collection and randomisation.

      1/3 of participants will be randomised to the control group and 2/3 to the intervention
      group. The randomization procedure has been generated by an independent statistician and will
      be in blocks of 6/9/12/15 with a separate randomization at each of the three recruitment
      locations. Allocation will be concealed from both the participant and the investigators, who
      have the clinical and research responsibility, until baseline data have been collected,
      eligibility confirmed, and participation accepted. However, neither participants nor the
      investigators will be blinded to the participants intervention or control status after this
      point, but the status will be blinded for the analyst. A randomization list will be kept
      securely at the study site by an investigator with clinical responsibility. Both the
      intervention and usual care group will be part of the evaluation of the Face-it trial and
      therefore invited to baseline and follow-up clinical examinations. Participants will be
      informed by a research assistant about whether they have been allocated to the control or
      intervention group.

      INTERVENTION: The intervention has been developed in a thorough and iterative co-creation
      process with health care providers and families, where the mothers has pGDM to ensure that it
      is carefully tailored to the needs and challenges of the target group and enhance its
      sustainability. The three major components of the intervention are: 1) Health visitors as the
      core healthcare providers, 2) digital health technology, and 3) a structured cross-sectoral
      communication system in the healthcare system.

      CONTROL: Participants in the control group will receive usual care practice, including
      recommended glucose control measures 3 months and one year after birth. Participants will
      receive advice about a healthy lifestyle according to the national recommendations from the
      Danish Health and Medicines Authority . Participants in the control group will be invited to
      participate in the health examination at baseline and follow-up and thereby obtain
      information about own health when attending the two clinical examinations.

      STUDY PROCEDURES AND DATA COLLECTION: There are two study visits planned for each participant
      (women with pGDM, her partner and baby). Visit 1 (baseline) will take place 10-14 weeks
      postpartum. Visit 2 (follow-up) will take place around 12 months postpartum. The measurements
      taken at the visits are dependent on whether the participant is a women with pGDM, partner or
      offspring.

        -  75g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) with measurements of glucose and insulin at 0, 30
           and 120 minutes (women with pGDM only)

        -  Blood samples including fasting glucose, insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity
           Index, hbA1c, plasma lipids/ triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL (women with pGDM
           and partners)

        -  Physical measures. Investigations on women with pGDM and their partners will include
           BMI, height, weight, waist- and hip circumference, body fat, blood pressure.

        -  Physical measures on offspring will include height, weight, abdominal- and head
           circumference (at one-year follow-up).

        -  Questionnaire. Detailed information will be collected about socio-demographic and
           -economic details, dietary-, physical activity-, and sleep patterns; quality of life,
           stress, depression, self-perceived health, health literacy, motivation for behaviour
           change, social support, self-efficacy, risk perception and knowledge about diabetes risk
           in women with pGDM and their partners. Information about obstetric history and
           breastfeeding will also be collected from women with pGDM

        -  Objective measures of physical activity and sedentary patterns (subgroup)
    
  