
    
      Neurogenic orthostatic hypotension (NOH) is a debilitating condition associated with reduced
      quality of life, impaired function and is also an independent predictor of mortality(Bendini
      et al., 2007; Cordeiro et al., 2009; Rose et al., 2006). NOH is clinically defined as a
      sustained reduction in systolic blood pressure (SBP) ≥30mmHg within 3 minutes of standing or
      head-up tilt to at least 60 degrees on a tilt table(Freeman et al., 2011). Specifically,
      neurogenic OH can be differentiated from other causes of orthostatic hypotension, such as
      hypotension due to endocrine issues, generalized low blood pressure, low blood volume, etc.,
      in that NOH is associated with autonomic dysfunction. Specifically, dysfunction of the
      reflexive regulation mediated by the sympathetic nervous system(Goldstein and Sharabi, 2009;
      Low et al., 2008).

      Studies have implicated specific dysfunction of the peripheral sympathetic nerves in
      disorders that have accompanying NOH such as Multiple System Atrophy (MSA), Pure Autonomic
      Failure (PAF) and Parkinson Disease (PD+NOH)(Imrich et al., 2009; Senard et al., 1993;
      Sharabi et al., 2006). In clinical NOH populations with known diagnoses such as MSA, PAF and
      PD+NOH, infusions of yohimbine have been used to detect whether post-ganglionic sympathetic
      nerves are intact or denervated. Yohimbine is an alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist that, in
      healthy/intact sympathetic nerves, causes an increase in the release of norepinephrine (NE)
      from sympathetic nerves via increased sympathetic neuronal outflow. NE is a natural
      neurotransmitter that is released when the sympathetic nervous system is required to increase
      its activity. In persons with intact post-ganglionic sympathetic nerves an infusion of
      yohimbine results in an increase in blood pressure, arterial NE levels, and heart rate
      levels, with a decrease in forearm blood flow indicative of vasoconstriction. In contrast,
      patients with sympathetic denervation these responses are attenuated(Senard et al., 1993;
      Shannon et al., 2000; Sharabi et al., 2006). However, in these studies, the clinical
      population consisted of MSA, PAF and PD+NOH. Little research has been done in NOH populations
      without an underlying diagnosis, and in fact, 1/3 of patients with NOH have no identifiable
      underlying cause (Robertson and Robertson, 1994).

      Furthermore, it has been hypothesized that supine hypertension in this select patient
      population is due to residual sympathetic tone in patients with intact post-ganglionic
      sympathetic nerves. Approximately 50% of NOH patients have associated supine
      hypertension(Shannon et al., 2000), which if left untreated, comes with its very own unique
      set of cardiovascular complications, such as significantly higher left-ventricular mass
      indices, specific end organ damage(Vagaonescu et al., 2000), heart attack and stroke.
      Therefore, clinicians are left with the challenging dilemma of finding a near impossible
      balance between the risks associated with supine hypertension versus the risks of sudden
      hypotension upon standing and the associated consequences of falls, fractures and head
      injuries resulting in more immediately morbid events. Medications such as nitrates and other
      antihypertensives can be prescribed, however their use is strongly cautioned as it is quite
      frequent that NOH patients are often older and have nocturia, and as a result are up
      frequently throughout the night. Other options such as raising the head of the bed 4 inches
      from the ground in order to reduced renal hyper-perfusion pose as an additional conservative
      measure, however, this does not act as a treatment for the supine hypertension.

      In contrast, melatonin is a natural hormone secreted by the pineal gland in response to low
      light and is involved in maintaining proper circadian rhythms and sleep patterns. However,
      more recently, there has been a growing source of literature supporting melatonin as having
      an important role in blood pressure control: i) In rats, following pinealectomy, there is
      evidence of vasoconstriction (Cunnane et al., 1980) and hypertension (Zanoboni et al., 1978;
      Zanoboni and Zanoboni-Muciaccia, 1967). ii) Experimental hypertension elicited via
      pinealectomy can be reversed through exogenous administration of melatonin(Holmes and Sugden,
      1976). iii) Continuous light exposure, results in a melatonin deficiency, peripheral
      vasoconstriction and hypertension(Briaud et al., 2004; Brown et al., 1991).

      Therefore, melatonin is now being looked at as a non-traditional anti-hypertensive medication
      in patients with essential and nocturnal hypertension. In a study of 34 patients with
      nocturnal hypertension, administration of melatonin proved to have a slight, yet significant,
      reduction in nighttime blood pressure measurements(Grossman et al., 2006). In these studies,
      melatonin was taken for 3 or 4 weeks via an oral prescription 1 hour before bed. The dose was
      formulated as a controlled- or slow-release throughout the night. In these studies, there was
      an average systolic BP drop of 6.5mmHg and 4mmHg diastolic in supine/nighttime blood
      pressures. While this reduction may not seem significant, clinical it is. In a study of 2156
      hypertensive patients, following a median follow-up period of 5.6 years it was found that the
      cardiovascular risk adjustment per 5mmHg reduction of nocturnal blood pressure in patients
      aged 55 years and above, was 0.92 (95%CI0.88-0.96) and per 5mmHg reduction in nocturnal
      diastolic blood pressure was 0.82 (95%CI0.77-0.88). The decrease in mean asleep BP during
      follow-up was most significantly associated with event-free survival (Hermida et al., 2010).
      In women, a mean decrease of 6mmHg in diastolic pressure significantly reduced overall
      mortality from vascular disease by 21%, fatal and nonfatal stroke by 42%, and fatal and
      nonfatal coronary heart disease by 14% (Rich-Ewards et al., 1995). Currently, the posed
      mechanisms of melatonin to reduced blood pressure consist of both central and peripheral
      mechanisms (Capsoni et al., 1994; Pogan et al., 2002; Ray, 2003; Satake et al., 1991; Stankov
      et al., 1993; Weekley, 1993). Therefore, the objectives of the current study are: 1. Identify
      NOH patients as having either peripherally intact vs denervated post-ganglionic sympathetic
      innervation to help identify a group of patients potentially more susceptible to supine
      hypertension. 2. Administer melatonin and monitor its effects on supine/nocturnal blood
      pressures in patients with supine hypertension, and 3. Investigate the proposed mechanisms of
      melatonin by comparing its effects in patients with peripherally intact vs denervated
      sympathetic nerves.
    
  