
    
      Background: Intravenous saline is the accepted prophylactic measure for prevention of
      contrast-induced acute kidney injury. However, most trials for contrast nephropathy
      prevention have been in the setting of arterial contrast, such as with cardiac
      catheterization, and not with venous contrast, such as computed tomography (CT). There is
      insufficient data on effective prophylactic strategies to prevent acute kidney injury (AKI)
      following contrast-enhanced CT scans.

      Objective: The primary aim of this pilot trial is to determine the safety and feasibility of
      using oral salt and water loading compared to intravenous saline for the prevention of
      contrast-induced acute kidney injury in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) receiving
      a contrast-enhanced CT scan of the chest or abdomen. The results of the pilot trial will help
      us to plan and carry out a definitive efficacy trial to compare the two interventions.

      Design: A randomized controlled trial with two parallel arms.

      Study Population: 50 patients with chronic kidney disease (eGFR < 45 mL/min/1.73m2) who are
      undergoing a contrast-enhanced CT scan.

      Intervention: Participants will be randomly allocated to receive either intravenous saline or
      oral salt and water loading. All participants will be administered an intravenous low-osmolar
      contrast medium as per recommended guidelines.

      Relevance: The results of this pilot trial will provide critical information to plan a
      definitive trial to test the efficacy of volume loading regimens to prevent acute kidney
      injury after contrast-enhanced CT scans. The current standard of care for chronic kidney
      disease patients who have contrast-enhanced CT scans is intravenous saline. This regimen
      requires significant health care resources as it requires a same-day hospital stay, nursing
      time as well as patient inconvenience. If the results of this study show that oral salt
      loading is effective as the standard intravenous saline, it would result in a significant
      reduction in the use of these resources. Given the large volume of CT scans performed in
      Canada and worldwide, this will result in a substantial cost savings to the healthcare
      system. We have established a network with acute kidney injury researchers at four other
      large academic health organizations across Canada in preparation for a definitive trial.
    
  