
    
      This study explores the feasibility of using hyperpolarized xenon (HXe) Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (MRI) as a diagnostic imaging agent to prioritize the order of airway treatment by
      bronchial thermoplasty, rather than the FDA approved pre-established treatment sequence that
      is performed today.

      The Alair® Bronchial Thermoplasty System is an FDA approved device clinically proven to be
      effective in treating severe asthma patients who are not well controlled with inhaled
      corticosteroids and long acting beta agonists. Bronchial thermoplasty (BT) is a procedure
      that reduces excessive airway smooth muscle by radio wave ablation, thus decreasing the
      ability of the airways to constrict during an asthma attack. The BT procedure is performed in
      three separate outpatient treatment sessions, each treating pre-established regions of the
      lungs. The sessions are separated by at least three weeks healing time.

      MagniXene® is pure xenon gas which is magnetically altered to become a contrast agent for
      magnetic resonance imaging of the lungs. The subject inhales the hyperpolarized xenon while
      inside the MRI scanner and a highly detailed ventilation map of the lung spaces is acquired
      during a short breath-hold. By detecting unventilated regions and airway reactivity using HXe
      images, a prioritized scheme for performing bronchial thermoplasty can be elaborated to treat
      the most problematic airways within the first BT session. In this study the rest of the
      airway will be treated in the following two sessions, such that all the airways are treated
      in the end as in the standard procedure.

      This study will include approximately 30 patients clinically indicated to undergo bronchial
      thermoplasty. Half of the patients will be randomly assigned to receive HXe guided BT, while
      the other half will receive standard BT procedure. HXe images and clinical measures of asthma
      disease severity, such as Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ), Asthma Control Test
      (ACT), morning expiratory peak flow (AM-PEF), pulmonary function tests (PFT), will be
      acquired at three time points interleaved with the BT sessions: before BT, 12 weeks after
      first session of BT, and 12 weeks after the third session of BT (approximately 36 weeks from
      baseline). HXe MRI will be repeated within the same day after bronchodilator treatment of the
      patient to establish airways reactivity. Additionally, a three-week follow up for HXe MRI
      will allow us to study temporal variability of HXe metrics. A total of six HXe imaging
      sessions (distinctive days), each including at least four HXe images will be dedicated to
      each patient.

      The primary outcome of this study will be to determine whether the standard full BT treatment
      is superior to a single session guided treatment. The statistical metric will be the
      incremental change in the AQLQ score.
    
  