
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess safety and tolerability of the combination therapy carboplatin, gemcitabine
      hydrochloride (gemcitabine), and berzosertib (M6620 [VX-970]) in adult women with platinum
      sensitive recurrent high grade serous or high grade endometrioid ovarian, primary peritoneal
      or fallopian tube cancer. (Phase I Dose Escalation/Safety Lead-in) II. Determine the dose of
      the triple therapy to be used in the dose expansion cohort of the study. (Phase I Dose
      Escalation/Safety Lead-in) III. Confirm the safety at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for
      the addition of M6620 (VX-970) to carboplatin and gemcitabine in first or second recurrence
      of platinum sensitive high grade serous or endometrioid ovarian, primary peritoneal or
      fallopian tube carcinoma. (Expansion Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the MTD for the combination of carboplatin, gemcitabine and M6620 (VX-970)
      improves the confirmed response rate in adult women with platinum sensitive recurrent high
      grade serous or high grade endometrioid ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

      II. To determine the impact of the MTD on overall survival (OS), duration of response, and
      progression-free survival (PFS).

      INTEGRATED CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Collection of specimens for biomarker studies to provide preliminary proof of mechanism.
      Assess, in an exploratory fashion, whether the combination of gemcitabine and carboplatin
      activates the ATR/CHK1 pathway at achievable concentrations and also whether M6620 inhibits
      the activated pathway.

      II. To determine whether increased deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage as assessed by two
      different multiplex assays correlates with response to combination therapy with M6620
      (VX-970).

      III. To determine whether mutations in homologous recombination repair genes correlate with
      response to combination therapy with M6620 (VX-970).

      IV. To ascertain modulation of ATR autophosphorylation and other pharmacodynamic readouts for
      ATR inhibition by M6620 (VX-970).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of gemcitabine hydrochloride and berzosertib.

      Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, gemcitabine
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, and berzosertib IV over 60 minutes on days
      2 and 9. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.
    
  