
    
      An estimated 3.5 million deaths occur annually in children less than 5 years of age in
      sub-Saharan Africa, approximately 70% of which are due to infectious causes. One-year
      mortality rates as high as 15% have been documented following hospital discharge in
      sub-Saharan Africa, a rate that is 8-fold higher than non-hospitalized children. Children
      being discharged from hospital in Africa may represent an accessible high-risk population in
      which to target interventions to reduce mortality. A recent trial of mass drug administration
      of azithromycin reduced childhood mortality by half among children in Ethiopia in communities
      receiving the intervention. However, concerns about the potential for the emergence of
      antimicrobial resistance, possible toxicity, and the feasibility of delivery are all barriers
      to community-wide distribution of antibiotics. Targeted chemotherapeutic interventions,
      including the use of cotrimoxazole among HIV-infected children and the use of amoxicillin or
      cefdinir among malnourished children, have been shown to reduce mortality in these specific
      vulnerable populations. Children who have been recently hospitalized are a high-risk
      population in which a similar targeted approach to azithromycin distribution may optimize
      benefit while reducing both individual and population level risks. The mechanisms by which
      azithromycin may impact morbidity and mortality have not been well described. Among high-risk
      pediatric populations with history of recent illness, azithromycin may act by treating
      residual disease not eliminated during inpatient therapy, by providing prophylaxis from
      future infectious exposures during a time of immune suppression and vulnerability following
      illness, by treating underlying enteric dysfunction and associated mucosal immune/gut barrier
      disruption and inflammation, and/or by clearing asymptomatic carriage of potentially
      pathogenic organisms. This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of a 5-day
      course of azithromycin in children age 1 to 59 months discharged from hospital in Western
      Kenya to reduce post-discharge re-hospitalizations and mortality, to explore possible
      mechanisms by which azithromycin has benefit and risk, and to identify correlates and
      intermediate markers of re-hospitalization and death in the post discharge period.

      Primary Aims Aim 1. To compare rates of re-hospitalization and mortality in the 6 months
      following hospital discharge among Kenyan children receiving 5-day azithromycin vs. placebo.

      Hypothesis: The provision of a 5-day course of azithromycin provided at discharge will reduce
      hospital readmission and death within the 6 months following discharge, as compared to
      placebo.

      Aim 2a. To evaluate possible mechanism(s) by which azithromycin may affect morbidity and
      mortality, by comparing reasons for re-hospitalization, prevalence of pathogen carriage, and
      markers of enteric dysfunction between the randomization arms.

      Hypothesis: Children treated with azithromycin will experience fewer hospitalizations due to
      diarrhea, acute respiratory infection, and malnutrition, will be less likely to have
      respiratory and gastrointestinal carriage of potentially pathogenic organisms, and will have
      less evidence of enteric dysfunction, as compared to children treated with placebo in the 6
      months following hospital discharge.

      Aim 2b. To determine whether empiric administration of azithromycin at hospital discharge
      increases risk of antimicrobial resistance in commensal Escherichia coli (E. coli) and
      Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) isolates from treated children and their household
      contacts.

      Hypothesis: Isolates of commensal E. coli and S. pneumoniae from children treated with
      azithromycin and their household contacts will have higher levels of macrolide and β-lactam
      resistance, compared to the placebo group, after 90 days of follow-up, but resistance in the
      2 arms will be similar by 6 months.

      Aim 3. To identify correlates and intermediate markers of post-discharge mortality and
      hospital readmission among hospitalized Kenyan children.

      Hypothesis: Children younger in age, with enteric dysfunction, higher levels of bacterial
      pathogen carriage,immune dysfunction, and malnutrition will experience more frequent
      re-hospitalizations and deaths.

      Aim 4. To determine the cost-effectiveness of post-discharge administration of a 5-day course
      of azithromycin in settings of varying antibiotic use, re-hospitalization rates, and
      mortality rates.

      Hypothesis: The provision of a 5-day course of azithromycin provided at discharge is
      cost-effective in settings with moderate to high re-hospitalization and mortality rates.
    
  