
    
      Full Title: QUANTITATIVE ASSESSMENT OF TRAINING EFFECTS USING A WEARABLE EXOSKELETON IN
      PARKINSON DISEASE PATIENTS

      RESEARCH PLAN

      Specific Aims

      The ability to walk independently is a primary goal when rehabilitating an individual with
      Parkinson Disease (PD). Indeed, PD patients display a flexed posture that coupled with an
      excessive joint stiffness lead to a poor walking mechanics that increase their risk of falls.
      Although studies have already shown the many benefits of robotic-assisted gait training in PD
      patients, research focusing on optimal rehabilitation methods has been directed towards
      powered lower-limb exoskeleton. Combining the advantages delivered from the grounded devices
      with the ability to train in a real-world environment, these systems provide a greater level
      of subject participation and increase subject's functional abilities while the wearable
      robotic system guarantees less support. The purpose of the proposed work is to evaluate the
      effects of an Over-ground Wearable Exoskeleton Training (OWET) on gait impairments in
      comparison with a multidisciplinary intensive rehabilitation treatment. As gait is a complex
      task that involves both central (CNS) and peripheral nervous systems (PNS), targeted
      rehabilitation must restore not only gait mechanics (ST parameters) but also physiological
      gait pattern (joint kinematics and dynamics). To this aim the impact of OWET on both CNS and
      PNS will be evaluated. Human movement analysis quantitatively assesses the neuromuscular and
      biomechanical features of movement. Recent literature has highlighted the benefit of coupling
      gait analysis (GA) and neuromusculoskeletal modeling (NMSM) for treatment planning and
      supplementing this approach with robotic rehabilitation. Another stalwart of PD research has
      been electroencephalography (EEG), which is widely used to evaluate executive dysfunction
      while functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can detect cortical changes in motor
      activations during motor tasks. Thus, a quantitative assessment of an individual's gait and
      neuromuscular function to robustly evaluate recovery of altered sensorimotor function at both
      the PNS and CNS is proposed. To this aim, comprehensive GA (spatiotemporal (ST) parameter,
      joint kinematics, joint stiffness) and electromyography (EMG) will be combined to determine
      PNS improvements, and fMRI with EEG will be used to assess CNS improvements. As health care
      professionals and researchers need objective, reliable, and valid tools to plan
      subject-specific interventions, quantify therapeutic outcomes, and monitor change over time,
      the proposed study includes estimation of neutrally-informed muscle forces and joint
      stiffness, which is expected to provide sensitive determinants of PD movement control that
      could be crucial to inform treatment planning/assessment. Preliminary data are available and
      showed feasibility of the proposed measurement set up.

      Background OWET: Although studies have already shown the many benefits of robotic-assisted
      gait training in PD patients (i.e. body weight supported treadmill training) as improving
      gait efficiency modifying spatiotemporal (ST) parameters, these strategies create an
      environment where the patient has less control over the gait initiation and lacks in
      variability of visuospatial flow. Therefore, research focusing on optimal rehabilitation
      methods has been directed towards powered lower-limb exoskeleton, as in post-stroke
      rehabilitation, where the effect of such a treatment dramatically enhanced potential for
      patient-specific rehabilitation, showing improvement in ST parameters. Combining the
      advantages delivered from the grounded robotic devices with the ability to train the patient
      in a real-world environment, these systems provide a greater level of subject participation
      for maintaining trunk and balance control, as well as navigating their path over different
      surfaces and increase subject's functional abilities while the wearable robotic system
      guarantees less support. Furthermore, the stability the exoskeleton addresses to the patient,
      allows a hands-free walking trial (with no clutches) which represents an integral part for a
      physiological locomotion restoration.

      As gait involves both CNS and PNS, targeted rehabilitation must restore not only mechanics
      (speed, stride time and length) but also physiological gait pattern. This requires
      improvements at the level of both balance and lower limb joint motion. In this direction,
      wearable lower-limb powered exoskeletons promote functional training in a realistic
      walking-environment combined with a greater patient's engagement than in grounded devices.
      Human movement analysis quantitatively assesses the neuromuscular and biomechanical features
      of movement. Recent literature has highlighted the benefit of coupling GA and NMSM for
      treatment planning and supplementing this approach with robotic rehabilitation, however there
      is no study investigating gait effects from an OWET in those with PD, and no assessment that
      uses comprehensive GA and NMSM to reveal mechanistic changes as a result of therapy.

      Neurophysiology of PD: A stalwart of PD research has been EEG, which is widely used to
      evaluate executive dysfunction while fMRI can detect cortical changes in motor activations
      during motor tasks. The protocol to use GA in combination with fMRI has already been adopted
      by the investigators in order to display the impacts of the rehabilitation process on the
      reorganization of the neural network, describing and quantifying the neural activity and the
      recovery after the treatment.

      Motion analysis in PD: Gait in people with PD has been thoroughly studied with 3D GA systems
      in recent years, documenting a typical hypokinetic gait reduction of the stride-length with
      asymmetry between the strides, an increment of the cadence, the stance and double support
      phases, which compensates for the reduced stride length.

      NMSM: Combining GA and NMSM enables one to track disease progression with enhanced precision.
      This has been demonstrated across a range of neuromuscular pathologies and healthy
      individuals. Critically, for each individual a neuromusculoskeletal model is created, driven
      by the individual's own EMG signals, and tracking their biomechanics, as has recently applied
      in neurologically impaired individuals. This creates a novel model that links in vivo
      neuromuscular functions to the individual, thus providing new biomarkers to assess and track
      PD motor impairment. Furthermore, since joint stiffness depends both on neural recruitment
      and mechanical properties, it is likely to provide a potent representation of neural and
      musculoskeletal PD impairment.

      Significance and potential impact This project addresses the potential for OWET to restore
      normal gait in PD patients. OWET aims to improve overall body motion and lower joint
      stiffness in those with PD, thereby improving function, quality of life, and reducing risk of
      injurious falls. The proposed robotic device (Ekso GT™, EksoBionics, Richmond, CA, USA)
      relies functions by providing passive assistance to the ankle joint, which affects the rest
      of the body through mechanical coupling. Currently, the amount of device assistance is
      estimated based on a therapist experience and expertise. Modern motion analysis methods
      enable us to objectively assess the required assistance providing a means to tailor the
      assistance to each individual and remove the risks of clinical guesswork. Robotic devices
      assist the physical therapist by providing task-specific repeatable mechanical action to
      support therapies and enable higher intensity of training. OWET aims to reduce lower limb
      joint stiffness, which is a recognized biomarker of PD, thereby enhancing rehabilitation for
      PD patients.

      Findings linked with the proposed study will likely give substantial solutions to the
      management of gait and postural disorders (posture, balance, and gait) in PD where valid
      interventions (pharmacological, neurosurgery, traditional physiotherapy) are lacking.
      Moreover, a NMSM that identifies patient-specific variables for therapy could be used to
      assess treatment outcomes but also to conduct on-line rehabilitation therapy by means remote
      control of the assistive device. This will provide a number of advantages over conventional
      approaches proposing an active treatment that is personalized and scalable to large
      populations and including a standardized training environment and an adaptable support that
      has the ability to increase the treatment intensity and dose, without being a burden on
      therapists. OWET is thus an ideal means to complete conventional therapy in clinic, while
      rehabilitation robots bear the potential for continued home therapy using simpler devices.

      Study design The study will be carried out over 36 months. Patients with clinically
      established diagnosis of PD according to the U.K. Parkinson's Disease Society Brain Bank
      Diagnostic criteria will be recruited. The diagnosis will be reviewed by a neurologist
      specialized on movement disorders. Briefly, 50 patients with mild to moderate disease
      severity, will be enrolled according to the inclusion\exclusion criteria included in the
      dedicated section below.

      The activities will be organized into 4 work packages (WP), each with measurable outputs
      verified by scheduled deliverables/milestones.

        -  WP1: Clinical Trial. The sample size has been defined based on published data of gait
           velocity in PD subjects, and a target sample of fifty PD individuals (divided in two
           separate cohorts) has been selected to achieve a power of at least 80% for detecting a
           mean group differences in mean gait velocity (p = 0.05). One cohort (n=25) will undergo
           a multidisciplinary intensive rehabilitation treatment, and the other will be treated
           with OWET. At baseline (T0) subjects will undergo neurophysiological evaluation
           (EEG-fMRI) and GA. Participants will then undergo an 8-weeks OWET. After the therapy
           (T1), the subjects will be evaluated, with the same protocol as at T0. After another 2
           months, a follow-up (T2) will be conducted using the same protocol as T0.

        -  WP2: Motion analysis. State-of-the-art posture and GA will be performed pre- and
           post-rehabilitation.

        -  WP3: NMSM. Using the data collected in WP1 and WP2, NMSM will be performed to obtain
           muscular force and joint stiffness. This NMSM will be used to assess PD neuromuscular
           function pre- and post-rehabilitation.

        -  WP4: Neurophysiological assessment. A 256 channel High Density EEG (HD-EEG) recordings
           and analysis will be used to assess brain oscillation activity changes before and after
           the treatment. Multimodal brain imaging will be performed by simultaneous acquisition
           and analysis of neurophysiological signals (EEG/EMG) and fMRI data to assess the resting
           state connectivity and activation differences between pre- and post-treatment and to
           identify if the changes in the cortical activity is linked with the changes detected in
           WP3.

      Anticipated Results Locomotor functions are positively recovered by a functional gait
      training. Indeed, in post-stroke subjects, patients who underwent this therapy have already
      shown to be more likely to achieve an independent walking than people who did not receive the
      same treatment.

      OWET will improve quality of gait and balance. Effects with OWET will impact the quality of
      life. The results with OWET will provide innovative information for rehabilitative programs.
      The impact of the intervention will be assessed by measurable outcomes listed in the
      dedicated section below.
    
  