
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare progression free survival of two schedules of venetoclax, timed sequential
      busulfan, cladribine and fludarabine conditioning regimen in patients with acute myelogenous
      leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare overall survival between the two schedules. II. Compare non relapse mortality
      between the two schedules. III. Compare neutrophil and platelet engraftment between the two
      schedules. IV. Compare acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) between the two
      schedules.

      V. Compare cumulative incidence of relapse between the two schedules. VI. Compare grade
      III/IV toxicity between the two schedules.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study chemotherapy resistance. II. To study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage. III. To
      study immune recovery and cytokines (both in plasma and cells). IV. To study BCL-2 family
      expression, stem cell surface markers and intracellular signaling markers in AML cells at the
      time of relapse.

      OUTLINE:

      PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -22 to -3 and busulfan
      intravenously (IV) over 3 hours on days -13 and -12. Patients then receive fludarabine
      phosphate IV over 1 hour, cladribine IV over 2 hours, and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6
      to -3.

      ARM II: Patients receive venetoclax PO QD on days -22 to -3 and busulfan IV over 3 hours on
      days -20 and -13. Patients then receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 1 hour, cladribine IV
      over 2 hours, and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6 to -3.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) on day
      0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2.5 years.
    
  