
    
      The current study involves 3 parts. The first part aims to explore whether allergic
      conjunctivitis causes changes in corneal biomechanics and to identify sensitive mechanical
      indicators of allergic conjunctivitis. This part is a cross-sectional study. Four groups are
      included: normal group, vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC) group, seasonal allergic
      conjunctivitis (SAC) group and keratoconus (KC) group, with 25 eyes in each group (in normal
      group one eye is randomly selected , and in VKC group, SAC group and KC group the more severe
      one is selected). Patients in all groups meet inclusion criteria and voluntarily join this
      study with informed consents. Medical history is collected, including basic information,
      allergic history and course of disease. Corneal biomechanics is measured by Corvis ST. The
      difference of corneal biomechanics among groups is analyzed to determine corneal
      biomechanical changes of AC and to find sensitive mechanical indicators of AC.

      The second part aims to identify related factors affecting corneal biomechanics in patients
      with allergic conjunctivitis. This part is also a cross-sectional study. Four groups are
      included: normal group, VKC group, SAC group and KC group, with 25 eyes in each group.
      Medical history is collected, including basic information, allergic history and course of
      disease. Eye rubbing frequency, ocular allergic symptom scores and physical sign scores are
      measured and recorded in VKC group and SAC group. Corneal biomechanics measured by Corvis ST,
      corneal morphological parameters measured by Pentacam, corneal epithelial thickness measured
      by Optovue OCT, tear cytokine levels measured by Milliplex kit and conjunctival microvascular
      parameters measured by functional slit lamp are performed in all patients. Correlation
      analysis of corneal biomechanical parameters and other measurement indicators in VKC group
      and SAC group is performed to determine the relevant influencing factors of corneal
      biomechanics in AC.

      The third part aims to determine corneal biomechanical change tendency during treatment in
      VKC. This part is a prospective case-control study. 25 patients with 25 eyes (the more severe
      eye is selected) are included. Medical history is collected, including basic information,
      allergic history and course of disease. Eye rubbing frequency, ocular allergic symptom scores
      and physical sign scores are measured and recorded in VKC group and SAC group. Corneal
      biomechanics measured by Corvis ST, corneal morphological parameters measured by Pentacam,
      corneal epithelial thickness measured by Optovue OCT, tear cytokine levels measured by
      Milliplex kit and conjunctival microvascular parameters measured by functional slit lamp are
      performed in all patients before drug treatment. And all the patients adopt a unified
      medication regimen. The same ophthalmological examinations are performed again after 3 month
      medication. Based on the analysis of the difference between the two measurements before and
      after the drug treatment, corneal biomechanical change tendency during treatment in VKC is
      clarified and the potential mechanical parameter needed to be monitored during follow-up is
      identified. The specific therapeutic regimen is as follows: 0.1% tacrolimus eye drops four
      times daily; 0.1% flumirone eye drops twice daily; azelastine hydrochloride eye drops four
      times daily; hyaluronic acid sodium eye drops four times daily. After 1M, 0.1% flumilone eye
      drops is replaced with 0.02% flumirone eye drops twice daily, and the rest of the medication
      remaines unchanged.
    
  