
    
      About 10% of African Americans have an abnormal hemoglobin gene. About 8% of African
      Americans are heterozygous for Hb S. In the United States, sickle cell anemia primarily
      occurs in the black population, with approximately 0.2% of African American children
      afflicted by this disease. The prevalence in adults is lower because of the decrease in life
      expectancy. The Storm Eye Institute at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) is
      uniquely situated geographically and epidemiologically to study the interaction between
      sickle cell disease and the retina. The frequency of sickle cell trait (Hb AS) in
      African-Americans of Charleston County is 16%, twice the national average of 8% in
      African-Americans. This is thought to be due to the autosomal recessive inheritance of sickle
      cell disease, and the genetic roots and relative isolation of the Sea Island Gullah
      population (Pollitzer 1999).

      Variations in the alteration of the amino acid sequence on the globin chain produce
      variations in the disease's expression. The four forms of the disease are often referred to
      by their genotype: sickle cell trait (AS), sickle cell anemia (SS), sickle cell disease (SC)
      and sickle cell thalassemia (SThal).

      Systemically, the sickle cell anemia variation (SS) produces the most symptoms. With respect
      to the eye, the sickle cell disease mutation (SC) produces the most effects.

      The widely accepted pathogenesis for sickle cell retinopathy is vasoocclusion that leads to
      retinal hypoxia, ischemia, infarction, neovascularization, and fibrovascularization. In
      sickle cell anemia, the amino acid substitution valine for glutamate occurs on the beta chain
      at the sixth position. This substitution, combined with conditions that may promote sickling
      (ie, acidosis, hypoxia), triggers the deoxygenated Hb S to polymerize, making the erythrocyte
      rigid. This rigidity is partially responsible for the vasoocclusion.

      Vasoocclusion also is in part due to the interaction between sickled cells and the vascular
      endothelium. The adherence of sickled cells to the endothelium triggers an inflammatory
      process with the release of inflammatory agents. The result of this cascade is vascular
      stasis, hemolysis, and vasoocclusion of the capillary beds.

      Classically, posterior segment changes are classified by either nonproliferative sickle
      retinopathy (NPSR) or proliferative sickle retinopathy (PSR). In NPSR, the retinal changes do
      not involve neovascularization as they do in PSR. The use of Spectralis HRA+OCT gives us
      visualization of the individual layers of the retina to determine if there are underlying
      changes not seen clinically in the gross ophthalmic posterior segment exam. This knowledge
      will aid the care of African-Americans with sickle cell disease to enable greater
      understanding of the ocular disease progression leading to earlier eye screenings, possible
      novel treatments and ultimately visual loss prevention.
    
  