
    
      Study Protocol Summary:

      This Canadian, British Columbian study, in the Fraser Health Authority region will involve
      seniors who have been referred to two Specialized Seniors Clinics (SSC) and have been flagged
      by clinicians for report to the Office of the Superintendent of Motor Vehicles (OSMV) for a
      driving assessment. At the White Rock/South Surrey (WR/SS) SSC,British Columbia (BC),10
      subjects will be invited to participate in an information and planning group. Ten additional
      subjects from New Westminster (NW), BC SSC, will be matched with group participants. Each
      subject will be interviewed by an occupational therapist during which time the Geriatric
      Depression Scale (GDS)and an abbreviated version of the World Health Organization Seniors
      Quality of Life Brief Questionnaire (WHOQOL-BREF) will be administered. Each subject will be
      contacted by phone bi-monthly for 10 months and the tests will be re-administered. During the
      phone calls additional information about each senior's driving status and driving patterns
      will be collected.

      Background Information:

      This type of early intervention has not previously been researched or made available.
      Research has shown that seniors who lose their driving license are at increased risk of
      depression and social isolation. The PI research that preceded this study demonstrated that
      seniors who had experienced enforced loss of their driving license often showed long-term
      negative emotions such as anger and bitterness coupled with a sense of injustice.

      Purpose of Study The purpose of the study is to explore evidence of possible effects of an
      early intervention group in the areas of mood, quality of life and community access.

      Justification for Study:

      An important justification for this study is to examine the effects of a new concept of early
      intervention. Previous forms of intervention with existing senior drivers prior to assessment
      have involved activities such as public education and mature driver workshops. These have
      been evaluated in terms of the growth of knowledge and driving safety. In contrast, the new
      concept of early intervention involves activities such as group change strategies, positive
      psychology approaches and topic based discussion designed to mitigate the health and quality
      of life effects of regulation and cessation. In researching this new concept of early
      intervention, this project is intended to open up a new field for research. It will provide
      evidence of what effects can follow from early intervention and will indicate topics to be
      explored in subsequent research. In addition it will establish a model for the longitudinal
      research of senior drivers.
    
  