
    
      MATERIALS AND METHODS: 1) Collection of a venous blood sample from patients enrolled with AIS
      or controls, and subsequent separation of plasma; 2) Isolation of circulating total RNA from
      the plasma of AIS patients (Kit Invitrogen: Total RNA Isolation Reagent) and preparation of
      microRNA samples (TaqMan™ MicroRNA Reverse Transcription Kit); 3) Analysis of microRNA
      expression profiles by micro-array technique (Taqman Advanced miRNAs Human CardA + B); 4)
      Validation of deregulated microRNAs by single-qRT-PCR assay and computational functional
      analyses; and 5) In vitro studies to investigate the molecular role of the microRNAs
      identified within the mechanisms of bone remodeling.

      Enrollment Procedures:

      Patients considered eligible will be enrolled in the study, after providing a written
      informed consent. Healthy subjects (control group) will be recruited, on a voluntary basis,
      by means of an announcement published on the web page of the Rizzoli Orthopedic Institute
      (www.ior.it), "News" section.

      Data Collection: Clinical data will be retrieved by patient's source document. A
      protocol-specific CRF reporting the results of the analyses will be provided. A CRF is
      required and should be completed for each included subject.

      Ethics: The clinical trial protocol and its documents will be sent before initiating the
      study to the competent Authorities and Ethics Committees of each participating country for
      its approval. The responsible investigator will ensure that this study is conducted in
      agreement with either the most updated Declaration of Helsinki and all the international and
      local laws that apply to clinical trials and to patient protection. The protocol has been
      written, and the study will be conducted according to the principles of the ICH Harmonized
      Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (ref:
      http://www.emea.eu.int/pdfs/human/ich/013595en.pdf).

      Informed Consent: All patients will be informed, by the investigator, of the aims of the
      study, the possible risks and benefits that will derive from the study participation. The
      Investigator must clearly inform that the patient is free to refuse participation in the
      study and that can withdraw consent at any time and for any reason. The patients will be
      informed as to the strict confidentiality of their personal data, but the medical records of
      the patients enrolled may be reviewed for trial purposes by authorized individuals other than
      their treating physician. The informed consent procedure must conform to the ICH guidelines
      on Good Clinical Practice. This implies that "the written informed consent form should be
      signed and personally dated by the patient or by the patient's legally acceptable
      representative".

      The Investigator must also sign the Informed Consent form, and will keep the original at the
      site and a copy of the original must be handed to the patient.

      The competent ethics committee for each Institution participating to the study must validate
      local informed consent documents before the study can be opened. It will be emphasized that
      the participation is voluntary and that the patient is allowed to refuse further
      participation in the study whenever he/she wants. This will not prejudice the patient's
      subsequent care.

      General Principles for Human Biological Material (HBM) collection: Human biological material
      (HBM) collection involves the collection and storage of biological material, residual
      biological material or derivatives in compliance with ethical and technical requirements.
      Biological material (blood samples) will be centralized and stored at Istituto Ortopedico
      Rizzoli - Dipartimento Rizzoli-Sicilia, Bagheria (Palermo). From here, the biological
      material will be used and stored according with the sample characteristic and applicable
      regulation.

      Plasma and circulating total RNA obtained from blood will be stored inside sterile containers
      (falcon, tubes, eppendorf) in a freezer at the temperature of -80 °C at the Istituto
      Ortopedico Rizzoli - Dipartimento Rizzoli Sicilia.

      The following principles apply to storage of HBM: (a) The Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli will
      have a designated person responsible for collection and will act as a communication point;
      (b) The collected HBM should be documented, i.e. the amount remaining and its location. act
      as a communication point; and (c) The storage and use of biological material will take place
      in accordance with the standards of good laboratory practice (GLP) and applicable
      legislation.

      Confidentiality: In order to ensure confidentiality of clinical trial data as disposed the
      national and European applicable regulation, data will be only accessible for the trial
      Sponsor and its designees, for monitoring/auditing procedures, the Investigator and
      collaborators, the Ethics Committee of each corresponding site and the Health Authority.
      Investigator and the Institution will allow access to data and source documentation for
      monitoring, auditing, Ethic Committee revision and inspections of Health Authority, but
      maintaining at all times subject personal data confidentiality as specified in the applicable
      regulation.

      The Investigator must guarantee that patient anonymity is kept at all times and their
      identity must be protected from unauthorized persons and institutions.

      All patients included in the study will be identified with a numeric code, so that no
      identifiable personal data will be collected. The Investigator must have and conserve a
      patients' inclusion registry where it figures the personal data of the patient: name,
      surname, address and corresponding identification code into the study, this register will be
      kept on the Investigator File.

      Publication policy and data ownership: The principal investigator of the study is responsible
      for the final report, of the publication publish all the data collected as described in the
      protocol and will ensure that the data are reported responsibly and consistently. In
      particular, the publication of data deriving from the present study will take place
      independently of the results obtained. The transmission or dissemination of data, through
      scientific publications and / or presentation at conferences, congresses and seminars, will
      take place exclusively following the purely statistical processing of the same, or in an
      absolutely anonymous form. All the study data are owned by the sponsor.
    
  