
    
      Background: Each year in the United States, over 300,000 preterm infants are admitted to
      neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) where they are exposed to a chemical-intensive hospital
      environment during a developmentally vulnerable period. Many life-saving and supportive
      respiratory, nutritional, hematologic and pharmaceutical therapies in the NICU expose preterm
      infants to potentially harmful chemicals during a life stage analogous to the third trimester
      of gestation. The NIH-funded DINE study capitalizes on the infrastructure, biorepositories,
      and extensive clinical databases of four existing preterm cohorts to explore the hypothesis
      that early life exposure to phthalates adversely impacts neurodevelopment, lung function,
      growth, adiposity, and pubertal development in childhood.

      The scientific premise of the DINE study is that early life exposure to phthalates, a class
      of chemical plasticizers ubiquitous in the NICU, has long-lasting harmful effects on child
      health and development, and that these harmful effects are magnified in children born
      preterm. This premise is based on strong evidence of multisystem adverse health effects in
      term-born children who are exposed to phthalates in utero during the third trimester of
      pregnancy or in early infancy. In preterm infants, however, rigorously obtained data on the
      health effects of phthalates are scant. Dermal, inhalational and intravenous exposures to
      phthalates are widespread in some NICUs, where preterm infants are cared for during the
      sensitive "third trimester" developmental window. Moreover, premature infants experience a
      high prevalence of the adverse health effects that are associated with early life exposures
      to phthalates in term-born children, including altered neurodevelopment, poor pulmonary
      function, and maladapted growth. A rigorous, well-designed, sufficiently powered study of
      NICU-based phthalate exposures and long-term health outcomes of preterm infants has the
      potential to change care practices, promote regulatory policy changes and lead to mitigation
      of phthalate exposures in the NICU.

      Significance: The proposed research is expected to identify modifiable sources of
      developmental risk for NICU patients that can inform and improve hospital care and long-term
      outcome. Moreover, our findings could lead to relatively inexpensive NICU interventions, such
      as use of non-phthalate containing medical materials, dosing guidelines for elemental metals
      and guidance for parents and staff on infant stress-reduction, and policy changes (e.g.
      regulation of the phthalates used in medical devices or changes to the trace metal content of
      parenteral nutrition) with significant positive potential impacts on life-long morbidities
      common among NICU graduates. Information gleaned from studying our highly-exposed,
      highly-vulnerable population may elucidate health impacts of early life exposures that
      translate to risk reduction in the general population.
    
  