
    
      You have already been contacted by phone about participating in this study. You have received
      study documents (this consent and the study questionnaires) because you said over the phone
      that you would like to participate in this study.

      In this study you will be asked to complete questionnaires that will ask about any pain you
      may be experiencing and about the quality of your life. These questionnaires will also ask
      for demographic information (such as age, race, and sex) and about your health. It should
      take about 1 hour to complete all of the questionnaires. In addition to the questionnaires,
      you will also be asked questions about any medications you may currently be taking for pain.
      All of the information you include on the questionnaires will be kept confidential. There are
      no right or wrong answers to the questions. A postage-paid return envelope has been provided
      for you to return this consent and the questionnaires.

      Researchers are interested in how pain is related to certain treatments and medical
      conditions. As part of this study, researchers will review your medical records to see what
      type of cancer treatment you received and whether you had any pain related to the treatment.
      They will also see if you had any non-cancer health conditions that may have affected pain
      and quality of life.

      This survey is for research purposes only. Your healthcare provider will not be informed of
      your responses to this survey. If you are experiencing severe pain and/or other symptoms,
      please contact your healthcare provider. The study staff has also included a list of
      community resources that you may contact for different types of services.

      Your participation in this study will be over once you mail back the consent and
      questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 635 individuals will be asked to take part in this
      study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  