
    
      This study examines the effect of an HIV clinic-based multi-component intervention on HIV
      patients' subsequent viral load status and attendance for HIV primary care. The intervention
      has clinic-wide and targeted components. The clinic-wide components are given to all HIV
      patients when they attend clinic for primary care and include: (1) patient behavioral
      screening used by providers in the clinical care of patients and (2) dissemination of palm
      cards which contain messages about the importance of adhering to antiretroviral therapy
      (ART), coming to clinic regularly, and safer sex. The targeted components focus on patients
      whose viral loads exceed 1000 copies/mL. Targeted components include: (1) an interactive
      computer-based intervention (CBI) completed twice (separated by 2-4 months) by patients at
      the clinic and (2) referral for one-on-one counseling from trained project Health Coaches if
      the patient's viral load does not show a 1-log reduction after the first CBI or remains above
      200 copies/mL after two administrations of the CBI.

      Patients are not individually randomly assigned to arms. The multi-component intervention is
      evaluated using a group-randomized design. Clinics were randomized to either Panel A or Panel
      B with the intent of equating the two panels on the percentage of patients with suppressed
      viral load prior to implementing the intervention. Three clinics (Panel A) begin intervention
      activities, and the other three clinics (Panel B) delay onset of all intervention activities
      for 16 months and thus serve as a concurrent control group during that 16-month period. This
      enables between-panel comparisons of the outcomes during this time interval.

      The primary analytic cohort for the group-randomized analysis will be all patients in Panel A
      and Panel B whose viral load exceeds 1000 copies/mL who have a scheduled primary care
      appointment during a 7-month enrollment period. Viral load eligible patients in Panel A will
      be part of the analytic cohort regardless of whether they enroll in the CBI or not. These
      viral load eligible patients represent the group of patients who are targeted for the main
      intervention components (CBI and counseling) and, accordingly, will comprise the denominator
      (estimated to be 2,794) for the primary analysis of the viral load and clinic attendance
      outcomes. Each cohort member in Panel A is followed for 9 months for purpose of delivering
      the intervention and assessing the outcomes. Each cohort member in Panel B is followed for 9
      months for purpose of assessing the outcomes.

      Two secondary levels of analysis will also be performed. First, analysis will be performed
      focusing on all patients in Panel A clinics who have a viral load over 1000 copies/mL and
      received at least one administration of the CBI ("as-treated" approach). Outcomes of these
      patients will be compared to patients in Panel B whose viral load exceeds 1000 copies/mL
      during the recruitment period. Second, an analysis will be performed at the clinic-wide level
      including all patients in Panel A clinics regardless of viral load level who are scheduled
      for primary care during the recruitment period. Outcomes of these patients will be compared
      to all patients in Panel B scheduled for primary care visits during the recruitment period.
    
  