
    
      This is a prospective, single-center, observational study that will enroll a maximum of 550
      subjects. All potential study subjects will be current or former employees or dependents
      eligible to enroll for Employer's group health plan and will demonstrate interest in response
      to recruitment materials placed in the near site clinic and/or the surrounding community.
      Participation interest will be demonstrated by calling the study number. Potential subjects
      will then undergo a screening call performed by study staff and, if still interested and
      likely eligible will be scheduled for Visit 1 and potential Visit 2. If a potential subject
      is not interested in continuing they will be given the option to anonymously complete a
      survey as to why they declined participation.

      All potential subjects at Visit 1 will be required to provide written or electronic informed
      consent to participate. Once informed consent is obtained, study staff will confirm if there
      is a recent A1C available . If subject has a confirmed diagnosis of diabetes or pre-diabetes
      and an A1C result within the last 8-weeks or does not have diabetes or pre-diabetes and has
      an A1C within the last 6-months no A1C will be drawn. If the subject does not have a recent
      A1C a POC A1C will be taken at Visit 2. Study staff or subject will deploy the CGM system at
      Visit 1. Study staff will verify that the CGM is successfully blinded and subject has been
      trained on wearing CGM before subject completes Visit 1.

      Subjects will be offered to wear an optional activity tracker and if chosen will also be
      required to download the activity tracker mobile application onto their personal smartphone.
      Subjects will then be trained on how to synchronize and charge their study activity tracker.
      To complete Visit 1 activities subjects will be asked to complete up to three surveys
      regarding their health status, reason for participation, diabetes risk, and if they decline
      to wear the activity tracker and why. Subjects upon leaving Visit 1 will confirm their return
      Visit 2 and remuneration will be processed at this time.

      During the 10-day wear period subjects will have access to study staff in-person at the
      clinic and have Dexcom Technical Support available through a dedicated phone line Monday
      through Friday.

      At Visit 2, study staff will assist subjects with removing the CGM and if wearing an activity
      tracker will also have it removed. Study staff will confirm the activity tracker has been
      synced with the subject's mobile application before deletion from the smartphone. Study staff
      will collect and record adverse events, serious adverse events, or unanticipated problems.
      Subjects will be asked to complete a user experience survey and have their mailing address
      confirmed for delivery of the final summary report and completion survey. A POC A1C will be
      obtained (unless a recent A1C and shared with subjects). Unless previously diagnosed with
      diabetes, subjects will be classified as normal glucose levels, prediabetes or diabetes based
      on their overall data. Subjects who are newly diagnosed with diabetes (POC A1C ≥ 6.5%) may be
      referred to their primary care physician. Remuneration will be processed at this time. Safety
      data will not be obtained for any subject after Visit 2 unless an ongoing AE is considered
      not resolved or ongoing and not stable.

      Approximately 5 days after Visit 2, study staff will mail a final summary report of CGM and
      activity metrics along with a user experience survey together with a pre-addressed return
      envelope. The survey will provide the option for subjects to be called for follow-up
      interview by a study research staff trained in user-experience research for an interview
      about their experience. In addition, a subject data summary report may be provided to their
      primary care physician and/or endocrinologist. A majority of the subjects will be considered
      exited from the study after the interview or the interview was declined, and/or the user
      experience survey has been received. A select group of subjects (up to 50) will receive a new
      version of the data summary report based on the feedback collected from the initial group of
      completed data summary report surveys. Trained research staff will follow-up and discuss the
      changes with these subject.

      36 months of retrospective and 24 months ± 1 month of prospective concurrent medical claims
      and cost data will be collected for each subject after the subject has been exited from the
      study.
    
  