
    
      Iron deficiency (ID) among patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI)
      is common (54%-79% .These patients suffer from higher mortality, unplanned readmission for
      worsening heart failure or red blood cell transfusions during the first year after TAVI.IV
      Iron therapy was found to be feasible in the 56 patients who were treated and showed
      improvement in symptoms at 30 days follow-up.Anemia in TAVI patients is multifactorial,
      related to advanced age, frailty, coagulopathy, medications, kidney disease, bleeding,
      inflammation and ID. The most treatable part is ID.

      Iron deficiency (ID) is a common comorbidity in other diseases. In heart failure (HF)
      patients, it is associated with poor outcome, worsening of New York Heart Association (NYHA)
      Class, and re-hospitalizations. While the mechanisms and pathophysiology of ID in HF is not
      well understood, it is presumed to be a combination of impaired absorption, renal
      dysfunction, hemodilution and drugs that are used for the treatment of HF.

      The advantages of (intra-venous) IV ferric carboxymaltose to patients with reduced ejection
      fraction (HFrEF) with stable chronic heart failure and functional ID has been shown to reduce
      the risk of hospitalizations up to 60%, improve symptoms, exercise tolerance, functional
      capacity and overall QoL]. Accordingly, the latest 2016 ESC Guidelines recommended the
      treatment in patients with HfrEF with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) and ID (Class IIA,LOC
      A). No guidelines recommend IV iron supplementation in TAVI patients.

      The two major, placebo-controlled studies, mentioned above (CONFIRM-AF and FAIR-AF) have
      demonstrated the positive outcomes after correction of ID in stable HF patients, with a
      well-tolerated IV substance. Furthermore, the effect of treating iron deficiency on quality
      of life and functional status has already been studied and found useful with various types of
      intravenous iron in the chronic kidney disease and inflammatory bowel disease.The effect of
      treating with oral iron supplements has been studied in HF patients with no difference in
      exercise capacity, symptoms, NT pro BNP, iron stores, Hemoglobin levels or V02 compared to
      placebo.

      In this study the investigators aim to examine the effect of IV iron (ferric gluconate) which
      is a more affordable IV Iron on patients with ID admitted for TAVI. No randomized trial has
      been published in this topic to this day.
    
  