
    
      Study hypotheses

      The patients involved during Work Package 4 of the PROactive Project showed a good conformity
      with the use of electronic devices such as the electronic version of the PROactive tool. As
      the paper-pencil version is anticipated to be equally easy to manage from the patients as the
      electronic version, therefore it is expected an excellent agreement between the paper-pencil
      and the electronic version in terms of assessing the effect of pulmonary rehabilitation on
      the components of the PROactive tool.

      A pulmonary rehabilitation program of at least 8-10 weeks is considered sufficient to induce
      reduction in daily and exercise induced symptoms, improvements in functional capacity and
      exercise tolerance and increase in health related quality of life in patients with COPD.
      Since low levels of physical activity are associated with reduced exercise performance and
      increased daily symptoms, it is anticipated a significant improvements in daily physical
      activity levels (as measured by daily number of steps, vector magnitude unit and movement
      intensity) and in the components of the Pro-Active tool following the completion of the
      pulmonary rehabilitation program.

      Recent published studies funded form PROactive Project revealed that activity monitoring
      outputs are associated with the cardiovascular, respiratory, and metabolic load of exercise
      in COPD patients. Therefore it is expected to found significant associations between daily
      physical activity levels and the components of the PROactive tool in general with functional
      capacity, exercise capacity and cardio-respiratory adaptations following completion of a
      comprehensive pulmonary rehabilitation program.

      Study population

      A convenience sample of clinically stable patients with COPD will be recruited from the
      academic centers' Outpatient Clinic on the following entry criteria: 1) a post-bronchodilator
      forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) <70% predicted without significant
      reversibility (<12% change of the initial FEV1 value or <200 ml) and 2) optimal medical
      therapy according to Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) (2).
      Exclusion criteria will include: 1) Orthopedic, neurological, and other musculoskeletal
      complaints that could impair normal movement patterns, 2) respiratory diseases other than
      COPD (e.g. asthma), 3) hospital admission or COPD exacerbations within the previous 4 weeks
      4) patients not on optimal pharmacotherapy. The study will be approved by the University
      Hospital Ethics Committee and the PROactive EC and patients will provide informed written
      consent.

      Study Design

      The total number of patients will be automatically assigned in two groups: Group A will
      consist of patients who will score only the paper-pencil version of the clinical visit
      version of PROactive tool. Group B will consist of patients who will score only the
      electronic version of the clinical visit version of PROactive tool. Randomization should be
      stratified by site. In addition, a control group (Group C) which will not participate in the
      rehabilitation program will be include at the same time as patients in Group A and B so as to
      be able and independently address study objectives 2 and 3 and 4. Group C will also
      randomized to those into pape-pencil version and electronic version.

      Following completion of the first week (i.e.: V1) patients will complete a multidisciplinary
      pulmonary rehabilitation program. Following completion of the rehabilitation program patients
      will perform one more visit (V2). During visit 1 and 2 patients will perform the measurements
      indicated in tab

      Rehabilitation program

      The rehabilitation program will be multidisciplinary and will include mandatory supervised
      exercise training at appropriate training intensity, other components of the program can be
      breathing control and relaxation techniques, methods of clearance of pulmonary secretions,
      disease education, dietary advice, and psychological support on issues relating to chronic
      disability. Six minute walking tests, and improvements in dyspnea sensation (CRDQ) will be
      used to benchmark the effect of a program provided by a given team.

      Data management

      Patient data will be stored in a randomized database as for WP2D. Data will be analyzed
      centrally and the relevant PRO data and accessory end points will be available in a format to
      allow integration with other PROactive WP6 studies.

      Assessments

      Primary outcomes

      PROactive tool

      Physical activity measurements in terms of daily number of steps and vector magnitude unit
      (VMU) will be performed primarily by the ''Actigraph'' triaxial activity monitor whilst
      patients will answer to the clinical visit questionaire of Proactive tool as well as to the
      PROactive questionnaires (i.e. CCQ, CRQ, HADS, CAT, SGRQ). Additionally, in a subgroup of
      patients assigned in each of the three groups (i.e. Group A, B, C) activity monitoring
      measurements in terms of walking intensity will be performed by the Minimod (McRoberts BV)
      activity monitor.

      Secondary outcomes

      Anthropometrics-Body composition

      Body weight will be measured to the nearest 0.1 kg with a digital scale and height will be
      measured to the nearest 0.5 cm with a stadiometer. Body mass index (BMI) will be calculated
      as the ratio of weight (in kilograms) to height (in metres) squared. Body composition will be
      estimated by a bioelectric impedance device.

      Recording data:

      Recording the following parameters: weight, height, total body water, fat mass (FM), fat free
      mass (FFM).

      Lung function

      Spirometry, body plethysmography and single breath transfer factor for carbon dioxide will be
      measured according to the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society standards
      after administering 400μg salbutamol (3). Post bronchodilator static lung volumes will be
      assessed using a body-box (whole body plethysmography).

      Recording data:

      Recording the following parameters: FEV1 and FVC, TLC, RV, TGV and TLco.

      Exercise capacity

      Incremental exercise test

      The incremental exercise test will be performed on an electromagnetically braked cycle
      ergometer (Ergoline 800; Sensor Medics, Anaheim, CA, USA) with a ramp increase of load
      increments of 5 to 25 Watt/min until the patient reaches volitional exhaustion.

      Recording data:

      Recording the following parameters: peak work rate, peak oxygen uptake, peak heart rate,
      minute ventilation at Iso-Work and peak minute ventilation, SpO2, dyspnea sensation and leg
      discomfort (10-Borg scale).

      Six-minute walking test

      The 6-minute walk test (6MWT) will be measured following the instructions of the American
      Thoracic Society (ATS) recommendations.

      Recording data:

      Before and after exercise test: heart rate, SpO2, dyspnea sensation and leg discomfort
      (10-Borg scale) and distance walked.

      Skeletal muscle function test

      Patients will be studied seated in the quads chair, with hip and knee flexion of 90 degrees.
      An inextensible strap will be placed around the ankle, immediately proximal to the malleoli,
      adjusted to ensure the knee remains at 90 degrees flexion. The ankle strap will be connected
      to a strain gauge mounted on the back of the chair, and runs perpendicular to both the ankle
      and the strain gauge. A seatbelt will be secured across the subject's hips to stabilize the
      pelvis

      Recording data:

      Record the following parameters: strength expressed in kg and leg length.

      Central hemodynamics

      Cardiac output will be measured non-invasively throughout the incremental exercise test on
      the treadmill using a portable impedance cardiography device (PhysioFlow , Manatec
      Biomedical, France) (4).

      Recording data:

      Cardiac output, heart rate and stroke volume will be recorded continuously at rest, during
      exercise and recovery throughout the tests.

      Statistical analysis and randomization

      Baseline characteristics, including age, gender, as well as clinical and functional data,
      including but not limited to lung function, body composition, quadriceps strength, 6MWT, CRQ,
      CCQ, HADS, CAT, SGRQ and PROactive monitors outputs, will be summarized according to number
      and percentage for qualitative variables, mean and standard deviation for quantitative
      variables with normal distribution, and median and 25th-75th percentiles for quantitative
      variables with non-normal distribution. The effectiveness of the rehabilitation program
      between and within groups on daily physical activity levels and PROactive tool will be tested
      using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) model. Pearson correlation coefficient analysis will be
      performed to determine the relationship between variables using as a dependent variable the
      physical activity levels and PROactive tool score while the independent variables included
      functional capacity, exercise capacity, PROactive questionnaires, metabolic, respiratory,
      central hemodynamic parameters that were measured following the completion of the
      rehabilitation program.

      Randomization Stratified randomization will be applied taking into account patient's baseline
      daily physical activity levels, namely weekly median steps.
    
  