
    
      This proposal contains two distinct aims to be investigated in two similar but distinct
      groups of patients.

      Aim 1: To examine the mechanistic effect of 4AP on the return of sensorimotor function and
      EDX sensitivity in the setting of nerve dysfunction from orthopaedic trauma. This aim tests
      the hypothesis that oral one-time administration of 4AP provides transient return of function
      and EDX sensitivity to the traumatically denervated limb in alert patients with known limb
      injuries not involving the central nervous system.

      Aim 2: To examine the mechanistic effect of 4AP on the return of sensorimotor function and
      EDX sensitivity in the setting of iatrogenic nerve injury after surgical intervention. This
      aim tests the identical hypothesis as in Aim 1 in a distinct group of patients, whose nerve
      dysfunction is the result of a clinical intervention, and whose function before that
      intervention was intact.

      Scientific Background and Gaps

      Neurological injury in the form of traction or crush to nerves that control muscles and
      sensory function is common. Because an understanding of these injuries is only now beginning
      to emerge, research on potential treatments is an important next step. Through experiments
      performed on animals with the Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. version of the drug (AMPYRA®),
      4-aminopyridine (4-AP) has been strikingly effective in ameliorating the effect of a
      standardized peripheral nerve crush injury. The peripheral nerve injury used in the
      experiments was a standard model of peripheral nerve injury used to measure recovery in
      animals and is a model of peripheral nerve traction and crush injury that has been studied
      for over thirty years. The investigators have found that:

        1. 4-AP administration in a single dose given on day three after the injury led to a
           drastic reduction in the dysfunction afforded by a crush injury just days after the
           crush itself.

        2. 4-AP treatment's effect was short-lived after a single dose and was, in effect,
           diagnostic of the potential to recover in a nerve that was crushed but not shattered.

        3. Severed nerves show no capacity to recover even with 4-AP treatment.

        4. The treatment in a daily regimen led to profound, lasting, permanent improvement in the
           speed of recovery in these animals.

      4-AP is used in some of the most fragile of neurologically-ailing patients and is currently a
      mainline treatment in the setting of multiple sclerosis (1). Multiple sclerosis patients
      suffer a demyelinating disorder that causes the stripping of the myelin sheath from around
      neurons in the peripheral and central nervous system. The myelin covering allows for normal
      conduction of impulses and, without such covering, impulses are small, impaired, impeded, and
      ineffective. The recognition that crush injuries to nerves do not simply sever the axonal
      fibers but also demyelinate some population of nerve cells has led to the idea to study the
      treatment of peripheral nerve traumatic injuries in humans using 4-AP.

      Previous Data

      4-AP has been studied in humans since the early 1980s, and principles of safe usage are
      extremely well established. For the purposes of this proposal, the immediate release
      formulation of 4-AP, sometimes called fampridine will be referred to as IR 4-AP. The proposed
      version of the drug used in this study is an extended release formulation of 4-AP, called
      dalfampridine, which was marketed under the trade name AMPYRA, by Acorda Therapeutics.
      Recently, this extended release formulation has become available as a generic, which will be
      referred to as generic AMPYRA or dalfampridine. Essentially identical principles apply
      whether 4-AP is provided in an orally available immediate release formulation (IR 4-AP) or an
      orally available sustained release formulation (dalfampridine). The safety of 4-AP appears to
      be determined solely by serum levels.

      It has long been recognized that the most significant safety concern regarding 4-AP is an
      increased frequency in seizures, which occurs in a small percentage of patients if serum
      levels exceed 100 ng/ml. Therefore, dosages are chosen to maintain serum levels that do not
      exceed 50-60ng/ml. In this proposal, 5mg of study drug will be administered once every six
      hours, for a total dosage per day of 20 mg. This total dose, as indicated by multiple
      previous studies on immediate release 4-AP, has an excellent safety profile even in the
      fragile population of patients with multiple sclerosis. A sustained release formulation of
      4-AP (AMPYRA®) at this same dose is FDA approved for use in the multiple sclerosis population
      even with a known risk of seizure activity in these patients.

      It is important to note that multiple studies on 4-AP also include patients with chronic
      stroke, chronic spinal cord injury, transverse myelitis, primary lateral sclerosis,
      Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, ocular nystagmus, nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic
      neuropathy, spinal muscular atrophy, chronic Guillain-Barre syndrome, episodic ataxia Type 2,
      obstructive sleep apnea and spinocerebellar ataxias. Over 45 clinical trials have been
      conducted in the US alone (as listed on the Clinicaltrials.gov website). There are also 49
      primary publications on clinical trials outcomes on 4-AP, which include patients with
      multiple sclerosis, chronic spinal cord injury, spinocerebellar ataxias and chronic stroke.

      The many trials on 4-AP have been conducted using both immediate release 4-AP and sustained
      release 4-AP. The difference between the immediate release and sustained release formulations
      are that the sustained release formulation helps to decrease the peaks and troughs in serum
      levels that can occur with larger doses of immediate release formulations.

      The Study Rationale is to evaluate the role of 4-aminopyridine (4AP) on the diagnosis of
      complete (severed) vs incomplete (non-severed) peripheral nerve injury (PNI). The
      investigational treatment will be used to test the hypothesis that 4AP allows the
      identification of incomplete injuries earlier than standard electrodiagnostic (EDX) and
      clinical assessment.
    
  