
    
      Fatigue is a common symptom after stroke experienced by 25% - 92%. Fatigue predicts reduced
      physical health and has a negative impact on everyday life. Causes are poorly investigated
      and not fully understood. Recent studies indicate that specific cognitive functions are
      related to the development of fatigue, but findings are not consistent. There are few studies
      with adequate neuropsychological tests and an adequate number of participants. Moreover, it
      is not clear whether anxiety or depression may predict later occurrence of fatigue after
      stroke, or how coping strategies affect the process.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate 1) the association between cognitive factors as
      measured with neuropsychological tests and fatigue 3-4 years after cerebral stroke, 2)
      whether emotional factors 3 and 12 months after stroke predict development of fatigue
      long-term (3-4 years) after stroke, and 3) the association between fatigue and different
      domains of stroke-specific health-related quality of life 3-4 years after the stroke.
      Metacognitive thinking style are treated as a possible mediator of the association of
      depression/anxiety and fatigue after stroke. Physical activity and sleep measured with
      accelerometer are treated as mediators of the association of both emotional and cognitive
      factors and fatigue.

      Identification of factors relevant to the development of fatigue, and increased knowledge of
      the consequences of fatigue for health-related quality of life, will provide greater
      understanding of mechanisms, contribute to early identification of fatigue, and better
      adapted rehabilitation; and thereby increased function and quality of life.

      The following articles will be published as part of this project:

        1. The association between cognitive functioning and fatigue long-term post-stroke. A
           cross-sectional study with neuropsychological tests.

        2. Anxiety and depression as predictors for long-term fatigue after stroke. A prospective
           study.

        3. Metacognitions and thought control strategies in patients with post stroke fatigue.

        4. The association between fatigue and health-related quality of life. A prospective study.
    
  