
    
      Diabetes is one of the leading causes of End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD). Kidney
      transplantation is the best form of renal replacement therapy to date but requires that
      recipients of transplant organs maintain a complicated medication regimen in order to prevent
      graft loss. Their medications include lifelong immunosuppression, anti-microbials and other
      maintenance medications (i.e., anti-hypertensives, heart-protective regimens, bowel care,
      vitamins and pain medications).

      For many transplant patients, glycemic control in the immediate post-operative period can be
      an additional challenge. Glycemic control may be hindered by recent surgery, corticosteroids,
      immunosuppressants, altered nutritional intake and reduced mobility.

      Diabetes professional organizations such as the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and the
      American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) recommend continuous glucose
      monitoring (CGM) for anyone on intensive insulin therapy. The biggest benefit of CGM is not
      just the actual glucose value, but also its direction and rate of change. CGM data can also
      be downloaded and reflect patterns of glycemic control throughout the day and night,
      including not only the average blood glucose but also time-in-range (TIR) and degrees of
      glycemic variability. This can help identify unnotified nightly hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia
      and help titrate medications to achieve better glycemic control. Self-Management of blood
      glucose (SMBG) is a key component in effective glycemic management, but it places a large
      burden on the patient. Prior to CGM, SMBG was the only option to measure daily blood glucose
      fluctuations, but it is an imperfect tool. For patients on insulin, a blood glucose is
      checked at minimum 4 times per day, prior to meals and at bedtime. Additionally, the utility
      of SMBG can be endangered by patient decision making, the ability to check blood glucose,
      adherence to testing regimen, error due to poor testing technique, inadequate blood supply,
      contamination on fingers, or inaccuracy of some systems.

      Numerous studies have shown the clinical benefit of CGM in the type-1 diabetes (T1D) and
      type-2 diabetes (T2D) populations (ref: Beck, Olafsdottir). The DIAMOND group (Beck) showed
      that CGM improved HBA1C and reduced hyperglycemia (BG>180). Patients wearing the CGM had high
      satisfaction scores and low perceived burden. CGM is still a new tool outside of the Type 1
      Diabetes population but may have significant benefits for any patient on insulin. In Feb 2019
      an international guideline on TIR (defined as blood glucose of 70-180 mg/dL) was published
      and TIR may become a new standard for assessing glycemic control.

      The investigators research focuses on TIR and the benefits of CGM in the kidney transplant
      population. This can be essential for timely adjustments of insulin dosages when dealing with
      glycemic derangements and steroid induced hyperglycemia. CGM can provide an immense
      opportunity for a continuous 24/7 view of glucose values, glycemic variability, direction of
      change and unrecognized blood glucose levels during nighttime, and influence of food and
      activity on blood glucose values. In addition to the metrics described; the glucose
      management indicator (GMI) or also named estimated A1C (eA1C) is a measure converting the
      mean glucose from CGM using a formula derived from glucose readings from a population of
      individuals, into an estimate of a simultaneously measured laboratory A1C, this value may
      serve as an additional tool in assessing glycemic control. In conclusion: the use of a CGM
      can aid the provider and care team in better titration of insulin and medication regimen
      adjustment. This research hopes to give insight in a very complex population that has not had
      access to CGM before.
    
  