
    
      Brief Summary of Design: This is a 2-arm randomized study, with randomization occurring at
      the level of clinic. Five clinics will be included (2 implementing the THEO video; 3
      providing usual care). All five clinics have been using the Child Health Improvement through
      Computer Automation System (CHICA) for several years. The evaluation phase of the study will
      last for approximately 6-7 months.

      The CHICA System

      The Child Health Improvement through Computer Automation system (CHICA) is a computer based
      decision support system that operates as a front end to the electronic medical record system
      (EMR). When a child is registered in the clinic, the registration system sends an HL7 ADT
      (registration) message to CHICA. In response, CHICA requests a download of the patient's
      record from the EMR. CHICA applies a rule base consisting of hundreds of Arden Syntax rules
      to the data in the record to select 20 yes/no questions that are displayed on an electronic
      tablet. The family answers the questions and returns the tablet to the medical assistant who
      enters the child's height, weight and other measurements onto another page on the tablet.

      At the same time that CHICA produces the questions for family, it sends an HL7 request to
      CHIRP, the Indiana immunization registry. In response, CHICA receives a download of the
      child's immunization record. The download includes CHIRP's "forecast" of the immunizations
      for which the patient is due.

      At the end of these processes, CHICA produces several paper documents. The first is the
      physician worksheet (PWS). The PWS includes up to six alerts and reminders for the physician.
      The reminders are selected by CHICA, using its Arden Syntax rule set based on the patient's
      EMR and answers provided on the tablet. Each alert has up to six check boxes with which the
      physician can document how s/he responded to the alert. The PWS, when completed, is scanned,
      the coded data corresponding to the check boxes are stored, and text is written into the
      physician's note in the medical record. CHICA may also produce any of a large number of
      handouts for helping the physician with assessment or patient education. CHICA also produces
      a summary of the patient's immunization history as well and advice on what shots the child is
      due to receive.

      In an ongoing study of the Regenstrief-Merck collaboration, the investigators are studying
      the effect of providing physicians with a suggested "script" for recommending HPV vaccination
      to eligible patients' families. The study randomizes by physician whether the script is
      provided or whether the physician receives a simple reminder.
    
  