
    
      Detailed Description of Study Evaluations

      Adherence to treatment evaluation:

      Patients will be asked to bring the empty packages of the IFN beta and Vitamin D that were
      used during the study.

      Flu like symptoms and Injection site reactions evaluation:

      Data regarding FLS and ISRs will be collected by means of a telephone interview every other
      week. The extent of FLS on the day of injection will be evaluated using a self-rating scale.
      A score from 0 (not at all) to 5 (very strong), will be given to each FLS component, i.e.:
      myalgia, chills, headache, malaise and fatigue, exacerbation of neurologic symptoms, sweating
      and difficulty to function compared to the time before injection. Patient will also record
      their oral temperature upon awakening as well as at their discretion. All patients will be
      provided with the same thermometer. Participants will be asked to report the frequency of
      Ibuprofen or Paracetamol use. and will be recommended not to exceed 800mg of Ibuprofen or
      1000mg of Paracetamol per day, unless the symptoms are unbearable.

      Patients will be inquired about the subjective degree of injection site pain for the first
      injections of every other week, by means of a 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS scale).
      Patients will be seen at the clinic at 3 months intervals and in that visit the injection
      site will be inspected by the evaluating physician/ nurse and will be graded on a 0 to 3
      scale: 0-none, 1- pain, itching or erythema, 2- swelling with inflammation and 3- ulceration
      and/or necrosis. Mode of application (manual or automatic injection) as well as needle size
      will be also recorded.

      Patients will be instructed to refrain from reporting FLS and ISRs on the occasion of
      inter-current febrile illness or during and 4 weeks after corticosteroids treatment. In that
      case, patients will postpone the report by a week.

      MS clinical parameters:

      Patients will be clinically evaluated at enrollment and at 6 and 12 months for disease
      progression, by means of the EDSS score . The evaluating neurologist will be blinded to the
      patient's treatment.

      Relapses, characterized by emergence of new symptoms or the worsening of existing ones for
      more than 24 hours in the absence of fever or infection ( McDonald et al., 2001) and severe
      enough to warrant corticosteroids treatment will be recorded.

      Health related quality of life will be also evaluated at baseline and at the completion of
      the study, by means of a MS-specific validated questionnaire - FAMS (Functional Assessment of
      MS) (Miller A, 2006). (Attached)

      Laboratory evaluation:

      The following measurements will be obtained at the beginning of the study for the purpose of
      excluding patients with baseline impairment of mineral metabolism and at the end of the study
      to evaluate the resulting changes in mineral homeostasis consequent to vitamin D
      supplementation: blood levels of 25-OH- vitamin D, PTH, Magnesium, Calcium, Albumin,
      Creatinine, Urea, Phosphor, Alkaline phosphatase and 1-25- di-OH-D .

      The following measurements will be assessed after 3, 6 and 12 months from study start for the
      purpose of 25-OH-D level monitoring and safety: Calcium, Phosphor, 25-OH-D , Albumin and
      creatinine. Laboratory evaluation required with IFN-beta safety will include: Complete blood
      count at baseline and after 3, 6, and 12 months from study start ; liver function tests at
      baseline and every 3 months, thyroid function tests at baseline, 6 months and by the end of
      the study or upon the emergence of symptoms suggestive of thyroid dysfunction.

      Immunological markers:

      Two venous blood samples will be drawn from a number of participants at Baseline and after 3
      months of vitamin D supplementation . The first in the morning of IFN beta injection day and
      the second in the morning of the day after the injection. The percent rise after IFN beta
      injection of IL-6 and TRAIL will be assessed by commercial ELISA kits.

      On visits baseline, 3 and 12 month, a venous blood portion will be stored at -80 oC within 30
      min- 4 hour of blood withdrawal for MS related cytokines and proteins evaluation.

      On visits baseline and 6 months another portion will be collected for immediately immune cell
      subset evaluation. PBMCs will isolated within 4 hour by Ficoll gradient centrifugation,
      stained with specific antibodies characterizing various immune cell subsets, and subset
      proportion determined by flow cytometry analysis.

      Blood sampling will be postponed in case of a known condition that may possibly influence the
      expression of the studied cytokines. Namely, suspicion of a new or ongoing relapse within 30
      days before or during the date of blood sampling; Clinical or paraclinical signs of acute
      infectious disease 48 hrs prior to blood sampling (leukocyte count > 10,000/mcl and /or CRP
      >2 mg/dl); Clinical signs of allergy within 7 days before participation; corticosteroids
      within 30 days before participation.

      Melatonin:

      Urine will be collected during 12-hour nighttime (20:00-08:00) at baseline, 3 months and by
      the end of the study. Levels of the melatonin metabolite (6-sulphatoxy-melatonin) will be
      assessed using a highly specific ELISA assay.
    
  