
    
      Patients often discover their food allergies after consuming a given food and experiencing a
      subsequent allergic reaction. The majority of patients (75%) will then consult a food
      allergist for formal diagnosis and treatment information. With respect to patient quality of
      life, there is tremendous benefit in having a confirmed diagnosis of food allergy as often
      patients are unsure of the source of their reaction outside the office. Allergists will
      conduct a Skin Prick Test (SPT) and assess serum specific IgE levels to screen for specific
      food protein sensitivities. However, a positive response in SPT and specific IgE will confirm
      only sensitivity, and in more than 70% of cases patients that respond positively to SPT and
      specific IgE testing will NOT manifest an allergic response to food consumption. To address
      this issue, most food allergists will recommend an oral food challenge in a controlled
      setting to confirm the allergic response from consuming the suspected foods. The oral food
      challenge (OFC) consists of consuming escalating levels of the suspect food, (usually mixed
      in applesauce or controlled baked goods), until either a reaction manifests or until the
      challenge is complete with no reaction. The food challenge process poses significant risk to
      the patient. In 5% of cases, the patient experiences a severe allergic response which
      requires the use of epinephrine. These responses typically consist of severe reactions in GI
      or respiratory and arise from challenging patients with higher doses of food allergen then is
      necessary to prove a mild allergic response, which is directly linked to variability in
      diagnosis of a positive response, within subjects and within investigators.

      The investigators hypothesize that measurements taken using minimally-invasive diagnostic
      tests during the course of an escalating-dose oral food challenge will be able to detect a
      positive response before a systemic reaction occurs in the patient and may be able to screen
      with individuals predisposed to EOE.
    
  