
    
      Pain is the most frequent reason for emergency department visits in the United States,
      especially for those patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). Painful vaso-occlusive events
      frequently require admission to the hospital despite opioid therapy, which is the mainstay of
      treatment for moderate to severe pain in SCD. Achieving adequate pain control with escalating
      doses of opioid analgesics may be difficult due to tolerance, physical dependence, and side
      effects. Common side effects include pruritus, nausea and vomiting, constipation, urinary
      retention, sedation, and respiratory depression. With the recent focus on the opiate crisis
      there has been a push towards the use of alternative to opiates (ALTO) for a variety of pain
      syndromes.

      Lidocaine is a class 1b sodium channel blocking agent that is typically used as an
      anti-arrhythmic and local anesthetic. This medication also has potent anti-inflammatory,
      anti-hyperalgesic, and gastrointestinal pro-peristaltic properties. Lidocaine may be useful
      as an adjunct to opioids in response to a painful sickle cell crisis. Intravenous (IV)
      lidocaine infusion has previously shown benefit in neuropathic pain, renal colic, and
      peri-operative pain. No prospective studies have evaluated lidocaine for SCD pain thus far.

      A previous retrospective study evaluated lidocaine infusion as adjuvant therapy to patients
      with SCD. Eleven patients were given a total of 15 IV lidocaine trials. Investigators found
      clinical improvement in pain score from pre-lidocaine challenge to 24 hours post (defined as
      a >20% reduction in pain scores) in 53.3% (8 of 15) of patients. Of the 8 clinically
      successful trials, the mean reduction in morphine dose equivalents (MDE) from 24 hours pre to
      24 hours post lidocaine was 32.2%. Two patients experienced disorientation and dizziness. The
      authors concluded that lidocaine was able to provide pain relief and reduce the amount of
      morphine necessary during SCD vaso-occlusive crisis and that prospective studies are needed
      to determine its true efficacy, dosing, and tolerability.

      A prospective, single-arm, phase II trial evaluated lidocaine 5% patches for neuropathic pain
      and pain related to vaso-occlusive sickle cell crises in children ages 6 to 21 years old.
      Patches were applied to the painful area for 12 hours a day. The primary endpoint was the
      proportion of inpatients with significant pain relief defined as a decrease of at least 2
      points on the visual analog pain scale (VAS, from 0-10) measured at 12 hours after patch
      placement over two consecutive days. The use of additional treatments such as antiepileptics
      and opioids were allowed and their usage was documented. The primary outcome of VAS
      improvement of >2 over 2 consecutive days was observed in 48.6% of evaluated patients
      (19/39). Transdermal lidocaine was tolerated well with only 3 minor adverse events reported
      (two localized skin reactions and one generalized skin eruption) and no serious adverse
      events.

      The theoretical benefits along with the two previously discussed studies provide evidence to
      further investigate the use of lidocaine in SCD pain. Studies are needed to know whether
      lidocaine may be able to benefit alleviate pain quicker and minimize need for opiates
      similarly to its use in renal colic. This prospective trial aims to evaluate whether
      lidocaine can decrease the opiate needs during a SCD crisis while providing adequate pain
      relief and tolerability.
    
  