
    
      Children and adolescents with anorexia nervosa show a high psychiatric co-morbidity. In
      clinical practice, compulsions and compulsive thoughts are frequently reported in children
      and adolescents with anorexia nervosa. Obsessive compulsive disorder occurs in 35-44% of
      patients with anorexia nervosa and anorexia nervosa is seen in 10% of female patients with
      obsessive compulsive disorder.

      A precise explanation for this coexistence is still unknown.An underlying genetic correlation
      and common neuropsychological factors and personality traits are described in the literature
      as possible explanations.

      It is unclear whether obsessive compulsive symptoms can be seen as a result of the
      underweight and weight loss associated with anorexia nervosa and whether these symptoms clear
      up with weight recovery. Research on this is very limited and shows different results. The
      aim of this study is to examine obsessive compulsive symptoms and weight change in children
      and adolescents with anorexia nervosa and to determine whether there is a group-level
      correlation between the two.

      It is a national, academic, interventional study. The study is cross-sectional . The data
      will be acquired through the following questionnaires:

        -  Questionnaires to be completed by the minor:

             -  Dutch version of the Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (CYBOCS,
                Goodman W.K. e.a., vertaald en bewerkt door Lidewij Wolters en Else de Haan, DAT de
                Bascule, juni 2012, bestaande uit 2 delen namelijk de CY-BOCS Symptom Checklist en
                CY-BOCS Severity Ratings)

             -  Dutch version of the Eating Disorder Inventory-3 (EDI-3, David M. Garner,
                Nederlandse vertaling door Tatjana van Strien, Hogrefe Uitgevers B.V. Amsterdam,
                2014)

        -  Questionnaires to be completed by the parent or guardian:

             -  General questionnaire: personal data, family and school and social information,
                child psychiatric history

             -  Dutch version of the problem part of the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL, T.M.
                Achenbach, Nederlandse vertaling door F.C. Verhulst en J. van der Ende, Erasmus MC
                - Sophia Kinderziekenhuis Rotterdam, 2001)

             -  Anorectic Behavior Observation Scale (ABOS, Vandereycken W., Universitair Centrum
                Kortenberg, 1992)

             -  Consent Form to contact if the completed questionnaires have increased results
    
  