
    
      Influenza is an extremely contagious airborne disease caused by influenza viruses. It can
      cause mild to severe illness, and even death. Patients who have inflammatory bowel disease
      (IBD) have a higher risk of getting serious complications if they are infected. Current
      guidelines recommend the influenza vaccine for IBD patients. However, many IBD patients take
      immunosuppressive agents and we are uncertain as to their capacity to mount a truly
      protective response after vaccination. This is an important area of research because if IBD
      patients do not have an adequate immunological response, then we may need to enhance their
      response by increasing the dosage or giving booster shots.

      Many clinicians who treat patients with autoimmune diseases are asking if the vaccine is safe
      and effective. Many IBD patients will receive the vaccine without proper studies being
      performed to answer these questions. The study we are proposing has important clinical and
      public health significance. It is a step toward answering the question whether vaccination
      with the influenza vaccine is safe in patients with IBD and if patients on different types of
      immunosuppressive medications respond similarly and if they respond as well as healthy
      controls to the vaccine. There are more than one million people in the United States who have
      been diagnosed with IBD. Thus, the information gained from this clinical study will provide
      important knowledge to physicians caring for immunocompromised patients who are considering
      vaccination.

      Studies on the immunological response of immunocompromised patients (e.g., transplant, HIV,
      oncology, chronic renal failure, SLE) to the influenza vaccine have demonstrated that some of
      these patients develop antibody titers at a protective level within 4-6 weeks. However, the
      titers were decreased compared to healthy controls, especially if the immunocompromised
      patients were on immunosuppressive agents. The frequency of influenza in immunocompromised
      patients was lower after immunization and there were almost no major side effects from the
      vaccine.

      There is little data on immune response to vaccination in children with IBD. One recently
      published study compared influenza titers before and after vaccination among 3 pediatric
      groups: IBD patients who received immunosuppressive therapy, IBD patients who did not receive
      immunosuppressive therapy, and healthy controls. All IBD patients in the study had a decrease
      in response to one of three influenza strains when compared to controls. IBD patients who
      received both immunomodulators and infliximab had a lower immune response rate to two
      influenza strains when compared to controls. There was no difference in immune response among
      IBD patients on immunomodulators only, IBD patients on ASA, and controls. There was no
      difference in rates of adverse events between IBD patients and controls

      The primary aim of this research are to measure seroprotection in IBD patients who are on or
      off immunosuppressive agents after receiving the influenza vaccine. The hypothesis is that
      IBD patients on immunosuppression have impaired immunity, and therefore, will have a lower
      seroprotection rate after immunization compared to IBD patients not on immunosuppression. If
      data is available, we will also compare each group to historical healthy controls given the
      same vaccine. The secondary aims are to determine the antibody titer levels and side effects
      these patients have.

      The patient population includes IBD patients who are off immunosuppression and IBD patients
      who are on immunosuppression. Recruiting approximately 75 patients per group will provide
      adequate power for the study. A blood sample will be taken from all IBD patients to evaluate
      baseline antibody levels and markers (e.g., CBC, ESR, albumin) before or immediately after
      immunization with the influenza vaccine. Lab tests will be redrawn at Month 1 (3-8 weeks) to
      evaluate the level of antibody titers and follow the markers. During the study, we will track
      basic laboratory measures, disease status by using the Pediatric Crohn's Disease Active Index
      or Modified Harvey-Bradshaw Score for UC, side effects and adverse events from the
      vaccinations.
    
  