
    
      Diffusion magnetic resonance imaging has emerged as a sensitive, noninvasive tool for
      assessing the abnormalities in the central nervous system. Applications have been reported in
      many neurological disorders. However, because of the motion-sensitizing diffusion gradient
      and the prolonged diffusion encoding time, clinical practice could be difficult especially in
      patients with motor disorders such as Huntington Disease. Currently there existed no useful
      biomarker which could reflect either the disease progression or severity of Huntington
      disease. There is a growing interest in imaging Huntington disease using diffusion magnetic
      resonance imaging because of its capability to depict the micro-environmental changes.

      Unfortunately the excessive motor abnormality such as chorea yields the acquisition of
      diffusion magnetic resonance imaging unfeasible in a clinical setting. The diffusion MRI with
      compressed sensing demonstrated reduced motion sensitivity and improved susceptibility
      related artifact because of the accelerated acquisition. Because of the reduced acquisition
      time, diffusion MRI in patient with Huntington Disease would be possible. It is therefore
      expected that the macromolecule deposition in the brain of patients with HD can lead to
      detectible changes in diffusion properties. The accelerated diffusion MRI techniques will be
      used to acquire data from healthy volunteers and patients with Huntington disease. The aim of
      the study is to develop and optimize a novel accelerated diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI) technique using advanced compressed sensing techniques. The joint sparsity constraint
      algorithm will be implemented in an in-line reconstruction platform for the diffusion MRI
      processing.

      The second aim is to test the efficiency of the new accelerated diffusion MRI technique from
      phantom and in healthy human. Finally to validate the hypothesis that the new accelerated
      diffusion MRI technique could produce a new biomarker for HD, patients with Huntington
      Disease will be recruited. The diffusion index will be calculated using accelerated
      acquisition. The diagnostic performance will be evaluated for data reconstructed with and
      without acceleration. The correlation with the disease severity will be assessed. A risk
      management report will be concluded at the end of project execution for registration in the
      department of health. The acceleration diffusion MRI could provide new insight to the
      etiology of the disease. The in-line image reconstruction platform could be used for
      pediatric or psychiatric patients who cannot hold still in the scanner for a prolonged period
      and in patients with movement disorders.
    
  