
    
      Breast cancer is considered to be the most common cancer among women worldwide. The majority
      of breast cancer cases (almost 80%) are classified as hormone-dependent cancer, since
      estrogen, acting via estrogen receptor alpha (ER-α) or estrogen receptor beta (ER-β), is the
      major inducer of the development and growth of the tumor. These are also called ER-positive
      breast cancers. The remaining cases are not induced by estrogen and are classified as
      hormone-independent, or ER-negative, cancers. Since the growth of hormone-dependent cancer
      cells can be down-regulated by the oppositely active hormones, several endocrine therapies
      that limit the actions of estrogen (through blocking its production or its receptors) have
      been developed over the past years. These endocrine therapies have played an important part
      in treating and improving the outcomes of women with all stages of the disease . Selective
      estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) have also been studied for their anti-cancer activity.

      Selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) are a class of drugs that act on the estrogen
      receptor (ER); a characteristic that distinguishes these substances from pure ER agonists and
      antagonists as their action is different in various tissues, thereby granting the possibility
      to selectively inhibit or stimulate estrogen-like action in various tissues .

      Tamoxifen, which is a SERM, is important for the treatment and prevention of estrogen
      receptor (ER) positive breast cancer commonly in premenopausal women. It has been shown to
      decrease disease recurrence and mortality rates by as much as 50% and 30% respectively. It
      has been also used as a prophylactic treatment for patients who are at high risk of
      developing breast cancer. Post-menopausal breast cancer patients are commonly treated
      nowadays with aromatase inhibitors (AIs) for 5 years, alone or combined with tamoxifen for a
      3-5 year period. Tamoxifen monotherapy in postmenopausal women with breast cancer may be used
      for 10 years if the side effects from AIs are too bothersome .

      Besides acting as SERMs, it has recently been found that some of tamoxifen's metabolites (as
      norendoxifen) also act as aromatase inhibitors in vitro. Aromatase converts steroids (e.g.,
      testosterone to estradiol), the inhibition of which severely decreases the amount of
      available estrogen in the body .

      The most common side effects of Tamoxifen:

        -  Hot flashes, the most common side effect of tamoxifen, affect up to 80% of women.

        -  Increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia and polyps

        -  Increased risk for cataract.

        -  Increased risk for thromboembolic events as well as clinical depression .

      Pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen and its clinical implications:

      Tamoxifen is a prodrug that is metabolized by several cytochrome P450 enzymes. It is a
      relatively weak antiestrogen in comparison to its active metabolites, particularly endoxifen.
      Two parallel pathways bioactivate tamoxifen to endoxifen (4-OH-N-desmethyltamoxifen) through
      several overlapping cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes; primarily CYP3A4/5 and CYP2D6.

      For many years, 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen has believed to be primarily responsible for the clinical
      activity; however, the CYP2D6 metabolites 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen and endoxifen
      (4-OH-N-desmethyl-tamoxifen) have equal affinity for the estrogen receptor. Because serum
      concentrations of endoxifen are 6 to 12 times higher than 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen in patients
      receiving long-term tamoxifen therapy, many think endoxifen is the most significant tamoxifen
      metabolite.

      The rate limiting step in tamoxifen metabolism is catalyzed by the highly polymorphic CYP2D6
      enzyme so that CYP2D6 genotype can be translated into predicted metabolic activity
      phenotypes: poor metabolizer (PM), intermediate metabolizer (IM), extensive metabolizer (EM),
      ultrarapid metabolizer (UM), which are strongly predictive of endoxifen concentration during
      tamoxifen treatment.

      There is substantial variation in CYP2D6 genotypes among different populations. CYP2D6*1 is
      the wild-type allele and is associated with normal enzyme activity and the normal "extensive
      metabolizer" phenotype. The CYP2D6 alleles *2, *33, and *35 are also considered to have
      near-normal activity. Other alleles include variants that produce a non-functioning enzyme
      (e.g., *3, *4, *5, and *6) or an enzyme with reduced activity (e.g., *10, *17, and *41).
      There are large inter-ethnic differences in the frequency of these alleles, with *3, *4, *5,
      *6, and *41 being more common in the Caucasian population, *17 more common in Africans, and
      *10 more common in Asians. Also it was found that *1 and *4 alleles are more common in
      Egyptians.

      Patients with low-activity CYP2D6 phenotypes have substantially lower endoxifen steady-state
      concentrations . It is unclear whether patients with genotypes that confer low CYP2D6
      activity have inferior efficacy from tamoxifen treatment, but if so, preemptive genotyping to
      guide tamoxifen dose selection could be a viable strategy to improve treatment effectiveness.

      Despite the proven efficacy of tamoxifen, some women experience cancer recurrence during or
      after treatment. Therapeutic failure may be caused by tumor resistance to antiestrogen
      therapy or inadequate bioactivation of tamoxifen to its active metabolite, endoxifen.

      Some studies have reported that patients with low endoxifen concentrations (below 5.9 ng/ml)
      have increased the risk of inferior tamoxifen efficacy with consequent cancer recurrence
      compared with its concentration in intermediate and rapid or ultra-rapid metabolizers taking
      the same dose. This can open the way for application of therapeutic drug monitoring of
      tamoxifen and its metabolite endoxifen for possible dose escalation especially a fixed dose
      of the drug is usually used which is 20 mg/day.

      The issue of relying on genotyping profile of CYP2D6 and its variants or use of TDM of
      tamoxifen and its metabolite endoxifen or the combination of both parameters to correlate
      with clinical response, adverse effect and dose modification of tamoxifen is still under
      investigation.
    
  