
    
      Aims and objectives.

      The current study will address uncertainties about feasibility, economic evaluation, and the
      study procedures. The feasibility pilot study is needed to determine whether a larger-scale
      trial would be viable. Specifically, it will address the questions:

        1. Are the intervention content, delivery and procedures acceptable to people with diabetes
           who will receive the intervention, and staff who will deliver the intervention?

        2. Are the data collection processes, including mode and duration of data collection and
           outcome measures used, acceptable to staff?

        3. Is the intervention feasible to deliver in primary care practice, in terms fidelity of
           delivery and receipt of the intervention?

        4. Is the study feasible in terms of recruitment and retention procedures and data
           collection?

        5. What are the costs associated with the intervention?

      Intervention. The intervention involves components which target practice staff (1. brief
      training 2. electronic prompt, and 3. reimbursement) and components which target patients
      with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who have not attended screening (1. face-to-face reminder
      message and information leaflet; 2. phone reminder; 3. GP-endorsed reminder letter and
      information leaflet). The intervention will be delivered over 6 months. The practice will
      conduct an audit of their patients with diabetes at baseline and re-audit at 6 months. Only
      practice staff will access patient files for the purpose of the audit. Only practice staff
      will have contact with patients during intervention delivery; a member of the practice team
      will issue the face-to-face, phone and letter reminders.

      Methods. IDEAs (Improving Diabetes Eye-screening Attendance) is a cluster randomised
      feasibility pilot trial, including an embedded process evaluation and economic evaluation. In
      the current study, general practices will be randomly allocated to intervention or wait-list
      control groups following stratification by practice size (i.e. single/two-handed or group
      practice (3 more or GPs). Practices in the wait-list control group will receive the same
      intervention at 6 months. A multi-method approach will be used to evaluate the trial and
      study procedures, and to examine the acceptability and feasibility of the intervention from
      the perspective of practice staff and patients. Quantitative and qualitative data will be
      collected on intervention delivery, research processes, and implementation outcomes. Data
      will be collected at the practice, health professional and patient level. Data will be
      collected by practice staff and study researchers during intervention delivery. An economic
      evaluation will be conducted to estimate the cost of delivering the intervention in general
      practice
    
  