
    
      Keratosis pilaris (KP) is a benign, inherited skin disorder that presents as grouped, rough,
      horny follicular papules. It is estimated that 40-50% of the adult population and 50-80% of
      adolescents suffer from KP. Both men and women are affected, with a possible female
      predominance. It is noted worldwide and shows no racial predilection. Most patients with KP
      are actually unaware that the condition has a designed medical term. Although no clear
      etiology had been identified, KP is sometimes associated with other skin conditions such as
      icththyosis vulgaris, xerosis or atopic dermatitis.

      Many patients with KP never seek medical attention since they are asymptomatic. However, KP
      can create significant cosmetic concerns in some cases. It can also become symptomatic
      especially when inflammatory lesions are present. There is no gold standard treatment for KP.
      Prevention of excessive dryness of the skin and continued moisturization are used currently
      as standard of care. Many topical agents such as tretinoin, ammonium lactate lotion, urea
      creams, tazarotene, adapalene, tacrolimus, alpha hydroxy acids and salicylic acids have been
      used with variable results. Sometimes topical corticosteroids are used, especially when
      inflammation is present. In general, KP treatments need to be continuous and complete
      clearance may not be possible.

      Salkera emollient foam is a keratolytic foam containing 6% salicylic acid in an aqueous based
      emollient foam vehicle. It is different from other salicylic containing topical product in
      that it has been shown to produce desquamation of the stratum corneum while not effecting
      qualitative or quantitative changes in the structure of the viable dermis. In addition, it
      also contains aloe vera and anti-oxidants which help to sooth the skin. Salkera emollient
      foam has been used to treat several hyperkeratotic skin disorders such as KP, psoriasis,
      keratosis palmaris/plantaris, verrucae, icthyoses and pityriasis rubra pilaris. However,
      there has been no published study assessing the efficacy and safety of Salkera emollient foam
      in treating moderate to severe KP.

      This prospective single center pilot study is designed to assess the efficacy and safety of
      Salkera emollient foam in treating moderate to severe KP. Patients' cosmetic acceptance of
      the product will also be assessed. In addition, this study is also designed to develop a
      validated outcome measure for assessing KP severity that can be used in future KP clinical
      trials.
    
  