
    
      Young black men who have sex with men (YBMSM) are a critically at-risk population in the
      United States and Atlanta that faces extremely high incidence rates of HIV and other sexually
      transmitted infections (STIs). The understanding of what places this group of men at high
      risk is incomplete, and the role of substances in amplifying that risk is unclear. This study
      will fill a number of gaps about how substances and partnerships place YBMSM at increased HIV
      risk. The study includes several innovative aspects. First, the investigators are using a
      theoretical framework to understand multilevel associations between substance use and HIV
      risk behavior in YBMSM in the southeastern United States, a critically at-risk but
      understudied population. Second, the investigators are using a variety of enhanced
      measurement methods to understand these associations. The investigators are supplementing
      self-reported substance use with objective measures to enhance the sensitivity of classifying
      recent use. The investigators will analyze incident HIV/STI endpoints in addition to
      self-reported sexual behaviors. The investigators will use detailed, event-based and dyadic
      measures of substance use and its covariates, which will capture both sexual and non-sexual
      contexts of use. Although previous cohort studies have explored alcohol and drug use during
      sexual events among men who have sex with men (MSM), few studies have described both sexual
      and non-sexual patterns of, and motivations for, substance use among YBMSM, and none have
      incorporated longitudinal biomarkers of substance use and related these to incident infection
      outcomes. Finally, the investigators are using a mixed-methods approach to provide context to
      the quantitative findings. By recruiting subjects to a nested qualitative study within the
      larger cohort based on their interval-specific risks, the investigators will gain in-depth
      information regarding the emergence, persistence, and resolution of these complex
      relationships between substances and sexual risk behaviors among YBMSM and how these
      relationships emerge and are resolved over time.
    
  