
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the effect of dexamethasone and cytotoxic chemotherapy with vs without plasma
           exchange on the likelihood of renal recovery (i.e., dialysis-independent at 100 days) in
           patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and acute renal failure.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the value of renal histology in predicting recovery of renal function in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the value of serum free light chain assay in determining disease response and
           renal function recovery in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are
      stratified according to planned chemotherapy (vincristine and doxorubicin hydrochloride (VA)
      or VA-like chemotherapy vs thalidomide-containing chemotherapy vs alkylating agent vs other),
      frequency of chemotherapy courses (1-3 weekly vs 4 weekly), need for dialysis at
      randomization (yes vs no), and age (< 65 years vs ≥ 65 years). Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral dexamethasone, at least twice daily, on days 1-4 and 9-12.
           Patients undergo plasma exchange by cytocentrifugation or plasmafiltration over 2-3
           hours in weeks 1 and 2 (7 treatments total; 4 of them in week 1). Patients then receive
           planned chemotherapy per local clinician on days 17-100. Chemotherapy may continue after
           100 days at the discretion of the local clinician.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive dexamethasone and planned chemotherapy as in arm I. Quality of
           life is assessed at baseline, day 100, and 6 and 12 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 and 12 months and then
      annually thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 280 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  