
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial, three-arm parallel-group. The first aim is to
      evaluate the efficacy of a supervised and structured combined exercise training program in
      HbA1c levels at 24 weeks. Secondary outcomes measurements of clinical relevance for type 2
      diabetes and elderly patients are included at 12 and 24 weeks.

      The investigators will enroll 132 elderlies divided into three experimental groups,
      randomized in a ratio of 1:1 (44 patients per group). The treatments arms comprises
      structured supervised combined exercise training programs, three times a week, lasting 24
      weeks of duration. The G150 group will exercise 150 min per week of aerobic and strength
      training (50 min per session, 25 min for each modality) and the G300 group will exercise
      twice the volume in the same G150's intensity, and week frequency (100 min per session, 50
      min for each modality). No intervention will be offered to the control group (i.e., they will
      continue their usual care). Treatments arms will progress on training load tailored by their
      maximal heart rate percentage for aerobic training and maximal repetitions for strength
      training.

      The sample size was calculated considering a between-group mean difference of 0.45%, with
      standard deviation of 0.7% in HbA1c levels, for an 80% of statistical power and 5% of type 1
      error, in a superiority hypothesis design.

      In detail, the primary outcome is the HbA1c level at 24 weeks, an secondary outcomes are:
      HbA1c levels at 12 weeks; office blood pressure assessed through a digital sphygmomanometer
      at 12 and 24 weeks; lipid profile (total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol,
      triglycerides) at 24 weeks; endothelial function assessed by flow-mediated dilation at 12 and
      24 weeks; intima-media thickness at 24 weeks; physical fitness assessed by maximal oxygen
      uptake and maximal muscle strength at 24 weeks; body composition assessed by dual x ray
      absorptiometry at 24 weeks; quality of life and geriatric depressive symptoms assessed by
      questionnaires at 24 weeks.

      The investigators hypothesized that the G300 will greater improve the 24-week HbA1c levels
      and secondary outcomes against the G150 and the control group. The present study was designed
      and will be conducted by a multidisciplinary staff, and follows ethical and methodological
      standards for randomized clinical trials. As for empirical evidence provision, it is expected
      to highlight the efficacy of the non-pharmacological treatment for type 2 diabetes in the
      elderly patients.
    
  