
    
      Preventing major complications is a cornerstone in the outpatient management of diabetes
      mellitus (DM). While glycaemic control remains important, recent evidence supports the role
      of blood pressure and lipids and the use of ACE inhibitors in reducing complications.
      Effective interventions are required to ensure implementation of these findings. Since
      optimal DM management involves the participation of both patients and providers, strategies
      to improve care can reasonably be directed toward either group.

      The proposed study explores the impact of simple mailed interventions directed toward
      patients or providers on the rates of use of ACE inhibitors, Blood pressure lowering drugs
      and Cholesterol lowering therapies - the ABCs - by older patients with DM. We hypothesize
      that: 1) mailed interventions including prescriber feedback can increase the ABCs relative to
      controls; 2) that interventions directed toward patients and providers are equally effective
      in promoting the ABCs among patients selected to receive the intervention and 3) that
      interventions directed towards clusters of patients within a physician's practice will also
      change the care provided by those physicians to their other patients, in the absence of any
      direct intervention to the physician.

      Practices of 300 randomly selected primary care physicians in Ontario and, through their
      physicians, 10 patients over age 65 with known DM in each practice will be recruited to
      participate. Practices (physicians and their index patients) will be randomized to one of 3
      arms: 1) physician intervention, 2) patient intervention or 3) control. In arm 1,
      participating physicians will receive confidential prescribing feedback on the ABCs and, as a
      masking intervention, patients will receive educational materials regarding DM eye care. In
      arm 2, patients will receive a mailed educational intervention regarding blood pressure and
      lipid control while physicians will receive education and feedback regarding eye care as a
      masking intervention. In arm 3, no educational intervention regarding hypertension and lipids
      will be provided and both patients and physicians will receive the eye care intervention.
      Data sources will be claims data from the Ontario Drug Benefit Program and the Ontario Health
      Insurance Plan and the Ontario Diabetes Database (a validated, linkable administrative data
      diabetes registry).

      The primary outcomes will be the proportion of patients receiving ACE inhibitors, the
      proportion receiving 2 or more antihypertensive drugs and the proportion receiving lipid
      lowering drugs. All prescriptions received by the patient will be included whether or not
      written by the study physician. The unit of analysis will be the physician. Data will be
      analyzed in a multilevel logistic model with covariates measured at the physician level and
      outcomes measured at the patient level. The primary analysis will include only the data on
      index patients in each of the three arms. A secondary analysis will include all patients with
      diabetes over age 65 within the practices of the participating physicians. This project will
      further elucidate the role of prescribing feedback in guideline implementation and will
      explore a novel patient-based approach to improving the quality of diabetes care. The
      relative simplicity and the central administration of the proposed strategy suggest that, if
      effective, it could readily be widely implemented.
    
  