
    
      Background: Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common cause of childhood illness
      which attack the lower respiratory tract and develop bronchitis and pneumonia. Approximately
      70% of infants are infected with RSV during their first year of life, and almost all children
      are infected at least once by 2 years of age (Wu & Hartert, 2011).

      Each year, an estimated 33·1 million episodes of RSV-associated acute lower respiratory
      infections occur among under-five children globally, leading to 3·2 million hospitalizations
      and 118,200 deaths (Ting Shi & Acacio, 2017). The burden of RSV-associated severe acute lower
      respiratory tract infection is 10 times higher in developing countries compared to that in
      developed countries (36.1 per 1000 life birth vs 3.2 per 1000 life birth, respectively).

      In addition to acute mortality and morbidity, RSV infection has a long-term effect on
      children's health (Jat & Kabra, 2017; Kneyber, Steyerberg, de Groot, & Moll, 2000). RSV
      infection can induce a state of bronchial hyper-reactivity that has an association with the
      development of asthma in later life (Balfour-Lynn, 1996), which, in turn, is a major risk
      factor of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in adulthood (Svanes et al., 2010).. The
      prevalence of wheezing and asthma were reported two times higher in the children who had RSV
      bronchitis in infancy compared with children without a history of bronchiolitis during
      infancy (Sigurs et al., 2010). In a report, it was shown that among the children who
      experienced asthma by school age, 31% of them had healthcare visits in infancy due to
      respiratory diseases (Wu & Hartert, 2011). The severity of the RSV associated illness was
      reported as an additive factor for asthma risk. Hartert et, al., reported that asthma
      prevalence was two times higher in the infants who were hospitalized for RSV infection
      compared to the other who received care at the outdoor department (Wu & Hartert, 2011). In
      the mouse model, it was found that viral infection in neonatal rats delayed the growth of
      secondary septa, decreased the alveolar surface density by 14 to 26%, and reduced the
      diameter of terminal bronchioles by 11 and 20% (Castleman, Sorkness, Lemanske, Grasee, &
      Suyemoto, 1988). However, there is no data on the effect of RSV infection on the lung of
      neonates. In human, the lung remains premature at birth and continue to develop for 2-3 years
      postnatally and can be assumed that the impact of RSV infection during early infancy would be
      very severe.

      Collecting clinical samples from young infants and lack of appropriate diagnostic to detect
      RSV virus are the major obstacles to study RSV infection in developing countries. No study
      from developing countries has investigated the long-term effect of RSV infections incurred
      during the young infant period. It is assumed that the long-term effect of RSV infection
      might be more intense if infection occurs during this period, as the lungs of newborns
      continue to develop for the first several months of life.

      Recently, a study aimed to determine the etiology of young infant infection at five centers
      of three South Asian countries (Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan). This study identified 474
      young infants who had laboratory-confirmed RSV infection; additionally, this study tested
      specimens from 1,873 age and sex-matched healthy infants, which were found to be negative for
      RSV. The current age of that cohort is between 5 and 7 years, which provides a unique
      opportunity to gather information on the long-term effect of RSV infection in a large number
      of laboratory-confirmed cases at a low cost.

      Given the relative frequency and impact of RSV infection in developing healthcare settings,
      should the investigators identify a high prevalence of subsequent wheeze and asthma the
      potential benefit of interventions to reduce RSV will be enhanced. In addition, this study
      will have the following supplementary benefits (1) the ability to report the feasibility to
      identify wheeze frequency by self-reporting in South Asian populations, (2) the feasibility
      and outcomes of tests that are utilized to support the diagnosis of asthma and other
      respiratory diseases in children, i.e. skin prick tests, Eosinophil count and spirometry.

      Research Questions: The overarching aim of this study is to understand the long-term effect
      on child health of RSV infection occurring in the first two months of life. Therefore,
      through this study, the investigators aim to investigate the following research questions:

        1. Is there an association between RSV infection in the first two months of life and
           development of asthma later in childhood?

        2. Is the lung function of children who had RSV infection in the first 2 months of life
           lower than that of children who did not have RSV infection?

        3. Is there an association between RSV infection in the first two months of life and
           physical development in childhood?

        4. Are risk factors for childhood asthma different for the children who had RSV infection
           in the first two months of life than others without RSV infection at the same age?

      Methodologies: The investigators have identified sites of the Aetiology of Neonatal Sepsis in
      South Asia (ANISA) study, two in Pakistan and one each in Bangladesh and India to implement
      this study. Health workers will visit the households of eligible children. Children whose
      parents provide consent will be visited three times in one year period, at baseline, after
      six months and the end of the year. In the first visit, a member of the research team will
      explain the study objectives and procedures to one of the family members (primarily the
      mother) of the eligible children to provide consent for enrolling the children in the study,
      the parents of the enrolled children will be interviewed using a structured questionnaire to
      record the current and previous health status of children. Study team members will remain
      blind about the RSV infectious status of the children to avoid enrollment bias. To ascertain
      asthma and wheeze, parents will be inquired about breathing difficulties of the children
      using a questionnaire designed by the International Study of Allergies and Asthma in
      Childhood (ISAAC), dermatitis will be defined by the criteria provided by The U.K. Working
      Party's Diagnostic Criteria for Atopic Dermatitis. It was previously reported that terms such
      as ''wheeze'' and ''difficulty in breathing'' used in the ISAAC questionnaire have little
      validity when comparing clinical cases between parents and also between clinicians, and the
      conceptual understandings of ''wheeze'' for parents of children with reported wheeze are
      different from definitions used in epidemiology (Bisgaard & Szefler, 2007). To reduce the
      differences in patient responses, the research team will provide a video demonstration of
      wheeze and asthma-like symptoms to the parents before introducing the questionnaire. They
      will also introduce a child "case card" to the parents and request to record the wheezing
      episodes of their enrolled children using this case card. Additionally, they will also
      request the parents to reach team (over the phone) if they notice wheezing sound to their
      children, a research team will visit the symptomatic children and perform a physical
      assessment of the child using auscultation and peak flowmetry. The research team will return
      to the families after six months to emphasize the use of the case card for recording wheeze
      episodes and also refer the children to the health facilities for physical assessment
      (spirometry, exercise challenge test, skin prick test, and eosinophil count test and
      anthropometric measurements). In the health facilities, physicians will perform afore mention
      tests and procedures. The research team will return to the families again after one year of
      the first visit and collect the "case card" from where they will record the number of
      wheeze/asthma episode occurred in the last one year (follow-up period).
    
  