
    
      All patients admitted to the University of Virginia Health system who have clinically or
      pathologically defined cirrhosis, laboratory evidence consistent with spontaneous bacterial
      peritonitis and clinically or radiologically accessible ascites will be screened for
      participation in this prospective,randomized, double-blinded, controlled trial. All patients
      agreeing to participate will be treated with the standard of care antibiotic and supportive
      therapy and will be randomized to one of two treatment regimens. Treatment arm one will
      consist of human albumin, 1.5 g/kg intravenously administered at the time of enrollment and
      1.0 g/kg administered on day three after enrollment. Treatment arm two will consist of
      dextran 70, 1.0 g/kg intravenously daily for three days. Under separate informed consent from
      the therapeutic portion of the study, all participants will be offered enrollment into the
      tissue repository and prospective outcomes database. Upon consent to enroll in the repository
      and database, serum, ascites, and urine will be collected from participating subjects for
      storage and future evaluation of inflammatory and pathophysiologic factors contributing to
      the morbidity and mortality of SBP and HRS. Prospectively collected clinical and outcomes
      data will be recorded into a perpetual electronic database for future comprehensive outcomes
      and translational studies. Participation in either the tissue repository or perpetual
      clinical database will not be compulsory to enroll in the therapeutic or prophylaxis trials.
      Similarly, subjects can choose not be enrolled in either the database or tissue repository.

      Comprehensive treatment costs incurred in both treatment arms will be collected prospectively
      by study personnel and used to perform a formal cost-effectiveness analysis. Micro-costing
      algorithms will be used to derive direct treatment and hospitalization costs for the two
      treatment arms. After data collection is complete, along with the primary statistical
      analysis, a subgroup analysis will be performed to better clarify if benefit from either
      treatment arm is limited to high-risk patients or other specific patient sub-populations. As
      the proposed project is the first prospective, randomized, double-blinded investigation into
      two markedly different therapeutic options for treating SBP, this study will offer the unique
      opportunity to study them in an objective fashion.

      All participants in the study will receive standard of care antibiotic therapy and supportive
      care for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Prior to screening, a paracentesis will have been
      performed and the resulting ascitic fluid sent to the lab for cell count and bacterial
      culture. Ascites culture media will be inoculated at the bedside with at least 10ml of fluid
      per culture container. Once the diagnosis of SBP is established, the patient will receive a
      complete history and physical examination, chest and abdominal radiographs, ultrasound
      examination of the liver including Doppler exam of the hepatic veins, arteries, and portal
      vein to evaluate for thrombosis, peripheral blood laboratory testing including a complete
      blood count with differential, standard serum chemistry and electrolytes including blood urea
      nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine, liver panel assay including aspartate aminotransferase (AST),
      alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), total, direct, and indirect
      bilirubin, prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), international normalized
      ratio (INR), plasma renin activity (PRA), serum aldosterone level, and brain natriuretic
      peptide (BNP) level. Peripheral blood cultures will be obtained in standard fashion as per
      institutional protocols with inoculation of blood and body fluid samples directly into
      culture media at the bedside and similarly, central line blood cultures will be obtained if
      applicable. Complete blood cell counts, serum chemistry, and hepatic panels will be repeated
      at least daily for the first three days after diagnosis and at least every other week
      thereafter until 30 days. Levels of PRA, aldosterone, and BNP will be measured at study entry
      and on days two and three in the protocol, and again at day 30. Baseline quality of life will
      be assessed at enrollment and at 30 days. If the subject has consented to tissue banking,
      samples of blood, ascites, and urine will be collected and prepared for storage by study
      personnel. Tissue banking samples will be collected at enrollment, 3 days, and at 30 days
      from each participating subject.

      After initial diagnostic paracentesis performed prior to enrollment, total paracentesis will
      be performed (if not done on the initial paracentesis). Colloid replacement after the initial
      paracentesis will be with the study drug.

      Further therapeutic paracentesis will not be performed until after day three of the study
      protocol. Diuretic therapy will be continued in patients with clinical fluid control problems
      at the discretion of the medical team. However, diuretic use during the first three days of
      the protocol will be closely recorded by study personnel. All subjects will be placed on
      sodium-restricted diet, 2000 mg or less per day. All subjects not allergic to cephalosporins
      will receive intravenous cefotaxime as per a dosing regimen based upon their serum creatinine
      level. Patients with allergies or sensitivities to cephalosporins will receive meropenem as
      per a dosing regimen based upon their serum creatinine level.

      If ascites or blood cultures grow specific bacterial pathogens, antibiotic therapy will be
      tailored to the narrowest spectrum antibiotic necessary for adequate coverage, based on in
      vitro organism susceptibilities. If any ascites is still present, all subjects will have a
      repeat diagnostic paracenteses at 48 hours after diagnosis for repeat of cell counts to
      assess for response to therapy. If ascites and blood cultures are negative, antibiotic
      coverage will be continued for a total of 5 days if clinical and laboratory resolution of the
      infection is verified. If subjects do not respond to initial therapy as measured by ascites
      PMN's not decreasing by 50% after the first 48 hours of treatment, the antibiotic regimen
      will be modified empirically by the primary medical team caring for the patient. Once
      resolution of the infection is established, after 5 days of initial therapy, all patients
      will be placed on ciprofloxacin, 750 mg once weekly for prophylaxis which will be continued
      indefinitely. If the patient is sensitive or allergic to fluoroquinolones, trimethoprim /
      sulfamethoxazole 160/800 mg once daily for 5 days a week will be used.

      Subjects randomized to treatment with human albumin will receive a total of 1.5 g/kg of
      albumin at the time of enrollment and 1.0 g/kg on day three of the treatment protocol. To
      maintain blinding, the research pharmacy will prepare the 25% albumin solution in order to be
      identical in volume and color to the dextran 70 through the use of a dextrose diluent.
      Because of the different dosing schedules between the two treatment arms in this study,
      equivolume placebo doses of dextrose (5%) will be given on day two when an active treatment
      dose is not scheduled in the albumin arm. Dextrose will be used to avoid the sodium load and
      potential mild plasma volume expansion associated with saline infusion.

      Subjects randomized to treatment with dextran 70 will receive it as a daily intravenous dose
      for the three days of the treatment protocol. A total daily dose of 1.0 g/kg will be
      administered. Because the hemodynamic compromise is often delayed by up to 48 hours after the
      diagnosis of SBP, daily dosing of dextran-70, instead of a single dose regimen, is a better
      pharmacokinetic treatment strategy in addressing the gradually worsening hemodynamic status
      involved with the progression of SBP to HRS. In normal humans, 45-60% of the infused dose of
      dextran-70 is recovered in the urine within 48 hours and the elimination half-life is
      approximately 24 hours. As stated above, in order to preserve blinding, the albumin, placebo,
      and dextran 70 treatment will all be equivolume and visually indistinguishable. An
      intravenous multivitamin additive will be used in the dextran solution in order to assure
      that the 6% dextran and 25% albumin solutions are of the same color. This multivitamin
      diluent has been used successfully for the same purpose in other blinded studies at UVAHS
      with no adverse events or known benefits associated from the multivitamin component.
    
  