
    
      DHF is a condition in which one of the chambers of the heart, the left ventricle, loses its
      ability to relax completely because the muscle has become too stiff. When this occurs, the
      heart is unable to properly fill with blood, which can lead to decreased blood circulation.
      People with DHF may experience shortness of breath and pulmonary congestion, which is an
      abnormal build-up of fluid in the lungs. Current treatment for DHF includes
      guidelines/recommendations to lower blood pressure, stop smoking, and lose weight, but there
      are no medications available to specifically treat DHF. Sildenafil, commonly known as Revatio
      or Viagra, is a medication that increases the supply of blood to the lungs and reduces the
      workload of the heart. Preliminary studies have shown that sildenafil may be beneficial at
      improving heart and lung function in people with DHF, but more research is needed to confirm
      these findings. The purpose of this study is to determine if sildenafil can improve exercise
      ability and health outcomes in people with DHF.

      This 24-week study will enroll people with DHF. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive either sildenafil or placebo three times a day for 24 weeks. Participants will attend
      study visits at baseline and Weeks 1, 4, 12, 13, and 24. At most study visits, the following
      procedures will occur: physical exam, medical history review, questionnaires, blood
      collection, 6-minute walk test to measure endurance, and an exercise test. At baseline and
      Week 24, participants will also undergo an electrocardiogram, which will measure the
      electrical activity of the heart, and a cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedure
      and an echocardiogram, which will both obtain pictures of the heart. At Weeks 3, 8, 16, and
      20, study researchers will call participants to collect health information.
    
  