
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety, tolerability, and biological activity of everolimus when combined
           with imatinib mesylate in patients with chronic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia that
           is not in complete cytogenetic remission after prior imatinib mesylate. (Phase I)

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the clinical efficacy of this regimen, in terms of 3-month
           improvement by at least one cytogenetic category and the duration of cytogenetic
           improvements, in these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the 6-month rate of cytogenetic improvements in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the rate of confirmed cytogenetic improvements in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the rate and duration of major cytogenetic response in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the rate and kinetics of molecular response in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Correlate genetic variation in drug metabolism genes, leukemia genes, and drug target
           genes with response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine whether the mTOR pathway activity, as determined by molecular pathologic
           examination before and during treatment with this regimen, is predictive of response in
           these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, non-randomized, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of
      everolimus followed by a phase II study. Patients are stratified according to baseline
      cytogenetic status (Philadelphia chromosome-positive cells in bone marrow) (>0% and ≤ 95% vs
      > 95%).

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral everolimus once daily (or once weekly) and oral imatinib
           mesylate once daily beginning on day 1. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 4-6 patients receive escalating doses of everolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive everolimus and imatinib mesylate as in phase I at the MTD.

      Patients are followed every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 4-98 patients (4-34 for phase I and up to 64 for phase II [34
      patients with > 0% and ≤ 95% Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive cells and 30 patients with
      > 95% Ph-positive cells]) will be accrued for this study.
    
  