
    
      1. Introduction Cholelithiasis occurs in 10-20% of the general population (1). Up to 18% of
           these subjects will present symptoms and, of these, 1.5% will present an episode of
           pancreatitis, cholecystitis or acute cholangitis (2). In this way, the pathology
           associated with biliary lithiasis is the first digestive cause of hospital admission
           (3).

           The treatment of the pathology associated with biliary lithiasis therefore deals with
           two problems, controlling the acute process and preventing new episodes. In general,
           laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the recommended method to reduce the risk of recurrence.

        2. Hypothesis

           Conceptual hypothesis:

           In patients with symptomatic choledocholithiasis who are not candidates for surgery with
           indication for ERCP, transmural drainage of the gallbladder reduces the risk of
           recurrence.

           Operational hypothesis:

           In subjects> 75 years with symptomatic choledocholithiasis, performing an ERCP with
           sphincterotomy and transmural drainage of the gallbladder vs. ERCP with sphincterotomy
           reduces the risk of admission due to complications of cholelithiasis during a 1-year
           follow-up period.

        3. Objectives.

           Primary objective:

           - To assess whether ERCP associated with transmural gallbladder drainage is able to
           reduce biliary disease income compared with ERCP in patients not candidates for surgery
           with symptomatic choledocholithiasis and cholelithiasis during one year of follow-up.

           Secondary objectives:

             -  Describe the proportion of technical successes and complications associated with
                transmural biliary drainage, ERCP and those associated with admission.

             -  Compare the proportion of income from non-biliary causes in both groups.

             -  Compare mortality during admission and during follow-up in both groups.

             -  To compare the incidence of biliary and non-biliary admissions during the follow-up
                year in both groups.

             -  Compare the hospital costs of the index income and those generated in the 12 months
                of follow-up between the patients assigned to the control group and the
                experimental group.

        4. Design Multicentric double-blind randomized trial

        5. Methods Study population The study population includes all patients older than 75 years
           with symptomatic choledocholithiasis. This includes the pictures of acute cholangitis,
           obstructive jaundice or biliary colic secondary to choledocholithiasis. Participation in
           the study will be offered to all consecutive patients who meet inclusion criteria and do
           not present exclusion criteria diagnosed in the participating centers once the project
           is started until the estimated sample size is completed (see below). Given that in these
           patients the usual clinical practice is the realization of an ERCP, they will be
           identified from the ERCP requests received in the endoscopy units.

      Intervention Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and do not present any exclusion
      criteria will be invited to participate in the study. Between the formalization of the
      request and the endoscopic exploration the informed consent will be completed according to
      the law 41/2002 of autonomy of the patient without that for that reason the relationship with
      his doctor is altered or there is any prejudice in his treatment.

        1. Endoscopic act

           It will be held at the Rio Hortega University Hospital, the University General Hospital
           of Alicante or the Ramón y Cajal University Hospital. First, ERCP will be performed.
           Subsequently, an endoscopic ultrasound will be performed to rule out local causes of
           exclusion. If there is no contraindication, randomization and placement of transmural
           vesicular drainage will be carried out if assigned to the intervention group:

             -  Control group: An ERCP with biliary sphincterotomy will be performed. The
                performance of other techniques (balloon extraction, dilation, placement of biliary
                prosthesis ...) is at the expense of the endoscopist. The procedure will be
                performed under direct sedation with propofol controlled by the endoscopist team,
                and with CO2 (carbon dioxide) insufflation.

             -  Intervention group: ERCP with biliary sphincterotomy will be performed. The
                performance of other techniques (balloon extraction, dilation, placement of biliary
                prosthesis ...) is at the expense of the endoscopist. After this, transmural
                drainage of the gallbladder will be performed by placing a LAMS (lumen apposing
                metal stent) Axios (Boston Scientific) usually 15x10 mm or 10x10 mm to allow direct
                cholecystoscopy with a conventional gastroscope or transnasal gastroscope. The
                placement of the drainage will be performed in the same endoscopic act, by means of
                an Olympus® sectorial echoendoscope, assisted with X-rays, which allows puncturing
                the vesicle from the gastric antrum or the duodenal bulb to generate a
                cholecysto-gastrostomy or cholecysto-duodenostomy respectively. After the puncture
                of the vesicle from the most optimal anatomical point, it will be tutored with
                guidance and a Hot Axios® LAMS will be placed on it to generate the anastomosis
                between the aforementioned structures. After the placement of the prosthesis, it
                will be subject to the decision of the endoscopist to perform cholescystoscopy to
                perform the maneuvers it deems appropriate (extraction of stones, taking biopsies,
                resection of polyps ...). The performance of both procedures will be performed
                under direct sedation with propofol controlled by the endoscopist team, and with
                CO2 insufflation, according to the usual practice of the HURH (Universitary
                Hospital Río Hortega) Endoscopy Unit.

        2. Hospitalization:

      After the procedure, the hospital management is in the hands of its responsible physicians in
      plant at the requesting center. A report will be delivered that does not show if the patient
      has had the LAMS implanted or not. Therefore, physicians responsible for plant management
      will not receive information about the assigned group or whether transmural vesicular
      drainage has been performed.

      C.3) Follow-up:

      It will be held in each of the participating centers. It will consist of 4 face-to-face
      visits (after 1 day, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months after the procedure) and 2 phone calls
      (7 days after the procedure and 9 months). In the case of institutionalized patients or those
      with serious mobility problems, in-person visits may be made by telephone in an exceptional
      manner. The physician responsible for the follow-up will be blinded as to the procedure
      performed (it will not be specified if transmural drainage was performed in the endoscopic
      report, nor will images of the drainage be included in the discharge report available in the
      electronic medical record until after the completion of the study or if complications are
      suspected). During the follow-up visits, it will be confirmed that the prosthesis remains
      normalized by abdominal ultrasound.

      Sample size Assuming a proportion of readmissions of biliary cause of 25% in the control
      group and 7% in the experimental group, with an alpha risk of 5% and a power of 80% and using
      the arc transformation sine given the proportion of the experimental group, an estimated 60
      subjects per group are needed. Given the age of the patients to be included and the mortality
      associated with the underlying disease, a proportion of losses of 20% is estimated, which
      would require 75 patients per group. The annual number of ERCP performed at the Río Hortega
      university hospital ranges from 1,000 to 1100. Assuming also a number of examinations to be
      carried out in the collaborating centers, with the inclusion and exclusion criteria exposed,
      a recruitment interval of 12-18 months is estimated.

      Randomization It will be done once the patient agrees to participate in the work and has
      verified the absence of exclusion criteria. To avoid imbalances between the groups, it will
      be stratified by baseline diagnosis (cholangitis vs others), given that the mortality during
      admission associated with acute cholangitis is significantly greater than in the rest of the
      included conditions. Within each stratum a pure randomization will be carried out by means of
      a sequence generated by computer where the probability of belonging to each group will be
      0.5. For each stratum, there will be a total of n numbered closed opaque envelopes (where n =
      total sample size) that will be stored in the endoscopy unit and will be opened consecutively
      as participants are included.

      Adverse effects monitoring The adverse effects identified during the study will be classified
      according to the classification of ASGE (for adverse endoscopic effects) for those associated
      with hospitalization. According to the interval from the procedure they will be divided
      between postprocedure (in the first 7 days from the same) and late (after this time). Its
      relationship with the procedure will be classified as definitive, probable, possible or
      improbable.

      Data Collect The data collection will be done by the main researcher or collaborating
      researchers through a data collection notebook (CRD) anonymously and dissociated from the
      clinical information by means of a patient identification code.

      6. Data management Data from the data collection notebooks will be merged by the main
      researcher or collaborating researchers anonymously, encrypted and decoupled from the
      clinical information by means of a patient identification code (ID), in a database made
      through the application RedCap available through the Spanish Association of Gastroenterology
      and the data will be downloaded in the form of an Excel file (Microsoft Corporation,USA). The
      responsible researcher will define an ID for each participant. The data entered in the
      database will be anonymous and the database will be protected with a password to which only
      the researchers will have access.

      The unified file will be kept in the Río Hortega University Hospital and will be maintained
      until the end of the study. Regarding the application of the Organic Law on Data Protection
      15/1999 and Royal Decree 1720/2007 that develops it, it should be noted that the protocol
      defined in the project oriented to epidemiological analysis, determines that the files will
      record information completely anonymized.

      7. Statistical analysis It will be done through the STATA program (StataCorp, 2013. Stata
      Statistical Software: Release 13. College Station, StataCorp LP).

      Descriptive analysis In the quantitative variables the arithmetic average and the standard
      deviation will be calculated (the variables that do not follow a normal distribution will be
      described with median, minimum, maximum and interquartile range), and the categorical ones
      will be expressed as percentages and their 95% confidence intervals .

      Hypothesis contrast The analysis of the primary objective, the hospital admission of biliary
      cause, will be carried out through the Z test of homogeneity without using the correction of
      Yates. The confidence interval of the difference between the two groups will also be
      estimated. An intention-to-treat analysis will be performed, regardless of the endoscopic
      treatment received after randomization.
    
  