
    
      Screening/Subject eligibility: Subjects with histologically confirmed cutaneous melanoma that
      was either unresectable or metastatic (Stages IIIC or IV), were screened for eligibility.
      Eligible subjects were BRAF V600E or V600K mutation positive. Subjects who had prior systemic
      anti-cancer treatment in the advanced or metastatic setting were not eligible although prior
      systemic treatment in the adjuvant setting was allowed.

      Randomization: A total of 704 subjects were randomized in a ratio of 1:1 to receive
      combination therapy (352 subjects) or vemurafenib treatment (352 subjects). Subjects were
      stratified by LDH level (> the ULN versus =< ULN) and BRAF mutation (V600E versus V600K).

      Study treatment: Dabrafenib and trametinib were administered orally at their recommended
      doses of 150 mg b.i.d. and 2.0 mg once daily, respectively. Subjects randomized in the
      combination therapy arm received both the agents. Subjects randomized in the vemurafenib arm
      received vemurafenib at the recommended dose of 960 mg orally b.i.d. Subjects in both the
      arms continued treatment until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, or
      withdrawal of consent. The protocol was amended on 07-Aug-2014 which allowed subjects who
      were still receiving vemurafenib to cross over to the dabrafenib and trametinib combination
      arm, including those subjects who were still receiving vemurafenib monotherapy treatment
      after disease progression. A washout period of a minimum of 7 days was considered prior to
      initiating dabrafenib in combination with trametinib. Subjects who experienced disease
      progression on the vemurafenib monotherapy arm, discontinued vemurafenib monotherapy, and
      subsequently received another anticancer therapy were ineligible for cross over to the
      dabrafenib and trametinib combination arm.

      Follow-up/Study closure: After study treatment discontinuation, subjects were followed for
      survival and disease progression as applicable. This study completed once all the subjects
      had at least the 5-years of follow-up.
    
  