
    
      Prospective, randomised study: Effect of mycophenolatmofetil in patients with histologically
      proven chronic allograft nephropathy

      SYNOPSIS

      Indication: change in treatment to improve the course of chronic allograft nephropathy

      Method: open prospective, randomized two-tailed, non blinded monocentric study

      Follow up period: 35 Weeks

      Number of patients: 2 x 86 patients

      Inclusion criteria: • Written informed consent

        -  Reduction of graft function: Increase of serum creatinine >/= 0,1mg/dl/month in the
           previous 6 months before start of the study and/or new occurrence or increasing
           proteinuria in the last 6 months before start of the study

        -  Serum creatinine < 4 mg/dl

        -  Biopsy within the last 3 months

        -  histologically proved chronic allograft nephropathy (graft glomerulopathy, chronic
           rejection ,interstitial fibrosis, tubular atrophy, vascular arteriosclerosis,hyalinosis)

        -  >1 year after renal allografting

        -  At least 5 mg/day of prednisolone or equivalent dose

      Exclusion criteria: • Malignomas

        -  Gravidity or Lactation

        -  Participation in other studies

        -  Severe infections

        -  Florid gastrointestinal Ulcer

        -  Age between 18 and 70 years

        -  Leukopenia with less that 3000/l leucocytes, Anaemia Hb  9 g/dl

        -  Therapy with mycophenolatmofetil in the past 6 months

        -  Acute rejections in the apst 6 months

      Study protocol:

      Phase I: Week 1.-3. Conversion to Triple-Drug-Therapy, consisting of Mycophenolatmofetil,
      corticosteroids (e.g. prednisolone) and ciclosporine A or Tacrolimus

      1. Addition of Mycophenolatmofetil (MMF) to the previous immosuppressive treatment,
      consisting of ciclosporine A (CsA) or Tacrolimus (FK506) in combination with corticosteroids,
      e.g. prednisolone (P). In the case that azathioprine (AZA) had been given, AZA is replaced by
      MMF. The therapy with MMF starts 3 days after the elimination of azathioprine.

      The addition of MMF follows the following scheme if nothing else is indicated:

        1. week: 1g/day, 2.week: 1,5g/day, 3.week: 2g/day

        2. Ciclosporine A bzw. tacrolimus: Target whole trough blood levels:

           CsA: 80-120 ng/ml (HPLC) FK506: 4-7 ng/ml (IMX Tacrolimus, Abbott)

        3. Corticosteroids, e.g. prednisolone: The previous dosage is continued, but at least 5 mg
           prednisolone/day (or equivalent) must be given

      Phase II: week 4.-9.

      Randomisation at the beginning of week 4:

      All patients receiving at least 3 x 500 mg MMF per day were randomised as follows Group A:
      Continuation of the triple therapy Group B: Elimination of CsA bzw. FK506 The ciclosporine A-
      or tacrolimus-dosage is reduced ba 33% each 2 weeks so that after 6-8 weeks a total
      elimination of the drugs is reached.

      Phase III: week 10.-35.

      Continuous therapy with...:

      Group A: Triple therapy MMF / CsA bzw. FK506 / Corticosteroids e.g. Prednisolone Group B:
      Dual therapy MMF / Corticosteroids e.g. Prednisolone

      Primary Endpoint:

      Comparison of the development of 1/creatinine in both branches 32 weeks after randomization

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  Occurrence of...

             -  acute rejections

             -  infections

             -  malignomas

             -  gastrointestinal disorders

        -  Blood pressure evolution and number of antihypertensive drugs

        -  Changes concerning the lipid state

        -  Changes concerning the glucose metabolism

        -  Changes in metabolism of uric acid

        -  Comparison of the development of 1/creatinine within each branch 6 months before and 6
           months after therapy conversion

        -  Comparison of drop out rate in branches A und B

        -  Pharmacokinetics of mycophenolic acid (MPA) based on a new method of abbreviated area
           under the curve (AUC) determination

        -  vessel wall changes of the carotid arteries measured by high resolultion ultrasound
           methods and hemodynamic parameters measured by task force equipment before and 9 month
           after cni withdrawal and MMF addition

      Criteria for study discontinuation:

        -  Sepsis

        -  Occurrence of acute rejections

        -  Graft loss

        -  Other severe adverse events

        -  patients decision
    
  