
    
      The high morbidity and mortality associated with both pandemic and seasonal influenza, and
      the anticipation of future influenza pandemics, puts influenza front and center in infectious
      disease research. Because the natural history and pathogenesis of human influenza has not
      been well characterized and cannot be adequately studied in animal models or with current in
      vitro techniques, important questions about influenza pathogenesis can only be approached
      through human challenge studies.

      Although studies of influenza in healthy volunteers have played an important role in
      addressing aspects of the natural history of influenza disease and developing novel
      antivirals, prior to recently these important studies had not been performed in the US in
      over a decade. The H1N1 challenge studies we have performed since 2012 have sought to improve
      upon the studies done in the past and address many of the limitations due to the scope of the
      studies and/or the scientific techniques available at that time. We have successfully
      developed an H1N1 model that had been used to address important questions regarding
      correlates of protection and is now being implemented to develop new drugs and vaccines. We
      hope to develop H3N2 models that can be just as useful.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the dose of influenza A H3N2 human
      challenge virus that will induce a mild to moderate uncomplicated influenza infection in
      healthy volunteers. This protocol will examine some of the basic questions that remain
      unanswered regarding the pathogenesis of H3N2 influenza in humans, namely, a detailed
      clinical and immunological characterization of uncomplicated influenza viral pathogenesis in
      healthy adult volunteers.

      Secondary objectives will evaluate clinical disease, length of viral shedding, and
      pathogenesis in those with influenza infection including identification of clinical markers
      of the disease. Notably, the exploratory objectives will seek to discover viral factors
      necessary for human infection/adaptation and to evaluate host immune response, viral
      replication, viral fitness, and the intrahost evolution.

      Collaboration between NIAID investigators and outside scientists will generate opportunities
      to further develop and expand areas of clinical influenza research based on the proposed H3N2
      challenge model.
    
  