
    
      CKD stage 5D, has a high incidence, 100-200 people per million, and high prevalence, 750-1500
      per million. More than 40-50% are above 65 years old, with a lower rate in women but with
      higher frailty than men. This cohort presents high comorbidity, malnutrition, sedentary
      behavior, low health-related quality of life, frailty and high dependency levels. Mortality
      risk is close to 15% per year. Cardiovascular disease is the main cause of death in end-stage
      CKD. It is also a high risk factor for peripheral artery disease and lower limbs amputation.

      Supporting this cohort results in high direct and indirect costs. Additionally, these
      patients present high anxiety and depression rates. Comorbidity between depression and
      somatic illness leads to a significant increase of the illness load since there is higher
      symptomatology, higher morbidity, higher health costs, and worse functioning and quality of
      life. Current evidence suggests a bidirectional relationship between depression and medical
      illness. Mechanisms suggested explaining this complex relationship would include both
      biological and behavioral aspects. Depression is also associated with the worst adherence to
      treatment of comorbid patients.

      There is wide evidence regarding the weak points of end-stage CKD patients in hemodialysis,
      and they include three intervention aspects: exercise, nutrition and psychological support.
      Evidence shows that exercise for patients in hemodialysis results in increased survival rate,
      functional capacity, strength, and health-related quality of life. Additionally, different
      studies have shown the benefits of psychological interventions and the positive effect of
      educational programs on nutritional care for patients in hemodialysis. Several combined
      interventions have been implemented leading to heterogeneous results.

      Despite the well-known benefits of exercise, this kind of programs are not being implemented
      in the routine clinical care of hemodialysis patients. Patients' lack of interest regarding
      participation in exercise programs, time constraints, and lack of knowledge by health
      professionals at the hemodialysis units, are some of the factors underpinning the low
      implementation rate of intradialysis exercise programs.

      Virtual reality (VR) refers to computer-generated interactive simulation that offers users
      the opportunity to participate in environments that look like objects and events of the real
      world.

      VR exercise has been successfully implemented in neuro-rehabilitation, resulting in better
      balance, gait, and mobility in cerebrovascular accidents, multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barre
      syndrome, and Parkinson's disease. Few studies have explored the impact of VR exercise in
      renal rehabilitation. Three of the partners (Universidad Cardenal Herrera-CEU, Universitat
      Politècnica de Valéncia, and Hospital de Manises) have implemented two randomized trials of
      non-immersive VR exercise intradialysis. Currently, those partners are developing a third
      trial with this technology and they have verified that this type of exercise has good
      tolerance and high adherence rates. Additionally, it has a positive impact on strength,
      functional capacity, physical activity level, and health-related quality of life.

      Until now, the most traditional way to assess and implement psychological and
      psycho-educative treatments has been 'face to face'. Nevertheless, more than 50% of people
      suffering from depression are not being treated appropriately. This is why alternative
      treatment models to assess and treat are being implemented, and technology (as the internet)
      is an option to increase the number of patients that can be treated. Additionally, few
      studies have explored technology as a means to educate renal patients regarding nutrition or
      psychological health.

      Thus, the hypothesis of the present study is that a health virtual platform designed for
      holistic treatment of patients undertaking hemodialysis will result in health benefits for
      this cohort, regarding physical activity, nutritional and psychological health. The platform
      will be designed according to the aims highlighted by experts, barriers, and needs of
      end-stage CKD patients and their caregivers. As mentioned above, end-stage chronic kidney
      disease patients have high comorbidity, malnutrition, sedentarism, low health-related quality
      of life, low physical function, frailty, and high dependency levels. So they rely on
      non-formal caregivers for their activities of daily living. This cohort presents high anxiety
      and depression levels and the combination of somatic disease plus depression results in
      higher symptoms, higher comorbidity, higher health resources, and worst quality of life.
      Besides, there is a bidirectional relationship between depression and disease, and depression
      is associated with lower adherence to medical treatment.
    
  