
    
      One of the major problems in the prevention and treatment of neurological disorders, is the
      lack of cost effective and reliable tools to assess neurodegeneration on a large scale at a
      very early stage. Although current imaging methods give a clear image of the brain atrophy
      involved in neurodegenerative disorders, there are deficiencies prohibiting their usage for
      prevention-scanning of large high-risk population such as high price, long set-up time and
      the need for trained personnel to conduct the test. An objective tool to asses the level of
      cognitive decline is therefore needed. Such a tool may be used to determine the level of
      cognitive decline independent of personal interpretation and/or variance between clinicians
      and provide consistency in assessment across patients and between medical facilities.

      The Neurosteer system provides objective neurological biomarkers using a wearable easy-to-use
      affordable system. The system facilitate the capture and interpretation of EEG data with only
      a single patch of electrodes, attached on the subject's forehead. Neurosteer examination
      includes completing auditory tasks while measuring brain activity with the device. The data
      is analyzed using machine learning methods to produce biomarkers, enabling a report of the
      patient's activity in real time and offline. The examination is easy to preform and can be
      conducted in every clinic or in patients' homes.

      In this study, clinical staff will identify potential subjects and will examine the
      eligibility of subject according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients (or legal
      guardian) will sign the Informed Consent Form (ICF). Research staff will set up an assessment
      session using Neurosteer system. In this session the patient will listen to the auditory
      assessment battery and perform tasks. Level of cognition will be assessed by Neurosteer
      technology and statistical analysis will be performed to validate the results.
    
  