
    
      It has been well established that visual attention declines early in Alzheimer's Disease
      (AD). Little is known about visual search in AD, in particular in relation with functional
      autonomy. The crucial role of the parietal cortex in visuospatial attention and instrumental
      activities of daily living (IADLs), and the presence of early parietal damage in AD suggest
      that IADLs may also be impaired early. The aim is to understand which components of
      attentional deployment and selection are specifically impaired in AD during searching in
      static realistic scenes presented on a computer screen (Experiment 1) and in a natural
      setting (Experiment 2: different regions of a room, furnished with different types of objects
      indicating different possible daily-living environments, like a kitchen or an office). More
      precisely, the investigators will examine how deficits in visual exploration during search
      for a target objects may be related to impairments in semantic, long-term memory (LTM) and in
      working memory (WM) representations by manipulating, respectively, semantic consistency
      between the target and type of its visual surrounding (scene context, in Expt. 1, or type of
      co-occurring objects, in Expt 2).and the type of prior information supplied about the target
      object (abstract - i.e., verbal - or precise, - i.e., pictorial), In Expt. 1 the
      investigators will also manipulate the perceptual salience (low-level feature: luminance,
      colour, orientation, etc.) of the target and the distractor objects within the scene. Second,
      to determine how deficits in visual exploration during search for specific objects may be
      involved in the deficits of IADL in AD, the investigators will analyse search behaviour in
      the natural setting, requiring location of three different targets (semantically
      consistent/related to an IADL, semantically consistent/ non-related to an IADL, semantically
      inconsistent/non-related). The investigators will required participants to perform an IADL
      after each search (four trial in total) using, among other four objects, the IADL-related
      searched target). In Expt. 1 the investigators will test three groups of participants: the AD
      group (at early stage of the disease), a matched control group of healthy elderly people and
      a control group of young, healthy individuals. The investigators will examine search
      performance (accuracy and response time) and oculomotor behaviour during the different search
      phases (initiation, scene scanning, target verification). They expect that AD patients will
      have reduced search performance compared to both control groups, which will be also reflected
      by reduced oculomotor efficiency during the overall search process. Moreover, they
      hypothesize that patients will be less able to use semantic memory of the type of scene in
      order to locate the target (reduced benefit of scene consistency), will be strongly
      disadvantaged in case of higher WM load (abstract target cue) and, finally, will be more
      influence by perceptual, low-level factors (stronger effect of salience). In Exp. 2, they
      will test an AD group and a control group of healthy, matched, old controls. With respect to
      the search tasks, they will analyse the effect of target semantic consistency, target
      relatedness to IADL and type of target cue (abstract vs. precise). In doing so, they will
      consider search performance (accuracy and response times) and oculomotor behaviour during
      search in terms of order and number of object fixated, and duration of their fixation. With
      respect to the IADLs, they will analyse eye guidance on current action and efficiency of the
      whole IADL in terms of type and number of actions performed and time to perform the overall
      activity. They expect that the patterns of eye movements in AD patients will be similar
      during search and IADLs, with numerous intrusions of distractors and frequent reselections of
      the same objects. Moreover, they expect that their performance at IADLs will be less
      efficient than controls, in terms of both action speed and organisation. The use of a natural
      setting and the analysis of spontaneous oculomotor behavior of patients will improve the
      ecological validity of research on attentional deficits in AD. This study can also contribute
      to innovative solutions for diagnosis and treatment, and help research on subjective change
      in attention and visuospatial function in AD
    
  