
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Heart failure (HF) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality, particularly in older people.
      Indeed, it is the most common discharge diagnosis in patients older than 65 years. As the
      United States population ages, heart failure will continue to grow as a public health
      concern. Therapeutic trials of heart failure have dealt almost exclusively with patients who
      have systolic dysfunction. However, there is now an emerging awareness that nearly half of
      the patients with heart failure have preserved systolic function and that the survival of
      these patients is adversely affected. This study is a randomized clinical trial of a novel
      therapeutic approach, specifically the use of spironolactone, an aldosterone antagonist, in
      treating these patients. While this treatment has been shown to be useful in treating heart
      failure with reduced systolic function, it has not been studied in patients with preserved
      systolic function.

      Patients with heart failure and preserved systolic function have a poor prognosis. The annual
      mortality rate is intermediate between the prognosis for those without heart failure and for
      those with heart failure and reduced systolic function. For instance, Family Health Study
      participants with heart failure and preserved systolic function had a mortality rate of 9%
      compared to 3% for their age- and gender-matched controls. The mortality rate was 19% in
      heart failure patients with reduced systolic function heart failure compared to 4% for their
      matched controls.

      As heart failure develops, neurohormones are released that initially improve cardiac output
      but ultimately contribute to progression of left ventricular dysfunction. The
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is an important part of this compensatory response.
      Aldosterone levels may rise to 20 times normal levels in heart failure and aldosterone
      contributes to the development of myocardial fibrosis. Spironolactone is a potassium-sparing
      diuretic that acts on the distal tubule, inhibiting sodium and potassium ion exchange. There
      are several potential beneficial actions, including prevention of cardiac fibrosis. A recent
      trial evaluated spironolactone in patients with systolic dysfunction heart failure.
      Spironolactone treatment caused a 30% reduction in mortality compared to placebo (p< 0.001).
      The improvement resulted from a reduction in all cause mortality. More recently, the
      Eplerenone Post-Myocardial Infarction (MI) study showed that this aldosterone antagonist
      significantly reduces mortality despite background treatment with an angiotensin-converting
      enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and beta-blocker. Advantages of using spironolactone in this study are
      that it is commercially available, inexpensive, and no longer under patent (therefore this
      study will not be done by industry). Also, there is a clear physiologic rationale for its
      use, and the side effect profile is well understood. The study enrolled subjects who had
      preserved systolic function with heart failure and who met clearly defined eligibility
      criteria that were selected to make the results widely generalizable to clinical practice.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial of aldosterone antagonist
      therapy (15 mg dose spironolactone or placebo; titrated up to 30 or 45 mg/day) in 3,445 adult
      patients with heart failure and preserved systolic function. Patients were recruited from
      August 2006 through January 2012, treated, and will be followed through June 2013.
      Approximately 270 clinical sites in six countries were subcontracted by the clinical trial
      coordinating center. Subject visits to a clinical center will occur every four or six months.
      Data collected include demographic and clinical data, including the results of history and
      physical exams, laboratory and imaging data, repository specimens for special physiology
      studies, and genetic studies. Additionally, data regarding quality of life and compliance
      with assigned treatment will also be collected and assessed.
    
  