
    
      PURPOSE:

      This study will be conducted to compare the effect of BFR with LLRT versus neuromuscular
      training on quadriceps muscle strength, knee joint function and proprioception accuracy.

      BACKGROUND:

      Patients with knee OA may have reduction of tolerance of the high-load programs which is
      recommended for eliciting strength gains (Messier et al., 2013). Thus, for reducing disease
      risk and enhancing physical function, there is a need for effectively strengthening the
      quadriceps muscle while limiting pain and adverse joint loading in people with knee OA (Segal
      et al., 2015). Blood flow restriction (BFR) with low-load resistance training (LLRT) is an
      alternative to traditional strength training that can be used in knee OA with minimal adverse
      joint loading that is normally found in traditional strengthening programs(Pope et al.,
      2013). It is attained through applying pressure externally with a pneumatic cuff or
      tourniquet. The applied pressure occludes venous outflow while maintaining arterial inflow
      with intent to promote blood pooling in the capillary beds of the limb muscles distal to the
      tourniquet (Slysz et al., 2016). Kubota et al., (2008), showed that BFR can be applied during
      periods of immobilization to decrease disuse muscle atrophy of limbs. Also it can be combined
      with exercise which enhances muscular development. Resistance exercise appears to provide
      great muscular gains when combined with BFR (Slysz et al., 2016).

      HYPOTHESES:

        1. There will not be a significant difference between traditional training, BFR with LLRT
           and neuromuscular training on improving quadriceps muscle strength using HHD in patients
           with unilateral knee OA.

        2. There will not be a significant difference between traditional training, BFR with LLRT
           and neuromuscular training on improving knee joint function on WOMAC questionnaire in
           patients with unilateral knee OA.

        3. There will not be a significant difference between traditional training, BFR with LLRT
           and neuromuscular training on improving knee joint proprioception in patients with
           unilateral knee OA.

      RESEARCH QUESTION:

      Does blood flow restriction with low load resistance training and neuromuscular training have
      a significant effect over traditional rehabilitation protocol (stretching and strengthening
      for hip and knee muscles) on quadriceps muscle strength, knee joint function and
      proprioception accuracy in patients with unilateral knee OA?
    
  