
    
      Detailed COVID Response Description.

      Though the intervention was specifically designed to be delivered in person and avoided the
      use of technology to make it accessible to as many Indonesian adolescents as possible,
      circumstances with COVID-19 have meant that the trial will need to conducted online to
      minimise undue harm and the spread of infection. From March-present (February) 2021, the vast
      majority of schools have stopped in person teaching and are providing education to young
      people remotely. The Indonesian Ministry of Education and Culture has provided schools and
      students with data packages to facilitate online learning.

      To avoid delays with the commencement of this trial, we will be executing this trial online.

      Teacher training will include self-directed learning via UNICEF's teacher training e-module
      for Life Skills Curriculum which includes the intervention of focus on body image. Teachers
      will then attend two training sessions with a member of the research team who is trained in
      delivering the intervention. These sessions will run through background knowledge about body
      image, propose how we expect the lesson to look, give the opportunity for teachers to ask
      questions, and explore common questions/statements from students.

      Schools will be recruited for the study via email correspondence from the research agency in
      Indonesia and information sheets will be sent out to parents/guardians. Parents/guardians
      will provide informed consent to the school. Students will provide informed consent during
      the baseline assessment, they will complete the surveys across three time points via
      Qualtrics on personal devices at home. The acceptability focus groups with teachers and
      students from the intervention condition will take place via a video conferencing platform
      such as Zoom. The intervention will be delivered online via video conferencing platform.

      To ensure this method of the trial is feasible, we need to ensure students have access to a
      device (laptop or iPad), have a stable internet connection and are familiar with video
      conferencing platforms for learning. To meet these demands, we will recruit in higher SES
      areas.

      Further, given that this method is different from the original plan for this trial (i.e., for
      every aspect to be conducted in person), we will be running an internal acceptability pilot.
      That is, we will test the feasibility and acceptability of key study elements - i.e.,
      delivering the pre and post surveys and the intervention online with two classes prior to
      deciding to go ahead with the full trial online. The pilot trial will recruit an intervention
      class and a control class and data collection will match the three time points of the main
      trial. Additionally, we will be conducting small focus groups with students to access their
      feedback on the intervention. If the data quality from the pilot is poor and the engagement
      in the lesson is low, we will suspend the trial until schools resume face to face learning
      and the COVID-19 risk is much lower (e.g., when there is widespread uptake of the vaccine).
    
  