
    
      Up to 14% of patients with acute myocardial infarction do not have obstructive changes in the
      coronary arteries according to invasive coronary angiography (defined as stenosis of > 50% by
      ESC Guidelines for the management of acute coronary syndromes in patients presenting without
      persistent ST-segment elevation, 2017). Elevation of highly sensitive Troponin I is a marker
      of damage to cardiomyocytes, but it is not an underlying mechanism of myocardial damage.
      Forty patients with acute coronary syndrome are planned to be enrolled in the non-randomized
      open controlled study. On admission, patients will receive the standard treatment for ACS
      with and without ST elevation. Within 24 hours, they will undergo diagnostic coronary
      angiography. In case of nonstenotic atherosclerosis of coronary arteries (normal / stenosis <
      50%), patients are planned for cardiac contrast MRI, which will identify both ischemic and
      non-ischemic causes of acute coronary syndrome; MSCT will be performed to study the coronary
      arteries and the structure of atherosclerotic plaques; scintigraphy of the myocardium will be
      performed to characterize the perfusion defect. The frequencies of carrying the genetic
      alleles associated with the factors that predispose to thrombosis will be studied.
      Significance of these alleles in the development of thrombosis in acute myocardial infarction
      will be identified. The profiles of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory response markers
      will be determined. Significance of these profiles in the development of acute myocardial
      infarction in patients with non-obstructive coronary atherosclerosis will be determined in
      comparison with control group. At one-year follow up, structural and functional
      characteristics of the heart will be studied again to assess dynamic changes in cardiac
      state. At one-year follow up, repeated studies will be perform to dynamically assess the
      structural and functional state of the heart.
    
  