
    
      Purpose/Specific Aims: The purpose of this randomized two-group longitudinal study is to
      evaluate whether psychosocial outcomes in women with breast cancer differ based on the format
      of online group support. Rationale/Significance of study: No research has explored
      differences in psychosocial outcomes between online support groups that use a professional
      moderator and those that use a peer-led (self-help) format. This study will address one of
      the goals put forth in the 2003-2005 ONS Research Agenda, by studying the effects of
      technology based interventions (online support) on psychosocial outcomes (depression,
      perceived social support, quality of life) in women with breast cancer. This work will add to
      the nursing research base with regard to online support for women with breast cancer and
      provide a springboard for additional studies to enhance the research base. Conceptual
      Framework: The concept of openness, based on the mutual interaction between human beings and
      their environment, and emphasized in Rogers' Science of Unitary Human Beings provides a basis
      for this project. The research will utilize two different support environments and measure
      how interactions in each affect psychosocial outcomes over time. Main Research Variables: The
      independent variables are two treatment conditions (moderated online support, peer-led online
      support). The dependent variables are depressive symptoms, perceived social support, and
      quality of life. Design: A randomized longitudinal design, comparing two types of online
      support groups, on the basis of three principal measures, will be used. Each measure will be
      obtained at baseline and at three later timepoints. Setting: Support groups will be accessed
      from secure and password protected university web pages devoted exclusively to this study.
      Sample: Sixty women with breast cancer, at least 21 years of age, who have Internet access
      will be recruited. Methods: Women will be randomly assigned to one of the two treatment
      conditions (moderated online support, peer-led online support) given a password, and
      instructed to complete a Demographic Form and the study questionnaires online. All subjects
      will be asked to complete the study questionnaires again at 6, 12, and 16 weeks. Moderated
      groups will run in a semi-structured format over 12 weeks, with a different discussion topic
      moderated each week by the moderator. Peer-led groups will be run in a peer support format
      over 12 weeks. Implications for practice: Women with breast cancer are turning to online
      resources for support. Nurses should be aware of the benefits/limitations of this support
      alternative. A cost benefit may be suggested if it is shown that peer-led online support has
      psychosocial benefits similar to professionally facilitated groups. Additional research is
      needed to explore the impact of online support on psychosocial outcomes in people with other
      cancers, minorities, and men. This study will add important information to the research base
      regarding online support groups and help determine the best strategy for online cancer
      support.

      NOTE: It was obvious that we could not prevent anyone from joining a support group, if that
      was her choice. We also could not control if participants joined a second online support
      group or face-to-face group during the study. Therefore, we dropped the "usual care" (no
      support) group. The study was completed with just two groups: moderated and peer-support.
    
  