
    
      The sample size will consist of 90 subjects ages 18 or above with a primary complaint of neck
      pain. The subjects must be able to read and communicate in English in order to complete the
      required documentation. No specific conditions are to be included which would make this a
      protected population.

      Patients will be recruited in one of two ways. First, flyers will be sent to local referrals
      announcing the study and request for subjects. Should a patient be interested in
      participating they will call the PI at the phone number listed on the flyer. The PI will
      inquire about patient location and coordinate a convenient location. Second, patients which
      present to a participating clinic with primary complaint of neck pain will be handed a flyer
      and asked by the front office if they would be interested to hear more about the study. If
      the patient expresses interest in participating they will meet with a clinician trained in
      the study to review inclusion and exclusion criterion. Should the patient meet all inclusion
      and have no exclusion criterion, the informed consent form will be reviewed with the patient
      by a trained clinician. Once the patient has agreed to participate and signed the informed
      consent they will be formally enrolled into the study.

      All information obtained in this study is strictly confidential unless disclosure is required
      by law. Federal Privacy Regulations provide safeguards for privacy, security, and authorized
      access. Except when required by law, the patient will not be identified by name, social
      security number, address, telephone number, or any other direct personal identifier.

      All records pertaining to the patient's involvement in this research study will be stored in
      a locked file cabinet. A case number will indicate the patient's identity on these records.
      This information will only be accessible to the investigators listed on the first page of
      this document and the research study staff.

      Methods and Procedures This study will follow a standardized examination and treatment
      protocol. All interventions and techniques have been proven to be effective in this patient
      population. Once the patient is deemed eligible for the study the informed consent will be
      reviewed by an investigator. If the patient agrees to participate in the study they will sign
      the informed consent. The patient will complete self report measures which will take
      approximately 20 minutes. Self report measures to be completed include the neck disability
      index (NDI), fear avoidance beliefs questionnaire (FABQ), global rating of change (GROC), and
      numeric pain rating scale (NPRS). An investigator will then perform a standardized
      examination which will take approximately 1 hour. Examination findings will be recorded on
      the cervical examination form. The patient will then be given an opportunity to undergo a
      second examination by a blinded examiner for reliability purposes. This second examination is
      optional and must be performed within 48 hours and before treatment is initiated.

      Upon completion of the examination the patient will be issued a home care guide which
      included educational materials and the standardized exercise program. The patients will be
      asked to review the educational information. When the patient returns for follow up visits
      the standardized treatment program of education and exercise will be initiated and
      progressed. Each subsequent treatment session will last approximately one hour. The patient
      will be asked to perform the exercise program 2 times per week for 6 weeks and perform
      stretches independently. In order to monitor progress the self report measures will be
      completed every two weeks.

      When applicable, a portion of the research costs associated with the physical therapy
      procedures will be billed to the patient's insurance provider. The patient's co-payments will
      be the same as if they were not part of the research study. The procedures will be documented
      in their medical/Research record. There will be no additional costs to the patient outside of
      the normal delivery of care and no further payment will be offered to the patient for
      participation in the study. Participants will be reimbursed a nominal amount for the time
      necessary to complete the research documentation. Subject reimbursement is as follows:

      Data Analysis Reliability of the examination variables will be assessed for a blinded
      examiner on a second examination. Descriptive statistics will be calculated which include
      frequency counts for categorical data and calculation of the mean and standard deviation (SD)
      for continuous variables. Cohen k will be used to calculate inter-rater reliability of
      categorical data with only 2 response options possible. A weighted k will be used to
      calculate the reliability of categorical data with 3 response options. The weight k will be
      calculated using a linear weighting method. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) model
      2,1 and the 95% confidence intervals will be calculated to determine the inter-rater
      reliability for continuous variables. The standard error of measurement (SEM) will be
      calculated as SD√ (1-r), where SD is the standard deviation of the observed scores and r is
      the reliability coefficient for the measurement. The minimal detectable change (MDC) for
      continuous variables will be calculated as 1.96X SEM X √2. The total measure of error will be
      calculated for continuous data by mean difference between raters (rater A - rater B) +/- 1.96
      X SD. The total measure of error represents the values within which 95% of the measurements
      between raters lie. Reliability for categorical variables will be interpreted as follows;
      values < 0.10 no agreement; 0.11 to 0.40 slight agreement; 0.41 to 0.60 fair agreement; 0.61
      and 0.80 moderate agreement and values >0.81 substantial agreement. Reliability for
      continuous variables will be interpreted as follows: < 0.10 no agreement; 0.11 to 0.40 slight
      agreement; 0.61 and 0.80 moderate agreement; and values > 0.81 substantial agreement.

      Dependent t-tests will be used to analyze each of the primary outcome variables including
      Numeric pain rating scale (NPRS), Neck Disability Index (NDI), Fear Avoidance Beliefs
      Questionnaire - Physical Activity (FABQ-PA) and Fear Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire - Work
      (FABQ-W). The alpha level will be set at 0.05. Multiple comparisons will be conducted
      (baseline - 2 weeks; baseline - 4 weeks; baseline - 6 weeks and baseline - 6 months) between
      the paired time frames with a dependent t-test. Bonferroni correction will be used to
      establish the significance level at 0.0125 (.05/4).

      Potential predictor variables will come from the outcome measures, demographics form, history
      and physical assessment. Analysis will be implemented using independent t-tests for
      continuous variables and X2 tests for categorical variables to determine differences between
      successful and non-success outcomes. Variables with a significance of p<.10 will be retained
      as potential prediction variables for each group. This p value will be used to decrease the
      likelihood that a potential predictor variable will be missed. Sensitivity and specificity
      values will be calculated for continuous variables with a significant univariate relationship
      and plotted as a receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve. The point on the curve which
      is closest to the upper left corner represents the values with greatest diagnostic accuracy.
      This point will be selected as the cutoff defining a positive test. Sensitivity, specificity
      and likelihood ratios will be calculated for retained variables in the successful and
      non-successful groups. Potential predictor variables for each group will then be entered into
      a separate backward stepwise logistic regression model to identify the most prudent group of
      variables for the treatment outcome. Those variables preserved in the regression model will
      be used to develop a multivariate CPR for classifying patients likely to have a successful
      and non-successful outcome by completing a program of education and exercise for this sample.
    
  