
    
      Elevated intraocular pressure is the most important known risk factor for the development and
      progression of open-angle glaucoma. While pressure reduction is beneficial in many cases, a
      significant proportion of patients continue to progress despite clinically acceptable
      pressure levels. Many investigators have found no differences in pressure characteristics
      between progressing and non-progressing patients, highlighting our current inability to
      identify which patients will respond to pressure reduction. It is likely that this inability
      stems from our poor understanding of the risk factors, both ocular and systemic, for
      progression and the probability that glaucoma is a disease with multiple pathogenic
      mechanisms.

      In this application the Canadian Glaucoma Study Group proposes a multi-centre prospective
      study with the objective of characterising the risk factors associated with the progression
      of open-angle glaucoma. We will determine sub-groups of patients with regard to the type of
      progression, thereby allowing us to identify the ocular and systemic profiles of patients who
      are likely to and not likely to benefit from intraocular pressure reduction.

      Our hypotheses are:

      (i) The relationship between intraocular pressure characteristics during follow-up and
      survival rates with regard to progression of open-angle glaucoma is weak.

      (ii) Patients with vasospasm have a higher survival rate than patients without vasospasm with
      the clinical management prescribed in this study.

      (iii) Patients with vascular disease have a lower survival rate than patients without
      vascular disease with the clinical management prescribed in this study.

      We will test these hypotheses by following a total of 410 patients in 4 centres (Halifax,
      Vancouver, Montreal and Toronto) every 4 months for a period of 5 years using a uniform
      protocol for both the clinical management and study procedures. Clinical management will
      involve at least 30% reduction in intraocular pressure from the baseline untreated value,
      followed by an additional 20% or greater reduction after a progressive event. The study
      procedures include conventional perimetry, blue-on-yellow perimetry and scanning laser
      tomography of the optic nerve head and nerve fibre layer. We will measure finger blood flow
      with both heat and cold provocation to assess each patient's susceptibility to vasospasm and
      also obtain haematological, biochemical and rheological profiles to assess the presence of
      vascular disease.

      Progression of either visual field and optic nerve head damage will be termed a progressive
      event occurring after a predefined change from baseline. Events will be defined separately
      for each technique based on percentiles of empirically derived values of test-retest
      variability, allowing a degree of standardisation between techniques. Comparison of survival
      times between groups (e.g. vasospastic and non-vasospastic) will be made with Cox's
      survivorship analysis with a repeated measures model. Where appropriate, group comparisons
      will be made with the group t-test or Mann-Whitney test.

      If we can characterise more fully the risk factors for glaucomatous progression, we may be
      able to identify the ocular and systemic profiles of patients who will benefit from our
      current treatment of pressure reduction. More importantly, we can identify the profiles of
      patients who respond poorly to pressure reduction so that future research efforts can lead to
      the development and implementation of alternative therapy. We believe that this is a
      significant study which will result in a better understanding of open-angle glaucoma and help
      reduce its impact on blindness and visual disability.
    
  