
    
      1. Selection procedures: When a case meets the inclusion criteria and does not meet
           exclusion criteria, the research assistant of each research participating center will
           fill out the Eligibility Application Form and submit it to the Research Committee for
           reviewing whether the case is eligible for the trial. The following rules will be
           strictly applied:

             1. The application and confirmation of eligibility should be preoperatively completed
                and any postoperative application will not be accepted.

             2. If the Eligibility Application Form is incomplete, it must be returned to be
                completed; otherwise, it will not be accepted.

             3. After being approved by the Research Committee, the case will be assigned a number
                (Baseline Number, BN) and an Eligibility Confirmation Notice will be sent to the
                applicant.

             4. After each research participating center receives the Eligibility Confirmation
                Notice, the research assistant of each center is responsible for the custody and
                documentation.

             5. Once being selected for registration, the content of the Eligibility Application
                Form will be input into the database and the case's eligibility is not allowed to
                be cancelled, that is, the relevant information cannot be deleted from the
                database, unless the patient declines the information to be used in this study.

             6. The data center will not accept any duplicated applications for any single case. If
                this happens, the first registered data will be used (i.e., the first time BN).

             7. In cases of duplicated applications or registration errors, the research assistant
                of each research participating center shall contact the Research Committee as soon
                as possible for liaison and documentation.

        2. Qualification of the responsible surgeons who participate in this study: the responsible
           surgeons who participate in this study shall meet the following qualifications: 1) at
           least have completed 20 cases of VATS segmentectomy; and 2) have passed the blind review
           of his/her video records of the surgery.

        3. Criteria for confirming operation quality: for the case to be included in the analysis,
           the responsible surgeon shall submit the video or photo recordings of the surgery to the
           Research Committee for evaluation of the surgical procedures.

        4. Rules for handling the excluded patients identified intraoperatively: if the responsible
           surgeon finds that the patient in operation meets the exclusion criteria, the case will
           be excluded and the surgeon will follow the routine clinical practice of the research
           participating center to decide subsequent treatments that are not specified in this
           study protocol.
    
  