
    
      Background:

      Patients at high risk of having one or more coronary stenosis are evaluated routinely by
      invasive coronary angiography (CAG). Lesions are often quantified by QCA, but fractional flow
      reserve is increasingly used to assess functional significance of identified stenosis. FFR is
      assessed during CAG by advancing a wire with a pressure transducer towards the stenosis and
      measure the ratio in pressure between the two sides of the stenosis during medical induced
      maximum blood flow (hyperaemia).

      The solid evidence for FFR evaluation of coronary stenosis and the relative simplicity in
      performing the measurements have supported adoption of an FFR based strategy in many centers
      but the need for interrogating the stenosis by a pressure wire, the cost of the wire, and the
      drug inducing hyperaemia limits more widespread adoption.

      Quantitative Flow Ratio is a novel method for evaluating the functional significance of
      coronary stenosis by calculation of the pressure drop in the vessel based on two angiographic
      projections.

      The FAVOR I study (Tu et al.), showed promising results for core laboratory QFR analysis in
      selected patients.

      The purpose of the FAVOR II study is to evaluate the feasibility and diagnostic precision of
      in-procedure QFR during CAG in comparison to QCA with FFR as gold standard for physiological
      lesion evaluation.

      Hypothesis: QFR has superior sensitivity and specificity for detection of functional
      significant lesions in comparison to QCA with FFR as gold standard

      Methods: Prospective, observational, multicenter study with inclusion of 310 patients.

      Patients with indication for FFR are enrolled. At least two angiographic projections are
      acquired during resting conditions. QFR is calculated in-procedure using the Medis Suite
      application and simultaneously to the operator performing the FFR measurement. The QFR
      observer is blinded to the FFR measurement.

      QFR is reassessed off-line by the Interventional Coronary Imaging Core Laboratory, Aarhus
      University, Denmark, blinded to FFR and in-procedure QFR results.

      FFR is assessed by core laboratory reading, blinded to QFR results. All data are entered and
      stored in a protected and logged trial management system (TrialPartner, Aarhus University,
      Denmark).
    
  