
    
      Recently, laryngeal mask airway (LMA) placements are frequently performed for general
      anesthesia. The investigators occasionally encounter a clinical situation to perform internal
      jugular vein (IJV) cannulation after LMA insertion, especially for difficult airway in
      subjects undergoing major surgery. However, anatomic relations of IJV and common carotid
      artery (CCA) in patient with LMA placement have been reported to be different from those in
      patients with endotracheal tube. The degree of overlapping of the right IJV and CCA after LMA
      placement was greater than before LMA placement. Furthermore, there are many cases of
      complete overlapping right IJV and CCA after LMA placement. Therefore, the risk of puncturing
      CCA increases when the investigators try to cannulate IJV after LMA placement. Furthermore,
      the central landmark commonly used for IJV cannulation was proved to show low success rate
      after LMA placement in previous report. Previous study recommended the lower puncture point
      near that area where the clavicular head of the sternocleidomastoid muscle attaches to the
      clavicle, because CCA was not observed in the vicinity of the IJV after LMA insertion. Even
      though they performed test puncture at the lower puncture point in 20 patients and found no
      complications, the lower puncture point is not the usual site for IJV cannulation for most
      anesthesiologists. It is known that increased head rotation is associated with high
      probability of CCA contact. The investigators carefully examined the anatomic relations of
      IJV and CCA after LMA insertion with ultrasonography, and found that the degree of
      overlapping is different according to the degree of head rotation. The investigators
      postulated that if the degree of overlapping is different according to the degree of head
      rotation after LMA insertion, the investigators can find the angle of head rotation for least
      overlapping and reduce the risk of CCA puncture. Therefore, the investigators tried (1) to
      find the optimal head rotation angle appropriate for puncturing IJV after LMA placement, and
      (2) to find suitable landmark adequate for IJV cannulation after LMA placement.
    
  