
    
      Does music listening decrease preoperative anxiety in women who are scheduled for pelvic
      reconstructive surgery? Participants will be approached on the day of pelvic reconstructive
      surgery while they wait in the pre-operative area for surgery. For the sake of not disrupting
      the flow of the surgery schedule, patients will be consented approximately 45 minutes before
      the anticipated start time of surgery. If patient agrees to participate, they will be
      consented and evaluated for eligibility. Once informed consent is obtained, the patient will
      be randomized to either the music listening group or the control group. All patients will be
      asked to complete a STAI-Y1 and demographics questionnaire while awaiting surgery. Those in
      the music listening group will be asked to answer additional questions regarding their
      background and experience with music.

      Control group:

      Participants in the control group will complete another STAI-Y1 questionnaire after 30
      minutes of waiting. At the patient's routine 6 weeks postoperative visit, she will be asked
      to rate her overall satisfaction with her surgery and her satisfaction with the preoperative
      experience.

      Music listening group:

      The music listening group will be given a set of noise canceling headphones and an MP3 player
      with multiple tracks representing different music genres to use while in preoperative area.
      Patients will be given a handout listing the music genre types and asked to circle which
      music type they listened to during the study. Genre types include classical instrumental,
      classical piano, smooth jazz, gospel, and new age. After 30 minutes, patients will be asked
      to complete another STAI-Y1 questionnaire. They will be given the option to continue
      listening to music up until the time of surgery; however no additional STAI-Y1 questionnaires
      will be administered. Headphones and the MP3 player will be taken from the patient as she is
      being transported to the operating room. The headphones and MP3 player will be cleaned with
      alcohol wipes and reused for other participants in the study.

      At the patient's routine 6 weeks postoperative visit, she will be asked to rate her overall
      satisfaction with her surgery, her satisfaction with the preoperative experience, and whether
      she would recommend pre-operative music listening to others.
    
  