
    
      SPARTACUS will have several achievable goals:

        1. To show superiority of early treatment of pSpA patients with bDMARDs as compared to
           standard of care.

           In current practice, TNFi, the predominant bDMARDs in SpA, are only reimbursed in a
           restricted number of indications: they can be prescribed for axial disease (axSpA) and
           for the specific pSpA-entity, psoriatic arthritis (PsA); however, even in PsA, they are
           only reimbursed for longstanding, erosive disease, when patients have already failed
           (multiple) csDMARD(s). In patients with pSpA without psoriasis, rheumatologists can only
           prescribe csDMARDs, because TNFi are still off-label despite the overall good efficacy
           observed in several proof-of-concept studies, incl. one phase 3 trial (Ability-2). For
           this subgroup of patients, the unmet need is therefore still unacceptably high.
           Moreover, the patients included in Ability-2 reflected the current step-up treatment
           paradigm: patients already had longstanding disease (symptom duration of approx. 7
           years) and had used (and failed) conventional treatment options before trial entry (99%
           prior use of Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs), 69% prior csDMARD use). In
           this population, a statistically significant difference between adalimumab and placebo
           was observed, but clinical remission rates remained somehow disappointing with only 33%
           of patients reaching the predefined remission outcome after 3 years of continuous
           adalimumab use.

           Until recently, no data were available regarding the treatment of early pSpA with
           bDMARDs. To address this knowledge gap, we designed a proof-of concept study to explore
           the therapeutic potential of TNFi in patients with pSpA with very short symptom
           duration, the CRESPA-trial. In this study, all patients had a symptom duration of less
           than 12 weeks: they were randomized to receive either immediate TNFi therapy (golimumab)
           or placebo. In summary, the results of this trial demonstrated that after 24 weeks of
           treatment, complete clinical remission could be achieved in 75% of golimumab-treated
           patients versus only 20% in patients treated with placebo (thus refuting the perception
           that a large majority of pSpA patients would go in spontaneous clinical remission). Due
           to the placebo-controlled design, the CRESPA trial did not provide any data on the
           percentage of patients that would have achieved clinical remission while on
           standard-of-care "csDMARD Step-up" treatment. The design of the SPARTACUS head-to-head
           trial will allow us to evaluate superiority of the new approach to current practice.

        2. To delineate the window of opportunity for intensive treatment of pSpA: a transient time
           frame in which a disease is more susceptible to treatment.

           In the proof-of-concept CRESPA trial, all included patients had a symptom duration of
           less than 12 weeks. In these patients very high clinical remission rates were observed
           when patients were immediately treated with a TNFi. Interestingly, when the bDMARD
           treatment was interrupted after reaching sustained remission, 53% of patients remained
           in drug-free remission at long-term follow-up, providing preliminary evidence for the
           "window of opportunity" hypothesis: by effectively tackling pSpA (with bDMARDs) in a
           very early phase of the disease, drug-free remission might be an achievable goal in a
           significant number of patients. However, the CRESPA-trial does not allow to generalize
           the findings to pSpA patients with longer symptom duration. Moreover, the
           above-mentioned extension of the Ability-2 study would suggest that patients with a
           symptom duration of multiple years would have lower remission rates and would need
           chronic, life-long bDMARD treatment. The SPARTACUS trial will still focus on early
           treatment of pSpA (symptom duration <12 months), but the stratification of patients
           according to symptom duration (<3 months (identical to the CRESPA trial) versus between
           3 and 12 months) will allow us to explore the exact time frame in which a window of
           opportunity is applicable. The goal is to demonstrate that drug-free remission is a
           feasible outcome when an early intensive treatment strategy is adopted and to delineate
           the window of opportunity (in terms of symptom duration) in which such a
           remission-induction strategy is successful, leading to significant health economic
           benefits.

        3. To unravel new biomarkers of therapy response using cutting-edge single cell technology.

           In the CRESPA trial, we observed that despite the fact that 53% of patients were able to
           achieve drug-free remission, a significant proportion nevertheless relapsed. In this
           small proof-of-concept study, we were not able to detect significant predictors or
           remission or relapse. Also, 18% of patients did not achieve sustained clinical
           remission, but nevertheless experienced a significant improvement of signs and symptoms;
           in these patients long-term treatment was necessary. These results indicate that
           clinical response to TNFi is heterogeneous and underscores the need for biomarkers that
           can identify at baseline different pathogenic subsets that are associated with the (lack
           of) response to a TNFi. The recent introduction of new procedures such as
           ultrasound-guided synovial biopsy sampling in our early arthritis clinic has permitted
           to access synovial samples of virtually all peripheral joints (incl. wrists and small
           finger joints). By using innovative and unbiased tools recently developed in the area of
           single-cell analyses (RNA-sequencing and epigenetic profiling), we will obtain profound
           insights into the cellular heterogeneity of these unique patient samples.

        4. To determine health-economic and societal impact of early, intensive bDMARD treatment of
           patients with recent-onset pSpA (compared to the currently reimbursed csDMARD Step-up
           strategy).

           A unique feature of SPARTACUS is that clinical trial and biomarker discovery will be
           coupled to calculation of the health-economic benefits of such an approach. We aim to
           determine from a healthcare and a societal perspective, the 2 years´ cost-utility, as
           well as a model-based lifelong incremental cost-utility of the innovative strategy
           compared to usual care. Uncertainty analyses will be performed and budget impact for the
           Belgian healthcare and social security (work disability) system will be calculated.
           Consistent with the increased call for transparency in health economic modelling, we aim
           to make our model available as a semi-open source model.

        5. To increase awareness among referring physicians (general practitioners, other
           specialties that may evaluate patients with early SpA) and patient-advocacy groups about
           the value of early recognition and treatment in rheumatology.

      It is still a great challenge to diagnose patients in an early stage of their disease. The
      delay between symptoms and diagnosis in SpA is still several years. As discussed above, it
      has been shown that in later stages of the disease, the treatment effect (even with bDMARDs)
      may be less impressive and chronic therapy is needed without possibility of drug withdrawal
      (leading to a high socioeconomic burden). The broad set-up of SPARTACUS across health
      institutes in Flanders will greatly facilitate the awareness and direct implementation of
      early arthritis strategies among physicians. Finally, results from SPARTACUS will provide
      evidence that will facilitate discussions with patients about treatment choices and ensure
      realistic treatment expectations and optimal health behaviour in patients with early pSpA.
    
  