
    
      This was a randomised controlled trial of the effect over 12 months of a one-to-one
      educational package designed to improve foot care behaviour in a group of patients at the
      highest risk of new foot disease: those with a recently healed ulcer. The primary outcome was
      the incidence of new ulceration at 12 months. Secondary outcomes included self-reported
      footcare behaviour, new ulceration at 6 months, amputation (major or minor) at 12 and 6
      months, and measures of well-being (SF36; Diabetic Foot Ulcer Scale, DFS short-form). The
      educational intervention was based on the content of the International Consensus on the
      Diabetic Foot, 2003, was modified following discussion with a focus group of former ulcer
      sufferers, and included graphic images of different forms of foot disease. Although
      structured, the information was targeted in discussion to the individual's circumstances, and
      was delivered one-to-one in the patient's own home by a single health care professional. It
      was reinforced after one month by a semi-structured phone conversation with the same
      educator. Outcomes were determined by postal questionnaire, backed up with reminders and
      phone calls when necessary, as well questionnaires sent to GP staff and by searching hospital
      records. Foot care behaviour was assessed at 12 months using a newly devised and validated
      measure of footcare function (NAFF) which was also delivered by post. All outcomes were
      assessed by researchers blind to allocation group. Mean age was 64.9 (SD 10.9) years, and
      there were no differences between groups at baseline in terms of demographics, diabetes type
      and complications. The incidence (%) of new ulcers at 6 and 12 months was 26 (30%) and 36
      (41%) in the intervention group and 18 (21%) and 35 (41%) in the controls, RR 0.997 (CI
      0.776-1.280). There were no differences in any of the other outcome measures although the
      intervention group reported a higher score in recommended foot care behaviour when compared
      with controls (42.0 versus 38.7, p=0.03).
    
  