
    
      During the past decades the rate of Caesarean sections has increased considerably, with
      Germany following the global trend. When compared to other surgical interventions, Caesarean
      section is perceived as very painful. Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) is associated with
      significantly higher opioid dosage, as compared to cases where the same medication is
      administered on patient's request as a bolus by the attending staff. Conceivably, patients
      using PCA reported less painful sensations. Nonetheless, several patients and physicians
      express reservations concerning the use of opioids for pain management in lactating mothers.
      Peripheral application of local anesthetics (e.g. as wound infiltration or peripheral nerve
      blockade) has been shown in several settings to reduce the demand of systemic drug dosage in
      pain management. The intended effect, however, lasts only for a couple of hours. Feasibility
      of subsequent bolus drug applications is hampered by ethical concerns (being an invasive
      procedure) as well as staff strains and cost effectiveness considerations. Hence, a medical
      device that warrants continuous and reliable administration of local analgesics might
      substantially improve pain management in obstetric patients. ReadyfusOR® is a medical device
      that has been approved for use for such purposes.

      This study will record the use of the Ropivacaine formulation ReadyfusOR® under real life
      conditions in a representative sample. Ropivacaine formulation ReadyfusOR® is established as
      a standard procedure for diminution of post-surgery pain in the Department of Obstetrics of
      the Jena University Hospital. The gathered information will be used to augment the knowledge
      about outcomes and safety of the Ropivacaine formulation ReadyfusOR® using for treatment of
      patients undergoing Caesarean section. Analgesic efficacy will be monitored at defined
      intervals over an observation period of 48 h post-surgery using patient's subjective ratings
      of spontaneous and strain-induced pain perception, as well as the demand of auxiliary dosing
      of standard analgesic treatment.

      At the end of surgery and prior to closure of the abdomen the drug infusion catheter of
      Readyfusor® is inserted subfascially. An initial priming dose of 10 mL of 2mg/mL ropivacain
      will be injected through the catheter. After the catheter has been primed with the initial
      loading dose, the Readyfusor® is activated by the surgeon or nurse in the operating room and
      connected to the wound catheter. As described in the product information, the wound edges are
      supplied with Ropivacain over 48 h at a rate of 10 mg/hour (5 mL/hr). During the first 48 h
      post-surgery patients receive standard pain management with Ibuprofen at doses of 600 mg
      administered in intervals of 8 hours. If the patients are free of pain Ibuprofen application
      can be reduced as needed. The synthetic opioid Piritramide is used as pain medication on
      demand for patients who report mild to severe pain defined as 5 or more points on a
      10-point-Numeric Rating Scale (NRS). In either available application option - as PCA or a
      bolus injection by the attending nurse - the dose of Piritramide is limited to 30 mg over 4
      hours and each single application are limited to 3mg every 10 minutes.

      Maximal intensity of pain at rest and pain due to mobilization (first standing up) will be
      assessed at intervals of 12, 24 and 48 h after treatment introduction by means of patient's
      statements plotted on individual numeric rating scales for each endpoint. The primary
      endpoint focuses on assessing the perceived spontaneous pain intensity at 24 h post-surgery.

      Further characterization of the pain-relieving effect of ReadyfusOR® will be provided by the
      records on the fractional doses of the auxiliary opioid analgesic Piritramide administered
      within 12, 24 and 48 h post-surgery. The individual time needed for the recovery of mobility
      will provide an additional tool for treatment effect evaluation.

      Finally, NRS-recorded patient's ratings on subjectively perceived satisfaction with the
      post-surgical pain management will be evaluated.
    
  