
    
      The three phases for the study as originally defined and as represented in the results of 11
      May 2010 are:

      Double-blind Treatment Phase: Induction Melphalan/prednisone and lenalidomide 10 mg (MPR) (2
      treatment arms), or melphalan/prednisone and placebo (MPp) (1 treatment arm) for up to 9
      cycles. If disease progression, subjects have the option to enter into the Open-Label
      Extension Phase. There is also an option to enter into the Follow-Up Phase. If the disease
      has not progressed, subject can continue on blinded therapy into Maintenance.

      Double-blind Treatment Phase: Maintenance One MPR treatment arm (MPR+R) will continue taking
      lenalidomide 10 mg in Maintenance. The other MPR treatment arm (MPR+p) will take placebo in
      Maintenance. The MP p treatment arm will take placebo in Maintenance (MPp+p). If disease
      progression, subjects have the option to enter the Open-Label Extension Phase to obtain
      treatment with lenalidomide, or to enter into the Follow-up Phase.

      Open-label Extension Phase:

      Treatment consists of oral lenalidomide (up to 25 mg) with or without dexamethasone until
      disease progression or treatment is discontinued for any reason until all study subjects are
      followed for at least 5 years from the date of randomization or have died. Subjects who
      discontinue from the Open-Label Extension Phase prior to completing a total of 5 years in the
      study will enter the Follow-up Phase.

      Follow-up Phase:

      Subjects are followed for overall survival and subsequent anti-myeloma treatment regimens
      until all subjects in this study are followed for at least 5 years from randomization or have
      died.

      The pre-planned interim analysis for the Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) showed
      that the difference in progression-free survival (PFS) between treatment arms MPR+R and MPp+p
      (the defined primary comparative analysis for this study) surpassed the pre-specified
      O'Brien-Fleming boundary for superiority. The IDMC recommended the release of this
      information to the sponsor and also recommended that all patient and physician study
      participants receive information concerning the full findings of the MM-015 interim analysis.
      Therefore, due to these recommendations from the IDMC, treatment-arm codes were sent to the
      clinical trial centers to unblind the treatment arms of their study subjects once the amended
      protocol was reviewed and approved by the respective country Health Authorities and Ethics
      Committees. Subject participation in the MM-015 study continued after unblinding to obtain
      long-term data for all study endpoints, including overall survival.

      When the study was unblinded, subjects still on protocol therapy had completed the
      Double-Blind Induction, and were on monotherapy in Double-Blind Maintenance. Subjects in arm
      MPR+R continued their monotherapy on lenalidomide. Subjects in arms MPR+p and MPp+p
      discontinued their placebo monotherapy and went into an observation period in which no
      antimyeloma therapy was taken. If disease progressed for any subject, the investigator had
      the option of entering the subject in Open Label Extension Phase to receive lenalidomide
      therapy (up to 25 mg daily) or the Follow-up Phase. All subjects were to be followed for at
      least 5 years from the start of the study.
    
  