
    
      There are an estimated 46 million people with major Neurocognitive Disorders, and this figure
      is expected to increase to double every 20 years, with about 131.5 million people diagnosed
      by 2050 (Prince et al., 2015). The economic impact is significant, with costs estimated at US
      $ 818 million (Prince et al., 2015). In 2018, this value is expected to reach the trillion US
      dollar level, with serious implications for global societies and government authorities
      (Prince et al., 2015). Elderly people with cognitive decline progressively lose their
      cognitive capacities and experience motor disorders, leading, in more advanced stages of the
      disease, to family and carer burden, which often culminate in their institutionalization.

      According to Kuske et al. (2009), about 60% of all institutionalized people in industrialized
      countries present some form of dementia, which poses new challenges for these institutions
      and for its professionals. This process is inevitably associated with an increase in the
      prevalence of chronic degenerative diseases, particularly neurocognitive disorders (NCD). The
      category of NCD includes all the disorders in which the primary clinical deficit is in
      cognitive function, being this deficit acquired (documented by standardized neurological
      tests or by quantitative clinical evaluation), that is, it represents a decline from a
      previous functional level (APA, 2013).

      In this sequential line, priority is given to the design of interventions that effectively
      focus on the stimulation of best practices for active aging, aiming at the implementation of
      measures that minimize the impact of NCD by slowing down their progression or modulating
      their associated symptomatology (Directorate General for Health, 2016). Knowing that the
      drugs introduced so far in clinical practice are restricted to symptomatic control, not being
      able to prevent the progression of the disease, non-pharmacological interventions have been
      gaining special prominence. The literature emphasizes the value of Reminiscence as a strategy
      for people with cognitive deficits. This stimulating intervention is based on the recovery of
      significant life events with special focus on resolving past conflicts.

      Reminiscence is a pleasant and stimulating activity that contributes to the reduction of
      social isolation, revealing itself as a strategy to promote interpersonal relations (Cooney
      et al., 2014; Gibson, 2004). It has been reported as an intervention associated with
      pleasure, safety and sense of belonging (Cappeliez & O'Rourke, 2006). It is also a low-cost
      therapeutic option (Siverová & Bužgová, 2014). In addition, according to Westerhof,
      Bohlmeijer and Webster (2010), the exchange of autobiographical memories through
      Reminiscence, even in the final stages of the dementia, can produce considerable and
      measurable gains that are reflected in increased levels of well-being, decreased depression
      levels and improved cognitive function as well as increased verbal fluency.

      In view of the above, it is considered that the implementation of a structured Reminiscence
      program can maximize cognitive functioning, improve depressive symptoms and promote quality
      of life by facilitating the adaptation process and contributing to the promotion of the
      dignity of people with cognitive decline and who are in Day Care regime or living in
      Residential Structures for the Elderly (RSE).
    
  