
    
      Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous group of malignant hematological diseases
      with different molecular genetic abnormalities. These are important in predicting response to
      treatment. Recently, an analysis of 424 AML patients treated in various HOVON protocols
      showed a 5 year overall survival for patients in good, intermediate, poor and very poor risk
      groups of 65%, 51%, 25% and 7% respectively (HOVON 102 protocol). This shows that especially
      for patients in the (very) poor risk group, the outcome is very disappointing, despite the
      current treatment strategies. For patients with intermediate, poor and very poor risk
      cytogenetics postconsolidation treatment with an allogeneic hematopoietic cell
      transplantation (allo HCT) is standard practice after myeloablative (MAB HCT) or
      non-myeloablative (NMA HCT) conditioning.

      Unfortunately, mortality after MAB conditioning is still considerable, mainly due to therapy
      related mortality, graft-versus-host disease, infections, or relapse. Currently, the NMA
      conditioning is used more frequently, which is far less toxic. Nonmyeloablative regimens have
      relied on the immunological anti-leukemia effect (graft-versus-leukemia), to prevent
      relapsing disease. This anti-leukemia effect, however, needs time to develop, which makes it
      necessary to be in control over the disease pre-transplantation as much as possible. This
      extends the time the immune system of the donor has to develop an adequate anti-leukemia
      effect, which is especially important in the (very) poor risk group patients since they have
      the highest chance of relapse.

      Epigenetic alterations are increasingly recognised for their roles in oncogenesis. These
      alterations can for example 'silence'genes by hypermethylation. These alterations are
      potentially reversible.

      The hypomethylating agent decitabine is one of the therapeutic approaches which can
      reactivate silenced genes by its interaction on the epigenetics. A phase II study (Blum, Proc
      Natl Acad Sci 2010) with 53 AML patients who received 10 days decitabine, showed a complete
      remission rate (CR) in 47% of patients. This percentage corresponds to the CR of intensive
      chemotherapy in elderly AML patients. The median survival was 55 weeks. Furthermore, this
      study showed that decitabine was well tolerated.

      Earlier studies have shown that patients whose disease was controlled with hypomethylating
      agents pre-transplantation had comparable survival compared with patients whose disease was
      controlled with intensive chemotherapy(Damaj, Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2012).

      In the current study the AML is already in remission after intensive chemotherapy. In an
      attempt to design a conditioning strategy with very low toxicity but considerable
      myelosuppressive activity, the investigators will combine the non-myeloablative (NMA)
      fludarabine and low-dose TBI (2 Gray) with a 10-day schedule of decitabine (Dec-Flu-TBI).
      Theoretically, it is very attractive to add a drug like decitabine (in a 10-day schedule)
      that exerts a strong antileukemic effect, without additional extra-medullary toxicity, to the
      standard Flu-TBI NMA conditioning regimen. The hypothesis is that in this way the
      investigators can extent the time the immune system of the donor needs to create an adequate
      graft-versus-leukemia effect, at the cost of low toxicity.
    
  