
    
      Specific aims:

      Aim 1: To identify population groups differently affected by the economic crisis within the
      population-based cohort of the MOLI-SANI study recruited in the years 2005-2006 (before
      economic crisis). This aim will be achieved by a new assessment of self-reported economic
      difficulties possibly emerged after the recruitment.

      Aim 2: To estimate possible changes in dietary and health-related behaviours (with particular
      focus on the adherence to the Mediterranean diet) in subjects identified in the previous aim
      as highly or poorly affected by the economic crisis. Inflammatory status and metabolic
      phenotypes will be assessed in the two groups, recalled in a suitable proportion, to
      establish a possible link between shifting from the Mediterranean diet and adverse health
      outcomes. Quality of life and stress status will also be evaluated.

      Aim 3: To evaluate in the group more affected by economic constraints whether nutrition
      knowledge and mass media exposure would account for the decline in the adherence to the
      Mediterranean diet and consequent changes in inflammatory status and/ or metabolic
      phenotypes.

      Experimental Design Aim 1: Aim 1 will identify two groups of subjects as being most or less
      affected by the economic crisis. This aim will be reached by recall of 7,000 individuals from
      the Moli-sani cohort recruited in the years 2005-2006. Subjects will be administered a
      questionnaire to assess economic constraints likely occurred after the economic crisis onset.
      The questionnaire will update socioeconomic position and estimate economic constraints, food
      quality and food expenditure.

      Experimental Design Aim 2: Within the two groups identified in aim 1, aim 2 will:

        1. Perform a dietary follow up by administering the Italian version of the EPIC
           questionnaire (9), already used at baseline, to estimate the changes in dietary habits.
           Lifestyle follow up will be obtained by a validated questionnaire used at baseline.

        2. Assess changes in inflammatory status by measurements of the following biomarkers:
           High-sensitivity C-reactive protein, Interleukin-6, Interleukin-18, Tumor necrosis
           factor, Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, VCAM, ICAM, P-selectin, E-selectin,
           L-selectin, CD40L, adiponectin, platelet and leukocyte counts, lipids, triglycerides,
           glucose, insulin.

        3. Estimate variations in the metabolic phenotypes (prevalence of hypertension, diabetes,
           obesity, metabolic syndrome, and levels of blood pressure, hip and waist
           circumferences).

      Experimental Design Aim 3: A validated questionnaire on nutrition knowledge and exposure to
      mass media will be administered. This will allow to retrospectively identify additional
      subgroups differently exposed to information in order to estimate the role of cultural
      resources in health-related behavioural changes.
    
  