
    
      Asthma is a chronic lung condition that accounts for over 130,000 pediatric hospitalizations
      nationally at a cost of almost 1.4 billion dollars. Atypical pathogens have been implicated
      both in initiating asthma and triggering acute asthma exacerbations. Azithromycin, a
      macrolide antibiotic, is known to have antibacterial activity against atypical pathogens and
      gram positive bacteria. More recently, macrolides have been increasingly used and effective
      against gram negative bacteria and inflammation in the lungs of patients with chronic
      respiratory illnesses. This effect may be secondary to the immunomodulatory effects
      macrolides possess, in addition to their anti-bacterial effects. In long-term therapy with
      macrolides, patients with asthma have shown improved bronchiolar hyperreactivity, spirometry,
      symptoms, and quality of life. However, studies of short-term treatment in the acute setting
      and in children are limited. Some practitioners use azithromycin in the treatment of acute
      asthma, despite limited data.

      The investigators propose a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of
      azithromycin in children aged 4-12 years with persistent asthma hospitalized with acute
      asthma exacerbations. Children will be enrolled within 12 hours of admission and will be
      randomized to receive three days of either azithromycin or placebo suspension (10mg/kg/dose,
      max of 500mg). The primary outcome measure will be length of stay (LOS). Secondary outcome
      measures will include: days of school/work missed, readmission rates, return to medical care
      rates, recurrence of symptoms, and steroid courses. In the future, patients may also be
      approached to enroll in the "Mechanism Subset Study" a separate pilot and feasibility study
      which will require two blood samples and two nasal aspirate samples and will test for
      atypical pathogens, interleukin-8 levels, and neutrophil/eosinophil counts. The average
      length of stay for patients in this age range with asthma in 2011 at our institution was 3.0
      days. The investigators will enroll to achieve a power of 80%, with an alpha of 0.05, which
      will require 107 patients in each group to detect a 16 hour (0.67 day) difference in the
      primary outcome, LOS. This study hypothesizes that azithromycin treatment in children
      hospitalized with acute asthma will decrease LOS.
    
  