
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Isocyanates account for the highest number of reported cases of occupational asthma in the
      United States and developed countries. Prevention, however is limited by inadequate knowledge
      of isocyanate routes of exposure, exposure patterns, mechanisms of sensitization and other
      causal factors. The Survey of Painters and Repairers of Auto Bodies by Yale (SPRAY), a
      five-year cross-sectional epidemiologic survey of painters and repairers of autobodies at
      Yale was therefore initiated to address these questions. At the outset of Spray, it was not
      known how frequent skin contact among the painters might be. Moreover, there is new and
      exciting data from animal studies demonstrating that dermal rather than respiratory contact
      may be crucial to immune sensitization leading to asthma. Little is known, so far, about
      dermal exposure in autobody shops and its modifiers, especially the effectiveness of personal
      protective equipment (PPE) in preventing workers from skin contamination by isocyanates.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was ancillary to the SPRAY study and was integrated into it. The overall design was
      a cross-sectional investigation of 20 shops with 120 workers. This would allow a better
      understanding of the complex basis for asthma risk in these workers, and better
      recommendations to autobody shops and workers on protective measures for isocyanate dermal
      exposures.

      Specific aims included: 1) Qualitatively and quantitatively assessing surface and skin
      contamination of HDI; 2) Identifying modifiers that affected surface and skin contamination,
      and specifically evaluating the effectiveness of personal protective equipment in protecting
      the skin from isocyanate contamination; 3) Exploring the relationships of dermal exposure
      with airborne exposure, biomarkers of systemic absorption and skin sensitization, and
      asthma-developing risk.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  