
    
      In Europe and in Switzerland, the number of seniors age 70 and older is predicted to increase
      from 25% to 40% by 2030, as is the number of seniors with cognitive impairments, physical
      frailty and resulting consequences, such as falls and loss of autonomy. One out of three
      seniors age 65 and one out of two seniors age 80 experience at least one fall per year.
      Prevalence of dementia increases with age and more than doubles a seniors' risk of falling.

      Among the most promising interventions targeting both cognitive and functional decline, is
      Exercise. However, evidence regarding exercise interventions among seniors with cognitive
      impairment are inconclusive, likely due to challenges of recruitment and adherence.
      Alternatively, seniors with subjective cognitive decline (SCD), who are not yet meeting
      objective criteria of cognitive impairment, but have been shown to have twice the conversion
      rate to dementia compared with healthy seniors, are more likely to be motivated to
      participate and adhere to exercise interventions. Thus, exercise interventions in seniors
      with SCD may provide a window of opportunity for early prevention of dementia and falls.

      The investigators aim to test the effect of a group exercise (multi-task Jaques-Dalcroze
      Eurhythmics) and a simple home strength exercise program on change of cognitive function and
      the rate of falling among seniors with SCD.

      The MOVE for your MIND trial will be a single center, single-blinded randomized controlled
      clinical trial among 195 senior men and women and a 12 month follow-up. Participants will be
      community-dwelling seniors, age 70+ who meet the criteria for SCD without evidence for
      objective cognitive impairment. The 3 treatment arms are: (1) Jaques-Dalcroze Eurhythmics
      group exercise (1x60min/week), (2) simple home exercise strength program (3x30min/week), (3)
      control group without exercise intervention. All participants will receive a monthly "Healthy
      Nutrition" lecture. The hypothesis is that both exercise groups are superior to control.
      Under these assumptions, and a sample size of 195 seniors, the investigators will have >90%
      power for change in cognitive function and >80% power for the difference in the rate of
      falls. Clinical visits will be at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months. Therapeutic
      interventions for seniors with early subjective signs of cognitive decline that are
      effective, affordable, and well-tolerated in the prevention of both, cognitive and physical
      function decline, are urgently needed and will have an outstanding impact on public health as
      a whole. To the investigator's knowledge, this is the first exercise trial to target seniors
      with SCD and with the change in cognitive function and the rate of falls as the primary
      endpoints. Providing an evidence-base for a group- and a home-based exercise will give a
      choice to patients. Further, the mechanistic biomarker study for brain and muscle health
      among seniors with SCD will support the findings at the cellular level and whole-brain MRI
      imaging will support them at a structural level.
    
  