
    
      We wish to find genes which predispose to pituitary tumours, to find out how those genes work
      and to assess those genes (and similar genes) in other conditions related to the pituitary
      tumours.

      We will study the recently identified new familial pituitary adenoma gene AIP (AhR
      interacting protein) and its partner molecules for example AhR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor) in
      familial and sporadic pituitary adenoma cases.

      We have 3 main questions:

      Is the identified gene (e.g. AIP) involved in the pathogenesis of familial pituitary tumours
      (acromegaly), are there any mutations in this gene in these families? What is the function of
      the new gene in pituitary tumorigenesis? Does the new gene or its partners have a role in
      sporadic pituitary adenoma tumorigenesis?

      Pituitary tumours comprise around 15% of all intracranial neoplasms, and present with
      distinct clinical characteristics, usually in terms of local space-occupying effects, or
      secondary to tumoral hypersecretion or its consequences. Acromegaly and gigantism are due in
      more than 99% of cases to a somatotroph adenoma, which has been demonstrated to be monoclonal
      in the great majority of instances1. It has been suggested that there are 6 major features of
      oncogenesis which all need to be present in cases of cancer2, but only 3 of these (activation
      of an oncogene, inactivation of a tumour suppressor gene [TSG], inhibition of apoptosis)
      appear to be relevant to pituitary tumorigenesis; these tumours are usually benign adenomas,
      and the formation of new blood vessels and the capacity for metastasis are uncommon, although
      some way of evading senescence may be important. It has therefore been suggested that a very
      small number of mutations in oncogenes and/or TSG's may be causally responsible for pituitary
      adenomas. This makes them an excellent model for the early stages of tumorigenesis. However,
      while much has been established regarding the molecular pathology of these tumours, including
      extensive studies from our own laboratory3-7, the initiating mutation or mutations
      responsible for tumorigenesis have to date defied analysis.

      Early work established that some 30% of patients with acromegaly had one of 2 mutations of
      the alpha-subunit of the receptor-associated G protein, leading to constitutive activation,
      but it has been difficult to show that this has relevant biological consequences. We have
      identified a partial failure of the feedback regulation on somatotroph tumours, but no
      mutations of the relevant genes have been recorded6,8. We and others have also explored the
      possibility that there are somatic mutations in sporadic somatotroph tumours of genes
      identified in some hereditary syndromes associated with acromegaly (MEN-I, Carney syndrome),
      but these appear to be extremely rare9. However, we have worked in collaboration with a
      Chicago group who have been seeking to identify the gene responsible for familial acromegaly,
      a very rare dominant condition10-14. Some 46 families have been described worldwide over the
      last 40 years, and from a cohort of 8 families a region on chromosome 11q13 has been
      identified: we have sought to use data from our microarray studies15 to pinpoint the abnormal
      gene in these patients, but so far unsuccessfully. Our recent work has suggested that there
      are abnormalities of the cell cycle in pituitary adenomas, especially down-regulation of the
      cycling-dependent kinase inhibitor p27 and activation of cycling E, and that this is
      secondary to a putative abnormal growth factor receptor(s), but specific mutations of these
      receptors are absent16.

      Very recently, a Finnish group have identified a dominant gene of very low penetrance which
      appears to segregate with familial somatotroph and prolactin-secreting tumours17. This lies
      at or near position 11q13, but it remains unclear as to whether this is indeed the same gene
      identified in our families with a much more strongly penetrant condition. The gene codes for
      AIP (= aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein, also known as XAP2 hepatitis B virus
      X-associated protein 2 or ARA9 = AhR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor)-activated protein 9. AIP has
      330 amino acids and has a PPIase-like domain FKBP12 and four tetratricopeptide repeats
      (TPRs), probably important for protein-protein interactions.

      AIP is a putative activating partner for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, probably increasing
      the function of AhR. AhR has been linked to the induction of hepatic detoxifying gene
      products in response to environmental toxins such as dioxin18. However, an additional
      function appears to be regulation of the cell cycle, suppressing cyclin E and increasing
      expression of p2719. The AhR also has been shown to interact with cyclic AMP. In this latter
      instance, the interaction with cAMP appears to compete with the dioxin-dependent pathway,
      such that AhR has enhanced transport into the nucleus with transcriptional effects quite
      separate to those stimulated by dioxin and related ligands. As cAMP is an important second
      messenger in somatotroph tumours, this may be the relevant pathway underlying the apparent
      activity of AIP as a tumour suppressor.

      There is therefore a primary reason to believe that AIP may indeed function as a TSG in
      pituitary adenomas, and loss of heterozygosity for 11q13 as been seen in tumours in familial
      cases17. However, the initial Finnish data were only based on 3 families, and we now plan to
      investigate our entire cohort of families with acromegaly and prolactinomas, as well as
      further families that we are in the process of collecting. We have contacted many
      endocrinologists throughout the UK, and we have identified a small number of additional
      families. Finally, in the initial study some of the patients were apparently isolated cases
      of acromegaly, but presenting at an unusually young age, especially with gigantism. In such
      cases too mutations of the AIP gene were recorded.

      Plan of Investigation: We plan to screen all known families with a history of acromegaly
      and/or prolactinomas, as well as other pituitary tumour families to be identified in the UK,
      for mutations of the AIP gene. In addition we would like to screen other genes related to the
      chaperon AIP molecule, such as AhR, and other genes currently identified (PDE4A5, survivin
      and Tom20 protein) or may not been identified. As the data suggest that early onset,
      aggressive, seemingly sporadic cases of acromegaly or prolactinoma could also be caused by
      germline mutations, we will include patients with clinically sporadic but early-onset
      aggressive disease.

      The patients will be recruited from Endocrinology Departments from the collaborating centres
      (Barts Hospital London, Newcastle, Oxford, Stroke-on-Trent, Sheffield, Manchester, Aberdeen
      and Stroke-on-Trent).

      Blood samples will be assessed for germline DNA, RNA and protein isolated for peripheral
      lymphocytes collected in a peripheral blood sample. Affected family members will be
      identified, as well as first-degree relatives both affected and unaffected. At the same time,
      all apparent mutations or polymorphisms of AIP will be tracked in a cohort of 100 germline
      blood samples from normal volunteers for assessment of the background gene frequency in order
      to assess their relationship to disease status. Patient tumour samples will collected and RNA
      and protein expression studied.
    
  