
    
      The use of PET/CT in ovarian cancer has not been well-established.

      The diagnosis usually includes physical examination (incl. pelvic examination), blood test
      incl. CA-125 and transvaginal ultrasound. Furthermore imaging includes CT of thorax/abdomen
      and/or MR of pelvic. Ninety per cent of the ovarian cancers are epithelial carcinoma (EOC),
      which can be divided into serous (45%), mucinous (4%), endometrioid (5%), clear cell,
      undifferentiated and mixed types. All EOC are treated equally.

      Treatment of ovarian cancer involves surgery and chemotherapy. The decision of operability is
      made at the multidisciplinary conference. Prognosis depends not only in the stage and
      histological type of the tumor but also at the end result of surgery. Residual disease after
      initial surgery is a strong prognostic factor for survival, with improvement on both overall
      and progression free survival being greatest in women with no or minimal (tumor < 1 cm)
      visible disease at the end surgery. Supra radical surgery is a radical procedure plus e.g.
      extensive peritonectomy, resection of liver metastases, splenectomy, resection of the tail of
      pancreas and bowel resection. Only 60% of patients in advanced stage ovarian cancer are
      deemed optimal debulked peroperative. Patients with optimal debulking have a 5 year survival
      of 42% versus patients not possible of achieve radical operation with 5 year survival of 15%,
      resulting in a hazard rate of 2,12 for optimal vs. not optimal debulking. A correct
      preoperative assessment is important in planning of operation and to avoid futile operation
      in patients not resectable.

      Preoperative CT has shown to have a predictive value in assessment of the completeness of
      cytoreduction. But also PET/CT is has shown to be a independent predictor of resectability.
      Currently MR is standard in evaluating patient operability.

      Studies has shown PET/CT to be particularly useful in distinguishing patients with stages
      I-IIIB and IIIC-IV, with an accuracy of 98% compared to 88% with CT alone. The latter group
      is important to identify because optimal debulking often is not possible and they will
      benefit from preoperative chemotherapy. Currently the use of PET/CT in staging ovarian cancer
      is controversial, mainly because of the relatively low specificity, due to FDG-uptake in
      inflammatory cells and benign lesions. The concordance of PET/CT and surgical staging of
      ovarian cancer have been reported to range from 69% to 78%.8,9, And a recent study found good
      correlation between PET/CT findings and laparoscopy but a high rate of false negative results
      in lesions < 5 mm. But dual time point imaging is maybe the solution to this problem. Today
      it is standard to perform PET/CT scan 60-90 minutes after injection of tracer. Theoretically,
      you should get increased tumor/background ratio by performing a late scan, thus better being
      able to distinguish between malignant and benign. Dual time imaging studies in head and neck
      cancers, breast cancer and lung cancer suggests improvement in diagnostic accuracy of PET.
      But the use of delayed imaging in ovarian cancer has not been studied.

      The tracer used in PET is 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose. Generally cancer cells are thought to
      have low or absent G6Pase expression compared to normal cells and cancer cells have increased
      expression of GLUT (especially GLUT1) and hexokinase (especially HK2), which further leads to
      intracellular trapping of FDG-6-phosphate in malignant cells and there by yielding high
      maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax). But ovarian cancers have found to have a
      relatively low ratio of hexokinase/phosphatase maybe explaining the low/absent rise in
      FDG-uptake. The amounts of GLUT, hexokinase and G6Pase are responsible for the FDG trapping
      intracellular and the retention on the late scans.
    
  