
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Radiofrequency catheter ablation is a catheterization laboratory technique for the cure of
      cardiac arrhythmias, which has become common in pediatric cardiology practice. Recent
      analyses have suggested that ablation therapy is more cost-effective compared not only with
      surgery, but also with antiarrhythmic medication. Despite a good initial success rate of the
      technique, and a low initial complication rate, there is concern about possible long-term
      effects with the technique in the pediatric age group. There are reports not only of damage
      to cardiac valves, but also the development of new arrhythmias, including sudden death, as a
      result of ablations in children. Recurrences are observed frequently following initially
      successful procedures. Finally, there are animal data to suggest that immature myocardium is
      more prone to severe damage as a result of ablation procedures. Few, if any, data exist to
      support the long-term safety of these ablation techniques in children. Therefore, before
      ablation therapy becomes the standard approach in children, it is important to carefully
      assess the long-term risks in this patient group.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Multi-center, prospective, five-year study. The collection of these data was intended to
      provide the following information: 1) the incidence of serious cardiac damage as a result of
      ablation; 2) the incidence and time course of recurrence after initially successful ablation;
      and 3) the incidence of proarrhythmia following ablation. A total of 480 pediatric patients
      were enrolled prospectively and evaluated both before ablation of supraventricular
      tachycardia and at intervals following ablation with clinical history and examination,
      electrocardiogram, 24-hour Holter monitor, and echocardiogram, with non-invasive studies read
      by outside consultants. In addition, a complete Registry of pediatric patients undergoing
      ablation at the participating centers was established to allow comparisons with the study
      group and to provide population estimates of success and complication rates.
    
  