
    
      Background: Amongst people with mental disorders, the prevalence of smoking has been reported
      to be the highest among people with schizophrenia, ranging from 54%-90%. It is more than two
      to three times (20%-30%) of the general population. The co-occurrence of schizophrenia and
      smoking will lead to a higher chance of smoking-related diseases such as cardiovascular
      disease, liver diseases and reduced life expectancy. Currently, there is a large gap in
      knowledge regarding smoking cessation in people with schizophrenia; there has been few
      studies examining non-pharmacological interventions in smoking cessation on people with
      schizophrenia. Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) for mental health disorders has found
      that it has in general positive outcomes for the clients; improvements were consistently
      found in a number of studies. ACT is more encouraging compared to traditional methods of
      smoking cessation, where the individual is seen to be at fault for the habit. To date, no
      randomized trial has been conducted to compare the effects of ACT in smoking cessation among
      people with schizophrenia.

      Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) in enhancing
      smoking cessation among people with schizophrenia living in the community.

      Design: This is a randomised controlled trial. Individual, face to face, assessor-blinded
      with assessments will be conducted before intervention, after intervention, and at the 6th
      and 12th month after the initial session of ACT intervention.

      Participants and setting: 160 individuals aged 18 years or older, currently smoking but not
      undergoing any smoking cessation or similar programme, who were diagnosed with schizophrenia
      and were referred to 4 community-based mental health rehabilitation settings by medical
      doctors will be included in this trial.

      Using the Six Core Processes in Intervention (Flaxman, Blackledge & Bond, 2010) Acceptance By
      acceptance, ACT does not mean by the traditional sense of "letting go", "admitting faith
      passively", or "do something after acknowledging the facts". Since psychological avoidance
      toward distress, which can be unfavorable thoughts, emotions, will inevitably push individual
      to evade such experiences, ACT attacks the problem by accepting the psychological distress as
      it is, without distorting, interpreting or re-interpreting it through verbal constructs.

      Defusion Patients frequently, if not inevitably, fall into the trap of fusing their thoughts
      and appraisals with their self-concept. They are often so identified with the internal
      dialogues that whenever a thought of judging themselves arise, they treat them as a valid
      statement of evaluation on themselves. Cognitive defusion aims at creating a space between
      the thought and its relation with the individual, with the effect that the words, thoughts,
      and emotions are down-valued as a reference rather than a valid description of who we are.

      Self as context Our sense of self is often derived from our experienced thoughts, emotions,
      memories and physical sensations. This is called the self-as-content and is a readily
      accessible self-concept most of us would refer to. By addressing the above experience,
      especially the more frequent ones, we draw the conclusion that we are the person defined by
      them. On the contrary, ACT adopts the notion of self-as-context and defines the self as that
      stable, ever-present part of you that notices the transient thoughts, emotions, memories and
      sensations that enter in and out of awareness. When the self-as-context is embraced, the self
      is no longer defined as the various thoughts, feelings, and sensations, but as the person who
      is having or noticing those experiences. Although ACT makes no attempt to discern which one
      is a better representation of the self, it does appreciate self-as-context as a way to
      examine the distance between those internal experiences and the self.

      Contact with the Present Moment Making a closer contact with the present moment is the key to
      seeing how effectively or ineffectively what we are behaving in the moment, and that places
      us in a better position to change our behaviors as well as a higher motivation to do so.
      However, thoughts are always pulling us away from the present moment and we are either in the
      past or future. In fact, thoughts are about anything and everything except now.

      Values Values are perhaps the most powerful reinforcers in driving us to our goal and at the
      same time a valuable asset for individuals who are trying to live what they expect from life.
      Instead of swamping oneself in numerous problems, issues, regrets, and longings, values
      provide a powerful drive for patients to act according to what they want to become.
      Therapist, on the other hand, have a consistent measure as to the way the patients have to
      live up to their own expectations. Still more, therapist and patients are to endeavor
      collaboratively in working out the qualities in realizing patients' values.

      Committed Action If value is the train, commitment is the fuel that drives the person
      forward. Value, together with commitment, is a non-binding guideline that points to the way
      an individual can act. Therapist, on the other hand, is supposed to reinforce and encourage
      behaviors that are consistent with the values. Any behaviors inconsistent with the values are
      to be accepted as they are in a non-judgmental attitude, and the patient is encouraged to
      choose again in accordance to his values. Commitment is not only viewed as a promise but also
      actions that realize what one believes and upholds.

      Competency of therapist:

      The following are extracted from the core competencies self rating form posted at the website
      of Association for Contextual Behavioral Science (Luoma, n.d.).

      Basic competency in ACT The therapist is able to take heed of the patient's schizophrenic
      background and introduce the concepts and skills of ACT in a simple language that is
      compatible with the level of cognition and intelligence of the patient.

      The therapist helps the patient to realize his beliefs, thoughts, desires, fears and worries
      with smoking cessation.

      The therapist assists the patient in addressing in-depth his/her motivations and values
      regarding smoking cessation.

      The therapist is capable of leading the patient to apprehend the futility of the attempts to
      control the cravings and accept the urges as it is without necessarily yielding to them.

      By guiding the patient to see the hopelessness of controlling craving, the therapist is able
      to guide the patient to the ultimate solution-doing nothing, i.e., the mindfulness strategy
      of observing the cravings without the need to do anything.

      The therapist assists the patient to bring about actions in executing his/her values in a
      practical manner amidst even the most unfavorable circumstances as perceived by the patient.

      The therapist is able to master the six core processes of ACT and uses them flexibly by the
      flow of the therapy and the need of the patient.
    
  