
    
      The purpose of this registry is to capture additional "on-label" clinical data of the
      CE-marked BioMatrix Flex™ (BA9™-Eluting) stent system in relation to safety and
      effectiveness.

      This prospective, multi-center registry will enroll a total of 533 patients. The BioMatrix
      FlexTM has been studied in randomized controlled trials and has been granted the CE mark. The
      data have been reviewed by Health Canada and no further randomized trials were requested.
      Prior to marketing approval, Health Canada requested that a registry be implemented to
      provide data in Canada on 'on label patients' to supplement the data already available from
      the Leaders trial, conducted on 'all comers' patients. The registry follows the normal
      medical practice for drug eluting stents in Canada. 100% informed consents will be checked,
      and at least all Major Adverse Cardiac Events up to 2 years will be source data verified. All
      MACEs developing in the patient population will be adjudicated by an independent Clinical
      Events Committee. The patients will be followed clinically for up to 2 years after stent
      implantation.

      A third party Contract Research Organisation, Centre for Innovative Medicine has has been
      appointed to perform site monitoring and project management.

      The appropriate Data Management and Validation, Statistical Analysis, Safety, Monitoring
      Plans and guidelines have been put into place to address quality and consistency of data.

      A Clinical Event Committee (CEC) has been put in place for this registry, consisting of
      cardiologists not participating in the registry. The mandate of this CEC will be to review
      all Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE), to adjudicate and to classify them. In addition, and
      in order to protect study participants, there will be a regular review of all reported safety
      events by the sponsor Clinical Safety Officer and a weekly assessment of the incidence of the
      important risks pertaining to the registry in order to detect any safety signals.

      The sites have been trained during the Site Initiation Visits on registry operations and
      analysis activities, such as patient recruitment, data collection, data management, data
      analysis, reporting for adverse events, and change management.
    
  