
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of the intervention of pharmacists and
      geriatricians on medical prescription and on the iatrogenic risk in elderly critically ill
      patients admitted in surgical ICU. This study is before-after prospective study, carried out
      in 2 steps.

      Step 1 data collection from August 1, 2018 to February 1, 2019

      This step is a prospective analysis without any intervention of the pharmacist and of the
      geriatrician.

        -  The sociodemographic, and medical (comorbidities, reason for ICU admission, SAPS II
           (Simplified Acute Physiology Score) and SOFA (Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment)
           scores, laboratory data, invasive procedures data will be collected from ICU medical
           record.

        -  A geriatric evaluation and disability evaluation will be performed by using the ADL
           (Activity of Daily Living), Charlson, and SEGA (Short Emergency Geriatric Assessment)
           scales.

        -  The medical prescriptions will be reviewed at the first day and at 96 hours after
           admission in the ICU, and every 4 days during ICU stay. The pharmacist will analyse the
           medical prescriptions by using a standardized tool (Micromedex®, Theriaque®, Vidal®), to
           identify inappropriate prescription, and to assess the iatrogenic risks. These
           interventions will be quantified by using the SFPC Scale (French Society of clinical
           pharmacy).

        -  Iatrogenic events will be reported and analyzed.

        -  Drug prescription and patient outcome at discharge from the ICU and at discharge from
           the hospital will be collected.

        -  At 3 months from discharge from the hospital, a new geriatric evaluation will be
           conducted (patient's outcome and medical prescription).

      Step 2, from March 1, 2019 to March, 2020.

      This step is a prospective analysis with the intervention of the pharmacist and of the
      geriatrician.

      The same data that step 1 will be collected. During this step, the pharmacist carries
      individualized interventions that will be discuss with the physician in charge of the patient
      to improve the safety of drug prescription. The physician will be allowed to accept or to
      refuse these interventions.

      At 3 months from discharge from the hospital, a consultation with geriatrician will be
      proposed to the elderly patient. The geriatric evaluation and disability assessment will be
      conducted during this consultation.
    
  