
    
      The treatment course of a breast cancer patient includes a hospital stay, home health care
      that requires outpatient services, supportive care and a follow-up course. Outpatient surgery
      and home hospitalization units are two innovative organizational technologies that are
      strongly recommended because of their putative positive medico-economic impact; however,
      these structures are poorly studied in terms of quality of care and patient satisfaction.
      Regional implementation of these innovations is heterogeneous, thus allowing a comparative
      study.

      This prospective, multicenter, observational study aims to explore a comprehensive approach
      to the care of early breast cancer patients in a regional health territory (including 1.5
      million women and characterized by a breast cancer incidence and mortality higher than
      national ranges), incorporating all healthcare actors inside and outside the hospital.

      This study will be conducted in academic centers, general hospitals and private centers. In
      the different participating centers, the implemented care steps are different and may include
      outpatient surgery, home hospitalization, a one-stop breast clinic visit, care by an oncology
      pivot nurse and/or screening for supportive care. Outpatient surgery and home hospitalization
      in particular are two health technologies that are validated by the French National Authority
      for Health but used differently in different centers.

      The primary objective is to examine the economic and financial measurements of the different
      care pathways of early breast cancer patients to compare the economic burden of outpatient
      surgery and home hospitalization with the conventional care pathway.

      The secondary objectives are:

      Assessing patient satisfaction and needs for supportive care. Evaluating the structures and
      organizations. Evaluating the tool exchanges between the actors over the treatment course.

      All parameters related to the patient and to disease characteristics, determinants and
      management characteristics within and outside the center within one year will be collected
      and centralized in the study database. The patients' course of care will be divided into five
      stages: preadmission, hospitalization, the postoperative period (+ 1 month), adjuvant
      treatments and one-year follow-up. Care pathways will be identified, described and analyzed
      to meet the primary objective and the secondary objectives.

      After analyzing these care pathways, we will propose solutions for optimizing hospital and
      nonhospital care, thereby building efficient connections among the hospital, home health
      care, district nurse networks, medical and social sectors, and occupational reintegration.
    
  