
    
      In December 2019, an outbreak of pneumonia caused by a new coronavirus occurred in Wuhan and
      spread rapidly throughout China, with the evolution towards a global pandemic. Originally
      called new coronavirus 2019 (2019-nCoV), the virus was later officially named Coronavirus 2
      of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV-2) by WHO. On 30 January 2020, WHO declared
      the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak as a public health emergency of international concern. Compared to
      SARS-CoV, which caused an outbreak of SARS in 2003, SARS-CoV-2 has a higher transmission
      capacity. Although the clinical manifestations of SARS-CoV-2 are dominated by respiratory
      symptoms, some patients have severe cardiovascular damage. In addition, patients with
      underlying cardiovascular disease may be at increased risk of death. Therefore, understanding
      the impairments caused by SARS-CoV-2 to the cardiovascular system and the underlying
      mechanisms is of the utmost importance. During this Chinese epidemic, a coagulopathy was
      found in severe cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, including significantly higher levels of
      D-dimers in severe forms, disturbed PT and aPTT ratio compared to survivors (P <0.05). 71.4%
      of non-survivors and 0.6% of survivors met the criteria for disseminated intravascular
      clotting during their hospital stay. This study was confirmed in a second Chinese population
      where DDimers are still correlated with mortality. The hypothesis of microthrombosis at the
      renal level was also associated with activation of coagulation since high levels of
      creatinine were associated with higher levels of DDimers, in favor of a thrombotic origin for
      kidney failure. Endothelial dysfunction may thus have a major role in the respiratory
      physiopathologic process as well as in the viral dissemination processes. Indeed, the
      SARS-CoV-2 receptor (ACE2) is strongly expressed in endothelial cells. Infection of
      endothelial cells could cause a lesion of the endothelium but also an activation that can
      trigger the activation of coagulation. Circulating endothelial cells (CECs) are generally
      considered markers of lesions and may be non-invasive markers of pulmonary vascular
      dysfunction during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Another marker of endothelial activation could be
      circulating extracellular vesicles. They could also be involved in the spread of the virus.
      Thus this project proposes to study different aspects of the diagnosis and pathophysiology of
      SARS-CoV-2. We propose to fully study activation state of coagulation and endothelium on a
      plasma and cellular side in patients diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2/COVID19. The different forms
      of the disease will be included: without lung disease, with a more or less severe lung
      disease, i.e. having evolved or not towards acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
      Extensive research of biomarkers will be compared to the detection of the virus in the
      respiratory tract as well as in the blood. This work will contribute to a better description
      of disease pathophysiology and should allow us to identify a patient profile in whom
      preventive or curative anticoagulant therapy could be considered.
    
  