
    
      The aim of this study is to examine the relations between depression and psychiatric family
      history, candidate genes, cytokines and health-related quality of life among hemodialysis
      patients and patients receiving interferon treatment for hepatitis C. The investigators aim
      to recruit 200 hemodialysis patients and 100 patients receiving interferon treatment for
      hepatitis C at Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Keelung. Our pilot study found that among
      hemodialysis patients, the prevalence rates of probable anxiety disorder and probably
      depression disorder was 25.9% and 40.0%. Among the patients receiving interferon treatment
      for hepatitis C, the prevalence rates of probable anxiety disorder and probably depression
      disorder was 30.2% and 20.7% at baseline, and 44.0% and 36.2% at 3 months after interferon
      treatment. The study procedure consists of 2 parts. For the first one, all the recruited
      hemodialysis patients will receive assessments for fatigue symptoms using Fatigue Scale,
      depressive symptoms using Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and Montgomery Asberg
      Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), Short-form Health-related Quality of Life (SF-36), blood
      levels of IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-αas well as psychiatric diagnostic interview with the
      Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) and the Family Interview for Genetic
      Study (FIGS). The second one is a prospective follow up of patients receiving interferon
      treatment. Before initiating interferon treatment, the subjects will receive baseline
      assessments using the same scales mentioned above. The investigators will genotype the
      5-HTTLPR triallelic polymorphism on all subjects. The follow-up visits are at month 1, month
      3, termination, and one month after termination of interferon program. This proposed project
      will provide a broad view and better understanding of the gene-environment interaction in the
      etiology of depression.
    
  