
    
      Approximately 2.5 million people are hospitalized each year for traumatic brain injury (TBI)
      in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The
      Indiana State Department of Health (ISDH) found in 2013 that more than 50,000 Hoosiers
      suffered a traumatic brain injury (TBI). Further, the prevalence of TBI-related disability in
      Indiana was found to be 66,410. These findings clearly indicate that Indiana has a
      significant health care and social burden associated with TBI.

      To date, investigators have made substantial progress through our previous TBI HRSA grants in
      the development and evaluation of the RF model as applied to vocational rehabilitation
      outcomes. However, there are many people in Indiana who do not have access to these services.
      Further, TBI is now recognized to be a chronic health condition, and investigators have not
      implemented Resource Facilitation (RF) to improve or stabilize health outcomes.

      Through our 2009-2014 HRSA TBI grant, investigators became interested in the RF model, but
      noted the absence of empirical outcome data to support its effectiveness. To address this
      need, investigators conducted the first randomized controlled trial of RF with 22
      participants who were recruited while they were still in acute brain injury rehabilitation,
      and were, on average, approximately 3 months post-injury. The participants were randomized to
      RF or a treatment as usual control group. After six months, it was found that 64% of the RF
      treatment group was successful at returning to competitive employment as compared to 36% of
      the control group (Wald-Wolfkowitz z = -3.277, p < .0001). While it was found that both
      groups had reduced level of disability at follow-up (F = 60.65, p < .0001), it was also found
      that the interaction for groups and time was significant (F = 9.11, p = .007) indicating that
      the participants who received RF were significantly less disabled at follow-up as compared to
      the control participants.

      These findings were replicated in a larger randomized controlled trial that studied 44
      participants with acquired brain injury that were again approximately 2-3 months post-injury.
      Participants were randomized to 12 months of RF or a treatment as usual control group. The
      results again demonstrated a significant advantage for the RF group (69%) for both rate of
      return to work as compared to the control group (50%) and how quickly they returned to work.
      Using a logistic regression, investigators found that group assignment was a significant
      predictor of vocational outcome (Wald = 4.91, p= .027) and RF participants were found to be
      seven times more likely to return to productive community-based work as compared to controls
      (95% confidence interval, 1.25-39.15). The evidence supporting the efficacy of RF seemed
      sufficient to support a clinical trial to examine effectiveness.

      Based on these two publications, Indiana Vocational Rehabilitation supported a prospective
      clinical cohort study of the effectiveness of RF. In this study, investigators provided RF to
      210 clients of Indiana Vocational Rehabilitation and compared their vocational outcomes to
      the participants in the control groups in our two previous randomized controlled trials. In
      contrast to our randomized controlled trials, these participants who received RF were almost
      10 years post-injury. Of the 210 participants in the RF treatment group, 69% (n=145)
      successfully returned to competitive work. Six of these 145 successful outcomes were for
      participants that had a goal of return to post-high school education. Investigators compared
      these outcomes for the RF cohort with the outcomes attained by the control groups from our
      two previous randomized controlled trials and found that 48% (n=16) of the control
      participants successfully returned to paid employment. The difference between the two groups
      revealed a significant advantage for the RF group (Χ2(1)=5.39, p = .018). These results
      certainly provided evidence for the effectiveness of RF for helping people get back to work
      after acquired brain injury in a cohort referred to us by Indiana Vocational Rehabilitation.

      Based on the success of our HRSA TBI grants and the results from the first two randomized
      controlled trials and the prospective clinical cohort study, Indiana Vocational
      Rehabilitation decided to support RF for any person with a brain injury and who qualified for
      services in 2014, and RF was made available throughout the state of Indiana by 2015. Today,
      approximately 350 individuals with acquired brain injury are receiving RF at any one time.
      However, it is quite noteworthy that investigators had more than 700 referrals from the
      community for RF, the vast majority of which will not qualify for Indiana Vocational
      Rehabilitation services. It is for these reasons that in Indiana, investigators need to
      expand access to RF to promote optimal health outcomes and decrease disability associated
      with TBI.
    
  