
    
      Insomnia is a common health problem that causes distress, impaired function, and increased
      risk for other health problems. Chronic insomnia is defined by problems with the quality or
      amount of sleep, including difficulty falling asleep, frequent awakenings, and/or awakening
      early and being unable to return to sleep. In developing this application, patients,
      providers, payors, and the investigators identified both concerns and opportunities with
      current treatments for chronic insomnia. Medications and Cognitive-Behavioral therapy for
      insomnia (CBT-I; a treatment program to improve sleep through changes in behavior and
      thinking) are both effective for treating insomnia. Zolpidem, the most frequently prescribed
      insomnia medication, is widely available, but may cause side effects and dependency. CBT-I is
      the recommended first line treatment by many professional organizations, but it is not widely
      available in physicians' practices. Patients, providers, and payors face important unanswered
      questions: Which treatment should be used for the treatment of chronic insomnia? Is
      combination therapy more effective, and does it result in lower zolpidem use? Who responds
      best to which treatment? These dilemmas are particularly relevant to patients and providers
      in rural areas, where access to behavioral health specialists is limited, and concerns
      regarding use of controlled substances is particularly acute.

      To address these questions, propose the study, Comparative Effectiveness of Zolpidem and
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia in Rural Adults (COZI). The investigators will use
      a well-tested Internet version of CBT-I, which is just as effective as in-person CBT-I, but
      more widely available. The aims of COZI are to: 1: Compare the effectiveness of zolpidem,
      CBT-I, and combination treatment for insomnia symptoms over 12 months. 2: Compare the
      effectiveness of zolpidem, CBT-I, and combination treatment for other symptoms and problems,
      including health-related quality of life, mood, and health outcomes. 3: Compare the side
      effects of zolpidem, CBT-I, and combination treatment. 4: Examine who responds best to which
      treatment. COZI will study 1200 patients (400 per treatment) recruited from 8 health care
      systems across the country, each of which has established practices in rural areas. Patients
      will be treated with medication prescribed by their own physician, Internet CBT-I, or a
      combination of the two. The investigators will evaluate treatment effects at 9 weeks, and 6
      and 12 months. Our study questions and design reflect early and ongoing engagement of key
      stakeholders including patients, providers, and payors, who are members of the Study Advisory
      Committee (SAC). SAC members will work with study investigators to recommend the best
      strategies for recruiting patients, measuring treatment effects, and disseminating study
      findings. The SAC will meet quarterly. Patients and other stakeholders have already provided
      guidance on which treatments are most worth studying, and which symptoms would best reflect
      the effects of treatment. Patients and other stakeholders will also be part of the Steering
      Committee, which is the main decision-making group for our study, and which will meet
      monthly. COZI will lead to answers for patients and providers addressing insomnia; improved
      health and function for millions of rural Americans; and sustainable changes in how insomnia
      is treated in rural practices.
    
  