
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the malignant tumors that seriously threaten the
      health of our people. Its morbidity and mortality rank third and second among various
      malignant tumors in China, respectively. Liver transplantation, surgical resection, and local
      ablation are the main curative treatments for early liver cancer. Our team first reported
      (Ann Surg, 2006) a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial of radiofrequency
      ablation (RFA) versus surgical resection for small HCC. The results showed that the long-term
      efficacy of RFA in the treatment of small HCC is similar to surgical resection. Subsequently,
      Feng et al (J Hepatol, 2012) and Lv et al reported obtained similar research conclusions. At
      present, local ablation therapy represented by RFA has been recommended as a first-line
      treatment for small HCC by many international guidelines, especially for small HCC located in
      central segments.

      With the development of radiotherapy equipment and the precision imaging technology,
      especially the emergence of stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT), the status of radiotherapy in
      the treatment of HCC is increasing. SBRT is defined as the use of external irradiation
      technology, which is divided into several fractions, and the high dose of radiotherapy is
      accurately delivered into the tumor. As a result, tumor is subjected to high dose and the
      normal tissue around the tumor is exposed to relatively low dose. Compared with conventional
      fractionated radiotherapy (CRT), SBRT possessed fewer segmentation times (1 to 6 F), higher
      fractional doses (5 to 20 Gy), and steeper gradients at the edge of the target region, so it
      has stronger biological effect. Meanwhile, SBRT can also protect the normal organs better,
      especially for the radiotherapy of smaller tumors. Multiple clinical studies and
      meta-analyses have shown that SBRT is superior to traditional CRT in the treatment of HCC,
      and the side effects are lower in the acute phase. SBRT has become a mainstream technology
      for HCC, and has been recommended as a routine local treatment for HCC by NCCN guidelines and
      NCI radiotherapy guidelines.

      This project is to conduct a phase III, prospective, randomized, open, parallel controlled
      clinical study of RFA versus SBRT for small hepatocellular carcinoma (solitary tumor≤ 5.0 cm;
      initially treated). The primary end point is 3-year overall survival rate. As for secondary
      end points, we aim to compare 5-year overall survival rate, 1-, 2-, and 3- year
      progression-free survival (PFS), local control rate, and rate of complications.Stratified
      analysis will be performed according to tumor size (≤2.0 cm; 2.1-5.0 cm).

      Patients enrolled in this clinical trail received either SBRT or RFA depending on the
      randomization allocation.

      As for SBRT group, the treatment follows the protocol below.Immobilization: Patients are
      immobilized with vacuum bags or styrofoam in the supine position, with the arms raised above
      the head. 4DCT scanning: Simple breathing training is conducted before simulation, so that
      the patient can keep breathing quietly and evenly. A plastic box with reflective marker is
      placed on the patient's anterior abdominal surface where the respiratory amplitude is
      relatively large, approximately midway between the xiphoid and the umbilicus. The movement of
      the marker is recorded by an infrared camera, which is converted into breathing curve by
      computer software. After the breathing curve becomes stable, the CT data of different
      respiratory phases is collected by 4DCT in axial cine mode. CT scanning region: From 3-4 cm
      above the diaphragm to the 4th lumbar vertebra. The intravenous contrast is administered
      during CT scanning and the slice thickness is 3.0 mm. After 4DCT scanning, images are sorted
      into 10 phases by the software. Each respiratory cycle is divided into 10 respiratory phases,
      named as CT0% (end-inhalation), CT10%, CT20% (mid-exhalation), CT30%, CT40%, CT50%
      (end-exhalation), CT60%, CT70% (mid-inhalation), CT80%, CT90%, respectively. Delineation of
      the target volumes and organs at risk: Gross tumor volume (GTV) and organs at risk (OARs) are
      contoured on the 20% CT image (mid-exhalation). Then the GTV is registered to the other
      respiratory phases of 4DCT scan by a physicist using Atlas-based Auto-segmentation (ABAS,
      Elekta CMS), and the target volumes are modified and confirmed by a radiation oncologist
      using the standard window/level settings. GTV is defined as the intrahepatic lesion on
      images. Internal target volume (ITV) is defined as the combined volume of GTVs on 10
      respiratory phases. Planning target volume (PTV) is generated by adding a 6-mm margin to the
      ITV. OARs include liver, kidney, stomach, small intestine, and spinal cord. Normal liver
      volume is defined as the entire liver minus GTV. Treatment planning: The plan of volumetric
      modulated arc therapy (VMAT) is designed on the 20% CT image using Monaco TPS (CMS, Elekta)
      with an optimization algorithm based on a combination of radiobiological and physical cost
      functions. Monte Carlo algorithm (MC) is performed in the optimization process and a single
      arc is conducted using FFF mode. Dosimetric evaluation: For PTV, V95% ≥95%, Dmax < 110%, Dmin
      >90%. For OARs, mean dose to normal liver (MDTNL) < 13 Gy, V15Gy of liver < 35%; Dmean of
      kidneys <6 Gy, D0.5cc of esophagus < 21 Gy; D0.5cc of stomach < 21 Gy; D0.5cc of small
      intestine < 21Gy; D0.5cc of colon < 24Gy; D0.5cc of heart < 30 Gy; D0.5cc of ribs < 39 Gy;
      Dmax of spinal cord < 18 Gy. The planning is evaluated according to the dose volume histogram
      (DVH) and the dose distribution of each layer. Elekta linear accelerator (Versa HDTM, MLCi2
      80 leaves, 0.5 cm MLC) with 6-MV photons are used for treatment. The isocenter of the
      irradiation field is defined as the geometric center of the PTV, and the prescribed dose is
      defined as the average dose of PTV. The prescribed dose is maximized while meeting the
      dosimetric goals. The prescribed dose is 36-54 Gy in 3 fractions administered within 1 week.
      Plan Validation and Implementation: Dosimetric verification of plan is performed on a Versa
      HDTM linear accelerator using the three-dimensional semiconductor detection matrix Delta4
      (ScandiDos, Uppsala, Sweden) before treatment for each patient. The gamma evaluation criteria
      were ±3% of 3 Gy and 3 mm of the distance criterion. After the patient's positioning, a 360°
      scanning is performed using 4D-CBCT prior to each fraction. The automatic bone registration
      and manual fine-tuning method are used to register the 20% CT image of 4D-CBCT with the
      planning CT. Then the positioning error data of 6-degree-of-freedom is obtained for online
      calibration. If the positioning error after calibration is less than 3 mm, the treatment will
      be delivered.

      As for RFA group, contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (CEUS) was carried out for all patients
      before RFA. RFA was performed with the use of conscious analgesic sedation (intravenous
      administration of 0.1 mg of fentanyl, 5 mg of droperidol and 0.1 mg of tramadol
      hydrochloride) and local anesthesia (5 mL of 1% lidocaine) by an anesthesiologist. All
      procedures were performed percutaneously by one of three ablation experts with 6 to 15 years
      of experience under real-time ultrasound guidance. The ZW-II RFA system (Dalong South
      Technical Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, China) was used for ablation. After the single-needle
      electrode with an exposed tip was deployed to the residual tumor bottom under ultrasound
      guidance while avoiding critical structures during temporary suspension of respiration. The
      radiofrequency generator was activated and initiated with 30 W of power. The power was
      increased by 10 W per minute to 60 W. Tissue impedance was continuously monitored during the
      ablation, and generator output was adjusted to generator maximum power or until 8 minutes had
      elapsed. Then, the lesion was rescanned to determine whether the ablative region had covered
      the whole tumor or a second ablation was required to achieve a satisfactory ablative area. At
      the end of the procedure, the needle tract was ablated to prevent bleeding and needle track
      seeding.

      This study is expected to complete enrollment in 3 years and to follow up for 3 years.The
      primary analysis is performed in the intention-to-treat population. Kaplan-Meier curves will
      be used to describe the patient's recurrence-free survival, and the corresponding statistical
      data are calculated, such as median progression-free survival (PFS) and bilateral 95% CI. The
      secondary analysis used a hypothesis test and a two-sided 95% confidence interval(CI) for the
      first time of the primary recurrence.Kaplan-Meier curves will also be used to describe the
      patient's disease progression, and calculated the corresponding statistical data, such as the
      median overall survival(OS) and bilateral 95% CI.Safety assessments will be also performed by
      comparing adverse events in the two groups of patients.
    
  