
    
      Radiotherapy is the primary treatment modality or an important adjunct treatment for many
      patients with H&N carcinoma. Local control is directly related to dose and to the technical
      accuracy with which the dose is delivered to the target volume. Traditional radiotherapy
      techniques result in significant doses being delivered to normal tissues adjacent to the
      target, including the spinal cord and salivary glands. This leaves the patient with
      significant acute and late normal tissue toxicity that impacts on both ability to tolerate
      the actual treatment and on the patient's long-term quality of life. Recently, we have used
      static conformal multisegmental intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) for comprehensive
      irradiation of head and neck cancer with dose sparing of uninvolved tissues. This has
      resulted in substantial preservation of major salivary gland function in many patients with
      primary sites in the oral pharynx, oral cavity, nasopharynx, and pyriform sinus. While our
      results to date have shown promising preservation of salivary flow, we do not know whether
      patients treated with IMRT have similar local control rates as those treated with standard
      radiotherapy. Some investigators have raised concern that by giving a low radiation dose to
      areas adjacent to the target volume there is a risk of undertreating disease. On the other
      hand, the IMRT delivered with this protocol (called "simultaneous integrated boost", or SIB)
      may improve local control rates by delivering the same biologically effective dose in a
      shorter overall time period (see below). This is a phase I/II trial which seeks to establish
      the efficacy of IMRT for H&N cancer treatment, and further investigate the relationship
      between radiation dose to the parotid glands, salivary flow, and quality of life. The
      specific objectives of the trial are as follows:

        -  To assess the local control rate and survival of patients treated with
           intensity-modulated radiotherapy using the simultaneous integrated boost (SIB) for
           regions at high risk of recurrence;

        -  To determine the patterns of failure of patients treated with IMRT+SIB;

        -  To assess the incidence of chronic grade 2 xerostomia after parotid-sparing IMRT using
           the RTOG grading scale;

        -  To assess quality of life of patients during and after IMRT using subjective xerostomia
           questionnaire and the University of Washington Quality of Life Head and Neck Symptom
           Questionnaire;

        -  To assess quantitative changes in salivary function before and after IMRT using
           sialometry (unstimulated and stimulated whole salivary flow rates).

      Patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the H&N will be eligible provided they are over 18
      years' age, AJCC stage I-IV with M0 and N0-2 disease, and KPS >=70%. Ineligibility criteria
      include previous cancer or H&N radiotherapy, salivary gland dysfunction, or unwilling to
      provide informed consent.

      Methodology: All patients accrued to this study will have a series of pre-treatment
      evaluations, including history, physical, KPS evaluation, CT/MRI of the head and neck, chest
      x-ray or CT, dental examination, QOL assessment using the University of Washington QOL H&N
      symptom questionnaire (Hassan et al, 1993), and pre-treatment salivary flow measurements. All
      salivary flow measurements collected for this study will include unstimulated (resting) and
      stimulated (using citric acid solution), with a 5-minute collection time for each. Accrued
      patients will belong to one of two cohorts, which will determine the radiotherapy target
      volumes and dose levels: Group 1 - Patients who are treated with definitive radiotherapy (or
      chemoradiotherapy). The high dose region (PTV66) will consist of all areas of gross disease
      plus appropriate planning margin. The lower dose region (PTV54) will include PTV66 and all
      at-risk draining lymphatics of the neck. Group 2 - Patients treated with surgery and
      post-operative radiotherapy. The high-dose region (PTV60) will consist of the areas of
      previous gross disease and regions of the neck with metastatic lymph node involvement. The
      low-dose region (PTV54) will include PTV60 plus the remainder of the surgical bed and any
      additional regional lymphatic tissue considered to be at risk of harboring occult disease.
      All patients will be treated in 30 treatments (1 treatment per day, 5 days per week, for 6
      weeks). PTV66 will receive 66 Gy, PTV54 will receive 54 Gy, etc. Thus different target
      regions will receive different doses per day (ranging from 1.8 to 2.2). In theory, giving
      high-risk regions a higher dose per day (hypofractionation) allows tumour cells less time to
      repopulate and should improve control rates (Fowler, 2000).

      Investigations during and after treatment: Patients will have weekly toxicity assessments
      during radiotherapy. Follow-up after completion of RT will include history/physical, QOL
      assessment, and salivary flow collections. These assessments will be done at 4, 8, and 12
      weeks, then every 1.5 months until 1 year. Follow-up beyond 1 year is at the physician's
      discretion but normally will involve visits every 3-4 months.

      Statistical considerations: The sample size for this trial is based on the expected local
      control rate of similar patients treated with standard radiotherapy. For group 1 (patients
      treated with definitive radiotherapy) this is difficult to predict a priori because of the
      expected heterogeneity of stages and primary sites of accrued patients. However, stage I-II
      patients treated with RT alone, and selected stage III patients treated with
      chemoradiotherapy have 2-year local control rates of 70-80%. For group 2 (patients treated
      with surgery with high-risk features necessitating post-op RT), the expected local control
      rate is also approximately 70%. Assuming a power of 70%, significance of 5%, and a historical
      rate of local control of 75% (combined), the required number of patients to detect a 10%
      change in local control is 120.7. We will therefore accrue 120 patients, at an anticipated
      rate of 2-3 patients per month for 2-4 years.
    
  