
    
      This is a multicenter, non-randomized, uncontrolled, open-label phase I/II study to observe
      the safety and preliminary efficiency of catumaxomab in patients (hereinafter referred to as
      participants) with non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) who have failed or are
      intolerant to Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine.

      This study is conducted in 3 phases sequentially: dose escalation phase, dose expansion phase
      and dose extension phase. In the dose escalation phase, the preliminary safety and
      pharmacokinetic profile of catumaxomab for 4 cycles of instillation in participants are
      explored. Data will be collected after completing DLT observation in all cohorts, but it is
      not required to lock database. DSMB will review the data of each dose cohort and decide
      whether to open the enrollment for the next cohort. DSMB will recommend the dose at dose
      expansion phase according to the relevant data after the completion of DLT observation and
      the first efficiency assessment.

      In the dose expansion phase, 24 participants will receive the catumaxomab treatment at dosing
      scheme recommended by the DSMB. DLT events occurred within 28 days after the initial
      instillation will be investigated. After th DLT observation period, DSMB will evaluate the
      data from both dose escalation and dose expansion phase and decide whether to initiate the
      dose extension phase; protocol amendment might be developed.

      In the dose extension phase, the elgible participants are enrolled and allocated into three
      arms according to the type of BCG treatment failure: refractory, relapse, and intolerance. A
      maximum 125 participants are enrolled in the 3 arms, with at least 30 participants allocated
      to each.

      The participants will have chest and abdominal CT and pelvic MRI scan at baseline to
      determine the area of lesion and to rule out possible extra-bladder lesions. From the initial
      instillation, cystoscopy, bladder biopsy, urinary cytology, and pelvic MRI scan are performed
      every 12 weeks (±7 days); chest and abdominal CT scans are performed every 24 weeks (±7
      days)1 until recurrence, progression, consent withdrawal, or 96 weeks (±7 days) from the
      initial instillation, whichever occurs firstly. Participants who discontinue study treatment
      early due to any reasons other than disease progression will continue to have the tumor
      response assessment as planned until the participant has disease progression, withdrawal of
      consent, loss of follow-up, death, 96 weeks (± 7 days) after the initial instillation or
      until the end of the study, whichever occurs firstly.
    
  