
    
      Our investigators propose a randomized clinical trial to test hospitalized patients (due to
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, COPD) for obstructive sleep apnea, then randomizing
      the patients with OSA into CPAP versus usual care. This study is designed to target a high
      risk population (hospitalized patients) and early initiation of therapy. Our investigators
      intend to enroll all consenting participants hospitalized with a primary COPD diagnosis. Our
      study is unique and the answer to its question - whether early diagnosis of OSA and
      initiation of and adherence to CPAP therapy in hospitalized COPD patients will reduce 30-day
      readmission rates - is unknown. The objective is twofold: to improve quality of care and
      decrease preventable hospitalizations through early diagnosis and implementation of this
      early diagnosis and intervention model for this subset of patients may slow progression of
      COPD, offset a large public health and financial burden, and improve overall outcomes.

      Our investigators believe that our study, which involves human subjects, is in accordance
      with general ethical principles. It should be noted that the diagnosis and subsequent
      treatment of OSA during hospitalization is not part of routine practice, and that the control
      group truly would follow "usual care". Moreover, patients who are deemed very sick (as
      outlined in the exclusion criteria) will be excluded from the study. Finally half of enrolled
      participants will receive early CPAP therapy which may potentially benefit those patients
      beyond what is currently "usual care".

      Study Design

      Our study is a single-center, randomized control trial designed to evaluate the impact of
      early diagnosis and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in hospitalized chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients on hospital readmission, symptoms, and
      healthcare utilization. Consecutive patients who meet inclusion criteria hospitalized with a
      primary diagnosis of COPD will be asked to participate in the study. Patients who agree and
      sign consent will undergo a portable sleep study to diagnose OSA-predominant sleep disordered
      breathing. Patients will also complete a questionnaire packet consisting of the following
      standardized questionnaires: sleep history questionnaire, Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS),
      Patient Recorded Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS), Chronic Obstructive
      Pulmonary Disease Assessment Tool (CAT), and STOP-BANG questionnaire. Each patient who meets
      inclusion criteria and consents to the study will undergo an inpatient portable sleep study
      (ApneaLink, Resmed Corp). This is a Type III study which is an unattended study that measures
      nasal pressure, respiratory effort, oxygen saturation, and body position. A study
      investigator will apply the portable device, and a board-certified sleep medicine physician
      (co-investigators) will interpret these studies. The study will be performed while the
      patient is on room air (not on oxygen), thus the study may not be applied on the first
      hospitalized night (if oxygen therapy is required) but delayed until the patient is
      appropriate to be off oxygen.

      A diagnosis of OSA will be made if the apnea-hypopnea index with 4% oxygen desaturation is
      greater than 5 (AHI4%≥5) with at least 50% of events consistent with obstructive rather than
      central physiology. Study participants with OSA will then be randomized into one of two
      pathways: Intervention Pathway and Usual Care Pathway.

      Intervention Pathway Patients will receive CPAP therapy in the hospital followed by home CPAP
      therapy. A sleep center respiratory therapy/sleep technologist case manager will perform a
      bedside mask fit, CPAP education, and set up their outpatient follow-up appointments with the
      sleep center. Their home CPAP therapy will be a loaner from the sleep medicine department
      that includes wireless connectivity so that adherence data is available to the investigators
      throughout the duration of the study. Furthermore, the patients will be entered into our
      usual automated platform (USleep; ResMed Corp) in which patients with suboptimal CPAP use
      will be sent messages (email or text based on patient preference) in order to ensure
      adherence to therapy. This platform is already a standard part of our usual care.

      The patients will receive CPAP in addition to the contemporary standard of care
      pharmacotherapy for their underlying cardiac condition(s). They will be asked to follow up at
      the Fontana Sleep Center within 1 month after discharge for assessment of CPAP use and asked
      to complete the aforementioned questionnaire packet (with the exception of the STOP BANG
      questionnaire). Patients will also be asked to follow up within 30 days after discharge for
      assessment of CPAP use and asked to complete the aforementioned questionnaire packet.
      Patients will be followed during the 30-day period and assessed for readmission rates, time
      to readmission, adherence to CPAP therapy, and presence of symptoms. During the 1 month
      follow-up appointment, the sleep center will troubleshoot CPAP use when appropriate;
      otherwise, requests for additional troubleshooting will be at the discretion of the patient
      (as is currently our usual care).

      Usual Care Pathway Patients will receive contemporary standard of care pharmacotherapy for
      their underlying cardiac condition(s) and will not receive CPAP therapy for the duration of
      the study. They will be asked to follow up at the Fontana Sleep Center within 1 month after
      discharge for a repeat outpatient portable sleep study and asked to complete the
      aforementioned questionnaire packet (with the exception of the STOP BANG questionnaire). The
      results of the outpatient portable sleep studies will be compared with the in-patient
      portable sleep study. Patients will also be asked to follow up with the Fontana Sleep Center
      within 30 days after discharge for assessment of primary and secondary outcomes. Patients
      will be followed during the 30-day period and assessed for readmission rates, time to
      readmission, adherence to CPAP therapy, and presence of symptoms.
    
  