
    
      As of August 2007, approximately 1.5 million U.S. service members had been deployed to either
      Iraq (Operation Iraqi Freedom, OIF) or Afghanistan (Operating Enduring Freedom, OEF). The
      sacrifices of these service members include >3500 fatalities and >35,000 injuries resulting
      in medical air transports. Medical sequelae, such as those involving traumatic amputations
      and traumatic brain injury, have been common. Contemporary military operations have also been
      linked to significant adverse mental health consequences. In particular, recent evidence
      suggests that both overt psychiatric symptoms and other functionally-relevant problems, such
      as attention and memory impairment, occur. These adverse mental health consequences, already
      observed in the immediate aftermath of war, could constitute a significant public health
      problem if prevalent and persistent.

      In this context, Cooperative Studies Program (CSP) study #566 proposes an observational
      cohort design to examine war-related mental health dysfunction beyond the immediate aftermath
      of war. The proposed work builds on a unique data set available from the Neurocognition
      Deployment Health Study (NDHS), an interagency collaboration between the Department of
      Defense (DoD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Initiated in April 2003, with an
      initial enrollment of 1595 participants, the NDHS has focused on short-term mental health
      outcomes of OIF deployment. To date, the NDHS is the only deployment health study of U.S.
      troops that includes both prospectively-gathered pre-deployment (baseline) and
      post-deployment (within 90 days after return from the war) data, as well as objective,
      performance-based measures of mental functioning.

      The proposed work would collect new "long-term follow-up" data 3 to 5 years after NDHS
      participants returned from their initial deployment to Iraq. The newly acquired data from the
      proposed work will be analyzed with data available from the previous waves of the NDHS. The
      two primary objectives of CSP #566 are to: (1) determine the prevalence and course of
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) among Iraq War Veterans 3-5 years following return from
      their Iraq War deployment; and (2) assess the persistence of previously observed
      neuropsychological changes (in attention, verbal learning, visual memory, and reaction time)
      following war-zone participation and their relationships to the subsequent development of
      PTSD as the end-point. The second primary objective also evaluates traumatic brain injury
      (TBI) as a possible neural risk factor for PTSD.

      The two secondary objectives are to: (1) examine the association of risk and resilience
      factors, including the impact of war zone stressors, with the outcomes of PTSD, major
      depressive disorder (MDD), and panic disorder; and (2) determine whether changes in PTSD
      symptoms or neuropsychological function are associated with subsequent day-to-day
      functioning, including health-related functional activities and occupational functioning.

      The proposed study includes two hierarchical participant sampling frames: (1) a "full sample"
      (N=817) for examination of PTSD and related outcomes; and (2) a "neuropsychological
      subsample" (N=200) for examination of neuropsychological and functional outcomes. Both
      samples are drawn from the anticipated 1149 participants from the original NDHS cohort who
      deployed to Iraq and consented to be contacted for future research. The "full sample"
      component includes clinician-administered structured psychiatric phone interviews to
      determine clinically significant cases of PTSD, major depressive disorder, and panic
      disorder; a mail questionnaire survey will provide assessment of posttraumatic stress (PTS)
      symptom severity. The "neuropsychological sample" component includes in-person
      performance-based assessment of neuropsychological outcomes, shown previously to be affected
      by deployment to Iraq. In addition, participants in the neuropsychological sample will
      complete questionnaires relevant to health-related functional impact and occupational
      functioning.

      The planned duration of the study is 5.5 years, including a 6 month start-up period, 42
      months to locate, contact, and complete assessments on participants, 6 months to lock and
      close the database, and 12 months to complete the primary and secondary analyses. The
      attributes of the established study population, in combination with the scope of the proposed
      work, offer a unique opportunity to answer scientific questions with direct relevance to
      healthcare policy for returning OIF Veterans. Specifically, this study can 1) identify
      quantifiable and objective measures associated with subsequent outcome and functioning, 2)
      determine early potentially modifiable factors that may be used to promote resilience, 3)
      optimize treatment "windows," and 4) help project future resource allocation based on the
      frequency and impact of the mental health problems identified.
    
  