
    
      In France, according to the Health Barometer 2017, cocaine testing has seen two decades of
      increases from 1.2% in 1995 to 5.6% in 2017, making it the second most widely used illicit
      substance. About 5% of cocaine users may become addicted in the first year of use, while 20%
      will develop long-term addiction. This dependence or substance use disorder is characterized
      in particular by a loss of control of cocaine use and continued use despite the negative
      consequences. Another of the central dimensions of this disorder is the craving (irresistible
      or irrepressible need or desire to consume) which is caused by internal or external stimuli.
      Craving is the cause of frequent loss of controls and re-consumption.

      The treatment of cocaine addictions is generally based on a dual model of pharmacological
      treatment often aimed at limiting craving and psychotherapeutic treatment in order to alter
      the emotions and memory associated with cocaine use; for example: relearning product
      management when it comes to the subject.

      In this context, the use of a 3D tool, which allows a gradual and well-detested exposure
      without confrontation, seems an interesting prospect. Virtual reality therapies have
      historically been known for treating phobias (fears). In addictions, exposure therapies are
      done in imagination and rarely with consumer-inducing situations. Since 2000, several
      researchers have successfully used virtual reality applications in addictions, but there is
      little data on objective assessments of the effectiveness of cybertherapy in the treatment of
      cocaine addictions.

      All of these elements converge to propose a protocol called "CORVI" to evaluate the
      effectiveness of virtual reality exposure therapy as the management of patients with cocaine
      use disorder versus management classic.

      The project is based on 3 phases: 1/construction of films that can be used in cybertherapy
      that reproduce situations in which there are stimuli generating "craving" to cocaine. 2/
      Treatment of 2 randomized patient groups with and without cybertherapy (n-20/group) 3/Relapse
      evaluations at 1.2 and 3 months post-treatment
    
  