
    
      Recent studies have shown that the administration of cefotaxime (first choice treatment for
      SBP) associated with plasma volume expansion with albumin in patients with SBP, was more
      efficient to prevent renal failure than cefotaxime treatment alone (10% vs. 33%,
      respectively). The in-hospital and three-month mortality rates, furthermore, were
      significantly lower in the group treated with albumin (10% vs. 29% and 22% vs. 41%,
      respectively). There was a significant increase in the plasma renin activity in the group
      treated with cefotaxime alone as compared to the group receiving cefotaxime associated with
      the expansion with albumin. A direct relationship between plasma renin activity levels and
      the development of renal failure was also observed.

      Based on the previous information the main objective of this study is to evaluate if the
      plasma volume expansion with albumin associated to conventional antibiotics therapy, can
      prevent the development of renal failure and increase survival rates in cirrhotic patients
      with bacterial infections unrelated to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. If that proves to
      be the case, albumin should be administered as first choice treatment associated with
      antibiotics to all the cirrhotic patients with bacterial infection and systemic inflammatory
      response syndrome.

      Other parameters to be investigated include:

        -  In-hospital mortality.

        -  Evaluation of the treatment effects over the renal vascular territory, estimated by
           Doppler ultrasonography of the intrarenal arteries.

        -  Evaluation of the relationship between the development of renal failure and the activity
           of endogenous vasoactive systems: plasma renin activity, plasma concentration of
           aldosterone, noradrenaline, atrial natriuretic factor and nitrites. Evaluation of the
           relationship between the development of renal failure and the concentration of
           inflammatory cytokines: tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6, interleukin-1,
           interleukin-10.

        -  Evaluation of heart function and its relationship with the development of renal failure.
    
  