
    
      This study is a prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial comparing renal
      function outcomes in patients undergoing cadaver donor renal transplant for end stage kidney
      failure. Patients will be randomized to receive 0.5 g / kg body weight, of mannitol or saline
      0.9% as an intravenous infusion to be initiated and be completely infused within 15-30
      minutes prior to vascular clamp removal of the transplanted renal artery.

      Prior to surgery, all study participants will receive standard departmental treatment as all
      other patients undergoing a kidney transplantation from a cadaver.

      Upon arrival to the operating room patients will be placed supine on the operating room
      table, and will be connected to an anesthesia monitor which will include monitoring the HR,
      blood pressure, saturation, temperature and ECG as standard departmental procedure. After
      connecting the participant to the anesthesia monitor an IV line will be inserted, as is
      standard clinical practice. In addition, venous central line catheter for central venous
      pressure monitoring and specific inotropic drugs infusion, as well as arterial line catheter
      for blood pressure monitoring, will be initialized upon anesthesiologist team decision The
      technique of kidney transplantation is well-standardized . None of the techniques utilized in
      the study are considered experimental and all are considered standard therapeutic options for
      a patient undergoing cadaveric donor kidney transplantation. The procedures are performed
      under general anesthesia with non-invasive intraoperative vital sign monitoring, as is
      standard departmental practice. Study participation will not affect anesthesia method or
      protocol treatment in anyway.

      Upon study enrollment patients will be randomized in 1:1 ratio for study arm
      treatment/control. The perioperative team, investigator and patient will be blinded to the
      intervention.

      Study arm: Patients randomized to receive the treatment arm will receive 0.5 g / kg body
      weight of mannitol. The mannitol solution used in the hospital contain 18% mannitol in 500ml
      solution. An equivocal volume of 2.8 cc / kg body weight, which will be given intravenously
      with the use of an Ivac pump, infused for a duration of 15 minutes through an existing
      peripheral intravenous access catheter within 15-30 minutes prior to renal artery
      reperfusion.

      The placebo arm (Control arm) Study participants randomized to this arm will receive a 0.9%
      saline solution at a dose of 2.8 cc / kg, infused within 15-30 minutes prior to renal artery
      reperfusion through an existing intravenous access catheter (either through an central or
      peripheral intravenous infusion).

      Following receiving the study drug, either mannitol or saline, patients will receive 80 mg
      furosemide, which will be given intravenously.

      Fluid management throughout the kidney transplant surgery for all study participants will
      consist as follows:

        -  Upon arrival to the operating room, immediately following IV insertion, all patients
           will receive an IV infusion of Plasma-Lyte as it is a standard protocol at our institute
           for kidney transplant surgery.

        -  After induction of anesthesia, the patient will receive Plasma-Lyte solution at a rate
           of 8 cc / kg body weight per hour.

        -  At this stage of the procedure, before reperfusion of the transplanted kidney, the
           purpose of this fluid management is intended to maintain a minimum systolic blood
           pressure of 90-100mmHg.

        -  At 30 to 15 minutes before reperfusion, in purpose to let the transplanted kidney get
           better opening conditions, the target blood pressure is elevated to an mean arterial
           pressure (MAP) of not less than 100 mmHg. In order to achieve that, additional 1000 cc
           of Plasma-Lyte will be given to the patient 30 to 15 minutes before re-perfusion. In
           addition, small boluses (each 0.1 mg) of Phenylephrine will be given as needed to
           maintain that MAP.

        -  Thereafter, and until the end of the operation, the fluid management will be titrated
           according to the patient's blood pressure, ensuring that systolic blood pressure does
           not fall below 120 mmHG, as the common departmental protocol in such surgeries. In
           occasions of hypotension, a bolus of 250 cc Plasma-Lyte will be given to increase the
           blood pressure.

        -  If there is insufficient response to repeat boluses, vasopressors (phenylephrine,
           ephedrine or noradrenaline) will be given at the discretion of the anesthesiologist.

        -  Episodes of hypotension not responsive to intravenous fluids will be treated with
           intravenous vasopressors (phenylephrine, ephedrine or noradrenaline as needed) at the
           discretion of the anesthesiologist. The provision of these drugs will be documented
           individually in the study report for each patient, as is common clinical practice.

        -  After surgery, in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU), the patient will receive 80 cc /
           hour of Plasma-Lyte or 120% of urine output if urine output exceeds 80 cc. Patients are
           regularly supervised in PACU for 2-4 hours after the end of the operation and then
           transferred to the department of organ transplantation. In cases of need for dialysis or
           prolonged ventilation, they stay at PACU.

        -  The fluid management for the postoperative days are as standard regimen in our center
           which consists of giving the patient full fluid replacement at POD1 - including urine
           output and drains output. On the next post-operative days, we replace 80% of urine
           output in IV fluids and oral intake together.

      Additionally blood and urine samples maybe collected from some of the patients (In the event
      that it is possible) at the following different timelines:

      Immediately before administering mannitol Immediately after administering mannitol 24 hours
      after transplant 7 days after transplant, These biological samples will be collected and
      analyzed to asses the presence of proteins, exosomes , cytokines that can be used as a non
      invasive biomarker for delayed graft function.
    
  