
    
      The purpose of this research study is to perform these molecular analyses on tissues
      (obtained from biopsies), blood, or other body fluids such as saliva. Importantly, this study
      will use tissue specimens that have already been collected as part of a participant's
      clinical care. The participant's tissue sample may be used to create a living tissue sample
      (called a "cell line") that can be grown in the laboratory. This allows researchers to have
      an unlimited supply of cells in the future without asking for more samples.

      In this study, analyses will be performed on material only after all necessary clinical tests
      have been performed. In general, no additional procedures will be required. However, the
      investigators are asking the participant's permission to obtain one additional sample of
      blood (a few teaspoons), a gentle swab from the inside of their mouth or a sample of skin to
      obtain some cells. These are sources of normal, non-cancer cells which are needed for some
      types of analyses.

      To fully understand the effects that molecular alterations have on blood cancers, they must
      be analyzed in the context of clinical behavior. Therefore, this study also asks the
      participant's permission to link the molecular alterations in their cancer or leukemia with
      clinical information that has been generated during the course of their clinical care. No
      additional clinical tests will be required. The investigator will ask to see the participant
      for follow up at regular interval to follow their risk of progression.

      Some of participant's specimens as well as some of the material generated during the analysis
      of their tissues or blood may be useful for future study. The Investigator's are asking for
      the participant's permission to store these specimens and materials in a secure storage
      facility for possible later use.

      Finally, rapid progress in understanding and treating cancer will occur when some of the
      molecular information derived from tissue and blood can be shared with other researchers. In
      particular, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and other organizations have developed
      special data (information) repositories that analyze data and collect the results of certain
      types of genetic studies. These central banks will store genetic information and samples and
      give them to other researchers to do more studies. Therefore, the Investigators are also
      asking your permission to share your results with these special banks. The participant's
      information will be sent with only a code number attached. The participant's name or other
      directly identifiable information will not be given to central banks. There are many
      safeguards in place to protect the participant's information and samples while stored in
      repositories and used for research. The investigators do not think that there will be further
      risks to the participant's privacy and confidentiality by sharing this information with these
      banks. However, the investigator's cannot predict how genetic information will be used in the
      future.
    
  