
    
      A cleft palate may influence important functions such as eating, function of the ear/hearing,
      speech, occlusion, and in addition social skills and acceptability related to appearance.
      Surgical treatment is aiming to minimize the impact of the cleft on these functions.
      Nevertheless there is often a need of orthodontic treatment, and if the palate is involved,
      speech therapy and speech improving secondary surgery. The incidence of otitis media with
      effusion, and related hearing problems, is high among the children. The outcome is affected
      by type of cleft as well as surgical method, although not yet fully clarified. Some consider
      the growth of the mid-face to be better if primary surgery of the hard palate is delayed,
      while speech development is considered to benefit from primary palate surgery performed as
      early as possible. Yet we don´t know which surgical method is the best. In most parts of the
      world and at three of six treatment centers in Sweden the palate is closed in one stage
      between 12 and 18 months of age. At the three other Swedish centers the cleft in the soft
      palate is closed at 4-6 months, and the cleft in the hard palate is repaired at 2-3 years of
      age.

      Video-recordings of the children at 3 and 5 years of age will be used for evaluation. The
      speech material at 3 years of age consists of spontaneous speech and word naming. At 5 years
      sentence repetition and a re-telling task is added. Blindly transcription of the material
      after randomization, according to the transcription used for cleft palate speech in Sweden
      based on the IPA and ExtIPA conventions will be performed. About 30% of the material,
      randomly selected, will be re-transcribed and about 30% will be transcribed by an additional
      listener independently, for calculation of reliability. The results will be compared between
      groups regarding articulatory deviancies and phonological processes, and will be
      statistically analyzed. Impact of ear problems, hearing and speech therapy will be assessed.
    
  