
    
      Cancer patients and patients suffering from hematological disorders require gonadotoxic
      treatments (like chemo- and radiotherapy) and/or total body irradiation as a conditioning
      therapy before bone marrow transplantation. One of the possible side effects of these
      therapies is life-long sterility or subfertility. Currently, the only option for pre- and
      peripubertal boys (who do not yet produce mature spermatozoa) is to bank testicular tissue
      before gonadotoxic treatment, followed by auto-transplantation at adulthood. While evidence
      shows that immediate surgical complications of such a biopsy procedure are rare (2-3%), only
      limited data is available on the potential long-term adverse events. Hence, it is important
      to assess these patients' fertility status at adult age to ensure that there are no late
      effects related to the biopsy procedure. Therefore, this prospective comparative
      interventional cohort study was designed to investigate the effects of a testicular tissue
      biopsy at a young age on the future fertility.

      The study population for this project consists of young adult (≥18 years) patients who were
      diagnosed with cancer or hematological disorders during childhood for which they received
      high-risk gonadotoxic treatment (with ≥80% risk of facing fertility problems in adult life).
      These patients were offered to undergo a testicular tissue biopsy at a young age in the
      context of fertility preservation. Both patients who did and those who did not undergo the
      biopsy procedure will be included in this study. A prospective analysis of data on their
      fertility status will be performed to identify differences between the young adults who
      underwent a testicular tissue biopsy procedure at a young age and those who did not.

      At adult age and at least one year after the last received gonadotoxic treatment, the
      patients will be invited by e-mail, by letter, or by telephone to evaluate their fertility
      status. The results will be discussed during a consultation with a fertility specialist and a
      psychologist (if necessary). Only in case of infertility (azoospermia) or subfertility
      (oligo-, astheno- or teratozoospermia), the semen analysis will be repeated one year later as
      the recovery of spermatogenesis with the return of sperm production may occur several years
      after oncological treatment.

      To assess the patient's fertility status, the following examinations and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  A physical examination where the patient's age, weight, height, body mass index, blood
           pressure, testes volumes using a Prader orchidometer, and Tanner stage (to score the
           patient's pubertal maturation) will be determined. The start, duration, and the
           prescribed dose of hormonal substitution treatment will also be noted if applicable.

        -  A scrotal ultrasound to measure the patient's testes volumes and to identify potential
           abnormalities in the testicular parenchyma.

        -  A morning blood sample will be collected to evaluate the serum levels of LH, FSH, IGF1,
           TSH, FT4, PRL, T, E2, cortisol, ACTH, and INHB.

        -  A semen analysis after a 48 hours' abstinence period (according to the WHO criteria) to
           evaluate the ejaculate volumes, sperm concentration, sperm motility, and sperm
           morphology.

        -  An anti-sperm antibody test: (in)direct mixed anti-globulin reaction testing.

        -  A sperm DNA fragmentation test: sperm chromatin dispersion test.

      For this study, the following data will be collected from the patient's medical records:

        -  The patient's diagnosis and age at that moment, the type of treatment received, and the
           cumulative dose (chemotherapy, radiotherapy, total body irradiation, bone marrow
           transplantation, type and frequency of surgery, …), and the time since the last received
           gonadotoxic treatment.

        -  Whether or not a testicular tissue biopsy procedure was performed at a young age,
           specifying the biopsy size (orchiectomy, hemi-orchiectomy, or smaller portion) and
           location (left or right), the patient's age at the time of biopsy, and why the patient
           and his parents accepted or refused the testicular tissue banking.

      The collected data will be compared between the young adult patients who did and those who
      did not undergo the testicular tissue biopsy procedure at a young age. In addition, these
      results will be compared to the WHO reference values and published data from a control group,
      consisting of spontaneously conceived young adults from previous ICSI offspring follow-up
      studies conducted at the UZ Brussel. In this way, a possible association between the biopsy
      procedure and the patient's fertility could be identified.
    
  