
    
      Study Design To rigorously test the main study hypotheses the investigators are using a
      stratified, cluster randomized trial. Sample compounds will be divided into four strata based
      on compound size and presence of gas and will then be randomly assigned to one of four study
      arms . Thus the proportion of compounds in each arm will be the same within each stratum.

      Strata

        1. Gas & Fewer than 8 households per compound

        2. Gas & 8 households per compound or more

        3. No Gas & Fewer than 8 households per compound

        4. No Gas & 8 households per compound or more

      Study Arms

        1. Standard Public Health Intervention with Water Treatment

        2. Standard Public Health Intervention with Water Treatment & Hand Washing

        3. Disgust and Shame Based Intervention with Water Treatment

        4. Disgust and Shame Based Intervention with Water Treatment & Hand Washing

           Via randomization, half of compounds will be assigned to standard treatment groups one
           and two and half to disgust and shame groups three and four. Within these halves, one
           third will receive water treatment only and two thirds will receive water treatment and
           hand washing.

           Randomization will allow us to infer causality when analyzing the differences in
           outcomes and stratification will increase the statistical power of our inference.

           Field Staff The investigators will have three field staff designations, Field Research
           Assistants (FRAs), Field Intervention Specialists (FISs) and Field Assistants (FAs).
           FRAs will be responsible for baseline, midline and endline data collection as well as
           structured observation. FAs will be responsible for fee collection visits. FISs will be
           responsible for all remaining visits.

           Site Selection Based on the literature review and hypotheses to be tested, the
           investigators determined that our study would be most feasible and would provide the
           most benefit in poor housing compounds of Dhaka city. To identify specific sites where
           the intervention would take place, the investigators created a list of feasibility
           criteria (see appendix 2) and received recommendations from ICDDR,B Research
           Investigators with experience in urban Dhaka. The investigators then sent two FRAs to
           evaluate the recommended sites using the list. With their evaluation the investigators
           selected six communities: Mohammedpur, Mirpur, Badda, Korail, Khilgaon and Bashabo.

           Piloting Phase The first five of our specific aims, all involving development of new
           techniques, are the subject of our piloting phase.

           Aims One and Two To develop our disgust and shame intervention for water treatment and
           for water treatment and hand washing the investigators will refine a long list of
           potential intervention script contents. Our Qualitative Research Investigator and
           members of his/her team will field test and review all items from this list,
           systematically changing, removing and adding items until the list has become a feasible
           intervention script that is culturally appropriate and appears to be effective. The
           Qualitative team will use focus group discussions and in depth interviews as primary
           tools to assess field tests.

           Aim Three To develop a group version of the Becker-DeGroot-Marsckek (BDM) auction our
           staff Economist along with the Qualitative Research Investigator and a team of FRAs will
           field test and review different variations of the auction to determine which is most
           feasible and which appears to produce the most accurate measurement of true willingness
           to pay in our communities. The Qualitative team will use focus group discussions and in
           depth interviews as primary tools to assess field tests.

           Aim Four To develop a survey instrument which allows us to measure behavioural
           determinants of hand washing and water treatment, the investigators will perform
           multiple pilots and revisions of our questionnaire on small sample groups similar to our
           sample. Revisions will be made based on qualitative review of subjects' impressions and
           a quantitative review of gathered data. In the quantitative review the investigators
           will perform principal components analysis and factor analysis of data to refine scales
           for behavioural determinants already defined and/or to investigate whether there are
           other determinants worth measuring.

           Aim Five The investigators have a short list of new measurement ideas that the
           investigators will field test and review prior to implementation. For more details on
           this list, see the "Data Collection" section below.

           Implementation

           Visit 1: Sample Enrollment, Baseline Data Collection and Set-up of Promotion Meeting

           Within the chosen field sites, FRAs will search for compounds which, match all the
           essential criteria (see below), match at least 2 of the preferred criteria (see below)
           and which are located at least 75 footsteps apart from each other. Our field team will
           make several visits during the six months of the study to each of the enrolled
           compounds. During each of these visits the investigators will conduct different
           activities including a household survey, structured observation, and physical
           observations. The investigators will ask for consent from all the compound members
           verbally during a courtyard meeting, and ask the members to come to a consensus of who
           can sign as the compound head or manager. In the written consent form all the study
           activities have been described briefly to make it simple and easy to administer and
           understand. For each specific activity the investigators will again ask for an
           individual's verbal consent, which will serve as a reminder that individuals are still
           willing to take part in the activity. Taking written consent for each activity during
           each visit could make the visit even longer. Signing paper documents several times could
           make the participants confused and concerned because most of them cannot t read or
           write. For any household members who miss the first courtyard meeting, the investigators
           will repeat all the information and process.

           If they do not agree, then FRAs will move to the next suitable compound. If they agree
           and sign the form, then FRAs will record stratification data and perform baseline data
           collection which consists of two household questionnaires and six household physical
           observation forms (see "Data Collection" below for more details on questionnaire and
           physical observation). Later, FROs will use stratification data to determine the stratum
           and randomly assign the treatment arm for each compound.

           Household representatives who will participate in baseline data collection will be
           randomly selected from the pool of compound members present at visit 1. To ensure random
           selection, the FRA will first arbitrarily assign numbers to the households with members
           present. He/she will then write the numbers on small plastic balls and drop the balls
           into a cup. He/she will then shake the cup and pour out one ball. The number on the ball
           corresponds to the first household to approach for data collection. The FRA will ask the
           present members of the household who is responsible for collecting water. This person
           will be asked to participate, if he/she declines, the FRA will pour another ball out of
           the cup and repeat the procedure. These steps will be repeated until six consenting
           compounds have been selected. The first two will be given the questionnaire and physical
           observation form and the last four, only the physical observation.

           Essential compound criteria

             -  Between 3 and 15 House'holds

             -  Shared water source

             -  Physical space exists to hold a compound meeting here or nearby

             -  No other interventions going on at this time

             -  Population is all Bangali

           Preferred criteria

             -  Use of water source is visible to others

             -  Shared kitchen

             -  Shared toilets visible from common area Visit 2: First Meeting- Promotion and Free
                Trial FISs will conduct a three hour integrated behaviour change/product promotion
                program taking place in the compound or at a convenient meeting place nearby. The
                content of the program, which will vary by treatment arm, will be developed during
                piloting and is briefly described below under "Meeting Content and Hardware".

           At the end of the program, compounds will be offered a one month free trial of the
           hardware specific to their study arm (see "Meeting Content and Hardware").

           Visit 3: Reminder Visit Roughly two weeks after the first meeting compounds will receive
           a check-up and reminder visit. FISs will meet with available individuals in two smaller
           groups. The FIS will reiterate messages from the first meeting and discuss understanding
           and agreement with these messages in order to further understanding and reduce perceived
           barriers to the new behaviours.

           Visit 4: Setup of Second Meeting and BDM Auction Coaching Roughly three weeks after the
           first meeting, FISs will visit compounds to set up a time and date for the second
           compound meeting and to prepare the compound members for the auction. FISs will meet
           with groups of two to four prospective bidders for an hour each and will explain in
           detail the process and hold multiple mock auctions.

           Visit 5: Second Meeting- Promotion and Sales Roughly one month after the first meeting,
           as the free trial is ending, FISs will return to treatment compounds to conduct the
           promotion and sales meetings.

           The promotion segment will be a one and a half hour behaviour change/product promotion
           program similar to the first meeting but containing fresh material.

           In the second one and a half hour segment of the meeting, FISs will measure compound
           members' willingness to pay for the trialled products by giving them the opportunity
           purchase and keep the hardware in a Becker-DeGroot-Marschek (BDM) style auction.
           Compounds not willing to pay the offered price will be offered other options to keep the
           hardware assuring that at least 75% of compounds keep the products until endline (more
           details on this in Auction section below).

           Fee Collection Visits Every month for a year after the sales meeting, compounds will be
           visited by an FA who will collect fees and take rapid observation data (detailed under
           "Data Collection" below).

           Visit 6: Midline Data Collection Three months after baseline data collection, FRAs will
           return to compounds to collect midline data which consists of two household
           questionnaires and six household physical observation forms (see "Data Collection" below
           for more details on questionnaire and physical observation). FRAs will attempt to use
           the same households as before, but if they are not present after returning to the
           compound for a second attempt, then FRAs will use the randomization strategy from the
           first visit to select new households.

           Visit 7: Structured Observation Half way between midline and endline data collection a
           separate team of FRAs will perform 5 hour structured observations of hand washing and
           water treatment behaviour in a representative subgroup of our sample. More on this under
           "Data Collection" below.

           Visit 8: Endline Data Collection Six months after baseline data collection, FRAs will
           return to compounds to collect endline data which consists of two household
           questionnaires and six household physical observation forms (see "Data Collection" below
           for more details on questionnaire and physical observation). FRAs will attempt to use
           the same households as before, but if they are not present after returning to the
           compound for a second attempt, then FRAs will use the randomization strategy from the
           first visit to select new households.

           Meeting Content and Hardware:

           Hardware Water Treatment One wall mounted liquid chlorine dispenser One 40 liter
           reservoir with tap Hand Washing One reused 1.5 liter water bottle to be filled with
           soapy water (laundry detergent mixed with water)

           Meeting Content

           All compounds:

           All will receive water treatment promotion interventions, whether standard or disgust
           and shame based. Two thirds will be randomly selected to receive hand washing promotion
           along with water treatment.

           Standard Public Health Intervention:

           The standard public health intervention meetings will be modeled after typical
           pre-existing high quality water treatment and/or hand washing interventions. The content
           will include explaining/demonstrating how germs can enter into our body via untreated
           water and/or unwashed hands, how they can make us sick and lead to death, and how these
           risks can be reduced by practicing safe water and/or hand hygiene behaviour.

           Disgust and Shame Based Intervention:

           The disgust and shame meetings will contain similar explanations/demonstrations of
           contamination mechanisms and risk, but will place most emphasis on the presence of fecal
           matter in or on contaminated objects. FIS' will use more vivid or harsh local terms
           equivalent to "crap" or "shit" to try to elicit a stronger reaction from participants.
           They will try to communicate the information that we sometimes unknowingly serve feces
           to our family by not washing hands with soap or by not treating our drinking water. They
           will emphasize how fecal matter can spread between people, especially neighbours, to try
           to encourage people to care about others behaviours and what others think of their
           behaviours. Pending piloting, the meetings will also contain promotion of positive
           identities-being a good mother, a strong father or a good Muslim-to stand in contrast
           with shameful and disgusting activities. The content and terms used will be determined
           by qualitative investigation with community members.

           Data Collection Questionnaire All compounds will be surveyed at baseline, a three month
           midline and a six month endline. The questionnaire for each of these instances will be
           largely the same excepting corrections made during implementation and small changes for
           administering at different times. The questionnaire will measure self-reported usage,
           reports of neighbours' usage, knowledge and practice pertaining to hand washing and safe
           water, perceptions of risk and severity of diarrhoea, norms/ beliefs/ feelings/
           reactions relating disgust and shame, social networking, and demographic information.
           These measurements will allow us to study the differences in behaviour and of behavioral
           determinants over time and between groups.

           Physical Observation One of each of the following is taken in 6 households per compound
           each time the questionnaire is administered and also during the structured observation.

           Chlorine residual testing of stored drinking water (not taken at baseline) Hand
           cleanliness inspections of child (see scoring sheet in appendix 4) Hand washing
           demonstration by mother The investigators will ask her to demonstrate how she washes her
           hands after defecation. The investigators will evaluate her performance as outlined in
           appendix 4.

           Others the investigators may include pending piloting:

           Hand rinse water testing via H2S testing (see appendix 13 for previous principle and
           interpretation) Other finger cleanliness checks Wiping fingers on a white material and
           evaluating darkness Wiping fingers on oil blotter paper Drinking water quality testing
           via H2S testing

           Rapid Physical Observation Rapid observations will take place in all compound visits and
           consist of identifying the location and usability/usage status of hand washing and water
           treatment hardware.

           Structured observation There will be one structured observation visit halfway between
           the midline and endline data collection visit. FRAs will conduct 5 hour structured
           observations of hand washing and water treatment behaviours in a sub-group of compounds
           which is representative of our sample. Hand hygiene and water treatment behaviours will
           be assessed using the score sheet in appendix 6.

           Auction/Willingness to Pay After the courtyard meeting, the investigators will conduct
           an experimental auction to elicit individual households willingness to pay (WTP)for a
           monthly rent-to-own subscription to the chlorine dispenser and the reservoir. The
           investigators will use Becker-DeGroot-Marschek (BDM) procedure to elicit WTP, whereby
           participants bid against a predetermined randomly assigned price confidentially kept in
           an envelope. The investigators will collect individual bids and list them to find the
           lowest of these bids, which will then be compared with the price in the envelope. In
           this auction, if the lowest of participants bid exceeds the preassigned price,
           participants as a group win the auction but each pay the price in the envelope. The
           investigators assume the mechanism is incentive compatible for participants to bid
           truthfully as their bid does not affect the transaction price. The investigators aim to
           keep the actual sales price very low so that most compounds have the opportunity to keep
           the dispenser.

           Payment data After the sales meeting the investigators will measure continued enrollment
           and maintenance of the safe water (or safe water and hand-washing) station on a monthly
           basis.

           Qualitative Data Collection:

           During implementation our qualitative team will regularly visit a representative
           sub-group of our sample to gather data on how the intervention is going, how it is
           perceived and to give us an idea of what needs to be changed in our meetings or our
           survey. The standards the investigators are using to determine the frequency of
           qualitative work are as follows: Roughly one in every five compounds will participate in
           in-depth interviews and one in every 18 compounds will take place in focused group
           discussions. These numbers may vary depending on data redundancy.
    
  