
    
      This is an open-label study using alefacept in the treatment of patients with chronic plaque
      psoriasis who have not responded to treatment with an anti-TNF agent. Patients not responding
      to Enbrel® 50 mg weekly with a 75% reduction of Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI)
      Score or a Physician Global Assessment (PGA) score of 'almost clear' or 'clear', will be
      treated with 15 mg alefacept intramuscularly (IM) once weekly for up to 20 weeks. Patients
      who have 'cleared' or 'almost cleared' at the end of 12 weeks of treatment with alefacept
      will have completed the 'standard treatment' phase of the study. Study subjects who have not
      responded to treatment during the initial 12 weeks will continue with alefacept therapy for
      an additional 8 weekly doses or until the subject has reached a PGA of 'almost clear' or
      'clear'. Alefacept is FDA approved for this indication for 12 weeks of treatment and this
      clinical trial is extending the treatment window for up to 8 additional weeks. Because of
      this increased exposure to alefacept, all subjects will be carefully monitored while on
      treatment and followed post-treatment at 3, 4, 6, 9 and 12 months after the last dose of
      alefacept is given.

      Purpose:

      This open-label study will determine the safety and efficacy of Amevive® 15 mg IM weekly in
      subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis who have not sufficiently responded to etanercept, an
      anti-TNF agent. The plan also is to determine the length of response time to point of relapse
      and to determine the length of time before retreatment with alefacept is necessary.

      Patient Population:

      This study is for adult men and women, ages 18 to 80, with chronic plaque psoriasis. At the
      time of enrollment, the subject must have received 50 mg per week of Enbrel without achieving
      a response of 'almost clear' or 'clear' according to PGA or has not responded with a 75%
      reduction of PASI Score.
    
  