
    
      This will be a 6-month, randomized, controlled study of assay-guided treatment (AGT) versus
      treatment as usual (TAU) in adult inpatients with major depressive disorder. Two hundred
      subjects will be randomized to receive AGT or TAU. After subjects are screened, determined to
      be eligible, and complete baseline assessments, blood samples for genotyping will be obtained
      from all subjects as well as saliva samples for future GWAS analysis from all subjects. Only
      those subjects that are randomized to the AGT arm will have their blood samples immediately
      analyzed. Subjects in the TAU arm will have their blood samples stored for future analysis..

      Once the blood samples are obtained, the attending psychiatrists will be asked to indicate
      their top three choices of antidepressants and at what doses they will initiate treatment. In
      order to prevent delays in providing treatments, the first choice antidepressants will be
      started prior to receiving assay results.

      Upon receiving the assay reports (AGT arm), the attending psychiatrists will be asked whether
      the reports influenced their choice of antidepressant treatments and doses of
      antidepressants, as well as their confidence in their choices. The attending psychiatrists
      will then document any switches in antidepressant treatments or changes in doses of current
      antidepressant medications on a structured form. The assay reports will be available between
      3 to 5 days after the blood samples are taken. The attending psychiatrists who are randomized
      to be provided the results of CYP genotyping will also be provided a phone number for
      consultation with Genomind Labs regarding the interpretation of the results.

      Trough antidepressant blood samples for the AGT arm (10-12 hours after last dose) for
      therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) will be obtained within 24 hours of discharge. Blood
      samples will also be obtained from the TAU arm, but they will be stored for future analysis
      of CYP genotyping and biomarker analysis of treatment resistant MDD. Clinical follow-up will
      proceed as felt to be clinically indicated. For subjects who have been discharged before the
      assay results are received, the attending psychiatrists will complete the from indicating
      changes in treatments as if patients were still in hospital. Results and recommendations will
      be forwarded to the identified outpatient psychiatrists. (note: blood levels of
      antidepressants were not analyzed)

      The AGT arm is not standard care for patients with depression. The addition of assay-results
      and questionnaires makes the AGT arm different than standard care. Only the questionnaires
      make the TAU arm different than standard care.

      Note:

      Within 24 hours after you are admitted to the Inpatient Psychiatric Unit, the "baseline"
      assessment will occur. If you stay in the Inpatient Psychiatric Unit for more than one week,
      the "weekly" assessment will occur every 7 days. Typically, patients spend an average of 8-10
      days in the Inpatient Psychiatric Unit. The day before or the day of your discharge from the
      Inpatient Psychiatric Unit, your "discharge" assessment will occur. One, 3, and 6 months
      after you are discharged, you will be asked to complete follow-up assessments.
    
  