
    
      Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressively degenerative brain disorder, which results in a
      loss of mental and physical abilities. It is genetically determined and people carrying the
      HD gene invariably develop the clinical disorder at some point in their lives. HD symptoms
      consist of neuropsychiatric changes and motor movements. Once present, the symptoms are
      progressive in nature and eventually fatal. Currently there is no cure for HD.

      Like HD, Parkinson's Disease (PD) and Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) are also
      neurodegenerative disorders affecting the basal ganglia. PD and DLB are synucleinopathies -
      i.e., they are associated with dysfunction of the protein alpha-synuclein. Unlike HD, PD and
      DLB are not inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.

      Sleep/wake cycles in HD, PD and DLB. HD patients, especially those in moderate to severe
      stages of the disease, frequently complain of difficulty falling and staying asleep. Little
      is known about the phenomenology and pathophysiology of sleep disturbances in HD. The few
      studies that have addressed this issue of sleep in HD have found disturbances in sleep
      architecture and sleep/wake cycles. Overall, the literature on sleep and other circadian
      disturbances in HD is very limited. If sleep/wake cycle disturbances in HD have
      pathophysiological mechanisms similar to other neurodegenerative disorders, then Ramelteon, a
      hypnotic agent and melatonin receptor agonist, may be beneficial in sleep/wake cycle
      disturbances in HD.

      Sleep disruptions and circadian sleep disruptions are integral to the clinical presentation
      of both PD and DLB. As is true in HD, sleep disturbances in PD and DLB cause severe
      disruption to the patients and their caregivers' lives. In PD, sleep dysfunction occurs in
      approximately two thirds of patients. Sleep problems range from difficulty with sleep
      initiation, sleep fragmentation, disturbance of circadian rhythm, REM sleep behavior disorder
      (RBD), to excessive daytime sleepiness. Frequent nighttime awakening and sleep disruption are
      the most common sleep problems in PD. In DLB, REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) occurs years
      to decades before the onset of dementia. Importantly, melatonin is one of the main treatments
      used for RBD. Therefore, a melatonin agonist such as Ramelteon is a natural choice for the
      treatment of circadian sleep disturbances in PD and DLB.

      Activity monitors (actigraphs) have been used as an alternative to polysomnography (PSG).
      Actigraphs are small electronic motion sensors that detect movements in three axes and
      provide information about the subjects' activity levels over periods of days to weeks. Using
      validated algorithms to infer wakefulness and sleep, investigators can draw conclusions about
      the individuals' sleep/wake cycle patterns from their activity patterns.
    
  