
    
      In oncology, Positron Emission Tomography imaging with 18Fluor-FDG quantifies glucose
      metabolism lesions. Conventionally, the metabolism is quantified using the Standard Uptake
      Value (SUV) from a static acquisition obtained 60 minutes post-injection. Some teams reported
      SUV variation coefficients as high as 30% in NSCLC lesions for repeated PET examinations in
      patients without treatment. Moreover, information regarding the binding kinetics of
      18Fluor-FDG by tumor cells is not accessible through this method.

      Much more elaborated FDG quantification methods and considered as reference methods exist in
      PET imaging (compartmental analysis, Patlak). Simplified kinetic methods have also been
      proposed which correlate better with Patlak reference method than the conventional SUV. The
      investigators proposed a new methodological approach to obtain the parametric information in
      PET. This approach allows to define new indexes (average percentage of FDG-metabolized or not
      metabolized; time required to metabolize 80% of FDG). The approach has been clinically
      evaluated in a pilot study for the differentiation between benign and paraganglioma lesions.

      Tsuchida observed that the parametric PET imaging allowed histological differentiation of
      subtypes of lung tumors, reflecting the difference in glucose transporters and hexokinase
      between adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. Xue et al showed that the FDG uptake
      (based on the only SUV) could be a tool to predict the subtype and thus tumor staging in
      patients suffering from NSCLC.

      The investigators can then hypothesize that some subtype of lung tumor, with increased
      proliferation rate (kinetic indexes k3, Ki or other parameters offered by our previous work),
      will be more sensitive to radiotherapy and thus the evaluation of tumor subtype by PET would
      allows radiotherapy adaption accordingly.

      This study is a preliminary methodological study , strictly descriptive and will only assess
      the comparison of measurements obtained on a parametric imaging and imaging "static" in
      patients suffering from NSCLC . The measures of the uptake and volumes estimated by two
      approaches will be correlated and compared with the 1 year clinical outcome (primary
      objective).

      An ancillary study will assess the relevance of the approach to detect, at the tumor level ,
      an early recurrence of the disease. For this, the images acquired during the radiotherapy
      treatment (at 42Gy) will be analyzed retrospectively and the correlation with the images to 3
      months or 1 year of relapsing patients will be analyzed.
    
  