
    
      Many critically ill patients are admitted to the hospital with no infarcted brain tissue and
      yet, after a period of extremely intense and expensive critical care, the patients are
      discharged with new hospital-acquired dead brain tissue, with associated life-long disability
      or brain death. This situation arises from the critical barrier of there being no
      straightforward bedside methods to monitor cerebral blood flow (CBF) and its adequacy during
      progression of post-insult secondary brain damage. This is important because of the
      expectation that decrements in CBF in dangerous excess of decrements in cerebral metabolic
      rate for oxygen (CMRO2), if detected early, can be treated to avert brain infarction.
      Clinical examples of this issue, among many others, include post ischemic stroke edema, post
      thrombolysis hyperemia or occlusion, post SAH vasospasm, hyperemic and oligemic intracranial
      hypertension after traumatic brain injury or stroke, ICH associated global ischemia, and
      intra and post carotid endarterectomy oligemia and hyperperfusion.

      Critical care physicians need a bedside monitor of CBF coupled to CMRO2. The CMRO2 data will
      allow delineation of adequacy of CBF as occasionally CBF decrements are simply matching
      changes in CMRO2. The lack of such monitoring capability has resulted in clinicians making
      often not helpful therapeutic decisions directed to non-neurologic endpoints, e.g., blood
      pressure, PaCO2 and so on, "hoping" that such interventions will have a desired effect on
      brain perfusion and metabolism.

      Diffuse Correlation Spectroscopy (DCS) and Diffuse Optical Spectroscopy (DOS) are promising
      NNOM optical techniques under development at UPenn (Dr. Arjun Yodh) which can provide
      continuous bedside quantitative CBF, CMRO2 and oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) information.
      Determination of capability to detect anaerobic conditions, as the investigators propose
      doing, will make feasible the notion of individualized CBF, CMRO2, and OEF measurement and
      brain-directed therapeutic optimization by bedside caregivers. This will eventually support a
      significant change in the way Neurocritical Care is practiced, titrating therapy to
      neurophysiologic rather than cardiovascular/ pulmonary endpoints. UPenn research techniques
      presently provide information on relative quantitative changes in CBF and CMRO2 from
      baseline. The investigators propose also developing a method for measurement of absolute CBF
      and CMRO2 and further validating the absolute CBF against invasive thermodilution (ThD) CBF
      techniques. The investigators' long range goal and overall objective is to prevent
      in-hospital brain tissue death through development of improved bedside CBF/ CMRO2/OEF (NNOM)
      monitoring techniques.
    
  