
    
      Healthy male and female individuals ages 60 - 80 (n=10) will be studied before and after 6
      days of treatment with self-administered daily oral methylprednisolone.

      Subjects will report to the Texas A&M Human Clinical Research Facility (HCRF) for testing
      before (day 0) and after (day 6) methylprednisolone intervention. Each visit will consist of
      determination of lean and fat mass using DEXA and a single muscle biopsy. Blood will be
      collected (up to 15ml) at screening, baseline and the conclusion of the study to measure
      metabolites and hormones. Phone calls will be made to subjects mid-week (day 3) during the
      study period to ensure compliance and continued consent.

      This will be an unblinded study. All participants will receive methylprednisolone treatment.

      Therapeutic Interventions. Methylprednisolone (Medrol速) dose pack. Methylprednisolone is a
      glucocorticoid. Glucocorticoids are adrenocortical steroids, both naturally occurring and
      synthetic, which are readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Therapeutic
      methylprednisolone is approved for clinical use for a variety of disorders. Medrol速, the
      agent to be used in this study, is manufactured by Pfizer.

      Medrol速 is supplied as white tablets, of 4mg each. The tablets come in a commercially
      produced blister pack with instructions for each day of the 6 day dosing on the packaging.
      Subjects will receive a standard 6-day, graded dosing regimen of methylprednisolone (24mg,
      20mg, 16mg, 12mg, 8mg, and 4 mg on days 1 through 6 respectively, Table 1 above). This
      methylprednisolone dosing regimen is commonly prescribed for the treatment of inflammation
      associated with a number of pathologies, including arthritic, respiratory, and neoplastic
      diseases. The Medrol速 pack has clear instructions on how to administer the tablets and
      participants will be given additional instruction to ensure understanding for proper
      self-administration.
    
  