
    
      Alcohol use and abuse have been associated with increased risky sexual behavior, poor
      adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ARVs) and toxicity from ARVs among those with HIV
      infection. As such, alcohol use and abuse have a major impact on HIV transmission and disease
      progression. Because alcohol abuse is widespread in Kenya, with estimates of hazardous
      drinking as high as 68% in general medicine clinics and 53% in HIV clinics, this Stage 1
      pilot project will develop and evaluate a paraprofessionally led group cognitive behavioral
      treatment (CBT) targeting alcohol use among HIV infected Kenyans who were initiated on ARV
      therapy in the past year. Although CBT is well-suited to the Kenyan setting because it is
      comparatively structured and consistent with the Kenyan conceptual model of drinking
      behavior, it requires adaptation for group paraprofessional delivery due to the extremely
      limited supply of Kenyan mental health professionals. The goal of this 24-month
      capacity-building R21 study is to evaluate the efficacy of a novel application of CBT, a
      6-session paraprofessionally led group in Eldoret, Kenya, when compared against a usual care
      support group, to reduce hazardous and binge drinking among adult persons infected with HIV.
      This work will be conducted via the Kenya-U.S. HIV and Alcohol Research and Prevention
      Partnership-an experienced team of Kenyan and U.S. physicians, behavioral scientists,
      recovered substance users and persons infected with HIV. The team expands on well-established
      ties between the Academic Model for Providing Access to Health Care (AMPATH) and the Veterans
      Aging Cohort Study (VACS), a longitudinal clinical study of HIV and alcohol. AMPATH treats
      more than 65,000 HIV patients in 19 clinics in western Kenya. Our goals are to: 1) train
      Kenyan staff and investigators in research methods and train paraprofessionals in group CBT
      delivery; 2) pilot the CBT adaptation; and 3) evaluate the feasibility of the
      paraprofessionally led group CBT via a Stage 1 trial in which 56 HIV infected Kenyans are
      randomized to same-sex CBT or usual care HIV support groups.
    
  