
    
      Several studies have shown an association between hypertriacylglycerolaemia and coronary
      artery disease. Additionally, ectopic fat distribution, in particular, deposition of excess
      lipid within the liver and skeletal muscle, has been shown to correlate negatively with
      insulin sensitivity, thus presenting a metabolic milieu in which risk of developing type 2
      diabetes is elevated. Previous research from our group has shown that the triacylglycerol
      (TAG) concentration within the liver, and within skeletal muscle fibres IMCLs
      (intramyocellular lipids), is increased in elderly individuals compared with young people.
      The elevation of lipids in these particular tissues for the elderly group was observed
      despite no statistically significant difference in fasting plasma TAG concentration. As the
      plasma TAG concentration during the postabsorptive state is largely determined by the
      production and clearance rates of very low density lipoprotein triacylglycerol (VLDL-TAG),
      and increased liver fat content has been shown to drive production of large VLDL particles,
      it is important to gain an understanding of whether VLDL synthesis and breakdown differs
      between young and elderly individuals. Such new knowledge may offer an insight into why
      tissue lipids are elevated in the elderly. At present, no data exist in the literature
      describing VLDL turnover in elderly people. We hypothesise that very low density lipoprotein
      turnover will be reduced in elderly individuals compared with young people. The aims of this
      study are a) to determine whether fractional synthesis and breakdown rates of both the
      protein and lipid parts of the VLDL are different between young and elderly individuals, and
      b) to determine whether VLDL turnover values appear different when calculated using a
      constant infusion tracer method as compared with a bolus tracer method. Eight young men,
      eight young women, eight elderly men and eight elderly women will each participate in an
      8-hour infusion study. Stable isotopes of glycerol, amino acids and fatty acids will be
      infused, and blood samples will be drawn in intervals during the study.
    
  