
    
      Participants from one preschool and 5 primary schools are included in the study. Participants
      are children between 5 and 12 years old from Sonora State, North of Mexico. Four urban
      schools of Mexican-Mestizos (from Hermosillo, capital city) and two indigenous schools, Seris
      (from Punta Chueca) and Yaquis (from Bahía de Lobos), participate in the program. Urban
      schools are randomly selected. Indigenous schools are hard to access, thus Seris and Yaquis
      school are chosen based on higher accessibility, and all grades from those schools (from
      first to sixth) are included. The intervention program consists of implementing Health
      Education, Nutrition and Physical Activity programs, and also parent involvement activities.
      All nutritionists, psychologists, and physical education teachers are prepared for their
      lessons during two weeks before the project implementation by the developers of the project
      (PCU and RA), who also supervise them. The intervention program is split into two Arms; the
      Education Arm, which is applied to all participants, and the Nutrition Arm, which includes
      the Health Education, the Physical Activity and also the Nutrition programs. The Nutrition
      program is randomly applied just in the Mestizo group, i.e. schools and grade are randomly
      allocated in Nutrition program. Anthropogenic and biochemical measurements are collected
      before (Measurements 1, M1) and after (Measurements 2, M2) treatments. Anthropogenic
      measurements are taken to all participants, while biochemical are randomly taken to 320
      participants (includes all form Nutrition Arm). M1 and M2 are taken by the same team.
      Intervention effect is measured as the difference between M2 and M1, calculated as the
      difference (Dif) in M=M2-M1. Thus, negative DifM values indicate a decrease in the variable
      measured after the intervention, while positive DifM values indicate an increase in the
      variable. To assess the effect of age, sex, ethnic group (Mestizos, Seris, Yaquis),
      treatments (T1, T2) and nutritional status (Normal weight, Overweight+Obesity) in DifM (i.e.
      DifBMI), we perform Generalized Linear Models (GLMs) with Gaussian distribution(1). The
      initial model contains all single effects and all possible interactions of such explanatory
      variables. GLM simplification is done by stepwise deletion of the least significant terms.
      Subsequent models were generated by the stepwise removal of non-significant terms, and
      assessing each simplification with the Akaike information criterion (AIC) using the ΔAIC > 2
      criterion(2). All models considered are subjected to the customary residual analyses and show
      a satisfactory fit (results not shown). All statistical analyses are carried out in R(3).
    
  