
    
      Aim and main research questions:

      The overall aim with this study investigate psychological factors contributing to childbirth
      related fear or worry. Specifically, we wish to investigate

        -  associations between psychological factors (pain catastrophizing, intolerance of
           uncertainty, worry beliefs, cognitive avoidance, insomnia, life satisfaction, anxiety-
           and depressive symptoms, worry parameters, and behavioral avoidance) and childbirth
           related fear or anxiety during pregnancy

        -  the impact of childbirth related fear or anxiety and other psychological factors during
           pregnancy on epidural use during delivery and obstetric outcome variables

        -  childbirth related fear or anxiety during pregnancy, psychological factors, epidural
           use, and obstetric outcome variables as predictors of self-reported birth experiences
           6-10 months postpartum.

        -  childbirth related fear or anxiety during pregnancy, psychological factors, epidural
           use, obstetric outcome variables, and self-reported birth experiences as predictors of
           childbirth related fear or anxiety 6-10 months postpartum

      Procedure:

      Pregnant women will be recruited by midwives working in antenatal health care units in two
      Swedish regions; Jämtland/Härjedalen and Örebro County. Recruitment is planned to take place
      during the first visit following the routine ultrasound examination (normally provided in
      gestational week 16-20). Women found not eligible will be counted by each antenatal midwife
      and reported to the project group without any personal identification. Before invited to
      participate, eligible women will be given oral and written information about the study. Any
      questions might be asked the midwife directly or via telephone or e-mail to the members of
      the research group. If accepting participation, each woman will give her written consent. The
      woman will then receive the first questionnaire. The questionnaire is coded with a unique
      code for each participant, and does not include any personal identification. It is returned
      to the research group in a pre-paid envelope. The consent form, also including the unique
      code of each participant, contact information and personal identification number, is
      collected by the midwife and later sent to the research group.

      In phase two of the study, data will be gathered from two different sources - (a) from the
      medical birth records of the particular birth, and (b) via a postpartum follow-up
      questionnaire. These data will be gathered 6-10 months after the planned date of the birth.
      All women who have returned the first questionnaire and whose address can be confirmed will
      be contacted by mail and invited to participate in phase two. Letters will be sent, including
      information about phase two of the project, a postpartum follow-up questionnaire, and a
      consent form in which the woman can give her written consent for the research team to extract
      data from the medical birth record. The women are thus free to choose their participation in
      the two parts of phase 2 separately. The follow-up questionnaire and consent form will
      returned to the research group by mail, in a pre-paid envelope.

      Extraction of medical data: Once consent has been received, obstetric data will be extracted
      from the medical chart, with help from a midwife at each hospital. The data will be
      anonymized before leaving the hospital, erasing all personal data such as name and personal
      identification number, coding the obstetric set of data with the unique participant code
      number of each woman.

      Data and measurements:

      The first questionnaire, in mid-pregnancy includes the following sections and scales:

        -  Sociodemographic background (age, civil status, educational level, occupational status,
           country of birth)

        -  Obstetric history/background (pregnancy week, number of fetuses, current pregnancy
           complications, previous births including birth mode and year)

        -  Negative experiences in health care

        -  Preferred mode of birth

        -  the Fear of Birth Scale, FOBS

        -  the Wijma Delivery Expectancy/Experience Questionnaire, W-DEQ A

        -  the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS

        -  the Pain Catastrophizing Scale, PCS

        -  the Intolerance of Uncertainty Inventory, part B

        -  Why Worry II

        -  the Cognitive Avoidance Questionnaire

        -  the Insomnia Severity Index, ISI

        -  the Satisfaction With Life Scale, SWLS

        -  the Situational Fear of Childbirth, SFC

        -  items regarding worry frequency, controllability and excess from the GAD-7

        -  items regarding childbirth specific behavioral avoidance

      The postpartum follow-up questionnaire includes:

        -  Birth information (birth date, birth mode including indication, usage of epidural
           analgesia)

        -  the Wijma Delivery Expectancy/Experience Questionnaire, W-DEQ A

        -  the Fear of Birth Scale, FOBS

        -  The Childbirth Experience Questionnaire

        -  Two visual analogue scales regarding the experience of giving birth (vaginally or with
           Caesarean section) using the anchors "not at all positive" to "very positive" and "not
           at all negative" to "very negative".

        -  One visual analogue scale regarding the worst experience of pain during birth, using the
           anchors "not painful at all" and "worst pain possible".

        -  One visual analogue scale regarding overall experience of pain during birth, again using
           the anchors "not painful at all" and "worst pain possible".

        -  Preferred mode of birth in a future birth

      Medical birth data that will be extracted:

        -  Age of the mother, parity, and gestational week

        -  Comorbidity

        -  Obstetric and neonatal outcome variables (see outcome measures)
    
  