
    
      Soybeans are an important crop in Canada, with approximately 10% of soybean production in
      Manitoba. Soybeans are grown primarily for their oil. The press cake that remains following
      oil extraction is a good source of protein and contains bioactive ingredients such as the
      isoflavones. The press cake can be ground into a flour (soy flour) and used in food products.
      For example, a finely ground flour can be used in infant formulas as well as for meat and
      dairy substitutes. This research is examining other applications of soy flour in food
      products such as corn tortillas. Tortillas are a staple food in several cultures and are
      widely used to make tacos, burritos, and enchiladas. These foods are gaining a significant
      segment of the North American fast food and restaurant industry. From a health point of view,
      the addition of soy flour into corn tortillas will improve the nutritional profile of the
      tortillas and the presence of soy protein, dietary fibre and bioactive components has the
      potential to yield other health benefits. It is hypothesized that the addition of soy flour
      to corn tortillas will lower the glycemic index. The glycemic index describes the potential
      of a food to increase blood glucose post-prandially in relation to the same amount of
      available carbohydrate in a glucose solution. Consumption of low glycemic index foods helps
      to achieve better glycemic control in individuals with type 2 diabetes. Recent meta-analyses
      are reporting that consumption of high glycemic index foods is associated with higher risk of
      coronary heart disease and breast cancer in women.

      The purpose of this research is to investigate whether different levels of soy flour in corn
      tortillas influences the glycemic response. This information will form the basis of
      developing food products for glycemic management in type 2 diabetes and for reducing risk of
      other chronic diseases.

      This single site, double-blind, randomized, controlled study designed to examine the glycemic
      response to corn and soy tortillas in healthy individuals will recruit 10 eligible volunteers
      into the study who will visit the research clinic on 6 separate visits for the glycemic
      testing. At each visit, one of the following products will be consumed: i) 296 mls (~1 cup)
      of oral glucose solution; ii) 296 mls (~1 cup) of oral glucose solution for a duplicate
      assessment as per standard glycemic index testing protocols; iii) corn tortillas; iv) corn
      tortillas with a low amount of soy flour; v) corn tortillas with a moderate amount of soy
      flour; or vi) corn tortillas made with a higher amount of soy flour.
    
  