
    
      To achieve the proposed objectives it will be performed a randomized, triple-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial, with voluntary patients with fibromyalgia. Ninety patients will be
      randomly allocated to two treatment groups: 1. Active PBMT (MR5™ ACTIV PRO LaserShower) or
      Placebo PBMT (MR5™ ACTIV PRO LaserShower). The patients will be treated by a blinded
      therapist.

      The patients randomly allocated to the different groups will be subjected to treatment 3
      times a week, total of 9 sessions (with approximately 48 hours between each session), a total
      of 3 weeks of treatment.

      The clinical outcomes will be obtained at the stabilization phase, baseline, end of treatment
      and 30 days after the conclusion of treatment.

      The data will be collected by a blinded assessor.

      Statistical analyzis:

        -  The primary statistical method to analyze the primary endpoint will be Fisher's Exact
           Test to compare the proportion of success between the test (Active PBMT) and the control
           procedure (Placebo PBMT) groups, considering that randomization has been diligently
           conducted and important covariates between the two groups are well balanced. Statistical
           significance is set at p < 0.05.

        -  Unpaired T test will be applied to analyze pain intensity through EVA. Mean and
           individual subject changes in VAS ratings across and between all study evaluation
           time-points, within and between procedure groups considering that randomization has been
           diligently conducted and important covariates between the two groups are well balanced.
           Statistical significance is set at p<0.05.

        -  For patient satisfaction, measured through a Likert Scale, the data will be reduced to
           the nominal level by combining all agree and disagree responses into two categories of
           "accept" and "reject". Differences in satisfaction with Study Outcome Ratings between
           procedure groups at both evaluated time-points, and any change between. The chi-square,
           will be used after this transformation. Statistical significance is set at p<0.05.

      The investigators will analyze: degree of pain rating (tender point count), pain intensity,
      patient satisfaction and adverse events
    
  