
    
      AUD treatment alone. With a number needed to treat (NNT) index of 8 (relative to standard AUD
      treatment alone), the VC-CBT could, if broadly disseminated, have a large positive impact on
      AUD treatment. Unfortunately, several significant barriers related to the resource- and
      expertise-intensive delivery of the VC-CBT limit its dissemination potential and, hence, the
      impact of this otherwise effective treatment. Therefore, to maximize the public health and
      scientific potential of the investigators work, the investigators propose to adapt the
      therapist-delivered VC-CBT to a computer-delivered format to facilitate reliable and
      economical dissemination of the VC-CBT while maintaining its established efficacy. The first
      phase of the work (Year 1) will be to adapt the 6-session therapist-delivered VC-CBT for
      delivery on an internet-based computer platform. This work will be done using a standard
      iterative process for developing e-content in partnership with local technology experts
      experienced in producing engaging and effective e-learning products. Approximately 24
      patients (6 to test and supply feedback on each of three 2-session therapy modules and 6 to
      test and supply feedback on all 3 modules given together) will be employed in this phase. The
      second phase (Years 2 and 3) will be devoted to conducting an RCT to test the efficacy of the
      refined computer-delivered VC-CBT. The investigators will randomize AUD treatment patients
      with co-occurring anxiety disorder to receive either the computer-delivered VC-CBT or
      standard AUD treatment alone (50 patients in each group) to establish significance and effect
      size estimates of clinical effect for the adapted e-therapy. In addition to analyzing the RCT
      data, the investigators will perform quasi-experimental contrasts of the process and outcome
      measures from the computer-delivered VC-CBT group in the RCT with parallel data from the
      therapist-delivered VC-CBT obtained in an earlier clinical trial. These contrasts will
      provide a reasonable estimate of how well the computer format compares to the therapist
      format of the VC-CBT. The proposed work aims to provide an easy and inexpensive
      computer-delivered version of the VC-CBT that has comparable efficacy to the validated but
      resource-intensive therapist-delivered version. Achieving this will enable the VC-CBT therapy
      to benefit more AUD treatment patients and to be more easily studied by other investigators.
    
  