
    
      Clinically, there are localized or generalized flaccid bullae that quickly transform into
      post-bullous erosions and crusts , PV patients characteristically develop oral lesions with
      buccal and/or gingival persisting erosions (mucosal dominant PV) which several weeks or
      months later may also spread to the epidermis (mucocutaneous PV). PF is characterized by
      widespread cutaneous fragile bullae which rapidly rupture, resulting in erosions, crusting,
      and scaling. In contrast to PV, the mucosa is usually not involved in PV. (Zenzo .et al
      .,2015).

      Pathophysiologically, the underlying intraepithelial blister formation is caused by IgG
      autoantibodies against the desmosomal adhesion proteins, desmoglein 3 and/or desmoglein 1, on
      epidermal keratinocytes. ( Amagai .et al .,1991) In PV the antigen is desmoglein 3 which is
      presented in lower epidermis and is expressed more strongly in buccal mucosa than in the skin
      ,in contrast to PF which its antigen is desmoglein 1 which is expressed in the skin
      throughout the epidermis and weakly expressed in the mucous membranes . ( Kneisel and Hertl.
      .,2011).

      T cells play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of pemphigus vulgaris , The interaction of T
      and B cells critically modulates the development of pemphigus vulgaris. (Amber. et al., 2013
      ; Zhu, et al.,2012).

      Because B-cell activation and antibody production classically necessitate the involvement of
      CD4+ T cells, Dsg-reactive T cells were capable of recognizing multiple epitopes of the
      extracellular domain of Dsg and helping B cells to produce a specific antibody. Dsg3-reactive
      T-cell clones were able to commit polyclonal naive B cells to produce pathogenic anti-Dsg3
      antibody and induce the PV phenotype. (Hertl . et al., 1998) Follicular T helper cells (Tfh)
      are a recently discovered group of CD4+ Th cells with intrinsic differences from Th1, Th2 and
      Th17 cells. Localized in B-cell follicles of secondary lymphoid tissues, The major function
      of Tfh cells appears to help B-cell activation and antibody production during humoral immune
      responses. The Tfh cells express high levels of IL-21, which was demonstrated to be important
      for the generation of Tfh cells and that responsiveness of Tfh cells to IL-21 drives the
      formation of the autoimmune reaction, and it clearly impacted on the amount of antibody
      production.( Gomez. et al.,2011 ; Vogelzang . et al.,2008) Nowadays, finding a promising
      treatment for pemphigus remains a serious challenge. Various treatments are currently
      recommended to treat this disease, but they rarely lead to complete and durable remission.
      Regulatory cells appear to have a critical role in numerous autoimmune diseases, so it is
      possible that control of these cells may induce remission. (Cholera and Chainani .,2016)
    
  