
    
      This is a post-market single center pilot study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the
      Parietex plug and patch hernia system following open inguinal hernia repair.

      The Parietex plug and patch hernia system is composed of:

        -  a pre-cut patch made from lightweight monofilament polyester

        -  a semiresorbable disk which is a bio-component made of polyester monofilament and
           poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA).

      Patients who meet criteria for the study will be invited to join the study at their consult
      prior to surgery. F. Andrew Morfesis M.D. FACS will consent the patient, and offer to answer
      questions and address concerns. Once the patient has provided informed consent, they will be
      given a hernia surgery specific survey (mesh specific quality of life scale) that will test
      parameters such as pain, discomfort in movements, and pain frequency. Post operatively,
      research assistants will review the chart to collect data on secondary objectives from the
      Operative Note. This data will be entered into a secure excel database.

      It will be explained by Dr. Morfesis that these questionnaires must be completed in-person
      during subsequent follow-up visits. Follow-up visits will be scheduled at 1 month, 3 months,
      and 1 year, at which time the patient will be examined, and will fill out the hernia surgery
      specific measure to evaluate pain at follow up. If patients cannot be scheduled for their
      follow-up visits, pain questionnaires will be given over the phone by a research assistant to
      reduce data loss.

      Subject Selection

      This study will include 50 patients following the criteria described below:

      Inclusion Criteria

        -  All patients regardless of gender > 18 years of age presenting with inguinal hernias.

        -  Subjects will be informed of the nature of the study, and have provided signed written
           consent.

      Exclusion Criteria

      Excluded groups will include:

        -  children under the age of 18

        -  subjects that meet criteria for biologic mesh placement

        -  emergency procedure

        -  recurrent hernias.

      Withdrawal Criteria Subjects may withdraw or be withdrawn from the study at any time. The
      reason for discontinuation will be collected. Additionally, subjects may be withdrawn from
      the study by the principle investigator for noncompliance with study procedures.

      Study Assessments

      The study subjects will be evaluated at the following time points:

      Screening (pre-operative) Patients will be informed by Dr. Morfesis about the nature of the
      study and if they are in agreement to participate the signed consent will be obtained.

      Prior medical/surgical history will be obtained at time of consultation. Any additional
      testing or imaging that may be needed will also be obtained before the time of surgery.

      Patients will receive a pre-operative hernia pain scale. This scale has been tailored after
      numerous validated hernia mesh scales assessing types of pain, frequency of pain, and quality
      of life.

      Procedure OR time Intra-operative device related adverse events Technique Method of fixation
      Length of hospital stay Mesh handling Type of anesthesia

      Follow-up will occur at 1 month, 3 months, and 1 year visit Patients will fill out the hernia
      pain scale. Wound examination Scar thickness and appearance Suture infections Post-operative
      device related adverse events Recurrence Chronic groin pain Other complications
    
  