
    
      Increasing rates of acquisition of HCV in men who have sex with men (MSM) have been reported
      since 2001 in Western European countries and particularly in France. Observational studies
      have recently reported that HIV-infected gay and bisexual men with sexually transmitted
      hepatitis C have shown unexpectedly rapid liver disease progression in a relatively short
      period of time.

      It is therefore admitted that, in the absence of a spontaneous HCV clearance within 3 months
      of acute HCV infection, treatment should be initiated. Pegylated interferon in combination
      with weight-adapted ribavirin is still recommended as the treatment of choice for all HCV
      genotypes in an acute setting. For patients developing a rapid virologic response, treatment
      duration of 24 weeks is recommended. If antiviral therapy was initiated within 24 weeks after
      diagnosis, sustained virologic response rates of 60 to 80% have been observed at the price of
      a high side effects burden.

      However, short course therapies with new direct acting antivirals are likely to be safer and
      more efficient. But their efficacy in acute hepatitis C has still to be established. To date,
      US- and Europe- based trials are ongoing in this setting with the association of sofosbuvir
      and ribavirine, sofosbuvir / ledipasvir or sofosbuvir / simeprevir, for a duration of 4, 6, 8
      or 12 weeks. Preliminary results are very diverse, with SVR12 ranging from 56% to 95%. MSD
      has been evaluating the efficacy and safety of a double drug combination (grazoprevir +
      elbasvir) in HIV-infected patients which exhibits paramount efficacy and excellent tolerance
      in a diverse range of genotypes, including 1 and 4 HCV strains, which are those mainly
      encountered in the French acute HCV epidemics in MSM. This association has the potential to
      be used for short treatment duration especially with regards to the fact that patients will
      have no fibrosis at the time of treatment initiation. This MRK-combo would therefore be an
      ideal candidate for treating acute hep C due to GT1 or 4 in a "test and treat" approach in
      high-risk population such as MSM.
    
  