
    
      Emergency Room (ER) patients with limited health literacy who agree to participate in this
      study will be asked to complete a survey about how they feel about their health care and how
      easy or hard it is to get health care. Patients will also be asked for some basic information
      about themselves like their age, race, gender, employment and marital status, their overall
      health and health conditions. The research team will review the electronic medical record for
      information about participants' health conditions and how sick the ER nurse thought the
      patient was when they came to the ER.

      Patients who decide to participate in the study will also be randomly assigned, much like the
      flip of a coin to receive either a new way of educating patients (the Care Transition
      Intervention) or normal care. This means:

      If patients receive the new way of educating, a coach will visit the patient at home one time
      one or two days after the ER visit to see how the patient is doing. He/she will talk with the
      patient about following up with a regular, personal doctor and symptoms to look out for.
      He/she will help the patient understand their medicines and help the patient make a personal
      health record. The coach will also tell the patient about the Area Agency on Aging, also
      called Elder Options. If the patient receives normal care, the patient will not receive a
      visit from the coach or hear about the Area Agency on Aging but will be given discharge
      instructions from the ER nurse and doctor.

      If the patient receives the new way of educating (the Care Transition Intervention), the
      coach will call the patient at least 3 times after the ER visit. He/she will talk with the
      patient about the same items listed above. If the patient receives normal care, the coach
      will not call. The patient has a 1 in 2 chance of receiving the new way of educating and a 1
      in 2 chance of receiving normal care.

      All patients will be asked to complete a phone survey 31-60 days after their ER visit. This
      survey will ask the patient about follow up with a regular, personal doctor. The survey will
      also ask the patient how they feel about their health care and how easy or hard it is to get
      health care after an ER visit.

      Some patients will also be asked if they are willing to give a separate interview. The study
      doctor will ask about what happened when you were in the ER. She will also ask about how
      things went after your ER visit. If the coach contacted you, she will ask about this as well.
      This interview will be audio recorded.
    
  