
    
      This project seeks to improve scientific knowledge of the decision-making processes of
      smokers and improve tobacco dependence treatments. The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)
      influences decision-making by integrating inhibitory mechanisms with emotionally charged
      information from limbic regions, thereby exerting an inhibitory influence on seductive,
      immediately rewarding options with long-term costs, such as smoking. Delay discounting is the
      degree to which one de-values delayed outcomes, such as future health and long life.
      Converging evidence indicates that choosing a delayed option with a larger reward is
      associated with increased activity in the DLPFC. This study proposes that choosing to smoke
      after making a decision to quit reflects a situation where the DLPFC is insufficiently
      activated to exert an inhibitory influence on the immediately rewarding option of smoking.

      Preliminary studies indicate that stimulation of the DLPFC with 20 Hz high frequency
      repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) reduces delay discounting (i.e., causes
      individuals to choose delayed, higher value options); reduces cigarette consumption in
      smokers intending to quit; improves executive function, learning, memory, and attention; is a
      promising adjunct to cognitive-behavioral treatment of other disorders; and is likely to
      improve the efficacy of existing cognitive-behavioral treatments for tobacco dependence.

      The goal of this study is to make an informed recommendation, based on measures of
      feasibility, of whether or not this intervention should be tested for efficacy. A double
      blind, randomized between-subjects treatment (active or sham) design will be employed in
      which all subjects are exposed to the same relapse prevention materials during rTMS
      stimulation.

      Aim 1: Examine the feasibility of combining high frequency rTMS with an evidence-based,
      self-help, cognitive-behavioral relapse prevention intervention using multiple feasibility
      indicators (demand, acceptability, practicality, limited-efficacy testing, and adequate
      blinding).

      Aim 2: Examine differences in delay discounting between the active and the sham conditions 2,
      4, 8, and 12 weeks after the quit day.

      Aim 3: Use latency to relapse comparisons to calculate estimates of the effect size of this
      intervention on abstinence.
    
  