
    
      Generation of Data:

        1. Spirometry-Spirometry will be performed in accordance with ATS/ERS (American Thoracic
           Society/ European Respiratory Society) Task Force using a KoKo spirometer (KoKo system,
           PDS Inc., Ferraris Cardiopulmonary System Group; Louisville, CO, USA). Each maneuver
           will be repeated for at least three technically acceptable FEFV curves; the best results
           were used for analysis. [6]

        2. Whole Body Plethysmography- FRCpleth will be measured in a commercial, whole body ZAN500
           constant volume body plethysmograph (ZAN-Messgeraete GmbH, Germany); the surrounded
           glassed cabin of 980 L includes a chair with adjustable height, all meeting the ATS/ERS
           recommendations for plethysmography measurements [7,8]. The flow, volume, cabin
           pressure, and mouth pressures are automatically calibrated. BTPS conditions for lung
           volumes are automatically corrected. According to the manufacturer, environmental
           interference is automatically reduced by a numeric-drift-compensation, enabling quick
           stable signals for immediate testing.

        3. MCT - Methacholine challenge tests will be performed in a designated room at the
           Pediatric Pulmonary Unit, Meyer Children's Hospital, Haifa, Israel. MCT was performed
           with double doses of fresh methacholine solutions in saline. Solutions were driven by
           KoKo-PDS dosimeter via mouthpiece. The MCT will end when FEV1 dropped by more 20% from
           baseline FEV1 values or when a methacholine concentration of 16 mg/ml was reached. The
           exact PC20 value will be then calculated by the program according to the log-transformed
           formula, as described in the guidelines for methacholine.[9] Airway hyper-reactivity was
           defined as PC20 <8 mg/ml. Oxygen saturation and heart rate were monitored by pulse
           oximetry (Nonin Wrist Ox 3100, Nonin Medical, Inc., Plymouth, MN, USA).

        4. FENO: Measurement of FENO will be performed by portable electrochemical analyzer NIOX
           MINO (Aerocrine AB, Smidesvägen, Sweden),[10] and according to ATS recommendations . The
           measurement procedure includes a deep inhalation to total lung capacity followed by
           exhalation for 10 seconds at a mouth flow rate of 50 mL/sec and a pressure of 10
           cmH2O.[11] Analysis of Data: Subjects of study will be patients post-Fontan operation
           over the age of 6 years in order to fulfill the cooperation requirement necessary to
           obtain data. Patients should be in general good health without any ongoing acute
           pulmonary disease.
    
  