
    
      MS is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system characterized by focal T
      cell and macrophage infiltrates that lead to demyelination and loss of neurologic function.
      Four therapies are currently approved for the treatment of MS. Three of these are approved
      for the treatment of patients with the relapsing-remitting (RR) form of MS, in which patients
      have clinical exacerbations followed by partial or complete recovery of function. These
      treatments are only modestly effective and are associated with significant toxicity, often
      causing patients to delay therapy for significant lengths of time. Thus, there is a need to
      find therapies with low toxicities that can be administered early during the disease course
      with the potential for arresting the disease.

      During the pre-treatment phase, patients undergo neurological exams, including the extended
      disability status scale (EDSS), Ambulation Index (AI), disease steps (DS) scale MS functional
      composite score, PASAT, 9 hole peg test, and the 25 foot walking time. A 12-lead
      electrocardiogram (EKG) and chest x-ray are performed. Serum chemistry is assessed as well as
      electrolyte and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels. A brain MRI (with and without
      gadolinium), urinalysis, and urine pregnancy test (for women of reproductive potential) are
      performed. Blood is collected for mechanistic studies. In the treatment phase, patients are
      assigned randomly to 1 of 2 study arms:

      Arm 1: Copaxone plus placebo. Arm 2: Copaxone plus albuterol. At the treatment visits, blood
      is collected and neurological exams and a brain MRI are performed. A pregnancy test is
      administered to women of reproductive potential. Neurological exams are performed every 6
      months. MRIs are performed at baseline, Year 1, and Year 2. At the end of the study, patients
      have a complete physical exam, a neurological exam, and a brain MRI.
    
  