
    
      KIND OF STUDY:

      Primary, clinical, prospective, randomized, two-parallel-group, double-blind, controlled,
      interventional, analytical. SAMPLE CALCULATION: based on proportions observed in a previous
      study with and without antibiotic use in breast surgery (VEIGA-Filho, 2010) the number
      calculated patients per group was 62, with a significance level of 5% and power 80% of the
      test. SELECTION: will be selected in Mastology outpatient clinics 124 female patients to be
      undergoing breast surgery for malignancy. The selection of patients will be divided in two
      groups PLACEBO (N = 62): receive 0.9% saline 100 ml intravenously and CEFAZOLIN GROUP (N =
      62): receive 2 g of cefazolin diluted in 0.9% saline by endovenous. In both groups will be
      passed in a standardized manner, a sterile swab soaked in saline over a standard 5cm by 10cm
      area determined by a field fenestrated sterile filter paper. Preoperatively will default
      collection in the region higher interquadrantes breast to be operated immediately above
      areolopapilar complex, which is not included in the designated area for collection. At end
      surgery and also in the first postoperative day, the sterile field will be positioned with
      fenestration on the wound. Tha material will be Standard microbiological methods used to
      identify microoganismos. 0.2 ml aliquots of each sample are plated on agar media hypertonic
      mannitol, selective for Staphylococcus sp, Sabouraud agar with chloramphenicol (0.05mg / ml),
      selective for fungi, agar EMB Teague, selective for enterobacteria, and agar blood, for the
      presence of hemolytic colonies. After 48 hours, the reading of the number of colony forming
      units will be held by a microbiologist. Patients are regularly monitored for the occurrence
      of infection, once a week for the first 30 days by a single surgeon. They will be used and
      the definitions of surgical site infection classifications adopted by CDC
    
  