
    
      GLP-2 (1-33) is a naturally occurring peptide which is important in controlling the function
      of the intestine. In previous studies our group has shown that serum levels of GLP-2
      correlate with intestinal function in human neonates. Low levels of GLP-2 are predictive of
      intestinal malabsorption and the development of the so called "Short Bowel Syndrome". GLP-2
      has been shown to be specifically trophic for the GI tract, especially for the small
      intestine.

      This proposal outlines a Phase 1 and 2 trial using subcutaneous administration, twice daily
      of GLP-2 in human infants and children with Intestinal Failure, typically from Short Bowel
      Syndrome, using varying doses, assigned in a prospective, randomized protocol, with open
      label monitoring.

      The investigational plan is to begin with the Phase 1 trial, administering GLP 2 at varying
      doses (infants assigned to doses of 5,10, or 20 μg/kg/day, children greater than 1 year dosed
      at 20 μg/kg/day, given via twice daily subcutaneous injection).

      Eligible subjects will be infants (less than 12 months corrected gestational age) with either
      major resection (remaining small intestine less than 40% of predicted length for gestational
      age), or demonstrated intestinal failure after intestinal resection/abdominal
      surgery/gastroschisis (Requirement for parenteral nutrition greater than 50% of total
      calories, more than 45 days after the last surgery).

      Infants will be allocated sequentially to a group (n = 6 per group) treated with GLP-2 at
      5,10, or 20 μg/kg/day.

      Older children (greater than 1 year of age), requiring PN for >30% calories> one year post
      surgery will also be eligible; these patients will be dosed at 20 μg/kg/day (via twice daily
      subcutaneous injection) n= 7.

      Patients will be followed on the principle of intention to treat after initial randomization.
      The endpoints will be monitoring for safety, and recording of adverse events and a
      pharmacokinetic profile at 3 days.

      If the hormone is well tolerated these studies will be extended into a phase 2 study, for an
      additional 39 days; monitoring safety, patient tolerance of enteral nutrition, growth,
      citrulline levels, nutrient absorptive capacity, liver function and repeat pharmacokinetic
      studies.
    
  