
    
      Adult soft tissue sarcomas (STS) are rare tumours with an estimated incidence averaging 5/100
      000/year in Europe. The prognosis of soft tissue sarcomas is dominated by local recurrence
      and distant metastasis. A link seems to exist between local recurrence and overall survival.
      Local recurrence occurs in approximately 16-29% of STS of the limbs. A combination of
      resection and radiotherapy is the optimal treatment of primary tumours according to
      histological grade and surgical result. Modern imaging techniques such as ultrasound (US),
      magnetic resonance (MR) and computed tomography (CT) are normally used to rule-out a
      recurrence in patients operated on for STS. However, none of this technique is perfect and
      different advantages and drawbacks have to be considered in choosing one or another
      technique. In the past, US was used in tumour follow-up to detect tumour recurrences, however
      these studies didn't use high-resolution transducers and the timing of imaging respect to
      surgery was not defined. The recent advances in transducer technology improved the diagnostic
      capabilities of US.

      For the evaluation of limbs soft-tissue masses, US is widely used as a first level modality.
      The reasons are that US is widely available, fast, easily repeatable and often more
      accessible than CT and MR Imaging. In addition, US equipped with high-frequency transducers
      have a spatial resolution that may be comparable or higher than that of MR Imaging and CT in
      the evaluation of superficial soft-tissues. US and MR Imaging are often not able to
      differentiate benign from malignant tumours, therefore several lesions detected with US or MR
      Imaging warrant biopsy. The clinical practice guidelines of the ESMO (European Society of
      Medical Oncology) published in 2010 found that there are no published data to indicate the
      optimal routine follow-up policy of surgically treated patients with localized disease.
      Moreover, it has not been demonstrated that, for limb sarcomas recurrences, MR Imaging is
      superior and cost-effective compared to US for the assessment of the primary site.
      Considering that surgically treated intermediate-/high-grade patient may be followed
      frequently, even every 3-4 months in the first 2-3 years and considering that performing US
      is easier than having MR Imaging, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic
      performance of US in the detection of local recurrences of adults patients with soft tissue
      sarcomas of the limb.

      The clinical practice guidelines of the ESMO (European Society of Medical Oncology) published
      in 2010 found that there are no published data to indicate the optimal routine follow-up
      policy of surgically treated patients with localized disease. Moreover, it has not been
      demonstrated that, for limb sarcomas recurrences, MR Imaging is superior and cost-effective
      compared to US for the assessment of the primary site. Considering that surgically treated
      intermediate-/high-grade patient may be followed frequently, even every 3-4 months in the
      first 2-3 years, if US is demonstrated to be non-inferior to MRI a great sparing of
      healthcare resources will be warranted. In addition, patients operated on for localized soft
      tissue sarcomas of the limb will be possibly followed-up with clinical examination and US
      instead of MR Imaging.
    
  