
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the external validity of a randomized controlled trial
      comparing choice of hip arthroplasty for elderly patients (>80 years) with a displaced
      femoral neck fracture.

      The hypotheses are:

        1. The patient reported hip function and quality of life are better in those included in
           the randomized controlled trial than those excluded.

        2. Patients included in the study are healthier than those excluded.

        3. The external validity of the randomized controlled trial is acceptable, defined as the
           difference between patients that provide and do not provide their informed consent do
           not reach clinical significance (a mean difference in Harris hip score of 10 points).

      All patients above 80 years old with an acute displaced femoral neck fracture at Danderyds
      hospital AB during 2009-2016 will be screened and asked for participation in a randomized
      controlled trial. Those who fulfill the criteria for inclusion and give their informed
      consent are enrolled in the randomized controlled trial. Patients that will not give their
      informed consent and those which do not fulfill the inclusion criteria are enrolled in a
      prospective cohort study for evaluation of the external validity.

      The prospective cohort study will consist of 3 different groups. Patients included in the
      randomized controlled trial study will form group 1. Patients eligible for the randomized
      controlled trial but did not give their informed consent and therefore excluded, form group
      2.

      Patients with a femoral neck fracture which by any reason were excluded form group 3.

      Follow-up is performed 1-2 years after surgery. Inclusion criteria in the randomized
      controlled trial.

      1. Age above 80 years 2. Acute (<36h) displaced femoral neck fracture. 3. Independent walker
      4. Abscence of cognitive impairment (Pfeiffer test >7) 5. Did not fulfill any exclusion
      criteria Exclusion criteria in the randomized controlled trial

        1. Patient with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis in the fractured hip

        2. Pathological fracture

        3. Non walker

        4. Cognitive impairment (Short Portable Mental Questionnaire <7)

        5. Contraindication to total hip replacement due to wound, patients with comorbidities,
           deemed not suitable for a total hip replacement by the anesthesiologist, severe
           coagulation disorder, and severe drug abuse.

        6. Deemed unsuitable for inclusion by other reason.

             1. Primary endpoint is patient-reported hip function (Harris hip score) and pain on
                the operated extremity evaluated with VAS (Visual Analogue Scale)

             2. Patient reported quality of life evaluated with EQ-5D.

      Secondary outcome:

        1. Secondary outcome measurement are the frequency of the complications, periprosthetic
           fracture, dislocation, revision surgery due to wound infection (deep and superficial)
           and loosening of the components.

        2. Baseline data, age, sex, comorbidity, cognitive status, weight, height, motor function
           and complications and reoperations.

      Secondary outcome measurements are obtained in the medical records.
    
  