
    
      Previous theory and research implicates participation in meaningful activity as an important
      factor in enhancing older adults' health-related quality of life. Consistent with this
      emphasis, a previous R01 grant completed by our study group demonstrated that an
      activity-based intervention (the Well Elderly Intervention) reduced declines in a wide
      variety of health-related parameters among low income, ethnically diverse elders. In the
      current four-year project, we attempted to replicate our previous result while simultaneously
      examining the mediating mechanisms responsible for its positive effects. The outcomes of this
      study will provide important new information about the process events by which activity-based
      lifestyle interventions influence key aging outcomes.

      In the study, 460 ethnically diverse elders were recruited from 21 sites in the greater Los
      Angeles area, and participated in a randomized experiment containing a semi-crossover design
      component. The sites included 9 senior citizen centers (Culver City Senior Center, Estelle
      Van Meter Multipurpose Center, Hawthorne Senior Center, Hollywood Senior Multipurpose Center,
      Joslyn Adult Center - Burbank, Lennox Senior Center, Long Beach Senior Center, St. Barnabas
      Senior Center, and Slauson Recreation Center), as well as 12 senior residences (Casa TELACU,
      Covenant Manor, Eucalyptus Park, George McDonald Court, Motion Picture and Television Fund,
      Pilgrim Towers East, Regent Plaza, TELACU Del Rio, TELACU Manor, TELACU Senior Housing,
      TELACU Terrace, and Ward Villas).

      Within either the first or second six-month phase of their study involvement, each subject
      received a lifestyle-based intervention designed to improve a variety of aging outcomes. At
      4-5 points in time over an 18-24 month interval, elders completed assessments of healthy
      activity, coping, social support, perceived control, stress-related biomarkers, perceived
      physical health, psychosocial well-being, and cognitive functioning to test the efficacy of
      the intervention and document the process mechanisms responsible for its effects.

      The study has three long-term objectives. First, it will lead to more effective health care
      services for our nation's rapidly growing elderly population, thereby fulfilling a major
      policy priority for older adults, namely, preventing declines in their health and
      independence. Second, it will generate new information regarding how activity influences
      aging outcomes. Although previous research has shown that activity patterns consistently
      relate to important aging outcomes, little is known about how the psychological and
      biological changes that stem from activities combine to promote successful aging. This study
      will reduce this knowledge gap. Third, due to the significant ethnic diversity at the study
      sites, the project will produce results that generalize to minority elders. This outcome is
      important due to the increasing ethnic diversity of our nation's aging population.
    
  