
    
      -  Prior to the introduction of extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL) in 1980, the
           only treatment available for calculi that could not pass through the urinary tract was
           open surgery. Since then, ESWL has become the preferred tool in the urologist's
           armamentarium for the treatment of renal stones, , ESWL is minimally invasive, exposes
           patients to less anaesthesia, and yields equivalent stone-free rates in appropriately
           selected patients.

        -  The efficacy of ESWL lies in its ability to pulverize calculi in vivo into smaller
           fragments, which the body can then expulse spontaneously. Shockwaves are generated and
           then focused onto a point within the body. The shockwaves propagate through the body
           with negligible dissipation of energy (and therefore damage) owing to the minimal
           difference in density of the soft tissues. At the stone-fluid interface, the relatively
           large difference in density, coupled with the concentration of multiple shockwaves in a
           small area, produces a large dissipation of energy. Via various mechanisms, this energy
           is then able to overcome the tensile strength of the calculi, leading to fragmentation.
           Repetition of this process eventually leads to pulverization of the calculi into small
           fragments that the body can pass spontaneously and painlessly.

        -  It is well recognized that the popularity of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy
           (SWL), despite its non-invasive character, has decreased during recent years. This is
           partly explained by the technological achievements in endoscopy and urologists'
           enthusiasm for such procedures. Another explanation is that many urologists have been
           insufficiently successful with SWL. The latter effect might to some extent be a result
           of the performance of the lithotripter used, but in too many cases, it is evident that
           the principles of how shock wave lithotripsy should be carried out are poorly
           appliedical aspect
    
  