
    
      Design & Methodology:

        1. Nature of the study:

           It is ( prospective cohort study).

        2. Study subjects:

           *Target Population: Patients, fulfilling the inclusion criteria for the research, will
           be selected from Assiut clinical oncology department in Assiut University Hospitals.

             -  Sample size:

                20 patients.

             -  Characteristics of subjects:

                  -  Inclusion criteria:

           Disease characteristics:

             -  Histological and radiological confirmation of locally advanced cancer pancreas

             -  Inoperable disease

             -  Disease must be able to be encompassed within a radical radiotherapy treatment
                volume

             -  Not metastatic

           Patient characteristics:

             -  ECOG performance status 0 or 1

             -  Life expectancy > 3 months.

             -  Glomerular filtration rate ≥ 60 mL/min.

             -  WBC > 3,000/mm³.

             -  Absolute neutrophil count > 1,500/mm³.

             -  Hemoglobin > 10.0 g/dL.

             -  Platelet count > 100,000/mm³.

             -  Alkaline phosphatase ≤ 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

             -  Gamma-glutamyl-transferase < 1.5 times ULN.

             -  Transaminases ≤ 1.5 times ULN.

             -  Bilirubin ≤ 1.5 times ULN.

             -  No medically unstable conditions (e.g., unstable diabetes, uncontrolled arterial
                hypertension, infection, hypercalcemia, or ischemic heart disease)

             -  Not pregnant or nursing.

             -  No other previous or current malignant disease likely to interfere with protocol
                treatment or comparisons

             -  No prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy.

        3. Patients & Methods:

           Patients are randomized to one treatment arm. Induction 4 times chemotherapy, FOLFIRINOX
           regimen, consisted of Oxaliplatin at a dose of 85 mg/m2 on day 1 only, administered as a
           2-hour intravenous infusion, with the addition, after 30 minutes, of Irinotecan at a
           dose of 180 mg/m2 on day 1 only given as a 90-minute intravenous infusion. immediately
           will be followed by Leucovorin at a dose of 200 mg/m2, given as a 2- hour intravenous
           infusion, day 1 and day 2 This treatment will be followed by fluorouracil (5-FU) dosed
           at 400 mg/m2, administered as an intravenous bolus on day 1 and day 2, followed by a
           continuous intravenous infusion of 600 /m2 over a 20- hours period on day 1 and day 2.
           Treatment will be administered every 2 weeks. G-CSF will be administrated according to
           the need.

           In non-progressed cases, induction chemotherapy will be followed by consolidation
           radiotherapy concurrent with capecitabine 625 mg/m2 BID.

           Radiotherapy :

           A fractionated dose of 50.4Gy /28 fraction/15 MeV photon energy generated by
           Dual-energetic Linear Accelerator.

             -  Gross Target Volume (GTV): visible tumor and lymph nodes.

             -  Clinical Target Volume (CTV): [tumor/ affected lymph node + 1-2 cm] + regional
                lymphatics Lymphatics :corpus: upper and lower pancreaticoduodenal, superior and
                inferior pancreatic, celiac Head: corpus lymphatics + porta hepatis lymphatics
                Tail: corpus lymphatics (except pancreaticoduodenal LN) + splenic hilum LN

             -  PTV: CTV + 1-1.5 cm

                  -  All patients will undergo a complete classical evaluation at the time of
                     presentation which will be enrolled in a separate sheet for each patient. This
                     will include a detailed history with estimation of the age of onset, the
                     duration of the disease,.

                  -  Detailed physical examination will be carried out Treatment evaluation .
                     Laboratory examination include

                  -  complete blood count (CBC),

                  -  liver function test (LFT)

                  -  Renal function test (RFT),

                  -  Serum electrolytes at presentation and before each cycle of chemotherapy.

           Radiographic examination include

             -  Abdominal Multi Detector Computed Tomography (MDCT Abdomen )

             -  Chest X-ray Before starting treatment, 2 weeks after ending phase 1 of treatment
                then 4 weeks after ending phase 2 of treatment then every 3 months for 18 months.

                ● Bone scan will be done in those complaining from bone pain; elevated serum
                alkaline phosphatase or transaminase level

             -  Quality of life is assessed at baseline, monthly for 6 months, and then at each
                follow-up visit.

           After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically. Response
           Assessment : will be carried out, using (RECIST) Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid
           Tumors, Version 1.1 Chemotherapy Toxicity Assessment: will be carried out, using (CTCAE)
           Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 4.0

        4. Data analysis:

      Data will be analysed using the computer program, Statistical Package for the Social Science
      (SPSS V.16).

      Expected outcomes:

      The outcome of the study will be compared statistically with previous local and international
      trails.

      Ethical considerations:

        1. Risk-benefit assessment:

           There is an acceptable risk may affect the patient in this research study as regard the
           acceptable side effects of Gemcitabine, Oxaliplatin and radiotherapy.

        2. Confidentiality:

           Any data taken from the patient either from history, the examination or the
           investigations will be very confidential.

        3. Research statement:

           All patients subjected to this study will be informed about the procedures of the
           research.

        4. Informed consent:

           The study procedures will be discussed to all patients and consent will be taken from
           them.

        5. Other ethical concerns:

      The research will be conducted only by scientifically qualified and trained personnel.
    
  