
    
      Recruitment and Data Collection:

      Patients were screened for study enrollment during routine prenatal visits at the George
      Washington University Hospital. A trained research team member met with and spoke to eligible
      patients about the randomized study at the time of their scheduled induction of labor visit.
      There was an induction of labor schedule that is created monthly, which the research team
      members had access to and determined when eligible participants had their induction of labor
      visit scheduled.

      Informed consent was obtained from the patient if they were interested in participating.
      Privacy and confidentiality were assured as approved team members were the only individuals
      with access to patient records and maintained strict confidentiality. All consent forms were
      kept in a locked cabinet and survey responses were de-identified. Patients were able to ask
      questions and/or opt out of the study at any time.

      The research team member assessed patient's understanding of the information and
      participation by asking them to describe in their own words what they were consenting to.
      Signed informed consent were obtained prior to study enrollment.

      Once a patient was enrolled, they were randomized to the control group (no intervention) or
      the intervention group (3-minute educational video intervention). The randomization schedule
      was predetermined. The enrolled participant was given a pre-randomized study envelope that
      contained a unique Study ID number, randomization group, and paper surveys.

      The control group took the knowledge-based survey. Twenty-four to forty-eight hours after
      delivery, at a time convenient to the participant during the postpartum stay at GW, a
      research team member asked the participant to fill out a second survey, focused on
      satisfaction with the labor and delivery process.

      The intervention group had the opportunity to watch the 3-minute educational video. The video
      shown to these participants is linked here: https://youtu.be/Pc9tcIV4Dm8. After watching the
      video, the participant was asked to take the knowledge-based survey. Twenty-four to
      forty-eight hours after delivery, at a time convenient to the participant during the
      postpartum stay at GW, a research team member asked the participant to fill out a second
      survey, focused on satisfaction.

      If the patient ultimately chose not to participate in the study following the signing of
      informed consent, all their data was destroyed. All of the surveys were stored in a locked
      cabinet, secured. No one but the research team members had access to the collected data and
      none of the stored paper copies had any identifying information. The basic demographic
      information, as well as the outcome of the induction of labor process, was collected using
      the hospital's electronic medical record. Some of the information (race and ethnicity) was
      collected by self-report. Emails were obtained by self-report on a voluntary basis. They were
      only collected if patients wished to be entered into the raffle for the Amazon gift card.

      Recruitment goal:

      At minimum, the goal was an n= of 106 total, 53 per arm. This was powered based on an alpha
      of 0.05, 80% power, 10% attrition rate to accurately detect a 20% difference given 96%
      correct in the intervention group.

      Data entry:

      After enrollment and completion of study surveys, a member of the research team entered in
      all of the information collected into a de-identified Redcap database using the unique Study
      ID numbers. The research team also collected data from the patient's electronic medical
      record about the enrolled participant's induction of labor process, including gravity,
      parity, pregnancy complications, induction agents utilized, and delivery method (vaginal vs
      cesarean delivery). All of this data was entered into the de-identified Redcap database.
      Access to the participant's medical record was only available to the research team through
      the MFA's HIPAA compliant, password protected, firewalled electronic medical record
      (Allscripts) and GW hospitals' EMR (Cerner).

      After the data was entered into Redcap, a second and different member of the research team
      re-checked the entry to ensure the answers were correctly captured into the system.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The investigators used specific methods to address our hypothesis: Those patients' shown a
      brief educational video will have a higher baseline knowledge about the induction process and
      higher satisfaction with their delivery course compared to patients who received the standard
      in-office counseling.

        1. Does a brief educational video improve patients' baseline knowledge of the induction of
           labor process when compared to patients' who receive the traditional care?

           The investigators used mean, standard deviation, and analysis via Mann-Whitney U tests.

        2. Does a brief educational video improve patients' overall satisfaction with their
           delivery course when compared to patients' who received the standard care?

      The investigators used mean, standard deviation, and analysis via Mann-Whitney U, Chi-Square,
      and Fisher's exact tests.
    
  