
    
      SUMMARY OF STUDY RATIONAL - Reducing hypoglycemia is an important aspect of management of T1D
      in older adults, many of whom have hypoglycemic unawareness, cognitive impairment, or both.
      CGM offers the opportunity to reduce hypoglycemia and its related complications such as
      fractures from falls and hospitalizations and improve QOL including reducing hypoglycemic
      fear and diabetes distress. Despite these potential benefits, CGM is used by only a small
      proportion of older adults with T1D (19% in the T1D Exchange registry). Previous studies
      assessing CGM efficacy have included only a small number of adults ≥ 60 years of age,
      excluded patients most prone to severe hypoglycemia (SH), focused on improving HbA1c rather
      than hypoglycemia, and used older generation CGM sensors. These studies are not generalizable
      to the population of older adults with T1D. The potential benefit of CGM in reducing
      hypoglycemia in the older adult population has not been well studied. Prior and on-going
      trials compare CGM to self-monitoring of blood glucose levels, but none look at remote daily
      monitoring of CGM data. Moreover, in none of the studies is education standardized. The
      follow-up of patients is done only at routine clinic visits, without any particular oversight
      of glucose values on an on-going basis. In some cases individual patients may share their
      data with a family member, but these are generally not trained medical personnel and the
      Dexcom provided by Medicare has the "share" feature disabled.

      INTERVENTION Baseline Visit: Participants will sign informed consent, complete
      questionnaires, measure HbA1C, start new CGM sensor and be signed in to the Tidepool
      application for TeleMonitoring.

      Visit 1- will occur at Week @ 2 where 14 days of CGM data will be downloaded from
      participants' device, systems will be checked for functioning status, remote monitoring
      program will be activated, telemedicine procedure will be discussed with patient; emergency
      contact numbers will be obtained in case patient cannot be reached.

      TeleMonitoring -This will consist of an out going call/email to the patient if one of the
      following occur has occurred in the past 24 hours: ≥4 hours without CGM signal, ≥2 hours 54 -
      70 mg/dl and/or 15 minutes <54 mg/dl. The study coordinator will be alerted each morning
      though the Tidepool program to patients who fit these criteria. The outgoing call/email will
      consist of questions to find out why the event happened and then suggestions on how to
      trouble shoot to avoid issues in the future. If needed the patient will be seen in person for
      an education/training session. If the patient cannot be reached within 6 hours, the patient's
      emergency contact will be notified if the PI feels that such out reach is warranted.

      Visit 2 - will occur at 14 weeks. Questionnaires will be administered, A1C measured and CGM
      data and compare to baseline.

      DATA COLLECTION AND TESTING PROCEDURES (Baseline, and 14 weeks) HbA1c - HbA1c will be
      obtained using the point of care Siemens DCA Vantage Analyzer.

      Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM)- A commercially available DexCom G5 or G6 CGM device will
      be provided and a sensor will be inserted. The participant will receive instructions on
      calibration, insertions, maintenance, use, and removal of the sensor.

      T1D REDEEM Diabetes Distress Questionnaire- The T1D REDEEM Diabetes Distress Questionnaire
      measures several dimensions of stress related to having type 1 diabetes. It consists of the
      following 7 subscales: Subscale 1 - Powerlessness (5 items); Subscale 2 - Management Distress
      (4 items); Subscale 3 - Hypoglycemia Distress (4 items); Subscale 4 - Negative Social
      Perceptions (4 items); Subscale 5 - Eating Distress (3 items); Subscale 6 - Physician
      Distress (4 items); Subscale 7 - Friend/Family Distress (4 items). Each question has a
      6-choice Likert response format. Administration time is approximately 10 minutes.

      Hypoglycemia Fear Survey - The Hypoglycemia Fear Survey measures several dimensions of fear
      of hypoglycemia among adults with type 1 diabetes. It consists of a 10-item Behavior subscale
      that measured behaviors involved in avoidance and over-treatment of hypoglycemia and a
      13-item Worry subscale that measures anxiety and fear surrounding hypoglycemia, each with a
      5-choice Likert response format. Administration time is approximately 10 minutes.

      Simplified Diabetes Knowledge Test -The Simplified Diabetes Knowledge Test consists of 23
      knowledge test items developed by the Michigan Diabetes Research Training Center (MDRTC).
      These items represent a test of general knowledge of diabetes and are answered in a
      true/false/don't know format. The psychometric properties provide information regarding the
      reliability of the various groups of items, as well as a difficulty index (percent of
      patients who scored this item correctly), and an item to group total correlation for each
      item. These data can be reported when describing the use of the test. Administration time is
      approximately 15 minutes.

      Assessment of Sever Hypoglycemia and Diabetic Ketoacidosis -The Assessment of Severe
      Hypoglycemia and Diabetic Ketoacidosis is an interviewer administered survey assessing if the
      subject had any episodes of severe hypoglycemia and/or diabetic ketoacidosis since their last
      study visit. Events are recorded to assess frequency, as is type of assistance required to
      treat the event. Administration time is approximately 5 minutes.

      TIDEPOOL. https://tidepool.org/ Tidepool is an open source, not-for-profit company focused on
      "liberating data from diabetes devices, supporting researchers, and providing free software
      to people with diabetes and their care teams." Tidepool is the program that is used routinely
      in our clinic to assess data from diabetes devices. As part of clinical care all patients are
      encouraged to upload their data to Tidepool for analysis. Currently we have over 250 patients
      streaming data into Tidepool. However, data is not analyzed on a daily basis, but rather on
      as "as needed" basis if a patient contacts the clinic with a problem.

      Tidepool is an FDA registered entity. The software is listed with the FDA under regulations
      880.6310 and 862.2120 as Class I/Exempt medical devices and Medical Data Display Systems.
      Tidepool complies with all applicable FDA regulations including 21 code of federal
      regulations (CFR) 820 Quality System Regulations. Class I/Exempt and medical device data
      system (MDDS) software are exempt from FDA part 510(k) filing and approval requirements.
    
  