
    
      Single chamber (SC) implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) have several limitations
      that might be relevant during follow up, like atrial pacing requirements, inadequate
      therapies, sustained atrial tachyarrhythmias and difficulties to achieve an accurate
      diagnosis of the arrhythmia. Dual chamber (DC) ICDs offer an attractive rationale solution,
      although controversy remains if the costs and complexity of the implants offer a real
      clinical advantage.

      The DATAS is a, prospective, multicentre, randomized, open labelled study, with three arms
      (two of them cross-over and the third parallels the other two)

      The primary objective of this trial is to determine whether use of Dual Chamber ICD
      (DDED-DDDR NASPE/BPEG Defibrillator/Pacemaker Codes) results in a significant decrease in the
      number of primary end points.

      The primary end point is a composite comprising four so-denominated "Clinically Significant
      Adverse Events (CSAE)":

        1. all-cause mortality

        2. invasive intervention, hospitalization (>24 h) or prolongation of hospitalization due to
           cardiovascular cause

        3. inappropriate shocks (two or more episodes with inappropriate shocks)

        4. sustained symptomatic atrial tachyarrhythmias that (a) require urgent termination or (b)
           last more than 48 h leading to therapeutic intervention.

      Secondary objectives are:

        1. Number of each of the components of the CSAE.

        2. Arrhythmia related: atrial tachyarrhythmia (AT), frequency and burden, ventricular
           tachyarrhythmia frequency and burden number of appropriate shocks, number of
           inappropriate shocks, need for reprogramming, need for medication/Radiofrequency
           Ablation (RFA) for arrhythmia control, pacemaker syndrome and development of dual
           chamber pacing indication.

        3. Cardiovascular related: New York Health Association (NYHA) functional class, exercise
           capacity, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), reduction of medication
           (diuretics.).

        4. Quality of life: evaluated by the SF-36, Minnesota living test, with heart failure and
           Symptom Checklist instruments.
    
  