
    
      Subject Recruitment:

      New patients presenting with HME will be identified through the offices and clinics of
      British Columbia Children's Hospital Orthopaedic Department. All potential participants will
      be educated about the study's rationale, purpose, and procedures and informed consent will be
      obtained.

      Demographics:

      All probands (affected patient), their first degree family members and extended family
      members willing to participate in the study will be interviewed. Information including age,
      gender, ethnic origin, family history, symptoms, complications and previous surgery will be
      elucidated.

      Phenotype:

      Affected patients will have their osteochondroma(s) mapped for location, size, morphology,
      and symptoms. A total of seventy-five phenotypic parameters divided into four major data
      categories will be collected. The first two categories are accumulated from physical
      examinations and include stature and limb segment lengths (15 (x2 for left and right). The
      other two categories, lesion quality (19 parameters) and limb alignment and deformity (26
      parameters) will be drawn from radiographic examinations which are part of the patient's
      current care. All available xrays will be reviewed and the exostoses characterized
      radiographically. This will establish the patient's genotype.

      Genotype:

      Each participant whose genotype is unknown will have a 10 cc. blood sample collected at BC
      Children's Hospital. This sample will be processed for mutation analysis (DNA extraction from
      blood samples, mutation analysis) at the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory at BC
      Children's Hospital. The techniques used in the pilot study will be implemented with the
      exception that microsatellite markers will not be used in order to save cost.

      Using EXT 1 and EXT 2 primers (Appendix 1) both strands of a DNA segment are sequenced using
      ABI Big Dye chemistry Version 2. The resulting sequencing reaction products are then run on
      an ABI 3100 Avant genetic analyzer. Once a sequence is obtained it is analyzed with SeqScape
      version 2 software which allows comparison with reference sequence.

      Data Analysis:

      All information resulting from this research study will be kept strictly confidential. All
      documents will be identified by an ID number and kept in locked filing cabinets. Participants
      will not be identified by name in any reports of the completed study. Databases will be
      stored on project-dedicated laptop computer which is locked in the research office.

      The phenotypic data collected will be used to describe family degrees (designed using
      Cyrillic software), phenotypes of affected individuals and mutations in the exostoses genes
      of interest (site and type of mutation). Subject heights and segment lengths will be
      converted to percentile figures to standardize for age and gender to allow for comparison
      amongst groups.

      Genotypic data from the mutation analysis of blood samples will include location of the
      mutation (early in the gene versus late in the gene), type of mutation (alteration of gene as
      missense, frameshift, nonsense or splice site), and the amino acid change that was caused by
      the mutation. The data will be analyzed as follows:

      Preliminary Analysis

        1. EXT 1 versus EXT 2

        2. Males versus Females

        3. EXT 1 males versus EXT 1 females versus EXT 2 males versus EXT 2 females

           Secondary Analysis

        4. Types of mutations (Missense versus Nonsense versus Splice site versus Frameshift)

        5. Early or late mutation (less than 1700 base pairs versus greater than 1700 base pairs)

      With 2-way analyses, an unpaired t-test will be calculated and with greater than 2-way
      analyses, an ANOVA will be calculated. Power will be calculated for every comparison due to
      the huge variation in sample size. Statistical significance will be set to prior at 0.05 and
      power of 0.8.
    
  