
    
      Both genetic and environmental factors contribute to noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). The
      cellular antioxidant system appears to protect cochlear hair cells from oxidative stress due
      to noise. Previous animal studies showed protective effects of anti-oxidant medicines against
      NIHL.The objective of this study is to test the hypothesis that preventive medication of
      antioxidation is related to susceptibility to NIHL.

      The 53 noise-exposed workers from steel industries in Taiwan will be recruited, and divided
      into N-Acetylcysteine (NAC)(Acetine, 1200mg/day) group and placebo one. The duration of
      medication is 2 weeks initially. After washout for 2 weeks, the kinds of medications in these
      2 groups will be crossover and used for 2 weeks. Firstly, questionnaires interview about
      noise exposure, smoking, alcohol drinking, drug habit history and calculation of Body Mass
      Index (BMI) will be done. The following methods would be performed individually after
      medication. With detailed local examination with otoscope, these subjects receive hearing
      tests by pure-tone audiometry (PTA) and distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE)
      before and after their daily works. The possible confounding factors including background
      noise, solvent, heavy metals, carbon monoxide and temperature in the workplaces will be
      assessed. The amount of noise exposure is evaluated by personal dosimeter. Early morning,
      Blood samples will be collected. Deletion polymorphisms in the Glutathione S-transferase
      (GST)T1 and GSTM1 genes will be determined. Statistical analysis will be performed to
      evaluate the relation between intake of anti-oxidant medicine and noise-induced temporal
      threshold shift (TTS).

      The expected results of this study are to determine whether anti-oxidant supplements protect
      workers from noise-induced TTS.

      We anticipate that these human studies might help elucidate the relative importance of
      anti-oxidant enzymes as risk factors for NIHL.
    
  