
    
      PR(SqrRoot) CIS

      This is a phase II prospective randomized trial comparing a novel navigation method,
      Xperguide to conventional CT and electromagnetic tracking (EM) during percutaneous image
      guided procedures. Xperguide is a navigation tool that utilizes a cone beam CT (CBCT)
      obtained in the angiography suite overlaid on fluoroscopy for needle guidance during image
      guided procedures. The needle entry point and path are planned on the CBCT and the determined
      path is overlaid on fluoroscopy image for real time guidance.

      SPECIFIC AIMS/OBJECTIVES

        1. The primary aims are:

           a. Pilot trial:

           i. To familiarize operators with outcome measures allowing for fair comparison in the
           subsequent study

           b. Main trial will have 2 phases with similar outcomes criteria and aims (below):

           i. comparing Xperguide to conventional imaging (superiority design):

      ii. comparing Xperguide to EM tracking (equivalence design):

        1. To compare the accuracy of final device tip position and path (vector)

        2. To compare the number of repositioning maneuvers

        3. To compare the radiation dose

        4. To compare rates of definitive pathological diagnosis and response rate per EASL
           criteria for ablations

      METHODS/METHODOLOGY

      For non-vascular image guided interventions, patients undergoing biopsies and ablations
      procedures requiring CT guidance are eligible for inclusion and randomization. An initial
      pilot study will be done in which each operator will perform at least 5 cases using Xperguide
      completing the case report forms. This will ensure experience with outcome measures and fair
      comparison in the subsequent study. Once one of the operators reaches the minimal required
      cases, the main trial will begin for that operator. However every other operator must each
      complete the minimal number of cases with the case report forms to enroll patients in the
      main trial. Initially, we will compare Xperguide with conventional CT with several cohorts of
      patients mainly: lung biopsies, and ablations, kidney biopsies/ablations and other abdominal
      biopsies/ ablations. In ablations of large lesions, Xperguide composite ablation software can
      provide input on the expected ablation zones. Each probe will be positioned in the same
      manner as any biopsy needle following steps described in section 4. If this specific
      composite ablation module of the

      software is not commercially released and FDA cleared at the time of the study, then this
      software will only be used on protocol to help the physician determine ideal needle
      positioning for complete ablation. Once consent is obtained the participant is randomized to
      either conventional imaging or Xperguide. In addition, if it is known that the patient is
      participating in a trial which requires a repeat (paired, pre and post treatment) procedure
      of the same site, then the randomization will determine which modality is used for guidance
      at the first visit and the other modality will automatically be used for the second
      procedure. In these cases, if the patient gives consent they will be randomized to one of two
      categories:

        1. Xperguide for the initial procedure and conventional CT for the 2nd procedure

        2. Conventional CT for the initial procedure and Xperguide for the 2nd procedure

      Then in the second phase of the trial, Xperguide will be compared to EM tracking for biopsies
      and ablations requiring CT guidance, in an equivalence study. Once consent is obtained, the
      participant will be randomized into EM tracking or Xperguide. The patients would be divided
      into different cohorts depending on the anatomic site of the interventions i.e. lung, kidney,
      liver and other abdomen. If the patients are participating in a trial requiring paired
      procedures (i.e. pre and post treatment), the randomization will determine which modality is
      used for the initial procedure and the other modality will be used for the second procedure.
      In summary there will be two potential categories:

        1. EM tracking for the initial procedure and Xperguide for the 2nd procedure

        2. Xperguide for the initial procedure and EM tracking for the 2nd procedure

      If a patient has a lesion that is only visible on PET-CT/MR, or demonstrates heterogenous
      PET-CT/MR uptake, there will be a separate cohort of PET-CT/MR guided biopsies and ablations
      using Xperguide vs EM tracking. There is also the need for a cohort for ablations with
      complimentary use of ultrasound at the discretion of the operator in order to conform to our
      standard of care at the NIH.

      ELIGIBILITY

      Subjects are eligible if:

        1. they are over 18 years of age

        2. they are scheduled for image guided procedure

        3. the lesion is not superficial (deeper than 3cm)

      Subjects are excluded if:

        1. they have an altered mental status that precludes understanding or consenting for the
           procedure

        2. they are unable to hold reasonably still on a procedure table for the length of the
           procedure

        3. they are unable to hold their breath if the procedure will be performed with conscious
           sedation and without general anesthesia

        4. their gross body weight is over 375 pounds which the upper limit of the CT and

      angiography tables

      REQUIRED SAMPLE SIZE

      A pilot study will be performed to ensure operator experience with Xperguide and EM tracking,
      for fair comparison. In the pilot study each operator must perform 5 cases with Xperguide
      completing the case report forms. There are 5 potential operators therefore a maximum of 25
      patients (if all 5 operators participate to the fullest).

      The first phase of the main trial comparing Xperguide with conventional CT was powered (for
      sample size) with a standard superiority design aimed to statistically establish that
      Xperguide is better than conventional CT (defined as requiring fewer needle repositioning
      efforts). These calculations yield a total sample size of 60 patients with 20 patients per
      anatomical site.

      For the second phase of the trial comparing Xperguide to EM tracking, a two sided equivalence
      design (based on accuracy and number of needle repositioning) was used for sample size
      considerations, and yielded 192 patients. Therefore 16 patients per modality per anatomical
      site will be randomized with two additional cohorts for PET-CT/MR procedures and composite
      ablations.

      Number of Participants: 277

      Recruitment Time Frame: 4 years

      Number of sites: 1

      Type of Study: prospective randomized clinical trial after an initial pilot period
    
  