
    
      This protocol results from a funded 2005 Bench-to-Bedside Award and explores the genetic
      basis of disease severity in neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and the evaluation of three
      methods to measure disease progression of dermal neurofibromas. NF1 is a common multisystem
      genetic disorder associated with the development of benign and malignant tumors, primarily of
      the nervous system. NF1 is 100% penetrant and features variable expressivity and limited
      phenotype/genotype correlation. No standard treatment other than surgery exists for most
      NF1-associated tumors. Many aspects of the natural history of NF1-associated tumors

      are not fully characterized and require investigation to assess the effects of potential new
      treatments, in future clinical trials. The development of medical treatments for
      NF1-associated tumors is an important goal given their morbidity and the lack of non-surgical
      treatment options. The ability to predict the ultimate severity of disease would have a
      significant impact on the management and treatment of individuals with NF1.

      Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) is a novel, orally bioavailable agent that targets downstream
      effectors in the Ras signaling pathway (a key dysregulated pathway in NF1). It has thus a
      strong scientific rationale for evaluation in NF1 related tumors. Dermal neurofibromas occur
      in nearly every individual with NF1, and are a significant cosmetic problem and a major cause
      of morbidity. This protocol will 1) quantify the growth of dermal neurofibromas in NF1 with 3
      different imaging modalities 2) use an innovative gene expression method to

      identify genetic modifiers of dermal neurofibroma burden, and 3) evaluate dermal
      neurofibromas and normal skin for the presence of targets of sorafenib. Successful validation
      of reliable quantitative imaging methods of dermal neurofibroma growth is a logical
      prerequisite to subsequent clinical trials with medical treatments, which will evaluate the
      effect of new agents on the growth rate of dermal neurofibromas. Identification of genetic
      modifiers may permit prediction of ultimate tumor burden. Evaluation of targets of new agents
      in dermal neurofibromas will allow for more rationale drug development for NF1. Given the
      paucity of protocols for adults with NF1 and dermal neurofibromas, this study will likely
      generate great interest among affected individuals and have rapid accrual.
    
  