
    
      Cerebrovascular diseases represent the second most common cause of dementia after Alzheimer's
      disease. Since cerebrovascular diseases are age-related, an increase in the incidence of this
      pathology, due to the aging of the population, is expected.

      Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) embraces a broad-spectrum of cognitive disorders related
      to cerebrovascular diseases, from mild cognitive impairment to severe dementia. VCI is an
      extremely disabling condition with severe consequences in terms of direct (e.g., clinic
      visits, prescriptions, hospital accesses, etc..) and indirect costs (e.g., loss of patient's
      and caregiver's productivity, consequent increase in psychological burdens, etc.).

      The two main categories of VCI include post-stroke dementia and vascular cognitive impairment
      caused by cerebral small vessel disease. Given its great weight in the dementia field, the
      interest of the international scientific community is currently focused on small vessel
      disease, its neuroradiological definition and its clinical consequences.

      Despite these relevant facts, there are no approved therapies for VCI due to small disease.

      In the past, several drugs have been tested in patients affected by VCI with variable
      results. A large amount of data come from studies performed with drugs approved for the
      treatment of Alzheimer's disease (such as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors,
      N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonists, cholinergic precursors, calcium-channel
      blockers).

      Choline alphoscerate and nimodipine have demonstrated some positive effects in VCI patients,
      and a confirmation of this effect in quantitative terms could permit to obtain the
      prescribing license for VCI.

      It may be possible that a combined treatment with two drugs that act on different targets
      could achieve better results in patients affected by subcortical VCI, also in consideration
      of the fact that small vessel disease is characterized by a damage of microvessels and
      produces a cortical disconnection.

      The main objective of this study is to assess whether the combination of choline alphoscerate
      1200mg per day and nimodipine 90mg per day given orally is more effective than the
      combination of nimodipine and placebo in reducing cognitive decline in patients with
      subcortical VCI.

      Project design:

      The present study is a 2-year prospective, double-blinded, randomized trial. The enrolment
      will be carried out at Vascular Cognitive (VASCOG) clinic of the Careggi University Hospital
      in Florence, Italy. Sixty-eight patients will be enrolled according to the following
      inclusion criteria: 1) Cognitive impairment of mild to moderate degree defined by a Clinical
      Deterioration Rating (CDR) score range between 0.5 and 2.0; 2) Evidence on brain MRI of white
      matter hyperintensities (leukoaraiosis of moderate or severe degree according to the modified
      Fazekas visual scale and/or presence of lacunar infarcts); 3) Consent to participation in the
      study.

      All enrolled patients will be evaluated at baseline according to the study protocol that
      includes: 1) Clinical assessment; 2) Functional, quality of life and mood assessments; 3)
      Extensive neuropsychological evaluation.

      After baseline assessment, participants will be randomly assigned to one of two arms of
      treatment: 1) nimodipine 90 mg/die t.i.d plus placebo b.i.d; 2) nimodipine 90 mg t.i.d plus
      choline alphoscerate 1200 mg/die b.i.d. Treatment will be given for a total of 12 months.

      Each patient will be followed-up at 6 and 12 months after baseline. During the first
      follow-up visit, clinical assessment and evaluation of side effects and compliance to
      treatment will be carried out; during the second follow up visit, clinical assessment, an
      extensive neuropsychological evaluation, and mood, functional, and quality of life
      assessments will be performed according to the baseline protocol.

      The primary end point of this study is to assess the cognitive decline, expressed as the loss
      of at least 2 points on the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test 12 months after
      baseline. A comparative analysis of MoCA test values between two groups will be assessed by
      covariate analysis (ANCOVA) introducing in the statistical model these two covariates: arm of
      treatment and MoCA test score at the baseline (based on the exploratory nature of this study
      the significance level on the covariate arm of treatment is 20%).
    
  