
    
      Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) kills more patients in the United States
      (U.S.) than Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). Further, persons living with Human
      Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) experience MRSA infection at significantly higher rates than the
      general population (12.3/ 1000 person years compared to 1 to 2/1000 person years) and MRSA
      remains a substantial reason for hospital admission among this patient population.
      Colonization with Staphylococcus aureus is a major risk factor for infection in persons
      living with HIV and AIDS (PLWHA) and eradication of MRSA colonization reduces the occurrence
      of subsequent infection in patients. Household contacts with MRSA colonization increase
      failure rates of decolonization. The clinical practice guidelines for MRSA management from
      the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) recommend providing decolonization to
      persons with repeated skin and soft tissue infections as well as their household contacts;
      however, the guidelines report that evidence is limited in support of this recommendation.
      Additionally, these recommendations do not include sexual partners outside the home and there
      is mounting evidence of MRSA transmission between sexual partners and sexual networks.
      Strategies that reduce the spread of MRSA among people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) are
      vitally needed to reduce this disparity.

      To assess colonization prevalence among PLWHA, investigators conducted an epidemiologic
      evaluation of MRSA among persons within the Johns Hopkins University AIDS Service (JHUAS).
      The study included 500 subjects (65.8 % male) along with the sexual partners of 35 subjects.
      The MRSA colonization prevalence was 16.8% among subjects and 37% (17/35) in their sexual
      partners (unpublished data). These findings demonstrate an exceptional difference in
      colonization prevalence in PLWHA compared to the US population and supports the need for
      further research to understand decolonization regimens that evaluate outcomes for individual
      decolonization only compared to the inclusion household and/or sexual partner interventions.
      We propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) among 100 PLWHA (50 per arm) within the JHUAS
      to evaluate an individual versus household/sexual partner decolonization intervention.

      The specific aims of the proposed RCT are:

        1. To compare a MRSA decolonization protocol for the colonized individual (index) versus
           the index plus their household member and/or routine sexual partner(s).

           H0: Index plus household/sexual partner(s) decolonization will be associated with a
           lower occurrence of MRSA colonization at 6 months after completion of decolonization
           protocol.

        2. To estimate the intervention effect size and develop an intervention fidelity assessment
           plan to scale the intervention into a larger multi-city R01 application.

        3. To determine the molecular characteristics and antimicrobial susceptibilities of both
           the clinical and colonizing isolates among index patient as well as household members.
    
  