
    
      This is a randomized, prospective blinded study on trauma patients arriving to an emergency
      department.

      Study Setting and Population This study will be conducted on the University Campus of the
      University of Massachusetts Medical Center, which is an urban academic emergency department
      that sees 80,000 patients annually and has a dedicated Level I trauma service that is staffed
      by trauma surgery and emergency medicine. Adult patients with acute traumatic injury who are
      undergoing a CT scan of the chest are eligible for enrollment.

      Study Protocol Trauma patients are enrolled as they arrived to the emergency department. The
      investigators will include any trauma patient aged 18 and over. The investigtors will exclude
      any patient who was too unstable and required clinical care that prevented performing a chest
      wall ultrasound, patients with a chest tube in place prior to arrival, pregnant women, and
      prisoners. Imaging decisions on trauma patients will be made early on in their evaluation.
      The patient will be assigned using a pre-determined randomization scheme to a single view or
      four views of each hemi-thorax prior to any imaging being done. Ultrasounds will be performed
      and interpreted by credentialed physicians using a 7.5Mhz linear array transducer on a
      portable ultrasound machine (Zonare z.one ultra) with digital clips recorded for later
      review. When the investigators obtain a single view of each hemi-thorax, the probe will be
      placed in a longitudinal orientation on the midclavicular line in the third intercostal
      space. When the investigators obtain four views of each hemi-thorax, the first image location
      will be the same as in the single view and then the probe will be moved inferiorly and
      laterally to obtain the additional three images. Immediately following the ultrasound
      examination, the patient will be transported to the CT scanner for further imaging.

      The goal of this study is to determine if a single view of each hemi-thorax can identify a
      pneumothorax or if additional images should be included. The primary study endpoint is the
      presence of a pneumothorax on ultrasound.
    
  