
    
      Immediate release (IR) tramadol has demonstrated efficacy in several pain conditions
      including: obstetrical, gynecological, orthopedic, abdominal, and oral surgery. The short
      elimination half-life of IR tramadol requires every 4-6 hour dosing to maintain optimal
      levels of analgesia in chronic pain. The study medication in this study is a once-daily,
      extended-release (ER) tramadol formulation. This is a 12-week, multi-center, double-blind,
      randomized, dose-titration, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study designed to evaluate the
      analgesic effectiveness and safety of once daily tramadol HCl ER with placebo in the
      treatment of patients with OA of the knee. Patients with OA Functional Class I-III of the
      knee will be eligible for participation, if appropriate criteria are met. After a 2-7 day
      washout period, during which the use of all analgesic medications used for chronic pain
      management will be discontinued, patients experiencing moderate to severe pain (pain
      intensity >= 40 mm on a 100 mm visual analog scale) in the index knee and who meet all other
      study criteria will enter a 2-week, double-blind, titration period. During this period,
      patients will be randomly assigned to treatment with tramadol HCl ER or placebo, once daily
      (QD). The initial dose will be tramadol HCl ER 100 mg or matching placebo QD. On Day 4 and
      for the remainder of the week, patients will be titrated to 200 mg or matching placebo QD,
      based on tolerability. Beginning at Visit 3, a minimum dose of 200 mg or matching placebo QD
      are to be maintained for the remainder of the 12-week study. Patients unable to tolerate at
      least 200 mg or matching placebo QD will be discontinued from the study. After Week 1 (Visit
      3), further increases to 300 mg or 400 mg or matching placebo QD were permitted, depending on
      the adequacy of pain relief and tolerability of side effects. Efficacy and safety evaluations
      will be collected at study visits occurring at Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 or at early
      termination. Study medication will be discontinued at Week 12 and patients will return after
      1 week for a post-treatment visit (Week 13).
    
  