
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of neoadjuvant oxaliplatin and capecitabine when
           combined with radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the
           rectum. (Phase I closed to accrual as of 06/2005.)

        -  Determine the rate of complete pathological response in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the rate of local and overall failure in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the utility of TS, TP, DPD, ERCC-1, and apoptosis to predict response in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the rate of pathologic down-staging in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the rate of sphincter-saving rectal surgery in patients treated with this
           regimen who had been deemed candidates for abdominoperineal resection at diagnosis.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I (phase I closed to accrual as of 06/2005),
      dose-escalation study of oxaliplatin and capecitabine followed by a phase II study.

        -  Phase I (closed to accrual as of 06/2005): Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5
           days a week for 5.5 weeks and receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days radiotherapy
           is administered. Beginning on day 1 of radiotherapy, patients also receive oxaliplatin
           IV over 2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oxaliplatin and capecitabine until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients undergo radiotherapy and receive capecitabine and oxaliplatin as in
           phase I at the MTD.

      All patients undergo curative-intent surgery 6-8 weeks after the completion of
      chemoradiotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 31-40 patients (6-15 for phase I [phase I closed to accrual as
      of 06/2005] and 25 for phase II) will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  