
    
      The study will utilize a 2-stage, single arm, Simon's 2-stage design1 with one (efficacy)
      interim and a final analysis. The interim analysis will be conducted when 15 patients are
      evaluable for Overall Response Rate (ORR) as determined locally by the investigator through
      the use of RECIST v.1.1. If 5 or fewer responses are observed in up to 15 patients of
      evaluable population (EP), the trial will be terminated in favor of the null for futility.
      Otherwise, up to a further 31 patients may be evaluated,for a maximum total of 46 evaluable
      patients. If a total of 19 or more responses are seen at the end of the second stage, then
      the null will have been rejected in favor of the alternative; and further investigation of
      the combination is warranted.

      Recruitment will be halted once 15 evaluable patients have been entered and whilst the Stage
      1 interim analysis is conducted. Recruitment will start again if the decision is made by
      Steering Committee (SC) to continue to the maximum of 46 evaluable patients.

      After confirmation of all eligibility criteria, eligible patients will receive pembrolizumab
      200 mg every 3 weeks (on D1 of each 21-day cycle, beginning in Cycle 1) in combination with
      paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 administered at days 1, 8, 15 of each 21-day cycle beginning at cycle 2.
      Treatment will continue until disease progression, the development of unacceptable toxicity,
      withdrawal of consent, 24 months from the date of the first dose of pembrolizumab or end of
      study, whichever occurs first.

      All patients will be followed for survival from screening until the last patient recruited
      has been followed for 12 months, has progressed or has died, whichever occurs first. The
      patient will be followed for survival approximately every 3 months (± 21 days) until death,
      withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, or study termination by the sponsor. In addition,
      information regarding use of subsequent anti-cancer agents for metastatic HR+/HER2- during
      the survival follow-up period will be collected.

      Tumor assessments per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v.1.1 and
      Immune-Related Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (iRECIST) will be performed every
      9 weeks (63 days ± 5 days) until disease progression, treatment discontinuation, the start of
      new anti-cancer treatment, withdrawal of consent, death, or the end of the study, whichever
      occurs first. Tumor assessments will be performed on the specified schedule regardless of
      treatment delays.

      Safety assessments will include the incidence, nature, and severity of adverse events (AEs)
      and laboratory abnormalities graded per the NCI CTCAE v.5.

      Laboratory safety assessments will include the regular monitoring of hematology, blood
      chemistry and pregnancy test
    
  