
    
      Dysmenorrhea is the most common gynecological condition affecting 16% to 95% of adolescents
      and young women, and reduce their quality of life. Primary dysmenorrhea (PD), a term denoting
      the dysmenorrhea in the absence of underlying pathology, is commonly referred to as period
      pain or menstrual cramps by the lay press and public.

      The effect of warm-water footbath in improving primary dysmenorrhea (PD) was rarely
      investigated previously. We aimed to exam the hypothesis that warm-water footbath is
      effective to reduce the pain of PD, and the effect is associated with changes in the
      autonomic nervous system (ANS) activity.

      This study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of Saint Mary Hospital Luodong
      (SMHIRB102015).

      This study with a quasi-experimental design was conducted in a nursing college in Northern
      Taiwan during the study period from December 1, 2013, to June 30, 2014. Participants were
      eligible for enrollment if they: (1) were healthy female students aged 16-20 years of the
      nursing college; (2) had regular menstrual cycles; (3) experienced dysmenorrhea within 6
      months before the enrollment; (4) had dysmenorrhea with severity higher than five scores of
      the pain visual analog scale (PVAS); and (5) had no experience of pregnancy. The exclusion
      criteria included individuals whom: (1) had irregular menstrual cycles; (2) had circulation
      problem of legs such as peripheral arterial occlusive disease or deep vein thrombosis; (3)
      had wounds or skin lesions over legs; and (4) had taken any medications which affect ANS
      activity. The suggested participant's number estimated by the G-Power was 34 when setting the
      calculated power as 0.8 and α as 0.05. Considering participant loss during the study process,
      we decided to enroll 68 participants.

      All enrolled participants were randomized into the footbath group (n=35) and control group
      (n=33). The baseline demographic data, as well as relevant information about menstrual cycles
      and dysmenorrhea of all participants, were documented at enrollment. All the participants
      were arranged to stay in an air-conditioned, quiet room from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. on their
      menstruation days 1 and 2. After sitting quietly for 20 minutes, the participants in the
      "footbath group" received legs soaking from the heel to the Sanyinjiao (SP6) acupoint (above
      the ankle) 24 in 42 ℃ water with air bubbles and vibration given to the soles for 20 minutes,
      whereas the participants in the "control group" kept on sitting quietly without legs soaking
      during the additional 20-minute period.

      PVAS and Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) were fulfilled as pain assessment by
      all participants twice, including a "pre-test" before the intervention of menstruation day 1
      and a "post-test" after the intervention of menstruation day 2.

      HRV was measured at four time points (before and immediately after the interventions on days
      1 and 2) to assess ANS function for all participants.

      The interventions were "warm-water footbath for 20 minutes" for the "footbath group" and
      "sitting quietly without footbath for 20 minutes" for the "control group." Then we evaluated
      the influence of warm-water footbath on dysmenorrhea and several variables, including HRV
      indices and stiffness index.
    
  