
    
      1. Patients with CD at initial active stage are collected from department of
           gastroenterology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University. The
           diagnosis of CD is based on clinical, endoscopic, laboratory, radiologic,
           histo-pathological findings and close follow-up in accordance with the guidelines for
           the diagnosis and treatment of CD issued by the European Crohn's Disease and Colitis in
           2016. Healthy individuals are collected from the Health Examination Center of the Second
           Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University as the healthy controls. The
           demographic and characteristic information of CD patients and healthy controls are
           recorded.

        2. Infliximab (5mg/kg) is given intravenously at week 0, 2 and 6 to induce CD remission,
           and then maintained with the same dose of Infliximab every 8 weeks.

        3. CD patients are followed for 14 weeks after the first administration of infliximab. At
           week 14 of Infliximab treatment, according to symptoms, CDAI and endoscopic mucosal
           healing, CD patients are classified as remission group (CDAI<150 and endoscopic mucosal
           healing, R group) and non-remission group (CDAI≥150 and/or mucosal non-healing group, N
           group).

        4. C-reactive protein (CRP), leucocyte count (WBC), platelet count (PLT), erythrocyte
           sedimentation rate (ESR) are detected in CD patients to assess the clinical efficacy at
           week 0 and 14 of Infliximab treatment respectively.

        5. Approximate 5 mL of peripheral fasting venous blood is obtained from every CD patient
           (at weeks 0 and 14 of Infliximab treatment) and healthy controls. Peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are isolated from the blood samples.

        6. Multi-color flow cytometry is applied to examine the frequency of Breg (CD3-CD19+IL-10+
           B cell) in B cell: PBMCs are resuspended in RPMI 1640 medium, supplemented with 10%
           fetal bovine serum and 1% Penicillin/Streptomycin Solution, added in a 96-well
           flat-bottom culture plate. Then the obtained cells are stimulated with
           lipopolysaccharide for 48 hours, cultured at 37℃ in 5% CO2 in the incubator, and added
           Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and ionomycin and Brefeldin A during the final 5 hours.
           After stimulated and cultured in vitro, PBMCs are stained with FITC-conjugated
           anti-human CD3 antibodies, APC-conjugated anti-human CD19 antibodies for 30 minutes with
           blocking light at 4℃. Then stained cells are fixed and permeabilized using a
           Cytofix/Cytoperm kit and stained with PE-conjugated anti-human IL-10 antibodies for 2
           hours at 4℃ that protected form light. Flow staining buffer solution resuspends cells
           before flow cytometry detection of Breg.

        7. Multi-color flow cytometry is applied to examine the frequency of Treg (CD4+CD25+Foxp3+
           T cell) in CD4+ T cell: PBMCs are stained with FITC-conjugated anti-human CD4
           antibodies, APC-conjugated anti-human CD25 antibodies for 30 minutes with blocking light
           at 4℃. Stained cells are added fixing buffer and incubated at 4℃ in the dark overnight,
           then stained with PE-conjugated anti-human FoxP3 antibodies for 2 hours at 4℃ that
           protected form light. Flow staining buffer solution resuspends cells before flow
           cytometry detection of Treg.
    
  