
    
      Antigen presentation and cellular immunity are complex processes, and subject to modulation
      because of the tumor microenvironment. Antigen presenting cells in the tumor microenvironment
      acquire the antigens from tumor cells. Tumors express several tumor specific antigens that
      can be leveraged by the immune system to mount an effective anti-tumor response. NY-ESO-1,
      one of the cancer testis antigens, is expressed in several tumors including non-small cell
      lung cancer (NSCLC), triple negative breast cancer (TNBC), and melanoma. NY-ESO-1 is highly
      immunogenic and spontaneous tumor regressions in association with humoral and cellular
      responses to NY-ESO-1 have been reported. NY-ESO-1 is tumor specific and is not detected in
      non-malignant tissues with the exception of germ cells and trophoblasts, thus making it an
      attractive target for cancer vaccine development. Cancer vaccines can augment the process of
      cancer specific antigen presentation, however the efficacy of protein-based vaccines is
      limited due to weak immunogenicity and inefficient uptake by antigen presenting cells for
      presentation to T and B cells, and lack of targeting to appropriate antigen presenting cells.
      Dendritic cells (DCs) are highly specialized antigen-presenting cells that play a central
      role in initiating and regulating immunity. Deca-lectin, DEC-205 (CD205) is a surface
      receptor of DCs, which is highly expressed by human DCs and can mediate antigen uptake,
      processing, and presentation. CDX-1401 is a fully human anti-DEC-205 mAb (3G9) genetically
      fused to the full length NY-ESO-1. In preclinical studies, Dec-205 fused to NY-ESO-was more
      efficiently cross-presented to T-cells than NY-ESO-1 protein alone. In a recently concluded
      phase 1 study of CDX-1401 in combination with adjuvant Toll-like receptor agonists with
      Resiquimod (TLR7/8 agonist) and Hiltonol (poly-ICLC; TLR3 agonist), CDX-1401 was well
      tolerated with no dose-limiting toxicities and no treatment related grade 3/4 toxicities.
      Clinical activity was noted in solid tumors including NSCLC. Interestingly, few of the
      patients who progressed on CDX-1401 subsequently received immune checkpoint inhibitors and
      several of these patients with NY-ESO-1-specific cellular response had partial responses by
      RECISTimmune-related response criteria (IRRC). Previous studies reported enhanced T-cell
      responses in autologous dendritic cell/myeloma fusion vaccines with PD-1 blockade using
      CT-011 (Anti-PD1 antibody). In addition, increased tumor-infiltrating dendritic cells which
      are PD1 positive mediate immune suppression and PD-1 blockade in mice ovarian cancer models
      enhance effector T-cell responses and reduce tumor burden. Thus, we hypothesize that the
      ability of CDX-1401 to generate an effective anti-tumor immune response could be enhanced
      when co-administered with an anti-PD1 antibody.

      In this study, investigators will examine the safety of the three drug combination of
      CDX-1401, Poly-ICL (TLR-3 agonist), and Pembrolizumab, and its impact in generating robust
      and effective anti-tumor immune responses. The preliminary clinical data from Pembrolizumab
      are promising, and strategies such as this to enhance tumor specific antigen presentation may
      augment the responses and clinical benefit from Pembrolizumab.

      Primary Objective:

      To assess the safety, and tolerability of CDX-1401 in combination with Pembrolizumab

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine whether the anti-tumor response is substantially increased by vaccination
           with CDX-1401 (anti-DEC205-NY-ESO-1 fusion protein vaccine) in combination with an
           immune-checkpoint inhibitor, Pembrolizumab (anti-PD1 mAb) in previously treated patients
           with advanced solid tumors.

        2. To determine immune response to NY-ESO-1 and other tumor specific antigens in patients
           treated with CDX-1401 and Pembrolizumab.

        3. To evaluate changes in Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and other immune evasive pathway
           biomarkers post treatment with CDX-1401 and Pembrolizumab.

        4. To perform exploratory analysis to identify biomarkers to predict both antigen specific
           T-cell responses and clinical benefit to CDX-1401 and Pembrolizumab.
    
  