
    
      Primary objective:

      To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the nutritional drink in gastroparesis patients.

      Secondary objective:

      To evaluate the efficacy of the nutritional drink in gastroparesis patients.

      Study Procedures This study will be a pilot, open-label, trial in gastroparesis patients. A
      total of 20 patients will be recruited from the gastroenterology gastroparesis clinic. If the
      volunteer meets eligibility criteria, a co-investigator will contact the patient to schedule
      a study visit with a nutritionist and obtain a written consent. The contact and screening
      information of patients that are successfully recruited will be documented, placed in the
      participant's study folder and stored in a locked cabinet in the research unit. Any
      information documented during the screening process for patients who do not meet basic
      eligibility criteria or do not wish to participate will be immediately destroyed.

      Patients will be given enough supply of the nutrition drink for (4 weeks) and asked to
      consume 200 ml of the drink three times daily. A follow-up call will be scheduled on day 2,
      day 7 and at the end of the study to make sure patients are tolerating the drink.
      Participants will be allowed to consume water and food as desired during the study period but
      will need to maintain an accurate food diary for at least one week prior to enrollment and
      during the study (at 2 weeks and at 4 weeks) along with weight measurements at baseline, 2
      weeks, 4 weeks and 6 weeks. The participants will be asked to complete a palatability
      questionnaire. They will also complete the Gastroparesis Cardinal Symptom Index (GCSI) daily
      diary and the PROMISE scale prior to enrollment as a baseline for their symptoms and again at
      2 weeks, 4 weeks (end of the study) and 6 weeks. Changes in these scales from baseline will
      determine the efficacy and possibly side effects of the nutritional drink.

      Study duration and number of study visits required of research participants:

      4 weeks, initial study visit with a nutritionist for screening and consenting followed by 3
      follow-up phone calls on day 2, day 7 and at 4 weeks (the end of the study) and a final study
      visit at 6 weeks (2 weeks after finishing the study)
    
  