
    
      Acute myeloid leukemia is a malignancy that is still fatal for the majority of patients.
      Besides age, the genetic configuration of AML blasts is one of the strongest prognostic
      factors. Patients with mutations in the core-binding factor (CBF) genes have the best
      prognosis, however a considerable proportion of 35-60% will eventually relapse. Mutation and
      overexpression of receptor tyrosinkinases (RTK) have been proposed as main reasons for
      relapse development or chemoresistance in CBF AMLs. RTKs like stem cell factor receptor
      (c-KIT) and FLT3 are of high clinical relevance as they mediate proliferation and
      differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells. There is evidence that c-Kit mutations and high
      levels of c-KIT in CBF-AML have adverse effects on survival endpoints indicating c-KIT as
      potential therapeutic target in this special AML population. Midostaurin can be considered a
      potent c-KIT inhibitor besides having multi-kinase inhibitory activity for several other
      kinases of documented or potential pathogenetic relevance for AML, most importantly mutated
      FLT3. The kinase inhibition ultimately leads to inhibition of proliferation, cell cycle
      arrest, and apoptosis. Previous studies with other c-KIT inhibitors such as dasatinib showed
      promising results with respect to survival end points in newly diagnosed CBF AML patients.
      Midostaurin is considered a more potent c-KIT inhibitor than dasatinib and may be able to
      potentiate the inhibitory effect on leukemic cell growth.

      Another important therapeutical target in CBF AML is the sialic acid-binding
      immunoglobulin-like lectin (CD33) which is expressed on the majority of AML blasts.
      Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin (GO) is a therapeutic CD33 antibody linked to a strong cytostatic drug
      (calicheamicin) which causes apoptosis of cancer cells upon internalization. For the
      combination of GO and standard intensive chemotherapy, metaanalyses of randomized trials have
      shown that i) a low-dose fractionated administration results in the best tolerability, and
      ii) among AML subgroups, patients with CBF AML have the greatest benefit from GO in addition
      to standard therapy. Subgroup analyses within the ALFA-0701 (A Randomized Study of Gemtuzumab
      Ozogamicin With Daunorubicine and Cytarabine in Untreated Acute Myeloid Leukemia Aged of
      50-70 Years Old) trial population showing beneficial effects of GO on overall survival,
      relapse-free survival and event-free survival in patients positive for FLT3 mutation as
      compared to those negative for FLT3 mutation. Subgroup analyses of the GO registration trial
      ALFA-0701 showed a significant clinical benefit of the patients displaying a mutation in the
      FLT3 gene compared to those without this mutation. In Addition, CBF AML patients with FLT3
      mutations expressed particularly high levels of CD33 antigen and that CD33 antigen levels
      were positively correlated to the improved survival after GO treatment. Furthermore, recently
      published data of two paediatric populations with internal tandem mutation in the FLT3 gene
      showed reduced relapse rates in GO recipients compared to the control group only receiving
      standard chemotherapy. These results suggest that GO is a particularly beneficiary agent in
      FLT3 mutated patients who would currently receive midostaurin in addition to intensive
      chemotherapy as a standard of care. Hence, from a clinical point of view there is an
      unambiguous rationale supporting the combination of midostaurin and GO for treatment of AML
      in the two cytogenetic subgroups: CBF AML and FLT3 mutated AML.

      GO has become the new treatment standard for patients with CBF AML. The hypothesized positive
      effect of midostaurin is likely but randomized proof is laking.

      Midostaurin has become the new treatment standard for AML patients with mutations in the FLT3
      gene. The positive effect of GO is shown in a post-hoc subgroup analysis of the ALFA-0701
      trial, but prospective randomized proof is lacking.

      Therefore, the proposed trial intends i) to explore and establish the safe combination of GO
      plus midostaurin (MODULE) and ii) to evaluate the effect of midostaurin versus placebo added
      to standard AML chemotherapy plus GO in CBF AML (MAGNOLIA) and iii) to evaluate the effect of
      GO versus no GO added to standard AML chemotherapy plus midostaurin in FLT3 mutated AML
      (MAGMA).
    
  