
    
      Monogenic disorders result from a single defective gene and are inherited according to
      Mendel's Laws (Mendelian disorders). Such gene defects arise from a mutation that can either
      be inherited or occur spontaneously; both may occur in the absence of a previous family
      history. Inherited mutations can be dominant or recessive, and autosomal or sex-linked.
      According to WHO, although individually rare, collectively monogenic disorders affect
      millions of people worldwide. Currently, over 10,000 human diseases are estimated to be
      monogenic. Until recently the identification of the genetic causes, especially of extremely
      rare phenotypes, has not been possible or cost effective due to the scientific challenges of
      identifying causative mutations through linkage analysis. The advent of cost effective next
      generation sequencing now facilitates the identification of all rare variants across the
      whole genome, in turn allowing mutation identification in small families and, if de novo,
      even in single cases.

      The clinical application of single gene sequencing potentially provides tangible benefits to
      patients, informing diagnosis and prognosis, and may guide treatment choice. Next generation
      sequencing (NGS) panels sequence multiple genes in parallel and are now entering the clinical
      domain. NGS provides significant advantages over single gene sequencing for conditions which
      are genetically heterogeneous, such as the epilepsies. However, as more genes are included in
      an NGS panel, the possibility of incidental findings rises significantly, with associated
      challenges in result interpretation. Since many conditions are phenotypically as well as
      genetically heterogeneous, acquisition of detailed phenotypic information is essential for
      meaningful interpretation of NGS results.

      Monogenic (Mendelian) disorders have historically provided the clearest means of elucidating
      human gene function. The linkage of a rare DNA variant to altered protein function or dose to
      discrete phenotype has important implications for fundamental biology, monogenic disease
      pathogenesis, complex traits, diagnostics and therapy. By representing the most readily
      interpretable component of human genetics in defining a clear, high-penetrance phenotype
      arising from alteration in function of a single gene, study of monogenic disorders can
      identify the genetic basis for novel or existing phenotypes and provide insights into
      non-redundant biological pathways that may inform therapeutic targeting for both the specific
      rare variant and common diseases. Accordingly the primary purpose of this programme is to
      identify novel monogenic phenotypes and discover underlying causal genetic variants by
      genetic sequencing in families across the UAE.
    
  