
    
      Our hypothesis is that lower salt intake will reduce BP in patients with a kidney transplant.
      We propose that this will translate into better CV and renal protection via reductions in
      proteinuria, endothelial dysfunction and arterial stiffness.

      The primary aim of the study is to examine the impact of reduced dietary salt intake on blood
      pressure (BP) in kidney transplant patients. Secondary aims include examination of the effect
      of salt reduction on ambulatory blood pressure parameters, markers of proteinuria,
      endothelial and metabolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness and renal fibrosis.

      The study will be a single centre, randomised controlled parallel study. Individuals aged 18
      years old and above will be recruited from the kidney transplant population of the South West
      Thames Renal Unit. Patients who have received a kidney transplant ≥ 6 months previously who
      have a BP >130 mm Hg systolic and/or >80 mm Hg diastolic, or are receiving treatment for
      hypertension will be included.

      Informed consent will be obtained from all study participants and each patient will be given
      a patient information sheet. At the beginning of the 2-week run-in period individuals will be
      assessed for eligibility with office BP readings and a 24hr urine collection. Baseline
      measurements will be taken whilst participants are on their usual diet. All measurements will
      be performed at baseline, after a 2-week run in period, and at the end of the 8-week study
      period.

      After baseline measurements are taken at the end of the 2-week run in period, participants
      will be randomised to either the low salt arm or the standard treatment arm using
      computer-generated randomisation. Patients will be asked to bring in a food diary from the
      weekend and two week days so that dietary advice can be tailored to the individual. Patients
      allocated to the low salt diet group will be advised by a doctor to achieve a dietary salt
      intake of less than 5g per day (80mmol/day). The control group will be instructed to continue
      with their usual diet, therefore no advice will be given about salt reduction, but otherwise
      the groups will follow an identical trial protocol.

      In addition patients will be seen at week two for a BP reading and a 24hr urine collection,
      and at week four for a BP reading, 24hr urine collection and measurement of renal profile
      (Not fasted). Advice will be reinforced at each visit and through telephone for the duration
      of the study. Antihypertensive treatment will remain unchanged throughout the study apart
      from two caveats: If BP rises >160/100 then a further antihypertensive will be added at the
      attending physicians discretion; If BP drops <90/60 and/or symptomatic hypotension,
      antihypertensive treatment will be withdrawn at the attending physicians discretion, with
      further investigation as necessary.

      Blood pressure will be measured using a validated oscillometric technique, in the sitting
      position, after 5 to 10 minutes rest and using the same arm throughout the study. Three
      readings at 1-2 minute intervals will be taken and the mean of the last 2 readings will be
      used for analysis. Twenty-four hour ambulatory BP monitoring will be performed using a
      validated oscillometric system. Two 24-hour urine collections for the measurement of sodium,
      potassium, urea, and creatinine, will be performed at baseline and at the end of the 8-week
      study period. Blood and urine samples will be taken after an overnight fast (8 - 14 hr) at
      baseline and then end of the study for measurement of routine biochemistry, plasma renin
      activity, aldosterone, urinary protein creatinine ratio and urinary albumin creatinine ratio.
      Blood and urine samples will be taken at baseline and the end of study assessment to look at
      markers of endothelial function and novel markers of renal dysfunction and fibrosis. These
      will include EDA+Fibronectin, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and connective tissue
      growth factor (CTGF).

      Endothelial function and arterial stiffness will be assessed by digital volume pulse analysis
      (DVP) using a high-fidelity photo-plethysmography (PulseTrace1000, MicroMedical Ltd,
      Rochester, Kent, U.K). Changes in the reflective index (RI) following salbutamol
      administration are measured as a test of endothelial vasodilatory function and changes
      following glyceroltrinitrate (GTN) are measured as a test of endothelium independent
      vasodilation. Baseline measurements are taken in triplicate at 5 min intervals after subjects
      lay quietly for 20 min. Sublingual GTN 500mcg (Alpharma, Barnstable, Devon, U.K.) is
      administered for 3 min and recordings are made at 3, 5, 10, 15 and 20 min. Following a rest
      of 10 min, albuterol 400mcg (salbutamol, Baker Norton, London, U.K.) is administered via a
      spacer device and recordings are repeated at 5, 10 and 15 min. This technique is validated
      for measuring endothelial function with reproducibility for change in reflective index
      following albuterol (∆RIAlb) of -1.9±4.9% and following GTN (∆RIGTN) of -2.2±5.4%.

      To measure arterial stiffness using DVP, the systolic peak and inflection point are obtained
      by analysing the first derivative of DVP waveforms. The time between first systolic peak and
      the inflection point in the waveforms (∆TDVP) is determined. The DVP-derived stiffness index
      (SIDVP) is calculated by the following equation: body height /∆TDVP.

      A single trained operator will perform all vascular measurements after an overnight fast in a
      quiet temperature controlled room.
    
  