
    
      The high morbidity and mortality associated with both pandemic and seasonal influenza, and
      the threat of new pandemic strains emerging, continues to keep influenza at the forefront of
      infectious disease and public health research. Mean annual estimates of influenza deaths due
      to seasonal influenza alone, attributes 36,000 deaths in the US and 250,000 to 500,000 deaths
      in industrialized countries to influenza. Pandemics can have an even more devastating effect,
      and we must continue to be prepared by making attempts to reduce the public health impact of
      this important virus.

      Currently, influenza vaccination is the cornerstone of prophylaxis and most effective method
      available to reduce the impact of influenza on the world s population each year. Data from
      the 2013 influenza season suggest that current seasonal vaccines held to these standards are
      greatly underperforming especially in those that really need protection such as the elderly,
      young, and infirmed.

      Multiple factors could play a role in defining the true correlates of protection to influenza
      infection and disease and many of these factors are yet to be clearly defined. In our own
      influenza challenge study, protocol 12-I-0077, we have clearly seen evidence that not
      everyone with a low HAI titer is susceptible to influenza, and that there must be other
      factors protecting certain individuals. There are many examples like this that demonstrate
      that there may be much more to immune protection to influenza than just anti-HA antibodies.

      Live virus challenge studies have played an important role in defining the correlates of
      protection of influenza in the past, and we believe they can continue to do so in the future.
      Since the last time a wild-type influenza challenge has been performed to investigate
      correlates of protection over 20 years ago, many new scientific tools and a significant
      increase in knowledge of the immune system have developed. In this study we will enroll
      participants at different hemagglutinin inhibition titer levels and evaluate this as a
      correlate of protection to the 2009 H1N1 while exploring the other possible correlates of
      protection that may be identified. This study represents the first opportunity to examine the
      correlates of protection of influenza in a fully validated and described wild-type virus
      challenge model. We believe that studies like this are an ideal use of a wild-type influenza
      challenge study and can lead to intelligent universal vaccine design as well as a basis to
      begin evaluating novel vaccine strategies in wild-type challenge studies in the future.
    
  