
    
      ACTIVITY 1 Objective of the activity: To increase the support of mental health and well-being
      of unborn children and children in the period soon after their birth by early detection of
      women experiencing psychosocial stress during pregnancy and after childbirth. Target group:
      Pregnant women and postpartum women and their children.

      Methods: Because the occurrence of symptoms of psychosocial stress in pregnancy is one of the
      main predictors of the development of mental disorders after childbirth, the investigators
      will test whether the introduction of screening in gynecological clinics during pregnancy
      reduces the incidence of untreated mental disorders in women 6 weeks after birth. Thanks to
      screening, the investigators want to capture women and their children who are exposed to
      toxic stress during pregnancy. Screening: Gynecological clinics will be equipped with a
      tablet with screening software (Czech version of the Edinburgh Perinatal Depression Scale;
      Perinatal Anxiety Screening Scale; Perinatal Psychosocial Profile). The software runs on the
      servers of the National Institute of Mental Health (NUDZ), secured against cybercrime. Work
      with data obtained during screening is subject to GDPR and the process is approved by the
      NUDZ Ethics Committee. The screening software is automated and sends the woman information
      about the results to her email.

      Evaluation: a randomized controlled study in 20 gynecological clinics in 3 regions of the
      Czech Republic (Prague, Central Bohemia and Olomouc Region). Participating gynecological
      outpatient clinics will be randomized in a 1: 1 ratio into two groups: Intervention
      outpatient clinics: Intervention outpatient clinics offer study participation to all pregnant
      women during their pregnancy. Furthermore, all women checked at the end of the sixth week.
      Intervention clinics will also be equipped with information materials on mental health during
      pregnancy and after childbirth. Control clinics: actively offer participation to all women
      only at the control at the end of the sixth week postpartum. The main checkpoint in both
      groups of outpatient clinics is the 6th week after delivery, when the woman comes to the
      gynecological outpatient clinic for a mandatory check-up in Czechia. All women who will
      participate in Activity 1 will be examined by telephone using a structured psychiatric
      examination by a psychiatrist at the end of the 6th week after childbirth so that we can
      determine the presence of mental disorders.

      Hypothesis: There are more women in control clinics who are not treated for a mental disorder
      at the end of the 6th week after delivery, even if they have been diagnosed, than in
      intervention clinics.

      ACTIVITY 2 Objective of the activity: To increase the support of mental health and well-being
      of unborn children and children soon after their birth through early intervention in women
      experiencing psychosocial stress during pregnancy and after childbirth. Target group: Women
      who experience psychosocial stress during pregnancy and after childbirth and their children.
      Methods: Activity 2 is directly related to activity 1 of the submitted project. As part of
      Activity 2, the investigators will provide the women captured by the screening intervention
      developed by them.

      Intervention: Mom supports Mom includes at least four telephone or other contacts - Skype,
      Zoom, WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, ...) Between the project participant and a peer
      consultant trained by the National Institute of Mental Health and Mom´s Smile. Within peer
      support, the main methods are listening, psychoeducation, basic procedures of cognitive
      behavioral therapy and mindfulness, shared personal experiences with perinatal psychosocial
      stress and, if necessary, a reference to professional counseling (psychology, psychiatry).

      Evaluation: a randomized controlled study in gynecological clinics participating in Activity
      1 of the project. Women experiencing psychosocial stress, which we will screen through
      Activity 1, will be randomized 1: 1 into two groups: Intervention group: The peer consultant
      coordinator will connect the woman with the peer consultant who will carry out the
      intervention Mom supports mom. Control group: The woman will be sent automatic feedback with
      information on how to proceed if the participant wants to seek help herself. Evaluation of
      the effect of the intervention: The investigators evaluate depressive symptoms using the
      Edinburgh scale of perinatal depression; anxiety symptoms using the Perinatal Anxiety
      Screening Scale; psychosocial stress using the Perinatal Psychosocial Profile; quality of
      life using the 8-dimensional quality of life scale; and parental competences using the
      Parenting Sense of Competence Scale. The investigators collect data after the woman enters
      Activity 2 and one month after entering. The Investigators will evaluate the feedback from
      users using qualitative questions.

      Hypothesis: Intervention Mom supports mom, reduces depressive and anxiety symptoms and
      general psychosocial stress in women experiencing psychosocial stress. Intervention Mom
      supports mom, increases the quality of life and parental competencies of women experiencing
      psychosocial stress.

      Statistics: n = 120 (60 in each arm of the study). Sample size is calculated so that the
      investigators can detect a medium-to-large group difference in the scale of depressive
      symptoms (effect size = 0.6; t-test) at power 80%, significance level 5% (2-sided) and
      potential drop out 30 %.
    
  