
    
      The acetabular labrum is a wedge shaped fibrocartilage structure attached to the acetabular
      rim. It is continuous with the transverse acetabular ligament at the inferior aspect of the
      acetabulum. The medial aspect of the labrum abuts the acetabulum to form the chondrolabral
      junction.

      Anatomic labral refixation aims to preserve healthy tissue and restore native joint anatomy
      and biomechanics. Labral tears that are caused by Femoro-Acetubular Impingement (FAI) require
      concomitant correction of bony cam lesions, pincer lesions, or both to prevent reinjury of
      the labrum. However, repair has not yet been proven to mitigate the osteoarthritic
      accelerating effects of labral tears. Many patients presenting with hip pain in the third and
      fourth decade of life already have osteoarthritic changes seen at the time of arthroscopy.
      Restoring the biomechanics of the joint via labral repair does not reverse this damage and
      investigating methods to repair early osteoarthritis is important to the future of hip
      arthroscopy.

      Bone marrow aspirate concentrate (BMAC) has been used effectively in many joints for the
      management of chondral defect repair. As an alternative to the aforementioned chondral
      treatment modalities, BMAC treatment does not require multiple procedures or additional
      waiting time for treatment completion.

      Within the technical constraints of the hip joint, bone marrow aspirate concentrate is
      feasible and potentially efficacious option for the treatment of chondral defects. Late stage
      hip osteoarthritis is a known factor implicated in poor outcomes in both the surgical and
      non-surgical treatment options available for chondral defect management. Preventing late
      stage hip osteoarthritis is paramount to decrease these poor outcomes and improve the
      patient's quality of life. Early and effective intervention with modalities that afford
      patients little to no drawbacks, like BMAC treatment, are necessary to achieve these goals.

      This is a 24-month prospective study, which will enroll 40 adult subjects with evidence of an
      acetabular labrum tear and pincer or cam deformity. Labral tears will be diagnosed by
      clinical exam and positive magnetic resonance arthrogram (MRA) findings. Pincer deformity is
      diagnosed with standard antero-posterior radiographs of the pelvis, and cam deformity is
      diagnosed with antero-posterior and lateral radiographs.

      Administration of diagnostic modalities is independent of study protocol as they are routine
      standard of care. Upon diagnosis, eligible potential subjects will be approached for study
      enrollment. After consent, enrolled subjects will undergo arthroscopic labral repair and
      acetabuloplasty using the capsular chondrolabral preservation technique with or without BMAC
      based on intra-operative findings. The decision to use BMAC is made intra-operatively;
      therefore the patients are consented for the BMAC prior to surgery. If the chondrolabral
      junction shows advanced arthritis or the absolute absence of wear the BMAC is unnecessary and
      not used. This surgery in the absence of BMAC is considered routine practice and standard of
      care. Those patients who do not qualify for BMAC will not receive it and will be dropped from
      the study. Afterwards, those subjects who received BMAC will follow-up at routine
      post-operative intervals of 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, 24 months, and an optional
      follow-up at 5 years to monitor progress.
    
  