
    
      This will be a multicenter, uncontrolled, dose escalation, exploratory study in subjects with
      symptomatic BPH. Six study centers are planned.

      Each subject will receive a fixed dose of QLT0074 (0.4 mg) injected transurethrally into the
      prostate followed by transurethral light application to activate the drug. Five light dose
      cohorts will be investigated sequentially (25, 50, 80, 120, and 150 J/cm2), with 3 subjects
      in the first cohort and 6 subjects in cohorts 2-5 for a total of 27 subjects. The follow-up
      period for each subject is 180 days. There will be a minimum 30-day interval between
      treatment of the last subject in one cohort (Day 0) and treatment of the first subject in the
      next cohort to monitor predefined toxicities and ensure safety and tolerance in subjects of
      the previous cohort.

      A Safety Monitoring Committee will evaluate toxicity related to PDT effects, and approve
      escalation of the light dose for each cohort. The light dose will not be escalated if any of
      the following predefined toxicity criteria occur and are judged to be related to a PDT effect
      by the Safety Monitoring Committee:

        1. 1 or more subjects in the cohort experience macroscopic urinary bleeding not resolved by
           Day 14, or

        2. 2 or more subjects in the cohort experience intolerable urinary pain not controlled with
           over-the-counter medication by Day 14, or

        3. 1 or more subjects in the cohort experience any other clinically significant urological
           adverse event, as judged by the Investigator and confirmed by the Safety Monitoring
           Committee.

      In addition to the above events, the Safety Monitoring Committee will evaluate the incidence,
      timing, severity, and frequency of other adverse events and serious adverse events to assess
      the safety of transurethral PDT and the treatment procedures (such as the use of the
      cystoscope, InjectTx device, treatment balloon-catheter, etc).

      To prevent treating subjects with a light dose greater than that which already provides
      substantial clinical benefit, the Safety Monitoring Committee will review preliminary
      efficacy data (AUA SI scores and Qmax values) after all subjects in a cohort (for each of the
      first 4 cohorts) have completed the Day 90 visit. Further enrollment will be curtailed if
      more than 75% of subjects in a cohort experience both of the following efficacy stopping
      criteria by Day 90:

        1. greater or equal to 75% reduction in the AUA SI score and,

        2. greater or equal to 100% increase in Qmax.
    
  