
    
      NEW:

      Heart failure (HF) is increasing in prevalence and incidence, and is the most common reason
      for hospital admissions of patients over the age of 65. Therapy for HF has evolved over the
      last two decades. Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is a therapy that attempts to
      resynchronize the sequence of ventricular contraction in heart failure (HF) patients with
      left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction and ventricular dyssynchrony. CRT is achieved by
      stimulating both RV and LV together, synchronized to right atrial excitation to achieve
      atrio-ventricular synchrony. Clinical trials have demonstrated that CRT reduced heart size
      (left ventricular end systolic volume index LVESVi), improved survival and reduced HF
      hospitalization in mild to advanced HF patients. In addition, CRT reversed the remodeling
      process such that it was associated with a reduction of LV size, and an increase of LV
      ejection fraction (EF). This knowledge translated to a change in practice guidelines and the
      adoption of CRT into clinical practice benefitting many HF patients CRT is now an important
      state-of-the-art therapy for HF patients with LV systolic dysfunction, low LVEF, and
      prolonged QRS duration in sinus rhythm, since the vast majority of the CRT clinical research
      was performed in patients in sinus rhythm. However, in the ~25% of HF patients with permanent
      atrial fibrillation (AF), the effectiveness of CRT is not clear. It is therefore timely to
      address the question of whether the addition of CRT to optimal HF treatment, rate control and
      an ICD is beneficial in reducing LVESVi in HF patients in permanent AF with LV systolic
      dysfunction and prolonged QRS duration

      Objectives: To determine whether cardiac resynchronization therapy will reduce Left
      Ventricular End-Systolic Volume index (LVESVi) for heart failure patients with permanent
      atrial fibrillation, mild to moderate heart failure, left ventricular systolic dysfunction,
      and prolonged QRS duration, when compared to implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD)
      therapy alone.

      Methods: This is a multi-centre randomized controlled trial of two treatment groups. The
      patients, primary physicians and the heart failure caregivers will be blinded to the
      treatment allocation. The device follow-up caregivers will not be blinded. Patients with NYHA
      Class II and III HF symptoms, LVEF HF ≤ 35% , permanent AF, on optimal medical therapy and
      QRS durations ≥ 130 ms when the QRS morphology is LBBB, or QRS durations ≥ 150 ms when the
      QRS morphology is non-LBBB, or Paced QRS will be included in the trial. Patients should be
      suitable candidates for either of the 2 treatment strategies. There will be 200 patients
      randomized in 1:1 ratio to two groups: 1) ICD-CRT, 2) ICD only. All patients will undergo
      baseline clinical evaluation, echocardiogram measurements, quality of life assessment,
      medication assessment, and NT-proBNP. The patients will be followed at 1 month, 3 months, 6
      months and then every 6 months. Follow up echocardiograms will be done at 6 and 12 month
      follow ups to evaluate LVESVi. Quality of life assessment, and 6-minute walk distance will
      also be performed at baseline and at follow-up visits.
    
  