
    
      Approximately one-third of the world s population is infected with tuberculosis (TB), and
      over 1 million deaths occur annually worldwide because of it (1,2). Accurate diagnosis and TB
      drug susceptibility testing is necessary to treat the infection appropriately and bring this
      epidemic under control. Inappropriate treatment of TB, on the other hand, has led to the
      recent spread in multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB), estimated to affect over half of million
      people worldwide (2,4,5). Sputum smear microscopy, the diagnostic method commonly used in
      developing countries, is not as sensitive at detecting TB as culture-based techniques
      utilized in developed countries. Furthermore, drug-susceptibility testing is not routinely
      performed in resource-limited settings. Consequently, many individuals with TB in developing
      countries are treated with inadequate regimens, and MDR-TB continues to spread.

      The microscopic-observation drug-sensitivity (MODS) assay has been recently developed for
      rapid diagnosis of TB and simultaneous detection of resistance to first-line TB medications
      in resource-limited settings (11). MODS has been shown to be as sensitive as traditional
      culturebased methods for the detection of TB, providing results for drug susceptibility
      testing that are highly concordant with standard techniques (10).

      We propose to study the utility of the MODS assay for the diagnosis of TB in subjects who are
      sputum-smear positive or sputum-smear negative, and those with chronic TB. Susceptibility
      testing will be performed for first-line antituberculous drugs and, subsequently, second-line
      drugs, if subjects are found to have MDR-TB. The first primary objective is to calculate the
      sensitivity of detection of the MODS assay, compared with the Middlebrook culture method, in
      subjects suspected of having TB who are sputum-smear positive by microscopy. The second
      primary objective is to calculate the concordance of drug-susceptibility testing between the
      MODS assay and the agar proportion method for subjects who are sputum-smear positive,
      sputum-smear negative, or diagnosed with chronic TB.

      Secondary objectives include evaluating the utility of the MODS assay in the diagnosis of TB
      in subjects who are sputum-smear negative and those with chronic TB, the performance of
      second-line drug-susceptibility testing using the MODS assay in subjects diagnosed with
      MDRTB, the utility of the MODS assay in the diagnosis of TB in subjects coinfected with human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 or -2, and the ability of the MODS assay to identify
      nontuberculous mycobacteria in subjects harboring these organisms.
    
  