
    
      The primary objectives of this study are to compare the virologic potency and pharmacology of
      TDF and ABC alone and in combination. Since it is not feasible or ethical to give mono or
      dual-therapy with these agents for prolonged intervals, this project was designed to take
      advantage of a short term drug exposure. The study performs intensive lab monitoring with a
      cross-over design to compare short courses of monotherapy and dual-therapy. This is an
      open-labeled study of a dual NRTI/NtRTI combination, ABC + TDF, compared to ABC and TDF
      monotherapy administered for 7 days. A total of 20 ARV-naïve subjects will be enrolled in
      this study. A screening genotype will be done to confirm that there are no
      resistance-associated mutations at baseline. Each subject will then be randomized to a 7-day
      sequence of monotherapy (ABC or TDF), and four measurements for plasma HIV RNA will be done
      to calculate the slope of the phase one viral decay. Prior to initiation of nucleoside
      analogues, PBMCs will be collected to measure baseline expression of nucleoside transport
      enzymes via RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. On days 7 and 8, serial blood specimens will be
      collected for plasma and intracellular levels of TDF and ABC. The monotherapy sequence will
      be followed by a 35-day washout period.

      After the washout (day 42), subjects will initiate the dual NRTI/NtRTI therapy sequence for
      an additional 7 days. During dual NRTI/NtRTI therapy, again, four measurements for HIV RNA
      will be done to calculate the slope of the phase one viral decay. On day 48 and 49, serial
      plasma and intracellular levels of ABC + TDF will be evaluated. On Day 49 a second HIV
      genotype will be performed in real time. On day 49, after the second 7-day sequence, all
      subjects will receive EFV in addition to the ABC + TDF combination for 14 days. Afterwards, a
      second sample of PBMCs will be collected to evaluate for a potential induction or suppression
      of nucleoside transport enzymes. Since the long-term efficacy of the TDF + ABC nucleoside
      backbone is not yet known, TDF will be discontinued (day 63) and 3TC will be substituted.
      Subjects will then continue on the HAART portion of the study for an additional 46 weeks of
      EFV + ABC + 3TC.
    
  