
    
      Amniotic fluid is critical for normal lung development. After the first trimester of
      pregnancy amniotic fluid is composed nearly completely of fetal urine. The absence of
      amniotic fluid due to lack of urine production by the fetal kidneys is known as anhydramnios.
      Early pregnancy renal anhydramnios or EPRA is thought to be 100% lethal after birth if left
      untreated because of neonatal respiratory failure. The two causes of EPRA are bilateral renal
      agenesis or fetal renal failure (such as from multicystic dysplastic kidneys or obstructed
      kidneys). Recently there have been clinical case reports of repeated or serial infusions of
      isotonic fluid (amnioinfusions) into the amniotic cavity leading to respiratory survival in
      neonates with a history of EPRA. Some surviving neonates have gone on to undergo successful
      dialysis and kidney transplant as toddlers. However, no prospective trial has investigated
      the safety of amnioinfusions in EPRA, the feasibility of doing serial amnioinfusions in EPRA
      pregnancies without causing rupture of membranes, or the neonatal survival rate after serial
      amnioinfusions for EPRA. Accordingly the goal of the Renal Anhydramnios Fetal Therapy (RAFT)
      trial is to determine the safety, feasibility, and efficacy of serial amnioinfusions to
      promote normal fetal lung development in EPRA. Pregnant patients presenting to a RAFT center
      with a diagnosis of EPRA will undergo an evaluation including diagnostic amnioinfusion with
      ultrasound imaging to verify the diagnosis. Counseling by a team of subspecialists including
      a maternal fetal medicine doctor, a pediatric nephrologist, a pediatric surgeon, a
      neonatologist, a kidney transplant specialist, a genetic counselor and a social worker will
      be given to every patient. This counseling is meant to provide the clearest picture possible
      of what serial amnioinfusions entail and what life will be like for a surviving neonate with
      no kidney function. Survivors will require urgent dialysis with a peritoneal or hemodialysis
      catheter. These children are prone to significant infections and often need a gastrostomy
      tube in order to receive sufficient nutrition. The goal is for these children to ultimately
      undergo the most robust form of renal replacement therapy with a kidney transplant once they
      are large enough to tolerate it.

      Once the diagnosis of EPRA is confirmed, counseling is complete and a patient is deemed
      eligible for serial amnioinfusions, enrollment into the study will be offered. Patients may
      choose to enroll in the study, may choose to continue the pregnancy and not be a part of the
      study or may choose to terminate the pregnancy. If the patients elect to enroll in the study,
      they will be given a further choice of intervention with serial amnioinfusions or expectant
      management with repeat imaging. Participants will not be randomized because there is no
      realistic hope that expectant management will lead to postnatal survival. Patients who do not
      choose to undergo amnioinfusions but who also do not elect to terminate will provide
      invaluable insight into the in utero natural history of EPRA if they enroll in the trial. The
      sample size of this trial is based on a calculation of the number of patients required to
      adequately determine a postnatal survival rate of amnioinfusions for EPRA with narrow
      confidence intervals. Postnatal survival will be defined as survival to successful dialysis
      for 15 continuous days; this is the primary outcome measure. We have determined that 35
      maternal/fetal participants are required in order to calculate a survival rate of anywhere
      from 20-80%. We plan to study two 35 participant cohorts of EPRA patients, those with EPRA
      from bilateral renal agenesis and those with EPRA from fetal renal failure. We will therefore
      aim for a total of 70 maternal/fetal pairs with EPRA to undergo serial amnioinfusions.
      Additionally we will aim to recruit 30 maternal/fetal pairs with EPRA in the expectant
      management group for a total of 100 participants.

      During the prenatal portion of the trial we plan to collect a small specimen of amniotic
      fluid from participants in the amnioinfusion group during each amnioinfusion. This fluid will
      be assayed for different protein and lipid measures of lung maturity at a research lab at
      Johns Hopkins. Additionally, in both the amnioinfusion group and the expectant management
      group we will study ultrasound, MRI and echocardiogram measures of lung growth. We will
      correlate these biochemical and radiologic markers with survival in order to better
      understand who is likely to respond to amnioinfusions and why that response is occurring. We
      also plan to study several secondary and tertiary outcomes in our surviving EPRA patients.
      These outcomes include survival to discharge from a RAFT center, survival to transplant and
      quality of life measures for both participants and their families.

      The changes made to the outcomes are due to the protocol amendment.
    
  