
    
      I) SIGNIFICANCE

      1) Significance and Incidence and Burden of the disease Intracranial aneurysm is a prevalent
      disease estimated around 2-5% of the population. Aneurysm rupture leads to aneurysmal
      subarachnoid hemorrhage , which have a tremendous impact on the patient's health, and a high
      mortality rate (~60%), with a large proportion of the survivors becoming functionally
      dependent. It accounts for 27% of all stroke-related years of life lost before age 65, and it
      has a predilection for a relatively younger age. Survivors have long term cognitive deficits
      and memory impairment in their productive years with major responsibilities with respect to
      work and family. Despite that, only one-third have neurological deficits. Most of the
      survivors could not return to work. Poor functional outcomes are related to iron and heme
      toxicity with resultant delayed cerebral ischemia , early brain injury , hydrocephalus and
      cerebral edema. As of today, there has not been any intervention that improves neurocognitive
      outcomes in these patients. The investigators postulate that iron chelation therapy can
      decrease the amount of Iron (Fe) deposition in the brain, reduce ferritin (Ft) in patients'
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and potentially improve functional outcome.

      Our group was the first in the world to detect and quantify Fe concentration at the interface
      of brain aneurysms' wall and brain tissue using QSM-MRI sequence. This technique allowed us
      to detect microbleeds associated with sentinel headache in subjects with IAs and negative
      non-contrast head CT and negative lumbar puncture. In this proposal, the investigators will
      also use high-resolution MRI sequence to assess difference in volumes of amygdala and
      hippocampus and correlate that with CSF-ferritin.

      This will make our proposal the first go/no-go randomized double-blind placebo vs.
      deferiprone trial that attempts to establish Ft (a reporter of total Fe in the brain and CSF)
      as a biomarker of neurocognitive decline specifically in subarachnoid hemorrhage subjects and
      test the effect of deferiprone in decreasing the levels of Ft and therefore ameliorate the
      neurocognitive decline associated with this disease. If our hypothesis is validated, then
      this would set the stage for a phase 3 clinical trial and test our hypothesis in larger
      cohort of subjects.

      III) PRELIMINARY DATA (obtained with collaboration with our colleagues in Europe):

      To provide proof-of-concept of the effect of deferiprone on the levels of Ft in the CSF of
      subjects with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH), Tthe investigators conducted a pilot
      study to analyze the concentration Ft in the CSF of subjects with aSAH and Hunt and Hess
      grade 1-3. Fourteen subjects were included (7 with only cisternal SAH but no intraventricular
      hemorrhage (IVH), and 7 subjects with cisternal aSAH and IVH). Their CSF (2-3 cc) were drawn
      daily (from day 0 to day14) and analyzed with Fe-ELISA kit. Then 4 subjects (2 with aSAH
      without IVH and 2 with SAH and IVH) were treated with 1000 mg of deferiprone twice orally for
      14 days. The mean Ft level in subjects with aSAH without IVH was 900ng/ml vs. 420 ng/ml for
      those receiving deferiprone. The mean Ft level of patients with SAH and IVH was 1500ng/ml
      compared to 690 ng/ml in the deferiprone group. This small pilot study provided
      proof-of-concept that 1) aSAH increases the CSF-Ft in human, and this effect can be reduced
      significantly with deferiprone, and 2) aSAH associated with IVH increases furthermore CSF-Ft,
      which is also reduced significantly by deferiprone.
    
  