
    
      The objective of this pilot study is to investigate if physical activity can be improved by
      telecoaching in patients with advanced stages of lung cancer in remission. We hypothesize
      that a smartphone application, designed for a population with respiratory symptoms, will
      increase daily physical activity, which translates into significant improvements on quality
      of life. This uncontrolled pilot study will therefore address if a 8-week PA promotion
      telecoaching program in addition to usual care has the potential to improve physical activity
      and quality of life in patients with lung cancer for a limited burden and at low cost.

      This trial consists of 4 visits:

      Visit 1 (V1, outpatient clinic):

      Patients will be screened for inclusion in the study during follow up visits in the
      outpatient lung cancer clinic. If oncological check-up 6 months after starting initial lung
      cancer treatment demonstrates objective response (partial response or complete response
      defined by RECIST V1.1) the patient is asked to join the study. If the patient wants to join
      the study a screening visit (V2) will be planned.

      Visit 2 (V2, screening visit (run-in)):

      During V2 all eligible patients who have signed the informed consent will enter the run in
      epoch of 1 to 2 weeks.

      Patients are asked about their medical history (baseline demographic data) and their previous
      respiratory treatment including their oncological stage and type. Co-morbidities will also be
      assessed and a basic lung function will be performed.

      On V2 patient will receive a Dynaport movemonitor to wear one week before V3. For patients
      where the run in period is more than one week, they will receive a telephone reminder to wear
      a PROactive monitor. Patients are instructed to wear the device during waking hours. A
      measurement of more than 8 hours of wearing time will be defined as a 'valid day). The
      tri-axial accelerometer will captured steps waked per day, movement intensity and time spent
      in sitting, lying walking and high-intense activities.

      Visit 3 (V3, baseline, allocation):

      Patients will complete the web-based version of the clinical visit of the PROactive
      questionnaire. Two six-minutes walk tests will be performed and the patient will complete 2
      quality of life questionnaires (SGRQ and QLQ-C30). During V3, the patients are divided into
      either control (usual care) or telecoaching group based on personal preferences and the
      abilities of using and having a smartphone.

      Patients in both groups will receive a brochure during this visit explaining the importance
      of physical activity with recommendations to improve it. This brochure will be discussed
      together with the patients.

      In the intervention group patients will recieve the telecoaching intervention consisting of
      the following components: 1: motivational interview with the investigator discussing
      motivation, barriers, favourite activities and strategies to become more active; 2: a
      pedometer giving direct feedback on the amount of steps; 3: the coaching application linked
      to the pedometer, which will be installed on the patient's smartphone and which will be
      coaching the patient for 8 weeks by means of improving the amount of steps per day. 4:
      telephone contact when a patient is non-compliant with either the use of the coaching
      intervention or with achieving the physical activity goals for 2 consecutive weeks.

      All patients will be equipped with the Dynaport movemonitor one week before V4 and will be
      instructed to wear the monitor for 7 consecutive days.

      Visit 4 (V4, end of the study, 8 weeks post allocation):

      V4 is the end of the study. All assessments performed on V3 will be repeated during this
      study visit.
    
  