
    
      Alcoholic patients and control subjects. Alcoholic patients will be recruited from neurologic
      clinics and ward at the Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. A detailed clinical
      history that includes daily alcohol consumption, daily dietary intake, lifestyle, and
      occupation will be obtained from patients as well as their families. The inclusion criteria
      include daily uptake of at least 100 g ethanol for more than 3 years prior to the onset of
      neuropathic symptoms (Behse and Buchthal, 1977). All patients will undergo clinical and
      neurologic assessment, cranial MRI or CT, and neuropsychological evaluation to rule out CNS
      disorders, which interfere the evaluation of neuropathic symptoms and signs and psychophysic
      test. Laboratory investigations will include complete blood count, fasting plasma glucose,
      hemoglobin A1C, liver and renal function tests, ethanol level, tumor markers, antinuclear
      antibodies, complement factors, serum protein electrophoresis, thyroid function, human
      immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis virus, and vitamin B12 level. Thiamine status will be
      assessed at the time of the first referral to the hospital by measuring total thiamine
      concentration in whole blood by high performance liquid chromatography, as described
      elsewhere (Koike et al., 2001 and 2003). None of the patients will administrate thiamine at
      the time of determination. Age- and gender-matched control subjects will be retrieved from
      our database, who will be evaluated by detailed questionnaires and neurological examinations
      to exclude any neurological disorder or clinical neuropathy (McCarthy et al., 1995).

      Skin biopsy. Skin biopsy will be performed following established procedures after informed
      consent has been obtained (McCarthy et al., 1995; Pan et al., 2003; Shun et al., 2004). Under
      local anesthesia with 2% lidocaine, punches 3mm in diameter will be taken from the following
      locations: (1) the extensor side of the distal forearm, 5 cm above the middle point of a line
      connecting the radial styloid process and the ulnar styloid process; and (2) the lateral side
      of the distal leg, 10 cm above the lateral malleolus. No suturing will be required, and the
      wounds will be covered with a piece of gauze. Wound healing takes 7-10 days, the same as
      would a typical abrasion wound. The protocol is under review by the Ethics Committee of Far
      Eastern Memorial Hospital.

      Immunohistochemistry. For immunohistochemistry on freezing microtome sections, the skin
      samples will be fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1M phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), pH
      7.4, for 48 h (McCarthy et al., 1995; Hsieh et al., 2000). Sections of 50 mm perpendicular to
      the dermis will be cut on a sliding microtome (model 440E; Microm, Walldorf, Germany). They
      will be quenched with 1% H2O2, blocked with 5% normal goat serum, and incubated with rabbit
      antiserum to PGP 9.5 (UltraClone, UK, diluted 1: 1000 in 1% normal serum/Tris) at 4C for
      16-24 h. After rinsing in Tris, sections will be incubated with biotinylated goat anti-rabbit
      IgG at room temperature for 1 h, followed by incubation with avidin-biotin complex (Vector,
      Burlingame, CA) for another hour. The reaction product will be demonstrated with chromogen SG
      (Vector, Burlingame, CA), and counterstained with eosin (Sigma, St. Louis, MO).

      Quantitation of epidermal innervation. Epidermal innervation will be quantified following
      established protocols, and slides will be coded to ensure that measurements are blinded
      (Hsieh et al., 2000; Pan et al., 2003; Shun et al., 2004). PGP 9.5-immunoreactive nerve
      fibers in the epidermis of each section will be counted at a magnification of  40 with an
      Olympus BX40 microscope (Tokyo, Japan) through the depth of the entire section. Each
      individual nerve with branching points inside the epidermis will be counted as one. For
      epidermal nerves with branching points in the dermis, each individual nerve will be counted
      separately. The length of the epidermis along the upper margin of the stratum corneum in each
      section will be measured using Image-Pro PLUS (Media Cybernetics, Silver Spring, MD). END
      will therefore be derived and expressed as fibers/mm. For each tissue, there will be 48-50
      sections, and all sections will be sequentially labeled. Every fifth section will be
      immunostained and quantified. The mean of values from these sections will be considered the
      END of the tissue specimen. In the distal leg, normative values from our laboratory (mean 
      SD, 5th percentile) of END are 11.16  3.70, 5.88 fibres/mm for subjects aged < 60 years and
      7.64  3.08, 2.50 fibres/mm for subjects aged  60 years. The cut-off point of END is 5.88
      and 2.50 fibres/mm in the two age groups, respectively.

      Quantitative sensory testing. We will perform quantitative sensory testing (QST) with a
      Thermal Sensory Analyzer and Vibratory Sensory Analyzer (Medoc Advanced Medical System,
      Minneapolis, MN) to measure thresholds of warm, cold, and vibratory sensations following the
      established protocol (Pan et al., 2001; Pan et al., 2003; Yarnitsky and Ochoa, 1991).
      Briefly, the machine will deliver a stimulus of constant intensity which had been determined
      by the test algorithm. The intensity of the next stimulus will be either increased or
      decreased by a fixed ratio according to the response of the subject, i.e., whether or not the
      subject perceives the stimulus. Such procedures will be repeated until a pre-determined
      difference of intensity is reached. The mean intensity of the last two stimuli will be the
      threshold for the level method. Thermal thresholds recorded on the toe will be expressed as
      warm threshold temperature and cold threshold temperature, respectively. These temperatures
      will be compared with normative values (Pan et al., 2003). Vibratory thresholds recorded on
      the malleolus will be measured with similar algorithms. Normative values are documented
      previously and are similar to those of previous reports (Pan et al., 2001; Pan et al., 2003).
      Threshold values greater than the 95th percentile value for each age group will be considered
      abnormal.

      Nerve conduction studies. NCS will be carried out in all patients with a Keypoint
      electromyographer following standardized methods (Pan et al., 2003). Amplitudes of compound
      muscle action potential (CMAP) and sensory action potential (SAP) will be analyzed according
      to the normative data in our laboratory. Studied nerves include bilateral median, ulnar,
      peroneal, tibial, and sural nerves. Abnormal result on NCS is defined as having abnormalities
      of 1 or more nerves with reduced amplitude, prolonged distal latency, or slowed nerve
      conduction velocity. Neurophysiologic criteria of sensorimotor polyneuropathy are defined as
      having symmetrical abnormalities in motor and sensory nerves (Dyck et al., 1985).

      Tests of the autonomic nervous system. Sudomotor function will be examined using the
      sympathetic skin response (SSR) (Ravits, 1997). Results of SSR in the palm and sole will be
      interpreted as present or absent, but will not be evaluated quantitatively because of
      variations in the latencies and amplitudes of SSR. Parasympathetic function will be evaluated
      using the beat-to-beat heart rate variation [RR interval variability (RRIV)] at rest and
      during deep breathing (Ravits, 1997). Each test will be performed three times, and the mean
      value will be compared with that for the age-matched controls in our laboratory. Medication
      that interferes with sympathetic or parasympathetic functions will not be administered before
      or during these tests.

      Statistical analysis. Numerical variables following Gaussian distribution will be compared
      using t-test and expressed as the mean  SD; for those variables not following Gaussian
      distribution, data will be expressed as the median (range) and will be analyzed with
      non-parametric Mann-Whitney U test. Results are considered significant if p < 0.05.

      Patients with evidences of CNS disorders will be excluded first. Furthermore, those with
      attributable etiologies for neuropathy, such as diabetes, uremia, autoimmune disorders, or
      neoplasm will be excluded, too. The rest alcoholic patients will be separated as 2 groups:
      alcoholic patients with normal thiamine level (ATN) and alcoholic patients with thiamine
      deficiency (ATD). In the ATN group, patients will be further subgrouped as alcoholic patients
      without clinical evidence of neuropathy, alcoholic patients with sensory symptoms (especially
      burning lightning pains and painful paresthesia), and alcoholic patients with sensory and
      motor symptoms.

      The first point to address in our study is to evaluate the prevalence of peripheral
      neuropathy in chronic alcoholic patients with emphasis on small-fiber involvement. Since
      early detection of neural degeneration is important, the sensitivity of punch skin biopsy,
      QST, NCS, and SSR and RRIV tests will be compared. The correlations between END and
      psychophysic and electrodiagnostic parameters will be discussed.

      Second, we will elucidate the clinical significance of END reduction in alcoholic patients.
      END will be correlated with clinical manifestations and neurological deficits. Small-fiber
      sensory symptoms and signs will be correlated with END, and autonomic symptoms and signs will
      be correlated with the presence of sweat gland denervation. The degrees of END reduction in
      the 3 groups of ATN patients and control subjects will be compared. Since other systemic
      disease, especially diabetes, also causes small-fiber degeneration, we will examine whether
      alcoholic patients with diabetes have further cutaneous denervation.

      Finally, the role of ethanol and thiamine in alcoholic neuropathy will be explored. The
      reduction of END will be correlated with thiamine status, lifetime ethanol dose, ethanol
      level, and other laboratory parameters. If END correlates with ethanol consumption, it will
      support the conclusion that alcoholic neuropathy is caused by direct toxic effect of ethanol
      or its metabolites. Since previous report documented the large-fiber-predominant axonal loss
      in sural nerve specimens in patients with pure-form of thiamine-deficiency neuropathy (Koike
      et al., 2003), we wonder if thiamine level influences small-fiber degeneration, i.e.,
      reduction of END. The degrees of END reduction between alcoholic patients with ATD and those
      with ATN will be compared. These will further clarify the role of thiamine in alcoholic
      neuropathy.
    
  