
    
      Low solubility drugs are common in the pharmacopeia and it has been estimated that more than
      40% of new chemical entities developed by the pharmaceutical industry are practically
      insoluble in water. Exploratory in vitro studies by the CDER have recently demonstrated that
      the solubility, and thus potentially the bioavailability, of poorly soluble drugs may be
      highly enhanced when administered with milk (Parmalat™ Whole Milk) or baby formula (Similac
      Pro-Advance™).

      While the reasons for variable bioavailability of furosemide are not well characterized, the
      effect of gastric pH, food and dosing liquids are commonly observed on the absorption of BCS
      Class IV drugs. Absorption variability is much greater in children due to developmental
      changes in factors such as gastric fluid, blood flow to the intestine, bile acid
      composition/secretion, intestinal surface area and drug metabolizing enzyme and transporter
      abundance. Therefore, it is critical to determine the physio-chemical physiological
      interactions for furosemide that can explain inter-subject and inter-dosing variability. An
      integrated in vitro, in silico and in vivo pharmacology approach to study the effect of
      dosing liquids on PK and PD of furosemide is novel. Quantitative understanding of factors
      affecting furosemide absorption will first be evaluated using in vitro tests such as
      solubility, dissolution and protein binding with the dosing liquids. The physiochemical
      information relevant to drug absorption and elimination will be curated from the literature
      to build the PBPK model. Such in vitro- in vivo extrapolation (IVIVE) linked PBPK modeling
      approach is crucial to better characterize furosemide's variable bioavailability. Another
      novel aspect of this study is that we will include renal metabolism of furosemide in the PBPK
      modeling. While plasma concentration will be critical in determining rate and extent of
      furosemide absorption, the renal elimination is the primary contributor to the PD response of
      furosemide as delivery of drug to the luminal surface of the renal tubule is required. PBPK
      modeling allows extrapolation of model to special population. For example, once the model is
      optimized and validated to predict effect of dosing liquids on adult PK of furosemide from in
      vitro data, this approach can be further extrapolated to children using pediatric gut
      physiological parameters. This novel approach will allow prediction of furosemide PK and PD
      in children without conducting a clinical study in this difficult to study population.
    
  