
    
      Acupuncture is the use of very thin needles that are stuck in your skin at certain areas of
      the body, acupuncture is believed to affect bodily function.

      Screening Tests:

      Signing this consent form does not mean that you will be able to take part in this study. You
      will have "screening tests" to help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in
      this study. The following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your complete medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will complete 3 short questionnaires about your quality-of-life and current saliva
           flow. It will take about 5 minutes to complete all the questionnaires.

        -  Two (2) saliva samples will be collected. To collect the first saliva sample, you will
           collect saliva in a vial (small tube or jar) for 5 minutes, by allowing saliva to
           collect in your mouth and then spitting it into the vial. You will wait 5 minutes and
           then hold a sour liquid in your mouth for 1 minute. Then a second saliva sample will be
           collected.

        -  A traditional Chinese medicine diagnosis will be performed. During this diagnosis, your
           pulse will be checked and photographs of your tongue will be taken. You will not be able
           to be identified by the photos. The photos will be destroyed when the study is complete.
           This will allow a more objective check of your tongue condition.

        -  Women who are able to become pregnant must have a negative urine pregnancy test.

      The study doctor will discuss the screening test results with you. If the screening tests
      show that you are not eligible to take part in the study, you will not be enrolled. Other
      options will be discussed with you.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in the study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) into 1 of 2 groups. Both groups will have acupuncture sessions for 20
      minutes before radiation therapy treatments.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will have the needles stuck in areas that are known to help
           dry mouth.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will have the needles stuck in areas that are not known to
           help dry mouth.

      When the study is over, participants in Group 2 will be offered 1 week of acupuncture (3
      treatments) in the areas known to help dry mouth.

      Acupuncture:

      All acupuncture sessions will be done before your radiation therapy 3 days a week for 7
      weeks. The acupuncturist will put in the needles in certain areas of your body (including
      your chin, wrist, leg, and ear) while you are lying on a bed. The needles will remain in your
      body for about 20 minutes.

      Study Visits:

      Both groups will have the following tests and procedures performed before each acupuncture
      treatment, once a week:

        -  Your vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate) will be
           measured.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking.

        -  You will complete the same questionnaires that you filled out during the screening
           tests.

      Saliva samples will be collected on Weeks 1, 3, 4, 6, and 7. The samples will be collected
      the same way as done in screening. The samples will be collected after the acupuncture
      sessions on Weeks 1, 4, and before the acupuncture on Weeks 3 and 6.

      You will have the Chinese medicine diagnosis on Weeks 3 and 7.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for 11 weeks. You will be taken off study if the condition gets worse or
      if intolerable side effects occur. You will be taken off study if you take any drugs for dry
      mouth.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      You will have an end-of-study visit 1 month after your last radiation treatment (Week 11).
      The following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking.

        -  You will complete the quality-of-life and saliva flow questionnaires.

        -  You will have the 2 saliva samples a saliva sample will be collected.

        -  You will have the Chinese medicine diagnosis.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 23 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at the Fudan University Cancer Hospital.
    
  