
    
      The hysteroscopy used was rigid continuous flow diagnostic hysteroscopy (Tuttligen, Karl
      Storz, Germany). It has a 30o panoramic optic which is 4mm in diameter and the diagnostic
      continuous flow outer sheath is 6.5 mm in diameter.

      The patient was placed in lithotomy position with the buttocks projecting slightly beyond the
      table edge. The perineum and vagina were gently swabbed with povidone-iodine. The cervix was
      exposed was exposed with a posterior wall retractor and a tenaculum was applied to its
      anterior lip. The telescope was inserted into the sheath then flushed with distension media
      (saline) to expel any air. The technique used to provide uterine distension involved
      attaching plastic bags of saline to dual blood infusion tubing. Each bag was then wrapped in
      a pressure infusion cuff similar to that used to infuse blood under pressure with a pressure
      used 100mmHg. A reflex camera (Olympus) with an objective that has a focal length varies from
      f70 to f140 together with (Karl Storz) special zoom length, adapter to Hopkins telescope and
      a suitable cableware used with computer flash unit. The hysteroscopic picture which appeared
      through the optic, transmitted on the monitor by the camera which is fitted on the eyepiece
      of the optic where the panoramic diagnostic hysteroscopy could be informed with better
      visualization and accuracy. The light generator which is a metal halide automatic light
      source with a 150 watt lamp (model G71A,Circon ACMI, Germany) was switched on and the high
      cable was attached to the hysteroscope. Dilatation of the cervix was avoided whenever
      possible to avoid leakage of the medium into the vagina. The hysteroscope was then introduced
      into the external os and advanced under vision along the axis of cervical canal.

      Once the cavity was entered, an overview of the uterine cavity was performed. This was
      followed by systematic examination for fundus then tubal ostia on both sides then the uterine
      wall through slow rotatory movements of the telescope.

      Examination was considered normal if the endometrial cavity was easily distended by the
      medium with complete separation of its walls and vision of both tubal ostia.

      Agglutination of the uterine walls or the presence of thick bands extending across the cavity
      or occlusion of ostial area or upper cavity indicated intrauterine adhesions (IUAs).

      A longitudinal filling defect extending from the fundus downwards to a variable level
      indicated a uterine septum.

      Any other pathological lesions such as polyps, submucous myomas were described according to
      their site, size and vascularity.

      At the end of the procedure, the hysteroscope was slowly withdrawn through the cervical canal
      which was visualized to detect any lesion.

      Diagnostic laparoscopy was done in the proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle .The
      patients were placed in the dorsal lithotomy position to allow vaginal access for uterine
      manipulation; the legs positioned so that the thighs are slightly flexed no more than 90o
      from the plane of the abdomen. The buttocks were slightly over the edge of the table but the
      sacrum was completely supported to the table, to avoid back strain. Once the primary trocar
      was placed, the patient was placed in no more than 25o Trendelenberg position to help keeping
      the bowel of the pelvis.

      Clipping of the pubic hair was done, 3 - 4 cm above the symphysis pubis. Standard anti-
      septic preparation of the abdominal skin and the vagina were followed by placement of
      specially designed fenestrated laparoscopy drapes. Vaginal instruments were placed for
      uterine manipulation and then draped to keep the abdominal field separated from the lower
      vaginal field, followed by changing gloves, to avoid contamination of both the abdominal
      field and instruments placed into the abdominal cavity.

      The patient was placed in the complete horizontal position, Veress needle was placed through
      the umbilicus and into the peritoneal cavity, avoiding both the retro peritoneal vessels and
      the intestinal tract. The abdominal wall was elevated by manually grasping the skin and the
      subcutaneous tissue to maximize the distance between the umbilicus and retroperitoneal
      vessels.

      In persons of average weight, the lower anterior abdominal wall was grasped and elevated and
      the Veress needle was inserted toward the hollow of the sacrum at 45o angles. In patients who
      were obese, a more vertical approach, approximately 70-80o was required because of the
      increased thickness of the abdominal wall.

      Correct placement of the Veress needle was confirmed by a number of methods, such as the
      hanging drop test, or injection and aspiration of fluid through the Veress needle. After a
      pneumo-peritoneum has been achieved with a Veress needle, the primary trocar with sleeve (5mm
      in diameter) was placed at a similar angle in to the Veress needle.

      Secondary trocars were used, after identifying the epigastric vessels by transillumination
      and intraperitoneal observation, 2 secondary trocars were placed. The trocars were placed
      laterally, approximately 8 cm from the midline and 8 cm above the pubic symphysis to avoid
      the epigastric, vessels which are 5.5 cm from the midline at this level. Insertion of the
      trocar and removal of the sleeves were performed under direct laparoscopic visualization
      while observing for signs of hemorrhage. In case of bleeding, bipolar electro surgery was
      used to achieve hemostasis. Inspection of the whole peritoneal cavity, uterus, tubes ovaries,
      Douglas pouch, urinary bladder small and large intestine as well as the liver was done. Any
      abnormalities were noted and recorded.

      Then laparoscopic dye chromotubation was performed to assess tubal patency bilaterally, by
      injecting methylene blue via the uterine catheter and observing spill through the fimbrial
      ends of the tubes. In case of negative spill, bluish discoloration and distention of the
      proximal parts of the tubes were noted.

      At the end of the procedure, carbon dioxide inflation was stopped and the 2ry trocars were
      withdrawn under direct visualization, followed by deflation of the patient's peritoneal
      cavity and withdrawal of the 1ry trocars. Sutures were placed at the sites of 1ry and 2ry
      trocars to avoid incisional hernia.
    
  