
    
      The participant will receive weekly intramuscular treatment with AVONEX® (interferon beta
      1-a) and a one-time high dose intravenous methotrexate with Leucovorin rescue, along with the
      standard solumedrol treatment before beginning AVONEX® treatment.

      At study entrance, baseline lab work (complete blood count, platelet count, routine
      electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, liver function tests, 24 hour urine collection
      for creatinine clearance, urine pregnancy test, urinalysis and urine culture and sensitivity
      if needed), and an electrocardiogram (measurement of heart activity) will be done. A complete
      medical history, neurological and opthamological examination will be performed, including
      measurements of vital signs (heart rate and blood pressure), as well as magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), EDSS, and Visual Evoked Response test (VER's) to document status of disease. A
      Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite Score (MSFC) consists of the Timed 25 Foot Walk, Nine
      Hole Peg Test (9HPT), and Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test 3 (PASAT3) will be performed at
      screen as well. At months 6, 12, 18, 24, 30 and 36 the tests and evaluations will include
      MRI, MSFC, VER's and blood tests of immune cells. Other safety evaluations (previously
      mentioned blood and urine tests) will be conducted according to the date of treatment. These
      tests include a laboratory test (methotrexate level) two days following treatment, as well as
      routine lab tests 2 weeks following the methotrexate treatment. This treatment would be under
      the supervision of Dr. Rowe.

      The patients will continue their AVONEX® intramuscular injections of 30 micrograms
      (administered by patient or caregiver) on a weekly basis. The methylprednisolone treatment
      and methotrexate infusion will be performed in our outpatient infusion center. The patient
      will be required to complete a patient diary during the course of the trial, participate in
      and keep all scheduled appointments, and to inform the research staff and physician of any
      change in concomitant medications or adverse events that they may experience.
    
  