
    
      Study Aims The relationship between endometrial cancer (EC) and obesity is well established.
      However, few studies have examined the acceptability and potential efficacy of an
      intervention to promote weight reduction and alter cancer-associated biomarkers in
      endometrial cancer survivors. This investigation has two specific aims.

      Aim 1:

      To compare the efficacy of novel technology-based weight loss interventions: a) telephone
      encounters and wireless scales, or b) smart phone personalized text messaging as compared to
      c) an enhanced usual care group for women with obesity and a history of endometrial cancer.

      Hypothesis: Women in both the telemedicine and text intervention arms will lose significantly
      more weight than women in the enhanced usual care arm.

      Aim 2:

      1a) To explore patients' understanding of the relationship between obesity and endometrial
      cancer and, 1b) to survey the acceptability of novel and different approaches to weight loss.

      Hypothesis: The investigators anticipate that this study will validate pilot data from a
      predecessor single-institution study demonstrating that >25% of patients will not be aware of
      the association between excess body weight and endometrial cancer. Investigators also will
      assess the acceptability of various interventions designed to promote weight loss (i.e. in
      person counseling, phone-based, text messaging) and predict a greater interest in
      interventions that require fewer in-person visits to the clinic.

      Study Design

      Aim 1:

        -  3 arm randomized controlled trial, weight loss intervention

        -  Pre and post intervention patient reported psychosocial measures

        -  Pre and post intervention Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) to explore impact of
           weight loss on body fat distribution

        -  Pre and post intervention analyses of the following biomarkers: insulin-like growth
           factor-binding protein 1 (IGFBP-1); adiponectin, vascular endothelial growth factor
           (VEGF), C reactive protein (CRP), interleukin 1-beta (IL1-beta), interleukin 2 (IL2),
           interleukin 6 (IL6), interleukin 7 (IL7), and interleukin 8 (IL8)

      Aim 2: Patient-reported survey to assess knowledge of correlation of Body Mass Index (BMI)
      with endometrial cancer incidence

      Study Population

      Aim 2: Adult women with biopsy-proven endometrial cancer (Types I and II), BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2.

      Aim 1: Aim 2 population plus Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status
      (PS) 0-1, no concurrent chemo or radiation therapy, and access to wireless internet and/or
      smart phone device.
    
  