
    
      Impaired blood flow through microvessels (arterioles and capillaries) leads to irreversible
      damage to cells within the affected watershed. In addition to hypertension and age, Type-2
      diabetes (DMII) independently contributes to microvascular disease. Distinct from other
      diabetic complications, the impact of diabetes on neurovascular function has not clearly been
      shown to correlate with measures of hyperglycemia or peripheral glucose regulation. The
      pathophysiology underlying the association between type-2 diabetes, vascular injury and
      neural damage, including CNS parenchymal loss and PNS neuropathy, remains uncertain.

      Normally amylin, a byproduct of the synthesis of insulin by pancreatic β-cells, crosses the
      blood brain barrier and binds to neurons in feeding centers where it is believed to induce
      anorexic effects. Amylin aggregates are found in microvessels of pancreas, brain, hearts and
      kidneys of individuals with DMII or obesity. The investigators have demonstrated amylin
      aggregates in microvessels of peripheral nerves in rats overexpressing human amylin
      (unpublished). It is unknown whether amylin deposits are a consequence or a trigger of
      vascular injury, but they are clearly associated and may present a potential target for
      reducing diabetes-associated microvascular disease. Furthermore, their accumulation in
      peripheral nerve microvasculature and red blood cells (RBCs) offers possible foci for a
      peripheral biomarker of diabetes-induced CNS microvascular disease.

      Hypothesis: Patients with DMII have significant amylin deposition in the peripheral vasa
      nervorum and on RBCs that correlates with severity of clinical peripheral polyneuropathy and
      reduction of peripheral nerve conduction velocities (NCVs); these amylin measures thereby
      become surrogates of microvascular disease and may serve as metrics of disease severity.

      Aim: Obtain serum HbA1c, skin punch biopsy, RBCs, NCVs and clinical sensory examination from
      forty consenting adults previously diagnosed with DMII. Skin biopsy from volar forearm and
      red blood cell samples will be processed for amylin deposition.

      This pilot study will provide preliminary data to fuel a larger, potentially multi-center,
      clinical trial investigating the utility of peripheral amylin or RBC amylin as a quantitative
      biomarker of microvascular disease that would include monitoring the effect of potential
      therapies. Measuring serum HbA1c will allow for possible correlation to chronic extracellular
      glucose concentration. Based on our preliminary data from a rat model of type-2 diabetes that
      expresses human amylin in the pancreas, the investigators anticipate an increased amylin
      deposition in the skin blood vessels with the progression of type-2 diabetes as measured by
      sensory examination and NCVs. Although not directly measured in this study, our preliminary
      data from the analysis of amylin deposition in cerebral blood vessels of patients with type-2
      diabetes suggest that APOE 4 carriers, at risk for developing dementia, may have an increased
      propensity to accumulate amylin deposits in blood vessels. Thus, the ability to easily
      identify and target a potential driver of microvascular disease may help prevent the
      devastating effects of the vascular complications of DMII, including cardiovascular disease,
      retinopathy, nephropathy and dementia.
    
  