
    
      Unintentional dural puncture is a known risk of neuraxial techniques, occurring in roughly 1%
      of all epidural catheter placements. The incidence of post dural puncture headaches(PDPH)
      after unintentional dural puncture (UDP) is 50-80%. A PDPH is defined as a headache that
      occurs following a dural puncture, worsens within 15 minutes after sitting or standing and
      improves within 15 minutes after lying, with at least one of the following: neck stiffness,
      tinnitus, hypacusia, photophobia, or nausea. The headache develops within 5 days after dural
      puncture and resolves either spontaneously within 1 week or within 48 hours after effective
      treatment of the spinal fluid leak.

      The rates of PDPH following unintentional dural puncture with placement of an intrathecal
      catheter will be compared in two groups: intrathecal morphine (treatment) versus intrathecal
      saline (control) administered 1-2 hours after delivery, followed by immediate catheter
      removal. Patients randomized to the treatment group (morphine) will receive preservative-free
      morphine 0.3 mL (150 mcg) intrathecally. Those randomized to the control group will receive
      normal saline 0.3 mL intrathecally. After administration of intrathecal morphine, all
      patients will have their respirations monitored every hour for a period of 12 hours and then
      every two hours for a period of 12 hours. On postpartum days 1-5, all patients will be
      visited daily while inpatient and/or contacted by phone after discharge from the hospital.

      PDPH can lead to significant morbidity and negatively impact patient satisfaction with
      postpartum recovery. Along with headache, patients may develop cranial nerve palsy during the
      postpartum period leading to permanent disability. In addition, new mothers are unable to
      bond with their babies due to headache and associated symptoms of nausea, vomiting and
      limited mobility secondary to pain. Therefore, an effective intervention to decrease the risk
      of PDPH after UDP would be useful.
    
  