
    
      This is a randomized double blind parallel group trial of safety and efficacy of
      hydroxychloroquine in oral lichen planus and associated cutaneous and genital lesions.

      The primary objective of the study is to test the hypothesis that oral hydroxychloroquine
      taken at 6mg/kg of lean weight will be at least as effective as clobetasol rinse in healing
      ulcerations associated with the erosive form of lichen planus. Secondary objectives will
      include assessment of changes in salivary and tissue proteome and plasma, saliva, and tissue
      cytokine profiles over the course of treatment with hydroxychloroquine and clobetasol. We
      hope that this will allow us to gain insight in the pathophysiology of mucosal lichen planus
      as well as the mechanism of action of hydroxychloroquine in this condition.

      Total surface area of oral erosions will be the primary outcome in this study. We will
      consider 50% reduction in ulcerated area over 6 months clinically significant. Secondary
      outcomes will include changes in two lichen planus severity scales, reduction of pain levels
      as measured by a visual analogue scale and amount of topical analgesic used, improvement in
      oral and systemic disease-specific and generic quality of life scores. We will also assay
      plasma, saliva, and tissue cytokines over the course of the study to assess dynamics of
      cytokine levels in this disease. We will evaluate salivary proteome changes associated with
      disease activity using 2D gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometric methods.

      The principal study interventions will be hydroxychloroquine at 6 mg/kg of lean weight or
      clobetasol 0.05% oral rinse. Additional allowed interventions will be standard oral topical
      analgesic rinse on an as needed basis. Diagnostic and research evaluations will include
      ophthalmologic screening prior to enrollment and at the completion of the study, complete
      history and oral and general physical examination, laboratory investigations, saliva
      collection, and oral mucosal biopsy at the start and finish of the study. The total period of
      time that each subject will spend in the interventional period of the trial will be 6 months.
      Additional off study follow-up period will be 2 months.
    
  