
    
      Cytokine storm syndrome (CSS) is caused by the excessive release of cytokines during an
      exaggerated immune response. CSS can be triggered by infections or therapeutic interventions,
      being more severe depending on the degree and duration of immune activation. CSS is as a
      significant on-target side-effect of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies, which
      have been subject to assessment for the treatment of haematological malignancies. Tocilizumab
      (intravenous, IV) is indicated for the treatment of chimeric antigen receptor CAR T
      cell-induced severe or life-threatening CSS.

      Based on the experience with tocilizumab in the CSS, and that some patients infected with
      SARS-CoV-2 can develop CSS, leading to potentially fatal damage to lung tissue, the drug is
      being investigated in China and Italy, and clinical trials are being conducted/planned in
      these and several other countries. Real-word experience with tocilizumab IV have shown that
      in a substantial proportion of COVID-19 patients with severe pneumonia, fever returned to
      normal and respiratory function based on oxygen intake and lung opacities improved
      remarkably. Laboratory parameters such as C-reactive protein (CRP) that seem to be increased
      in patients infected decreased significantly with tocilizumab, and lymphocytes levels also
      returned to normal.

      All these findings have led the Spanish Agency for Medicine and Health Products (AEMPS) to
      initiate the controlled distribution of tocilizumab IV, in light of the increased interest on
      the anti-cytokine therapy targeting IL-6 in COVID-19 infected patients. Therefore,
      tocilizumab might be among the therapeutic armamentarium for preventing the fatal
      consequences of acute respiratory and multi organ failure in around 20% of the COVID-19
      infected patients.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of IV tocilizumab in
      patients with COVID-19 severe pneumonia who are currently hospitalized or admitted to ICU.
      This large real-world cohort provides a unique opportunity to study a potential medicine
      during the current emergency situation, and support the findings from the Roche-sponsored
      Phase III study that is planned to start in early April.
    
  