
    
      Comprehensive fetal evaluations will be completed at the Johns Hopkins Center for Fetal
      Therapy to confirm eligibility. This includes an ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, a
      fetal echocardiogram and fetal genetic studies to identify cases with isolated CDH.
      Participant must be willing to remain under supervision of the Center for Fetal Therapy at
      the Johns Hopkins Hospital while the fetal airway is occluded.

      Participants will undergo FETO with standardized preoperative, intraoperative, post-operative
      care, and delivery. The FETO will be timed between 27+0 to 29+6 weeks gestation for fetuses
      with an O/E LHR <25% and between 30+0 to 31+6 weeks gestation for fetuses with an O/E LHR
      between 25% to <30%. Fetal analgesia and immobilization will consist of fentanyl, atropine
      and vecuronium. A 10 Fr cannula, 1.3 mm fetoscope within a 3.3 mm sheath (Karl Storz,
      Tuttlingen, Germany), and a detachable balloon occlusion (BALTACCI-BDPE, Balt, Montmorency,
      France) system will be used.

      Serial ultrasound measurements of lung volume and LHR will begin within 24-48 hours following
      surgery and continue weekly. Amniotic fluid level and membrane status will also be monitored
      at weekly intervals. Ultrasonography for fetal growth will be performed every 4 weeks.

      All discharged participants and their support person need to remain within 30 minutes of the
      surgery center until delivery to permit standardized postoperative management. The social
      worker at the Center for Fetal Therapy will serve as the participant advocate and assist
      families in identifying subsidized appropriate accommodation as required. Participants will
      be on modified bed rest for the first 2 weeks post discharge, but subsequently allowed to
      graduate to moderate activity if the uterus is quiescent.

      At 34+0 weeks to 34 + 6 weeks, participants will undergo removal of the tracheal balloon.
      Balloon retrieval can be either by in utero puncture by ultrasound-guided percutaneous
      needling or fetoscopic retrieval. In the event there is a need for emergent balloon removal
      prior to 34 weeks due to the development of preterm labor, shortening of the cervix, preterm
      rupture of membranes, abnormally vigorous lung response, or development of fetal hydrops,
      delivery by EXIT or cesarean section will be performed. If percutaneous puncture of balloon
      is unsuccessful prior to delivery, immediate bronchoscopy and establishment of airway will be
      performed. Maternal corticosteroids (betamethasone 12 mg intramuscularly and repeated once at
      24 hours) will be administered 48 hours prior to fetoscopic balloon removal (due to risks of
      preterm delivery associated with instrumentation) or for impending preterm delivery.

      Timing for induction of labor at 37 weeks to 39 weeks will depend upon favorable status of
      the cervix. Cesarean section will be based upon standard obstetrical indications. In regards
      to postnatal care, a resuscitation team from neonatology and pediatric surgery will be
      present at delivery. A standardized protocol will be utilized for postnatal care, using lung
      protection strategy.

      Continued follow-up of children until age 2 is planned as the current standard of care. These
      follow-ups may include bronchoscopy, brain imaging, audiology exam, pulmonary function
      testing, chest radiograph and developmental assessment.

      The study duration per mother and child will be up to 877 days, with up to 82 days screening,
      up to 55 days in the intervention phase, and 744 days in delivery and follow-up.

      Follow-up will be conducted from birth to 24 months of age at which time the study will
      conclude.
    
  